
    
      Background and Significance

      Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome (PRES) is a clinical-radiological syndrome. It
      was first described by Hinchey et al. in 1996. It is characterized by a variable combination
      of headaches, seizures, altered mental status, visual impairment, nausea, vomiting and focal
      neurological signs and accompanied with symmetric vasogenic edema of bilateral posterior
      cerebral circulation territory. PRES is associated with multiple risk factors, such as renal
      dysfunction, hypertension, cytotoxic drugs, autoimmune disease and pre-eclampsia or
      eclampsia, which can occur in a wide range of diseases and predisposing factors. Lesions are
      usually located in the parietal occipital region. However, lesions may also involve
      unilateral cerebral hemisphere, anterior circulation area or deep brain structure. According
      to the location of the lesions, five distribution patterns were described: mainly
      parietal-occipital pattern, superior frontal sulcus pattern, holo-hemispheric watershed
      pattern, partial or asymmetric expression of the primary patterns and central pattern. In
      addition, cytotoxic edema with associated diffusion restriction, abnormal enhancement due to
      blood brain barrier disruption, hemorrhages, infarction are atypical findings which may be
      occasionally detected.

      PRES is associated with a variety of clinical conditions. The occurrence of PRES is not
      affected by age and gender, it may present in all age groups. The occurrence of PRES may be a
      result of either breakdown of cerebral autoregulation and disruption of blood brain barrier,
      causing vasogenic edema or endothelial dysfunction resulting from circulating toxic
      mediators, sepsis, autoimmune conditions, or eclampsia. Up to now, the pathophysiological
      mechanism of PRES is still not clear, but cerebral autoregulation impairment and endothelial
      dysfunction are considered to be the most important potential mechanisms.

      PRES usually has a favourable prognosis. The clinical and imaging findings are often
      reversible when the underlying causes are eliminated and the blood pressure is controlled.
      Even so, many patients still have permanent neurological sequelae and have a mortality of
      5%-15%. Known risk factors for PRES include hypertension, renal disease and immunosuppressive
      therapy, and researchers have also found that lymphopenia and dyslipidemia are the potential
      risk factors for PRES. The prognostic factors of PRES include the presence of PRES risk
      factors, duration of symptoms, the presence of cytotoxic edema and hemorrhage. Alhilali et
      al. through the retrospective analysis of the etiologies, imaging findings and cerebrospinal
      fluid examination of the 47 PRES patients with lumbar puncture showed that clinical factors,
      imaging findings, cerebrospinal fluid laboratory results all affect the prognosis of PRES,
      with low CSF glucose, hypertensive encephalopathy, and imaging findings of hemorrhage
      increasing the risk of fatal outcome, while toxemia of pregnancy was found to have a
      relatively protective effect. Recent research had shown correlation of MRI findings and LDH
      and albumin levels, suggesting that these biochemical indices may be used as a prognostic
      factor. Although the various risk factors of PRES and its related imaging findings are well
      described, and in previous studies, the relationship between clinical factors, imaging
      findings, laboratory examination results and prognosis of PRES were analyzed respectively by
      different investigators, their relative effects on the prognosis are remain unclear and there
      are no consistent conclusions about it.

      Here we use a multi-center approach to conduct this study to ensure a larger patients sample.
      This proposed multi-center retrospective study will analyze the factors that influence the
      prognosis of the patients with PRES. The aim of our research is to study the connection
      between different causes, different imaging findings, laboratory findings and clinical
      outcome in patients with PRES and deepen the understanding of the nature of PRES. The
      pathogenesis of PRES will be further discussed based on the results obtained. This will
      contribute to predict the prognosis of patients with PRES and to further investigate the
      pathogenesis of PRES so as to guide the clinical treatment and follow-up evaluation.

      Research Design and Methods

        1. Overall Design of The Research

           A multi-center retrospective case study, after securing required Institutional Review
           Board approval, will be performed from January 2016 to July 2015 and the patients with
           complete inpatient clinical records who meet the criteria from 10 sub-centers will be
           included. Patients' demographic data, clinical data, auxiliary examination, imaging
           findings and follow-up data will be collected and summarized. The imaging findings of
           the patients will be assessed by two neuroimaging physicians, any difference between
           them will be agreed upon by consensus. Following this, the connection between the
           different causes, different imaging findings, laboratory findings and clinical outcome
           of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome will be analyzed.

        2. Patients and Grouping

           A total of 400 patients with complete inpatient clinical records who meet the criteria
           from 10 sub-centers will be included in this research. The patients above will be
           divided into several subgroups according to the causes of the disease, including
           hypertensive encephalopathy, cytotoxic drugs, toxemia of pregnancy (pre-eclampsia or
           eclampsia), autoimmune diseases and other diseases (anemia, hypomagnesemia, infection,
           sepsis, etc.).

        3. Data Acquisition

           The following information will be collected by reviewing the medical records and
           follow-up of the patients who met the inclusion criteria:

           Basic information: demographic and sociological characteristics of patients, such as
           name, gender, age and so on; Clinical date: including the history of past illness,
           etiology, symptoms (headache, seizures, visual disturbances, nausea and vomiting,
           altered mental status, focal neurological signs, etc.), blood pressure/MAP at the time
           of attack, therapeutic measure, time from symptom onset to control of the causative
           factor, hospitalization, etc.

           Examination to identify cause of PRES: including blood biochemical examination (enzymes,
           metabolites, minerals, blood protein, etc.), lumbar puncture cerebrospinal fluid
           examination, EEG, blood gas analysis, etc.

           Imaging examination: including the time from PRES onset to MRI examination, location of
           lesion , the distribution pattern of edema, degree of edema, cytotoxic edema appears or
           not, abnormal enhanced appears or not, hemorrhage appears or not, MRA or DSA
           examination, perfusion weighted imaging, etc.

           Follow-up:

           Time interval from PRES onset to MRI follow-up; Follow up imaging findings; Prognosis
           observation: discharge status, including the partial or complete recovery of abnormal
           imaging, hemorrhagic and ischemic complications appear or not ,continue medication
           treatment or not (antihypertensive drugs, anticonvulsant drugs, etc.), death; time from
           symptoms onset to recovery of image abnormalities; recurrence and interval time;
           increased patient's current MRI and blood biochemical examination; the patients' mRS
           score at the time of onset, discharge and follow-up were achieved by review cases and
           follow-up.

        4. Data Analysis

           All of the above data is saved into the database. In this study we will review
           etiologies and imaging findings, laboratory and follow-up data of the patients we
           selected. Univariate and multivariate analysis will be performed within the group and
           between groups according to the subgroups. In this research prognosis of the patients
           will be assessed by using the modified Rankin scale (mRS) scores. Single PRES related
           factors will be tested with Chi-square test. Intergroup comparison will be performed by
           using student t-test for normally distributed variables and Mann-Whitney U test for
           variables not normally distributed. In binary variable analysis, logistic regression
           analysis will be used to analysis factors related PRES. In polytomous variable analysis,
           multivariate logistic regression analysis will be performed to analyze factors related
           to PRES.

        5. Quality Control

      The patients will be identified strictly in accordance with the established inclusion and
      exclusion criteria. The imaging findings of the patients will be assessed by 2 neuroimaging
      physicians and the consensus will be reached through consultation when there were
      differences. The members of the group who assess the prognosis of PRES should be unified
      training.

      Timeline of Events

      Patients screening and data acquisition phase. The project is scheduled to initiate in April
      2016 and complete all data collection in July 2016.

      Data analysis phase. We plan to complete the data analysis in about 4 months after the data
      acquisition is completed.

      Paper publishing stage. We plan to complete the paper publishing in about 6 months after the
      data analysis is finished.

      Data opening phase. We plan to open the data to the society in stages after paper publishing
      is completed.
    
  