
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare progression free survival (PFS) of patients with advanced melanoma refractory
      to an anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1 agent, treated with combination therapy ipilimumab plus
      nivolumab versus ipilimumab alone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate difference in T-cell infiltrate between on-study biopsy samples of patients
      who respond to combination therapy (including confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial
      response per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] 1.1, in each treatment
      arm).

      II. To evaluate the objective response rate (ORR), defined as confirmed complete or partial
      response per RECIST 1.1, in each treatment arm.

      III. To evaluate the overall survival (OS) of patients in each treatment arm. IV. To evaluate
      the toxicity profile of patients in each treatment arm.

      TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the marginal prognostic value of baseline T-cell density, T-cell receptor (TCR)
      clonality, mutational load, and messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression levels in terms
      of response.

      II. To assess the joint prognostic value of T-cell density, TCR clonality, and mutational
      load, and mRNA expression levels in terms of response.

      III. To identify T-cell poor subtype(s) that are associated with response.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive ipilimumab intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on
      day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on
      day 1. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years and
      then annually for 1 year.
    
  