
    
      1. Working Hypothesis The recent trend in GWA has been the comparison of large numbers of
           DNA samples from affected individuals and large pools of unrelated individuals (Wellcome
           Trust Case Control Consortium). Whenever the control group came from family members, the
           number of patients needed to be sampled has been consistently smaller (Dempfle a et al
           2006; The Japanese Schizophrenia Sib-Pair Linkage Group 2005), due to less degrees of
           freedom in the statistical analysis (Chen WM & Abecasis GR 2007).

        2. Specific Aims

             1. What are the specific informative SNPs, associated with PCOD?

             2. What are the specific genes located in the vicinity of these SNPs, which could
                contribute to the development of the clinical syndrome? Detailed description of the
                proposed research Clinical data collection and patient recruitment Patients

           Women will be diagnosed as suffering from PCOD based on the Rotterdam criteria ():

             1. Oligo- and/or anovulation

             2. Clinical and/or biochemical signs of hyperandrogenism

             3. Polycystic ovaries, and exclusion of other aetiologies (congenital adrenal
                hyperplasias, androgen-secreting tumours, Cushing's syndrome) Routine testing of
                serum levels for the relevant sex hormones will be performed at the 3rd day of the
                menstrual cycle. Glucose and insulin levels will be measured at the fasting state.
                The individual data collection page is presented as Appendix 1.

           Controls Sisters, mothers, fathers, aunts and grandmothers of affected women will be
           asked to disclose their relevant clinical history and donate a single blood test for
           both DNA extraction and hormonal tests, which will be taken at the 3rd day of
           menstruation, where applicable.

           The population that is served by Mayanei Hayeshua hospital is characterized by a short
           generation interval, due to the mean early age at marriage and the desire to bear
           children right after marriage. This should allow the formation of genealogy trees that
           are very informative.

           Data security and terms of use of samples Recruitment of family members will be only
           through the index cases, and each participant will receive a complete explanation of
           possible personal implication of the study results to herself and family (none).
           Overall, all included women, patients and family members alike, will be notified as to
           the secrecy of the data and its use only for the declared purpose of research. They will
           also be made aware that no personal benefit or harm can be derived from this data to
           them. In addition, all participants will be informed that if in the future there will
           arise a new reason to re-analyze their samples, a specific address will be made to each
           and every one of them to obtain a new permission for this use. Upon request each
           participant will receive a full explanation of the storage system and the hierarchy of
           responsibility for the samples and data security.

        3. Compliance to the definition of a feasibility study The funds requested herein are meant
           to enable the formation of DNA bank and family trees, which in turn will serve as the
           basis for an application to receive the full funding for whole genome analysis, from
           larger funding resources. Towards this we have teamed up with the future participants of
           a worldwide consortium on this topic (letter of intention from Bart Fauser, the leading
           person of this consortium, is attached). Our most pronounced advantage within the
           consortium, is the availability of multigenerational families, members of which we treat
           in Bnei Brak.

        4. Potential Implications to Medicine and contribution of the expected outcome to society
           Paving the way for targeted treatment of the problems, associated with PCOS, based on
           the clear knowledge of its underlying cause(s).
    
  