
    
      Objective: To determine the effectiveness of an evidence-based, patient-centered
      multifactorial fall injury prevention strategy implemented within primary care practices
      using usual health care resources

      Design: This study is a cluster randomized, parallel group superiority trial with practices
      stratified by healthcare system and patients nested within practices. The unit of
      randomization is the practice.

      Study Duration: The total study duration is 5 years. Recruitment will take place over 20
      months, with follow-up taking place for 24 months - 44 months depending on date of
      enrollment.

      Trial Sites: 86 primary care practices that are part of 10 trial sites located around the
      U.S.: The Partners' Health Care System; Essentia; Hopkins Health Care System; HealthCare
      Partners; Reliant Health Care System; Mount Sinai Health Care System; University of
      Pittsburgh Health Care System; University of Texas Medical Branch Health Care System;
      University of Iowa Health Care System; University of Michigan Health Care System.

      Number of Subjects: The original target sample size was 6,000 participants enrolled in 86
      practices to provide 90% power to detect a 20% reduction in the rate of the primary outcome
      with intervention relative to control. The study was originally designed for a study duration
      of 36 months with 18 months of recruitment and a minimum of 18 months of follow-up. The study
      was extended to a 44 month study (20 months of recruitment and a minimum 24 month of
      follow-up). For a 44 month trial, it was estimated that a sample size of 5,322 subjects would
      provide 90% power to detect a 20% reduction in the rate of the primary outcome with the
      intervention relative to control.

      Main Inclusion Criteria Community-living persons, 70 years or older, who are at increased
      risk for serious fall injuries.

      Intervention: An evidence-based patient-centered intervention that will combine elements of a
      multifactorial, risk factor-based, standardly-tailored fall prevention strategy developed at
      Yale, practice guidelines offered by the Center for Disease Control's (CDC's) "STEADI"
      toolbox (Stopping Elderly Accidents, Disability and Injury) and the joint American Geriatrics
      Society/British Geriatrics Society guidelines, and Assessing Care of Vulnerable Elders
      (ACOVE) practice change approach. The fall prevention strategies will be systematically
      implemented into clinical practice using: delivery system design to improve quality
      (Co-management); decision support (algorithms); information systems (software);
      self-management support (patient/caregiver engagement and activation); and linkage to
      community-based resources.

      Primary Outcome: The primary outcome is adjudicated serious fall injuries, operationalized as
      a fall resulting in: (1) (fracture other than thoracic/lumbar vertebral; joint dislocation;
      or cut requiring closure) AND any medical attention; OR (2) (head injury; sprain or strain;
      bruising or swelling; or other) requiring hospitalization.

      Primary Analysis: The risk of any serious fall injury (i.e., time to first event) will be
      analyzed using a survival model that incorporates competing risks (due to death) and
      clustering. In this analysis, participants who are lost to follow-up without a prior serious
      fall-related injury will be censored at their date last seen. In a sensitivity analysis, the
      investigators will adjust for the pre-specified set of baseline covariates to examine their
      influence on the intervention effect.

      Secondary Outcomes: All self-reported falls, all self-reported fall-related injuries, and
      measures of well-being.
    
  