
    
      Black rice anthocyanin-fortified bread, compared to white bread as a control, is hypothesised
      to improve glycaemic control and serum lipid profiles in a mixed meal setting. The aim of
      this research is to to assess the influence of black rice anthocyanin on postprandial blood
      glucose and insulinemic responses, and lipid profiles.

      The aim of the research is to contribute to the prevention of diabetes by investigating how
      the incorporation of functional ingredients in carbohydrate-based foods will influence
      glycaemic and lipid panel profiles in a mixed meal setting. A human in-vivo intervention
      study will be conducted to assess the glycaemic and lipid responses of anthocyanin-fortified
      bread as compared to white bread, served with a ground beef patty to simulate the mixed meal.
      The approximate time to complete study recruitment will be 4 weeks.

      Healthy, non-smoking subjects aged 21 to 65 will be recruited in this study. There will be a
      total of 2 visits (excluding 1 screening session), with the duration of each visit
      approximately 4-5 h. The study procedures will be conducted in Investigational Medicine Unit
      (IMU). During the each visit, subjects will undergo a mixed meal tolerance test. Test foods
      will be freshly prepared on the day of the visit in Food Science amp; Technology Programme
      food preparation area situated at Block S14 level 5, Science Drive 2, using food-grade
      ingredients. Only small quantities of bread will be prepared each day (3 to 4). The subject's
      glycemic response to the control meal (white bread) will be compared to their response after
      consumption of anthocyanin-fortified bread in a mixed meal setting. An improvement in
      postprandial blood glucose response and lipid panel profiles in response to the mixed meals
      will show that the anthocyanin-fortification is effective in offering better control over
      glycaemic and lipid profiles.
    
  