
    
      This is a prospective study performed in adult human subjects who have been referred for a
      CECT. The study will occur during a single visit. Once consented and enrolled, subjects whose
      antecubital veins can accommodate an 18 GA IV catheter (as assessed by the Inserter or
      designee of the PI), will be randomized to receive either a conventional 18 GA IV catheter
      (reference, control) or a 20 GA BD Nexiva™ Diffusics™ IV catheter (test). Subjects whose
      veins are not considered suitable for an 18 GA IV catheter will be placed in a non-randomized
      cohort for placement of a 20 GA BD Nexiva™ Diffusics™ IV catheter. Subjects will receive one
      (1) catheter for the study.

      The primary objective of this study is to compare multidetector computed tomography (CT)
      image quality following peripheral venous high pressure injection of iodinated intravenous
      contrast media between a 20 GA fenestrated, intravenous catheter (BD Nexiva™ Diffusics™) and
      an 18 GA non-fenestrated, intravenous catheter. The 20 GA BD Nexiva™ Diffusics™ IV catheter
      will be considered non-inferior to conventional 18 GA IV catheters if the 95% upper bound for
      the difference in percentage of images of acceptable quality between the images acquired
      using the 18 GA IV catheters and the 20 GA BD Nexiva™ Diffusics™ IV catheters is less than
      15%.

      Study catheters will be inserted by appropriately licensed healthcare professionals
      (Inserters). Prior to enrollment, potential Inserters will be trained and qualified by the
      Sponsor on proper use of the BD Nexiva™ Diffusics™ IV catheter in both an artificial hand
      model and then in human patients. Inserters will then be expected to use the test product for
      a period of two (2) weeks, in order to gain familiarity with the product. Because BD Nexiva™
      Diffusics™ IV catheters are not currently used in the Johns Hopkins Outpatient Center, the
      Sponsor will provide BD Nexiva™ Diffusics™ IV catheters for use during this training and
      familiarization period.
    
  