
    
      Unfortunately, despite the best clinical efforts with surgical intervention and chemotherapy
      many patients with high grade and advanced stage renal cell carcinoma (RCC) progress and die
      of their disease. In United States approximately 13,000 individuals die from RCC each year.
      The primary cause of failure is microscopic spread of the tumor prior to complete surgical
      extirpation of detectable disease and the heterogenous nature of the metastatic cells. These
      cells are resistant to all forms of therapy including chemotherapy, radiation, and escape
      from immune surveillance by a variety of mechanism. This results in low 5-year survival rates
      (approximately 10%) in patients with metastasis. Novel immunotherapeutic strategies provide a
      hope in circumventing the drug resistant RCC and improve the survival of patients undergoing
      surgery. RCC, like melanoma is one of the most immunogenic tumors and partial successes have
      been achieved by a variety of immunotherapeutic strategies show partial successes. Although
      vaccines have been highlighted in clinical trials since the mid-1970s with subcutaneous
      autologous irradiated tumor cells most of these studies were in patients with advanced
      disease. These approaches resulted in rare if any clinically relevant benefits to patients.
      However, new vaccines in other cancers have shown responses equivalent to chemotherapy with
      minimal toxicity [1]. The use of immune adjuvant strategies to increase the therapeutic
      immune responses to tumor vaccines enhanced the proportion of patients with therapeutic
      responses to vaccination to 10%-15% on average. Only during the last decade has it become
      clear that failure of immune system to respond to the tumor vaccine is the main obstacle that
      limits the efficacy of vaccine based immunotherapies. The precise reason for failure of the
      immune system in cancers is very complex particularly as it relates to (1) the escape of
      growing or metastasizing tumor from immune surveillance [2-4] and (2) low immunogenicity of
      autoantigens associated with malignant neoplasms. This human clinical trial will investigate
      the dose limiting toxicity of a polyvalent immune enhanced vaccine as a first step towards
      developing a multipronged approach to triggering the immune system to attack and destroy
      micrometastatic disease. Investigators hypothesize that the allogeneic RCC cell genetically
      modified to express α (1,3)galactosyltransferase (enzyme responsible for producing the strong
      xenoantigen on the cell surface of the cellular immunotherapy) will augment the efficacy of
      cellular immunotherapy and thereby improve patient outcomes. In this Phase 1 Trial
      investigators plan to establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of Hyperacute®-Renal (HAR)
      immunotherapy in subjects with clinically metastatic renal cell carcinoma.
    
  