
    
      This is a pilot study which aims to establish whether artificial intelligence can be used as
      a diagnostic aid to improve diagnostic accuracy and outcomes in the specialist setting prior
      to conducting a much larger trial of the intervention in primary care.

      Objectives:

        1. To establish whether the diagnostic accuracy of an artificial intelligence system is on
           par with teledermatologists' clinical assessment.

        2. To establish the safety and feasibility of offering artificial intelligence as a
           diagnostic aid prior to conducting a large trial of the intervention in primary care.

      Hypotheses:

        1. The AI algorithm will have diagnostic accuracy comparable with a teledermatologists'
           assessment.

        2. The AI algorithm will have a diagnostic accuracy more conservative (i.e. more false
           positives) than dermatologists in the clinical setting.

        3. The AI algorithm will have greater diagnostic accuracy than the registrar.

        4. The AI algorithm will lead to a reduction in the number of biopsies performed by the
           registrar the likely impact of which will be reduced cost to patients and the healthcare
           system.

      Trial Design:

      The pilot study will take place in specialist dermatology and melanoma clinics in Victoria,
      Australia. Potential participants will be identified and screened at the general dermatology
      and melanoma clinics by the clinic doctors who deem the participant meet the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria.

      Intervention:

      Photography of lesions using a MoleMap camera device with automated artificial intelligence
      providing an assessment of the lesion in real time.

      This pilot study will be a before and after intervention trial design. For the initial
      'lead-in' phase, no AI diagnosis will be provided back to the treating clinicians. This phase
      will be used for prospective data collection.

      For the intervention phase, an AI diagnosis will be provided to the dermatology registrar
      (who is used in this pilot study as a surrogate for the GP) and dermatologist after they have
      both assessed the patient clinically. Management of the lesion will be determined by the
      dermatologist and recorded.

      The safety of the device will be determined by its use in the setting of specialist
      dermatology clinics to ensure that patients are receiving the highest standard of care with a
      dermatologist providing a clinical diagnosis and management for all lesions tested.

      It is anticipated that the full trial will expand to include multiple sites across Australia
      and New Zealand.
    
  