
    
      Methodology-The eligible women in the age group of 30-50 years will be screened. Eligibility
      criteria will be determined. Women with clinical cervicitis as per NACO guidelines on per
      speculum examination will been rolled as cases after signing the inform consent. Women with
      no signs and symptoms of cervicitis (No white discharge P/V,No lower Abdominal pain, No
      urinary symptoms,No dysperunia,No pruritis vulvae,No post coital bleeding)will be enrolled as
      controls after signing the inform consent. The participants ready to participate will be
      explained the details and the purpose of the study by Doctor.All the women enrolled in women
      shall be followed up after 7-14 days.

      Day 1.Cervical swab from ectocervix and endocervix shall be collected. Additional vaginal
      swab Will be taken from lateral vaginal wall and posterior fornices for all women enrolled in
      study.The swabs will be evenly spread on a glass slide and heat fixed. The slides will be put
      in slide box to be transported to Microbiology Department for Gram staining for Gonococcal,
      Non-Gonococcal infections,Bacterial Vaginosis,Candida. Next, cervical cells for HPV DNA
      testing will be collected.

      The women diagnosed with clinical cervicitis will receive treatment on the spot and advised
      use to use barrier contraception for 15 days.No treated will be given for the women in
      enrolled arm i.e women without clinical and lab STIs.

      Day7-14- All the women enrolled in study shall be followed up after 7-14 days. Women will
      undergo per-speculum examination and clinical signs of cervicitis or cervicovaginitis will be
      reassessed again and documented.

      A repeat cervical swab and vaginal swab shall be collected and send for gram staining for the
      above mentioned organisms.

      A repeat, cervical cells for HPV DNA testing will be collected. Women who are positive for
      HPV DNA and STIs on follow up visits shall be counselled and referred for further evaluation
      and treatment to appropriate hospital.
    
  