
    
      Study Type: This is an experimental study in which patients who present with either
      paroxysmal or persistent atrial fibrillation will be randomized based on their left atrial
      size (≤ 5.0 or > 5.0 but < 6.1 cm) to receive a hybrid ablation approach vs percutaneous
      catheter where in both procedures ablation will include pulmonary vein isolation with a left
      and right atrial flutter line for patients with a left atrium ≤ 5.0 cm. and hybrid approach
      will be compared to the Cox Maze III procedure for patients with a left atrium > 5.0 < 6.1 cm
      .

      Study Design: One hundred and fifty two patients (n=152) with persistent or paroxysmal atrial
      fibrillation who present for surgical or catheter ablation intervention are to be enrolled.
      The study will take place at the Inova Heart and Vascular Institute in Falls Church, VA in
      the specially designed hybrid surgical suite in the cardiovascular operating area. We expect
      enrollment to take (two years study duration). Patients will be included if they present for
      ablation with paroxysmal or persistent atrial fibrillation as defined by the Heart Rhythm
      Society and their left atrium is < 6.1 cm (volume). Patients will be excluded if they present
      with long standing persistent atrial fibrillation as defined by the Heart Rhythm Society,
      require other cardiac surgery, are unable to take anticoagulation or require prescribed anti
      arrhythmic medication for reason other than atrial fibrillation, have a left atrium measuring
      greater than 6.0 cm (volume),have had previous catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation (Do
      not exclude for prior AVNRT) or a pacemaker, are less than 18 years of age, are unable or
      unwilling to be followed according to set protocol to include implantation of a heart monitor
      6 weeks prior to their ablation procedure.

      Study Methodology: This is an experimental study in which patients who present with either
      paroxysmal or persistent atrial fibrillation will be randomized based on their left atrial
      size.

      For patients with a left atrium size of less than 5.0 cm, a Hybrid approach (pulmonary vein
      isolation performed surgically will be combined with right and left atrial flutter lines
      performed using a transcatheter approach) will be compared to percutaneous catheter ablation
      to isolate the pulmonary veins and apply the left and right atrial flutter lines. In the
      group of patients with left atrial size of 5.0-6.0 cm the Hybrid approach is going to be
      compared to the minimally invasive Cox-Maze III procedure (Figure 1). Each patient regardless
      of procedure will have their left atrial appendage closed. All patients will receive an
      internal event monitor (Reveal XT) which will be placed 6 weeks before their procedure to
      establish atrial fibrillation burden. All patients will also be given a health related
      quality of life and a symptom frequency and severity tool to fill out prior to their ablation
      and at 3 and 6 months post ablation.

      The primary outcome will be the rate of return to sinus rhythm as defined by the Heart Rhythm
      Society Guidelines (sinus rhythm maintained off anti arrhythmic medications and any monitored
      atrial arrhythmia greater than 30 seconds will be considered a recurrence) at 6 months and
      atrial fibrillation burden

      The secondary outcomes will include:

      Number and type of procedural complications Number of embolic strokes The number of major
      bleeding events as defined by the need to receive a transfusion for the amount of blood lost
      and or hemorrhagic stroke while receiving anticoagulation therapy.

      Reported improvement in patients' self reported health related quality of life and their
      symptom frequency and severity at 3 and 6 months

      Statistical Methodology: Since this is a proof of concept study without any prior literature
      to obtain margins, we used the current rate of return to sinus rhythm as our margins to
      determine sample size. This is fully explained in section 4.2. Based on these calculations,
      152 patients will be randomized as described above. Descriptive statistics will be used to
      characterize the patient population. T-tests and ANOVAs will be used to look for differences
      between groups within the continuous data. Chi square, Fisher's Exact test and/or McNemar's
      Test will be used to look for differences among categorical variables. For all analyses, a
      two-sided p value <0.05 will be used to determine significance.

      To analyze the primary objective, the percentage of patients in each group who return to
      normal sinus rhythm will be calculated. Chi square analysis, or logistic regression if
      covariates are required, will be used to test for differences in the odds of returning to
      normal sinus rhythm between the treatment groups in both arms of the study. Chi square and/or
      logistic regression will also be used to assess the secondary aim regarding complications
      between the treatment groups. For the left atrial size > 5.0 but < 6.1 cm arm of the study,
      testing for non-inferiority of complication rates will be conducted using the treatment
      effect and 95% confidence intervals. These will be compared against the 10% non-inferiority
      margins, to assess whether the treatment effect and 95% confidence interval fall entirely
      within the margins. Lastly, repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be conducted
      to examine the secondary aim regarding change in health-related quality of life by treatment
      groups.
    
  