
    
      Substantive evidence shows that mindfulness training improves mental health and general
      well-being (see meta-analyses by Cavanagh, Strauss, and colleagues). A significant factor
      that reduces well-being is the internalisation of two core consumer culture values: a
      materialistic value orientation (MVO) and body perfect ideals (see meta-analyses by Dittmar
      and colleagues for MVO, and Grabe et al, Barlett et al. for idealised media models). Thus,
      mindfulness may act as a buffer against the negative impact of consumer culture ideals,
      consistent with value circumplex models which place materialistic and appearance-focused
      values at the self-enhancement end, opposite to self-transcendence values, such as caring for
      self and others and community engagement.

      Self-transcendence values lead to psychological need satisfaction, whereas consumer culture
      values undermine such satisfaction (Self-Determination Theory).

      Three novel questions are examined: (1) Is change in self-related values and psychological
      processes significant for the beneficial consequences of mindfulness for well-being? (2) Does
      mindfulness training reduce consumer culture values and associated harmful behaviours, such
      as disordered eating and excessive buying? (3) Do high and low intensity mindfulness
      interventions differ in impact?

      The project involves collaboration with Kate Cavanagh in Psychology and the Co-Directors of
      the Sussex Centre for Mindfulness Clara Strauss and Robert Marx. It consists of: 1.
      qualitative interviews with experienced mindfulness teachers, 2. a multi-phase student
      intervention study, and 3. an exposure experiment with the same student sample.

      Study 1: INTERVIEWS WITH MINDFULNESS TEACHERS (n=12) Semi-structured interviews with teachers
      (recruited through the UK Network of Mindfulness Teacher Training Organisations) will examine
      their views on the psychological processes significant in individuals' mental health
      improvement, focusing on processes related to values and self. Interviews will be
      audio-taped.

      Study 2: INTERVENTION WITH STUDENTS (n=165-180) Phase 1: Online survey to collect baseline
      measures on all variables of interest, using established scales Trait mindfulness (Gu et al,
      2016); Consumer Culture Values (Easterbrook et al., 2014); Core Self Beliefs (Fowler et al,
      2006); Self-Discrepancies (Dittmar et al., 1996; Self-compassion (Neff, 2016); Self-esteem
      (Robins et al., 2001; Self-objectification (Lindner & Tantleff-Dunn, in press); Self-worth
      (Crocker et al., 2003); Self-concept clarity (Campbell et al., 2003); Self-construal
      (individualist vs. relational) (Aron et al., 1992); Social comparison tendency (Gibbons &
      Buunk, 1999); Consumer self-confidence, author, date); Mental health assessment (DASS-21);
      Subjective well-being (Dittmar & Kapur, 2001); Body esteem (Mendelson et al., 2001); Material
      esteem (Dittmar et al., 2016); Eating Behaviour (Van Strien et al., 1986, shortened);
      Excessive Buying (Dittmar et al., 2007); Emotion regulation (Bjureberg, 2016);
      Consumption-based coping (Wright et al., 2016)

      Phase 2: Intervention (randomised control trial)

        -  8-week mindfulness-based cognitive group therapy course guided by (non-NHS) mindfulness
           teachers (high intensity)

        -  Self-guided MBCT training using a published audio book and CDs (low intensity)

        -  'Waiting list' (control; respondents are offered the book after the study)

      Phase 3: On-line survey (same as Phase 1) Study 3: IMPACT OF EXPOSURE TO CONSUMER CULTURE
      STIMULI (n=165-180) Using a 3 (mindfulness intervention condition) x 4 (CC stimuli:
      materialistic, appearance, combination, control) design, respondents view a film excerpt that
      contains an ad break (containing CC stimuli, approved in ER/HMC28/2), and then complete
      measures of actual eating (respondents will be offered food as a reward) and buying behaviour
      (approved in ER/RLJ/1), as well as selected measures used in Phases 1 and 3.

      Studies 2 and 3 include 3 ug and 3 masters research projects.
    
  