
    
      1. Introduction

           Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is an advanced procedure which is
           widely used in the diagnosis and treatment of a variety of benign and malignant
           pancreatobiliary disorders1,2,3,4,5.

           Selective cannulation of the common bile duct (CBD) is the most important and
           challenging step in a biliary endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography6,7.
           However, in the first ERCP, even in experienced hands, biliary cannulation may fail in
           up to 15 % - 35 % of cases when using standard methods alone8. In this subset of
           patients, additional cannulation techniques are needed to access the CBD in order to
           continue with the ERCP.

           Precut is the most common strategy used by experienced endoscopists, when conventional
           methods have failed7. Needle knife fistulotomy (NKF) and conventional precut are the two
           most common variants. Recently published guidelines recommend opting for NKF, as
           evidence suggests a lower risk of adverse events, especially pancreatitis, when used
           early in the biliary cannulation algorithm7,9.

           Technically NKF is the creation of an artificial fistula between the most protuberant
           portion of the papilla, which represents the intraduodenal portion of the CBD and the
           biliary tract by using a diathermic cutter of the needle
           type6,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18. Its big advantage over conventional precut is that it
           avoids the contact of the cutting device with the papillary orifice and therefore
           avoiding direct thermal injury to the pancreatic duct.

           Although NKF was originally developed as a rescue technique, to be used after previous
           failed standard cannulations attempts, it is being increasingly used at an early stage
           during ERCP. Given its safety and feasibility some authors even advocate, the once
           unreasonable, primary use without previous standard cannulation attempts10,11,19,20.

           In the last 3-4 years primary NKF has gained interest as it is associated with low rate
           of complications and high success rate. A recent randomized controlled trial comparing
           87 patients submitted to conventional cannulation method versus 96 patients allocated to
           primary NFK and all of the patients were considered to be at high-risk for
           pancreatitis11. The authors observed a significant difference in technical success and
           complications between the two groups in favor of the NFK group. They reported a 0% rate
           of pancreatitis in the NKF group and all patients of both groups were not submitted to
           post ERCP pancreatitis (PEP) prophylaxis. Interestingly the authors were able to perform
           NKF in almost every type of papillae excluding only 3% of the endoscopic appearances of
           the Ampulla of Vater which has not been advocated by many authors that only undertake
           NFK in large papillae with a long intramural segment. In an editorial related with this
           research some questions were raised19. Being the primary question if the non-use of
           NSAID's and pancreatic stents in the conventional group was an artificial advantage in
           favor of the NFK group? This was a clear caveat and with large probability the use of
           prophylactic measures for PEP in the conventional group was likely to blunt the
           differences or even negating the statistical significance of pancreatitis rate in favor
           of the NFK group.

        2. Financial resources

           All participants included in this study will perform ERCP, laboratory tests and other
           complementary diagnostic tests after a duly justified medical prescription. Therefore
           there are no additional costs or consumption of hospital resources.

        3. Ethical considerations In this study, participants will be included after informed
           consent. Anonymity and confidentiality will be safeguarded by assigning an individual
           numeric code. It will also be explained the possibility of withdrawing from the study at
           any time, with the guarantee of the total elimination of data. All researchers involved
           in the study will adhere to the Rules of Ethical Conduct and Best Practices in order to
           comply with the precepts of the Declaration of Helsinki, the Convention on Human Rights
           and Biomedicine, the guidelines of the Council for International Organizations of
           Medical Sciences and the Guide to Good Clinical Practice.

        4. Statistical analysis

           Qualitative variables will be summarized using absolute and relative frequencies, and
           quantitative variables will be summarized using the mean and standard deviation or the
           median and interquartile range, depending on their distribution profiles. The normality
           of the quantitative variables will be assessed using the histogram distribution.

           A sample of 334 (167 in each group) patients will provide 80% power to detect a
           difference of 5% in pancreatitis rates between the two groups based on a chi-square
           test, assuming a pancreatitis rate of 1% among primary fistulotomy, 6 and a one-tailed
           alpha of 0.05.

           Relations between categorical variables will be assessed using a chi-square test and
           Fisher´s exact test. Differences between two or more groups of independent non-normally
           distributed quantitative variables will be evaluated using a Kruskal-Wallis test.

           To explain the risk of pancreatitis, a binomial logistic regression model with multiple
           predictors will be performed.

           The null hypothesis will be rejected when the test statistics p-values are less than
           <0.05. Statistical analysis, sample size calculation and graphics will be performed
           using Stata software (StataCorp. 2015. Stata Statistical Software: Release 14. College
           Station, StataCorp LP)

        5. Expected results

      The results of this study will contribute to a better understanding of what is the best
      algorithm to follow when performing an ERCP.
    
  