
    
      Background: Each year, Canadian emergency department physicians treat 600,000 patients with
      head injury. Many of these are adults with "minor head injury", i.e. loss of consciousness or
      amnesia and a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of 13-15. Only 6.2% of these "minor" patients
      have some acute injury on computed tomography (CT scan) and only 0.5% have an epidural
      hematoma requiring surgery. Among Canadian teaching hospital emergency departments, we have
      shown a fourfold variation in use of CT and that a small but important number of intracranial
      hematomas are missed at the first visit. This renewal application builds on previous MRC/CIHR
      Health Services Research Committee funded grants to determine feasibility (phase 0, MRC
      GR-13304D, 1995-96), develop a clinical decision rule for CT in minor head injury (phase I,
      MRC MT-13700, 1996-99, N=3,121), and prospectively validate this Canadian CT Head Rule (phase
      II, CIHR #42521, 2000-03, N=2,707), all part of the U of Ottawa Group Grant in Decision
      Support Techniques (CIHR 2000-143). The Canadian CT Head Rule is comprised of simple clinical
      variables and allows physicians to be much more accurate in their diagnosis of brain injury
      and will standardize the use of CT without jeopardizing patient care (The Lancet 2001). In
      the recently completed prospective validation (phase II), we confirmed the accuracy and
      reliability of the rule in 2,707 additional patients.

      Objectives: The goal of phase III is to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of an active
      strategy to implement the Canadian CT Head Rule into physician practice. Specific objectives
      are to: 1) Determine clinical impact by comparing the intervention and control sites for: a)
      CT Head ordering rates, b) Missed neurological intervention cases, c) Missed brain injuries,
      d) Number of deaths, d) Length of stay in ED, and e) Patient satisfaction; 2) Determine
      sustainability of the impact; 3) Evaluate performance of the Canadian CT Head Rule, with
      regards to: a) Accuracy, b) Physician accuracy in interpretation, and c) Physician comfort
      and compliance with use; 4) Conduct an economic evaluation to determine the potential for
      cost savings with widespread implementation; 5) Conduct an exploratory psychological process
      evaluation to examine whether physicians' intentions and behaviours can be predicted.

      Methods: We propose a matched-pair cluster design study which compares outcomes during 3
      consecutive 12-month 'before', 'after', and 'decay' periods at 6 pairs of 'intervention' and
      'control' sites. These 12 hospital ED sites will be stratified as 'teaching' or 'community'
      hospitals, matched according to baseline CT head ordering rates, and then allocated within
      each pair to either intervention or control groups. During the 'after' period at the
      intervention sites, simple and inexpensive strategies will be employed to actively implement
      the Canadian CT Head Rule: a) physician group discussion and consensus, b) educational
      initiatives (lecture, posters, pocket cards), and c) a process-of-care modification with a
      mandatory reminder of the Rule at the point of requisition for radiography. These outcomes
      will be assessed: 1) Measures of clinical impact will compare the changes from 'before' to
      'after' between the intervention and control sites: a) CT Head ordering proportions (the
      primary analysis); b) Number of missed brain injuries; c) Number of serious adverse outcomes;
      d) Length of stay in ED; e) Patient satisfaction. 2) Performance of the Canadian CT Head
      Rule: a) Accuracy of the rule; b) Physician accuracy of interpretation; c) Physician comfort
      and compliance. 3) Economic evaluation measures: a) CT head rate after discharge; b) Length
      of stay in ED and hospital; c) Hospital admission; d) Neurological intervention; e) Number of
      transfers. 4) Psychological Process Evaluation: Mail surveys of physicians before and after
      the intervention. During the 12-month 'decay' period, implementation strategies will
      continue, allowing us to evaluate the sustainability of the effect. We estimate a sample size
      of 2,400 patients in each period in order to have adequate power to evaluate the main
      outcomes.

      Importance: This implementation study (phase III) is an essential step in the process of
      developing a new clinical decision rule / guideline for health care practitioners. Phase I
      successfully derived the Canadian CT Head Rule and phase II confirmed the accuracy and safety
      of the rule and, hence, the potential for physicians to improve care. What remains unknown is
      the actual change in clinical behaviour that can be effected by implementation of the
      Canadian CT Head Rule and whether implementation can be achieved with simple and inexpensive
      measures. We believe that the Canadian CT Head Rule has the potential to significantly limit
      health care costs and improve the efficiency of patient flow in busy Canadian EDs.
    
  