
    
      Lesch-Nyhan disease (LND) is an X-linked disorder of purine metabolism which results from
      mutation in the gene for the enzyme hypoxanthineguanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT);
      patients have hyperuricemia, gout, urinary tract calculi, and nephropathy which are
      effectively treated with allopurinol. There is also a syndrome of dystonia, chorea and
      athetosis, as well as involuntary self mutilative biting and aggression toward their
      caretakers, for which there is no treatment.

      Kuvan™ is a form of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), and is approved to help lower the blood levels
      of phenylalanine in people who have phenylketonuria (PKU). LND patients have been found to
      have decreased BH4 in the spinal fluid and brain; BH4 is a precursor of dopamine, which has
      an effect on behavior. In an earlier study Dr Nyhan found that treatment of LND with
      5-hydroxytryptophan and carbidopa abolished the self-injurious behavior but was uniformly
      transient.

      This is a single site open-label protocol for eight subjects age 4 years and older with
      Lesch-Nyhan Disease documented by deficiency of HPRT.

      The study involves three study visits to San Diego and one study visit done locally. The
      first visit will last 13 days, the following visits are single day visits at week 4 and week
      8, and the local study visit is a brief outpatient visit at week 6. Physical and neurological
      exams, videotaping of the patient's interactions with the study staff, and blood and urine
      collection for laboratory analyses will be performed at each San Diego visit. A family member
      or caregiver will be asked to complete a short assessment form and report any illness or
      medication changes. In addition, the study staff will have weekly telephone contact with the
      family to discuss any behavioral changes or study drug issues.

      If the patient's self injurious behavior becomes worse after starting Kuvan the drug will be
      discontinued and the patient will be followed until the behavior returns to baseline.
    
  