
    
      Design: Double Blinded Randomised Controlled Trial This is a multicentre randomised
      controlled trial in the setting of two district general teaching hospitals serving an
      aggregate population of over 750 000. There are already established general surgical clinics
      and operating sessions available for and including study patients. Both units undertake
      conventional open and laparoscopic treatments for inguinal hernias on a regular basis in
      keeping with the national average numbers.

      Methodology; Patients with symptomatic unilateral or bilateral inguinal hernias diagnosed
      clinically &/or radiologically will be identified at general surgical clinics and the primary
      investigator, will arrange the following;

        -  Assess inclusion / exclusion criteria for participation in study

        -  Informed written consent for participation in the study

        -  Baseline clinical severity and quality of life analysis using:

             -  Euroqol (EQ5D)

             -  Core Outcome Measures Index adapted for patients with hernia (COMI-hernia)

        -  Informed written consent for intervention (the patient will be blinded as to the
           intervention group) Subjects; Patients will be identified during attendance to our
           general surgical clinics. Patients will be clearly informed that participation in the
           study is entirely voluntary and that refusal to participate will in no way disadvantage
           them.

      Intervention (within 3 months of randomization);

        -  Re-assess inclusion / exclusion criteria

        -  Ensure informed written consent for surgery / participation in the study

        -  Intervention; The initial laparoscopic approach will be the same for both groups until
           the process of selection and placement of the mesh (ProGripTM self-gripping mesh versus
           standard 'lightweight' (large pore) polypropylene mesh fixed with SecurestrapTM) which
           would be decided by randomization by sealed envelope into one of the 2 intervention
           groups: Group 1 (Self-gripping Mesh), Group 2 (Stapled Mesh). The surgeon will have a
           choice of Transabdominal Preperitoneal (TAPP) or Total Extraperitoneal (TEP) to perform
           the laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair. Both TAPP and TEP are standard laparoscopic
           techniques used for treatment of inguinal hernias both within the National Health
           Service (NHS) and across the world.

      Postoperative Care Since most laparoscopic inguinal hernia repairs are performed as day
      cases, patients may be discharged on the same day of surgery after recovery with simple
      analgesia. Diet can be resumed immediately and the convalescent period is expected to be 1-2
      days with routine activities expected to resume at 2 weeks.

      Blinding precautions:

      Patients will be unaware of the type of mesh received as the randomisation process will be
      carried out intraoperatively when the patient is under general anaesthesia. Subsequently,
      over the follow-up period every possible effort will be made to continue the blinding process
      in order to minimise any bias in patient reported outcomes.

      Perioperative outcome measures

        -  Time taken for procedure

        -  Admission / 30-day readmission rates

        -  Procedure-specific complications

        -  Direct (marginal) costs Post-operative assessments Performed at 1 week, 6 weeks, 3
           months and 12 months (by Surgical Registrar blinded to the intervention received by the
           patient). 1 Week and 3 month follow-up will be over telephone (with a view to review
           patient in the Hospital, should any concerns be expressed or elicited from the patient);
           6 weeks and 12 month follow-up will be face-to-face in an out-patient clinic setting.

      At each assessment the following will be analysed:

        1. Pain - recorded prospectively in a diary by the patient independently. Recorded daily
           for the first week on an un-marked 100mm long scale, from absolutely no pain to the
           worst imaginable pain

        2. Analgesia requirements - recorded daily for the first week in a diary by the patient
           independently

        3. Extent of ecchymosis, seroma/haematoma - The registrar will assess for any signs of
           ecchymosis, seroma or haematoma and measure the magnitude of surface area(s) affected at
           6 weeks.

        4. Time to return to work and normal activities - reported by the patient. (Post-op all
           patients will be advised to mobilise and return to normal activities as soon as they
           feel able)

        5. Procedure-specific complications;

        6. Clinical efficacy and effectiveness; using

             -  Euroqol (EQ5D)

             -  Core Outcome Measures Index adapted for patients with hernia (COMI-hernia)

             -  Patient satisfaction rating scales

        7. Cost effectiveness and cost benefit; using

             -  Direct costs

             -  Indirect costs

             -  Willingness to pay data

      Quality of life and economic analysis;

        -  Generic Euroqol (EQ5D) instrument

        -  Core Outcome Measures Index adapted for patients with hernia (COMI-hernia) The
           combination of these generic EQ5D and disease specific COMI-hernia tools are thus
           sensitive to assess & compare both multidimensional and cost-effectiveness outcomes in
           patients undergoing surgical treatment for inguinal hernia repair.

        -  Procedure-specific complications

        -  Patient satisfaction rating scale

        -  Cost effectiveness analysis; will be analysed in terms of

             -  Cost / symptom-free patient

             -  Cost / QALY (Quality-Adjusted Life Years) calculated from the EQ5D and COMI-hernia
                indices Direct hospital costs will be collected prospectively with the help of the
                hospital finance department; whilst indirect patient cost data (income loss,
                domestic support etc.) will be assessed and calculated at interview at 3 and 12
                months. Direct & indirect costs will provide total costs for use in the cost/QALY
                calculations.

        -  Cost benefit analysis; outcomes, expressed as monetary units assessed by direct
           willingness to pay (WTP) questioning, at 3 and 12 months will be used for cost benefit
           analysis e.g. cost / £ willing to pay and cost / percent of weekly income willing to
           pay.

      Data collection and analysis Data will be collected and entered onto a specifically designed
      Microsoft Access database Data distribution will be studied and analysed appropriately.
      Intergroup analysis will be performed using Mann-Whitney U test and intragroup analysis will
      be performed using the Friedman test across time points and Wilcoxon's ranked sum test
      between two time points. Regression techniques and multivariate analysis will then be
      utilised for a more thorough interrogation of the data.

      For the economic analysis, the incremental cost per QALY of the intervention will be
      assessed. This follows the example of National Institute of Clinical Excellence (NICE) who
      use a threshold of £20 000 to £30 000 per QALY gained. However, cost-effectiveness analysis
      is conducted under conditions of uncertainty. Cost effectiveness acceptability curves (CEACs)
      will be generated to demonstrate the uncertainty around the decision. Given the data
      available within the model, the CEAC will plot the probability of one strategy being more
      cost-effective than the others for a range of threshold values of an additional QALY.

      Interim Analysis:

      An interim analysis will be carried out after recruitment of 25 patients per group. The goal
      of this analysis is to evaluate recruitment rates, adverse events and serious adverse events
      if any, as well as the overall viability and conduct of the trial.

      The reported rates of moderate to severe chronic groin pain affecting QoL after elective
      hernia repair ranges between 0 to 36%8-11. The variation is also attributed to the
      inconsistencies in the definition of chronic pain. Investigators have taken the chronic pain
      rates from one of the larger reported series (Garg et al 200937) to calculate the sample size
      as their rates may be similar to the predicted chronic pain rates when fixing moderate to
      large sized defects with permanent fixation devices. The sample size of 47 per group
      (allowing for a dropout rate of 15%) will therefore be a pragmatic number to achieve
      recruitment, follow-up and completion of the trial within the anticipated time period.
      However the sample size derived from the meta-analysis (Sajid et al 201338) will be
      considered for a future multi-centre trial that is planned by investigators' group based on
      the outcomes from this pilot study.

      Ethical issues;

        -  All patients will be given adequate time to read the patient information sheet

        -  No undue pressure will be exerted on any individual to participate in the study

        -  The patient consent form will be signed by the patient and the researcher, only when
           both are happy that the patient has understood the information sheet and is willing to
           give informed written consent to participate in the study, and that the patient
           understands that it is their right to withdraw from the trial at any time without
           prejudice to their future treatment.

      Project milestones Based upon the average number of patients seen in general surgical clinics
      with symptomatic inguinal hernias requiring surgical intervention, we envision recruitment
      taking 6-8 months across both sites.

      Taking an average waiting time of 3 months from clinic appointment to date of operation, most
      patients in the trial should have their planned intervention by 9-12 months from start of
      recruitment.

      Most of the key outcomes will be collected within 6 weeks post procedure. The most important
      outcomes of chronic pain and early recurrence will be evaluated at 3, 12 month follow-up post
      procedure, hence taking between 18-24 months for completion of trial.

      The effect sizes used for sample size calculation were conservative and the true required
      sample may be lower. An interim analysis will be performed after recruitment of 25 patients
      per group. This data will help to guide the requirement for further recruitment and establish
      if intergroup differences are larger than expected. It may be possible to curtail recruitment
      with a lower sample size.

      Risk Profile It is not likely that there should be any reason to stop this trial prematurely,
      as the interventions in question are currently in regular clinical practice both in the NHS
      and worldwide without any added risks reported by the manufacturers or in the scientific
      literature.

      Intervention; Both treatment techniques of laparoscopic fixation of mesh with stapling device
      and use of self-gripping mesh not requiring fixation are used already for treatment of
      inguinal hernias, both within the NHS and across the world. They have been shown to be safe
      and effective, with no more increase in complications. Treatment related risks will be
      covered by NHS indemnity.

      Complications are classed as:

      Non-specific: Acute post-operative pain, infection, haematoma, recurrence, port site hernia.

      Specific complications: Chronic post-operative pain, shrinkage; dislocation; migration;
      erosion of mesh All procedures will be planned and performed by Consultant Surgeons skilled
      and experienced in the performance of laparoscopic inguinal hernia mesh repair. Complications
      and adverse events will be reported to the Principal Investigator and each incidence
      individually investigated. Any concerns over outcomes will be discussed with all of the
      co-investigators and clinicians involved in the trial. Any safety concerns will result in
      suspension of the trial pending further investigation.

      Trial Process; All of the trial outcomes are non-invasive and offer no significant risk to
      patients; in fact the enhanced follow-up will allow closer monitoring of patients for
      procedure or product related complications.

      The participants will have given their informed consent, prior to taking part in this study.
      All participant details will be number coded and kept securely. Participants are unlikely to
      be identified from digital images, which will be numbered to ensure anonymity and archived
      securely.

      The overall aim is to observe and compare outcomes in patients undergoing standardised,
      established treatment protocols currently in wide utilisation, with no deviation from
      standard practice. As such investigators do not envisage patients being placed at undue risk.
    
  