
    
      The investigators propose studying the cell mediated effects of ipilimumab in combination
      with chemotherapy in the neoadjuvant setting for NSCLC. The overall immune assessment
      strategy for the proposed ipilimumab neoadjuvant trial will be based on the hypothesis that
      1) T cells with specificities against tumor associated antigens expressed by the patient's
      progressing NSCLC are present, but functionally impaired, at baseline, and 2) that the
      immunomodulatory effects of chemotherapy plus ipilimumab will impact the suppressive
      mechanisms, restoring functional reactivity to important anti-tumor effector cell
      populations.

      An important potential biomarker for anti-tumor immune response is the proliferation and
      stimulation of circulating T cells with specificities against tumor associated antigens
      (TAA). At baseline few patients with cancer have populations of circulating T cells with
      specificities against TAA above the detectable level of 0.05% CD8 lymphocytes. The primary
      endpoint of this clinical trial will be to determine if the addition of ipilimumab to
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer increases the percentage of patients
      with circulating T cells with specificities against TAA. We will also measure tumor
      infiltrating lymphocytes in resected tumors.

      Study Interventions:

      The investigational agent, ipilimumab, will be added to neoadjuvant chemotherapy for cycles 2
      and 3. Standard surgical evaluation and therapy will be performed following completion of
      neoadjuvant therapy. Two cycles of single agent ipilimumab will be given after surgery
      (adjuvantly), followed by 2 cycles of maintenance therapy.

      Neoadjuvant:

      Cycle 1: Paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 IV over 3 hours followed by cisplatin 75 mg/m2 over 60 minutes
      or carboplatin Area Under Curve (AUC) 6 (capped at 900 mg)over 30-60 minutes on day 1 (every
      21 days x 1 cycle) Cycles 2 and 3: Ipilimumab 10mg/kg IV over 90 minutes, Paclitaxel 175
      mg/m2 over 3 hours followed by cisplatin 75 mg/m2 or carboplatin AUC 6 (capped at 900 mg)IV
      over 30-60 minutes (every 21 days x 2 cycles) Surgery: Standard surgical evaluation will
      occur at least 21 days after the last dose (Cycle 3) of chemotherapy followed by surgical
      therapy.

      Post-surgical Therapy: (Total of 4 doses of ipilimumab will be given post-operatively):

      Adjuvant: Ipilimumab 10 mg/kg IV every 3 weeks x 2 doses, beginning 4 weeks postoperative (up
      to 10 weeks if needed for recovery) Maintenance: Ipilimumab 10 mg/kg IV every 12 weeks x 2
      doses

      Correlative Science Measures: Study specific research blood and tissue test(s) will be
      conducted:

      Blood Specimens:

      •Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) isolated from freshly drawn anti-coagulated blood
      will be analyzed for circulating T cells with specificities against tumor-associated antigens
      (TAA) at 4 time points, namely 1) Baseline prior to treatment, 2) cycle 2, prior to
      ipilimumab therapy, 3) 21-36 days after completion of cycle 3 chemotherapy prior to surgery,
      and 4) 3-6 weeks after adjuvant ipilimumab dose #2. Additionally, PBMC from each of the time
      points will be analyzed for the presence of circulating populations of regulatory T cells,
      myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC), as well as activated and exhausted T cells.

      Tissue Specimens:

      •Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) will be isolated from the patient's resected tumor and
      analyzed for infiltrating T cells with specificities against tumor-associated antigens.
      Additionally, TIL will be analyzed for the presence of infiltrating populations of regulatory
      T cells, myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC), as well as activated and exhausted T cells.
    
  