
    
      Older people often use medications with anticholinergic or sedative side effects which
      increase the risk of falling, fractures caused by falls and cognitive impairment. In the
      Netherlands medication reviews are done by pharmacists in collaboration with the general
      practitioner to optimize the medication use and reduce these adverse drug events. To maximize
      the benefits of medication reviews it is helpful to identify patients with high risk
      medication, yet there are few tools to identify patients in need of a medication review. The
      Drug Burden Index (DBI) is a tool, designed in Australia, that calculates the burden of
      anticholinergic and sedative medications, taking into account a patient's dose. The DBI could
      be a useful tool to identify high risk patients who could benefit from medication reviews.
      The objective of this study is to evaluate whether the DBI can be used as a tool to identify
      patients with anticholinergic/sedative medication in need of a medication review. A single
      blinded clustered randomized controlled intervention study. Every pharmacy forms a cluster
      and per pharmacy one pharmacist will perform the medication reviews. In each pharmacy, one
      half of eligible patients will be randomly allocated to the control group and the other half
      in the intervention group. There are two measurements: at baseline and at follow-up, 3 months
      after the medication review has taken place. The study population includes community-dwelling
      patients aged ≥ 65, with polypharmacy (≥ 5 medications) and a DBI value ≥ 1 (n = 190)
      selected by 10 community pharmacists. The intervention consists a structured 5-step
      multidisciplinary medication review (STRIP method) as described in the multidisciplinary
      guidelines of the Dutch General Practitioners Society (Nederlands Huisartsen Genootschap,
      2013) including the objective to reduce the DBI, performed by the pharmacist in collaboration
      with the general practitioner. The main endpoint is the difference in proportion of patients
      having a decrease of DBI ≥ 0.5 between the intervention and control group at follow up (3
      months later). Secondary outcomes are the difference in proportion of patients having a DBI
      <1 between the intervention and control group at follow up (3 months later), the
      anticholinergic side effects, risk of falls, cognitive function, function of daily activity,
      hospital admission and mortality. All participants will be informed about the study. Informed
      consent will be asked from every participant. Data will be processed anonymously. Only the
      researcher will have access to the data. If required, the Dutch Inspection of Healthcare will
      also be granted access to the data for Inspection. The burden of patients will be kept at a
      minimum by trying to retrieve as much information as possible from patient's medical records
      and by using questionnaires and tests that were specifically developed for this population.
      In the investigators opinion, participation does not involve risks.
    
  