
    
      Objective:

      Cocaine addiction continues to be an important public health problem with over 1.7 million
      users in the US alone. Cocaine addiction is characterized by compulsive drug use despite
      adverse consequences and high rates of relapse during periods of abstinence. Cocaine
      addiction may be mediated by neuroadaptations in reward-related learning and memory processes
      in the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system and glutamatergic corticolimbic circuitry.
      Metabotropic glutamate subtype 5 receptors (mGluR5) likely play essential roles in mediating
      some of the actions of drugs of abuse. Animal studies have shown that mGluR5 knock-out or
      blockade reduces self-administration of cocaine and cocaine-induced hyper-locomotion.
      However, to what extent mGluR5 are involved in the pathophysiology of cocaine addiction in
      humans is currently unknown, partly due to the lack of suitable methods to reliably quantify
      mGluR5 in the living human brain.

      This protocol aims to determine whether the density of mGluR5 in brain is altered in
      participants with cocaine addiction compared to healthy controls using positron emission
      tomography (PET) and the recently developed radiotracer for mGluR5, [18F]SP203. We also aim
      to determine whether this density is related to genotype, history of cocaine use, and/or
      craving for cocaine.

      Study Population:

      The study populations will consist of healthy adults with no history of substance abuse and a
      matched group of healthy current primary cocaine dependent male and female participants
      (20-55 years old.; N=40/group).

      Design:

      Density of mGluR5 will be measured in cocaine dependent participants and healthy adults
      volunteers with PET and (18(F)SP203, a radioligand with specificity for mGluR5. All
      participants will undergo genotyping to identify normal or variant mGluR5 gene associated
      with drug abuse. The intensity of craving for cocaine will be assessed while watching a video
      about cocaine use.

      Outcome measures:

      Density of mGluR5 will be compared between cocaine dependent participants and healthy
      controls. In addition, correlation among the genetic polymorphism, the craving response, and
      the density of mGluR5 will be determined.
    
  