
    
      Background: The prevalence of epilepsy is about 0.5% to 1% worldwide, with high disability
      and mortality rate. The 128-channel electroencephalograph (EEG), combined with Brain
      Electrical Source Analysis (BESA) dipole localization method, is able to provide more
      specific information about the brain activity and find out the epileptogenic focus. Based on
      this novel EEG recording method, cathode transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS)
      targeting the epileptogenic focus can be used to decrease the excitability of the cortex,
      thus reducing the frequency of seizures.

      Methods: A single-center double-blinded randomized controlled and open-label extension trial
      will be carried out to study the efficacy of 128-channel electroencephalograph combined with
      BESA dipole localization method and Intervention on brain waves for epilepsy. Adult patients
      aged 18 to 65 years old with epilepsy will be recruited. The study contains two stages. At
      the first randomized controlled stage, patients will be randomly assigned to experimental and
      control group with a 1:1 sqrt allocation and undergo five daily sessions of brain-wave
      intervention by cathode tDCS （20min, 1mA） targeting the epileptogenic focus, which is
      confirmed by 128-channel EEG and BESA dipole localization method. Active intervention will be
      carried out for the experimental group, and sham intervention ( the stimulator will be turned
      off after 5s) for the control group. The frequency of seizures, the number of epileptiform
      discharges, the diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), the
      cognitive function, the psychology and the life quality will be measured before (baseline), 1
      hour, 4 weeks and 12 weeks after the last intervention to evaluate the changes after
      intervention. At the second open-label extension stage, all the patients will undergo five
      daily sessions of active intervention (20min, 1mA) and be followed up for 12 weeks similar to
      the first stage.
    
  