
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Phase I Objective: To identify the maximum tolerated dose of continuous infusion IV
           busulfan based on blood levels derived from a test dose in conjunction with fludarabine,
           ATG and methotrexate plus tacrolimus for GVHD prophylaxis

        -  Phase II Objective: To determine the one-year disease-free survival (DFS) rate at the
           maximum tolerated dose identified during Phase I of the trial (target AUC 6912)

      Secondary

        -  Determine the overall and disease-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the dose-limiting toxicities of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the capacity of test dosing of busulfan that would result in the desired area
           under the curve concentration exposure of patients receiving a full-dose busulfan
           regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence of graft-vs-host disease and DNA chimerism between 1 month and 2
           years post-transplantation in these patients.

        -  Compare the overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) rates for patients
           treated with Campath vs. patients treated with ATG/Methotrexate for GVHD control

      OUTLINE: This is a non-randomized, open-label, parallel group study of busulfan. Patients are
      stratified according to donor relationship - matched related donor (MRD) vs matched unrelated
      donor (MUD).

        -  Conditioning regimen: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days
           -7 to -3 and busulfan IV over 2 hours once within days -15 to -10 and then IV
           continuously over 90 hours on days -7 to -4. Patients with a MRD also receive
           Methotrexate (MTX) on Days +1, +3, and +6. Patients with a MUD receive ATG on Days -3
           and -2 and MTX on Days +1, +3 and +6.

      Phase I portion only: Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of busulfan until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at
      which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation: Patients undergo allogeneic
           peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on day 0. Patients then receive sargramostim
           (GM-CSF) subcutaneously beginning on day 5 and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive oral tacrolimus twice daily
           on days -1 to 180 or days -1 to 240.

        -  Donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI): Patients who do not achieve CR, do not have GVHD, and
           have been off immunosuppressants for at least 30 days may receive up to 3 DLIs, at least
           8 weeks apart, after completion of tacrolimus.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5
      years.
    
  