
    
      Participants can include patients with 18 years or more who satisfy the following preset
      criteria:

        -  Participants should included patients consecutively to avoid selection bias; criteria to
           avoid selection bias are proposed to Participants, which should decide the one they want
           to adopt.

        -  Patients should have been receiving anticoagulation therapy for no more than 30 days at
           the time of inclusion, regardless of age, clinical indication for treatment, therapeutic
           range expected (in cases of treatment with VKAs) and expected duration of the treatment
           (providing a duration of at least 3 months is foreseen). Patients who have already been
           receiving chronic anticoagulation therapy for some time may be included if they are
           switched from VKAs to DOACs or to low molecular weight heparin or to fondaparinux

        -  Patients not prepared to undergo constant monitoring at their enrolling centres or who
           take part in phase II or III clinical studies should not be included. Patients who
           participate in other observational or phase IV studies can be included in the Register.

        -  All patients must give their informed written consent -- following procedures laid down
           by local Ethical Committees - for the compilation and conservation on the Register's
           central database of data regarding their personal clinical histories and anticoagulation
           treatment patterns and for use of said data.

        -  All the patients inserted must be followed for at least 1 year, even though an
           indefinite follow-up of all patients continuing anticoagulation therapy is highly
           recommended. If in single patients anticoagulation treatment is discontinued within 1
           year of inclusion, active participating members should nonetheless keep on compiling
           (telephonically too) information regarding the possible onset of complications
           (thrombotic, bleeding clinical events of another nature) till 1 year -follow-up.

        -  The Participants of the Register must use a computer programme as database - for all the
           information to be collected. The computer programme must meet the features requested by
           the Executive Committee of the Registry and must be able to send the information to the
           centralised database via internet and connection to the web site. By way of alternative
           the Participants can use the "Simple-START" software provided free by the Registry.

        -  As criterion for safeguarding the privacy of patients, every patient inserted in the
           Registry is identified by a "Patient log" which includes the identification code of the
           enrolling Participant and the identification code of each single patient, using the
           computer database programme used by the Participant. The enrolling Participant is
           committed to keeping for the whole duration of the Register the whole demographic data
           of each patient associated with the Patient log".

        -  Are excluded patients who: have < 18 years age, are not willing to sign informed
           consent, are not ready to submit to constant monitoring, participate in phase II or III
           clinical studies

        -  Follow-Up All the patients inserted must be followed for at least 1 year even though an
           indefinite follow up of all patients continuing anticoagulation therapy is strongly
           recommended. If anticoagulation therapy is interrupted in single patients within 1 year
           of insertion the Participants must still continue to collect (even telephonically) data
           regarding the possible onset of complications (thrombotic, bleeding or other clinical
           events) for 1 year of follow-up.
    
  