
    
      This study is designed to evaluate the success of mechanistic target engagement in two
      specific contexts: under standard smoking conditions and under nicotine deprivation (stress)
      conditions. After screening, consent, and baseline assessment, participants selected on the
      basis of inclusion/exclusion criteria will be randomized to one of three intervention
      conditions: (1) a health-education control condition (CC), (2) a mindfulness training
      condition (MT), or (3) a mindfulness training condition combined with training applying
      mindfulness skills in the context of interoceptive exposure (Mindfulness+IE). Following 6
      sessions of these interventions, delivered over 3 weeks, participants will then undergo the
      standard smoking assessment of mechanistic targets. Two days later (and matching the
      progression to quit-attempt challenges following treatment), participants will undergo the
      deprivation window assessment (14 hours of smoking abstinence) of these same mechanistic
      targets, followed by evaluation of lapse behavior and smoking topography in the McKee
      paradigm to yield: (1) latency to initiate smoking during a monetarily reinforced delay
      period, (2) the number of cigarettes smoked during a subsequent 60-minute self-administration
      period, and (3) exploratory analysis of smoking topography: puff volume, puff duration, and
      inter-puff interval. Participants will be recruited to Boston University through study
      advertisements targeted to low SES neighborhoods, with attention to health service centers
      and religious institutions serving low SES individuals.

      Following telephone screening for basic eligibility, participants will be scheduled for an
      informed consent interview and subsequent baseline assessment session. Interventions are to
      be completed over the subsequent 3 weeks, and post-treatment assessments of the mechanistic
      targets are scheduled for one-week (standard smoking assessment) and one week + 2 days
      (deprivation-window assessment) from the last intervention session. For the standard smoking
      window assessments, participants are asked to smoke .5 hour before the scheduled assessment
      session. The deprivation-window assessment is scheduled two days later, (for example,
      scheduled for 12:00 noon, with smoking to cease at 10PM the night before). Upon arrival to
      the lab, nicotine abstinence will be verified by expired CO levels, as determined by a
      cut-off of half of the participant's screening session CO concentration or <10 PPM (those
      failing will be rescheduled). After verification of abstinence, participants will complete
      assessment of the triple-risk mechanistic target variables. These assessments will be
      followed by the McKee Lapse protocol: participants will be instructed that over the next 50
      min, they will have the option to initiate a cigarette self-administration (smoking) session
      at any point or to delay initiation in exchange for monetary reinforcement. If participants
      choose to delay, they will be awarded funds for each 5-minute increment they are able to
      resist smoking. Once participants choose to end the delay period in order to smoke (or resist
      smoking for the entire 50 minute delay period), they will then participate in a 60-minute
      cigarette self-administration session, in which they will be given the choice to either smoke
      their preferred brand of cigarettes or receive monetary reinforcement for cigarettes not
      smoked. Participants will be given funds at the beginning of the self-administration session
      and will lose a portion of the funds for each cigarette smoked. When participants smoke in
      this protocol, we will use the Clinical Research Support System (CReSS) to measure smoking
      topography. The reliability and acceptability of use of the portable CReSS device is well
      documented,88,94 and is recommended over direct observation. Topography data will include
      puff CO volume, puff duration, and inter-puff interval. Puff level data will be averaged to
      compute mean topography variables for each participant.
    
  