
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, double blinded, clinical trial that will be conducted on
      children presenting with acute diarrhea in Makassed General Hospital.

      Patient's level of dehydration will be assessed and a base line of frequency and consistency
      of diarrhea will be taken from parents'/ caregivers' history and observation. The consistency
      of stools will be scored according to the "Bristol Stool Chart". Also parents will be asked
      to sign an informed consent.

      A total of 240 eligible patients will be randomized by computer-generated numbers and the
      sealed envelope technique will be used to divide the patients into three groups.

      Group A will be composed of 80 patients. All of them will be given the standard of care
      (initiation of hydration and early refeeding, in addition to the use of antimicrobials in
      case a pathogen was identified). In addition to that, the patients in this group will receive
      probiotics (saccharomyces boulardii) one dose per day.

      Group B which will be composed of 80 patients. All of them will be given the standard of care
      (initiation of hydration and early refeeding, in addition to the use of antimicrobials in
      case a pathogen was identified). In addition to that, the patients in this group will receive
      zinc (10 mg for patients less than 6 month and 20 mg for older patients) one dose per day.

      Group C which will be composed of 80 patients. All of them will be given the standard of care
      (initiation of hydration and early refeeding, in addition to the use of antimicrobials in
      case a pathogen was identified). In addition to that, the patients in this group will receive
      a combination of probiotics (saccharomyces boulardii) with zinc (10 mg for patients less than
      6 month and 20 mg for older patients) one dose per day.

      Upon assigning the group (A, B or C), the patient will receive his daily dose of medication
      in a sealed opaque tiny bag prepared by the nursing staff by adding 5 ml water to the
      assigned medication which will be unknown to both parent and researcher.

      Patients will be assessed on a daily basis. The quality and quantity of diarrhea, as well as
      hydration status, Po intake and parents satisfaction will be assessed daily until the end of
      illness, the length of stay for hospitalized patient will be also assessed.
    
  