
    
      The primary outcome will be medication reconciliation errors with a potential for causing
      harm (potential ADEs). Secondary outcomes will include the different types of reconciliation
      errors, hospital length of stay, emergency department visits and hospital readmissions within
      30 days of discharge, resident/nurse satisfaction, and compliance with the reconciliation
      process. To measure medication reconciliation errors, we will use a method similar to that
      suggested by the Massachusetts Coalition for the Prevention of Medical Errors. A study
      pharmacist, separate from the floor pharmacist, will determine each patient's preadmission
      medication regimen at the time of hospital discharge, using patient and family interviews and
      any additional information needed to validate the list. This list will then be compared with
      the preadmission medication list compiled by the intern to identify any errors in identifying
      preadmission medications. The list will also be compared with the admission and discharge
      medication orders in order to identify unexplained discrepancies. Questions will be resolved
      by communication between the study pharmacist and the ordering intern. Reports of all
      potential medication reconciliation errors will be presented in blinded fashion to two
      physician reviewers, who will judge whether a reconciliation error has taken place and its
      potential for harm. All medication reconciliation errors will be recorded, as well as each of
      the individual types: inaccuracies in the preadmission medication list, unexplained
      discrepancies with the admission medication orders, and unexplained discrepancies in the
      discharge orders. This methodology is similar to that used in other studies of medication
      errors conducted at BWH. This process will allow pharmacists to ethically report any problems
      to the medical team prior to discharge, while still allowing for a full measurement of
      medical errors. Hospital length of stay, emergency department visits, and hospital
      readmissions will be measured using hospital administrative data. Resident and nurse
      satisfaction and perceived quality of patient care will be measured using web-based surveys.
      Compliance with the reconciliation process will be measured by electronic tracking of the use
      and timing of: 1) PAML building and signing by the ordering intern, 2) reconciliation of all
      PAML medications within 24 hours of admission, and 3) reconciliation of the PAML and
      discharge medication orders by the ordering clinician at the time of discharge.
    
  