
    
      This is a Phase 2, multicenter, open label, non-randomized study to evaluate the safety and
      efficacy of a 30-minute infusion of 70 mg/m2 of carfilzomib among MM patients who are
      currently showing progressive disease (PD) and had failed their last treatment with twice
      weekly 27mg/m2 of carfilzomib alone or as part of a combination regimen.

      The study will consist of 1) a screening period; 2) up to eight 28-day, treatment cycles; 3)
      maintenance treatment; 4) a final assessment to occur 28 days after the end of the last
      treatment cycle; and 5) a follow-up period. The study will enroll a total of 45 patients who
      are currently showing PD and had progressed within 8 weeks of receiving their last treatment
      with twice weekly 27mg/m2 of carfilzomib alone or as part of a combination regimen.
      Additionally, patients who have not achieved a complete response (CR) and have plateaued (as
      defined by unchanged disease markers for at least 8 weeks) while treated with a combination
      of carfilzomib (twice weekly 27 mg/m2), lenalidomide and dexamethasone; carfilzomib (twice
      weekly 27 mg/m2), pomalidomide and dexamethasone; or carfilzomib (twice weekly 27 mg/m2) and
      dexamethasone are also eligible for this study. Patients who were treated with a carfilzomib
      (twice weekly 27 mg/m2) containing combination who are currently on carfilzomib (twice weekly
      27 mg/m2) and dexamethasone with or without lenalidomide or pomalidomide maintenance therapy
      and are not in CR and show unchanged disease markers for at least 8 weeks will also be
      eligible.

      Patients will be enrolled from 15 hematology/oncology sites across the United States.

      During the treatment period, all doses of carfilzomib will be given at 70 mg/m2 infused over
      30 minutes. Among patients who received steroids at the equivalent of > 8 mg of dexamethasone
      weekly with carfilzomib, steroids will be administered using the same drug(s) at the same
      dose(s) and schedule(s) as they received during their previous carfilzomib treatment.
      Patients who did not receive steroids or received the equivalent of less than 8 mg of
      dexamethasone weekly will be given 8 mg of dexamethasone prior to each carfilzomib
      administration. Carfilzomib will be administered at a facility capable of managing
      hypersensitivity reactions. Pre- and post-dose intravenous (IV) hydration (between 250 mL and
      500 mL normal saline or other appropriate IV fluid formulation) may be given at the
      discretion of the treating physician. Subjects should be monitored periodically during this
      period for evidence of fluid overload. Subjects who complete 8 cycles without showing PD will
      be eligible to receive maintenance therapy on a 28-day cycle with carfilzomib and steroids as
      administered during the last cycle of the treatment period. In addition, those treated with
      lenalidomide with carfilzomib and dexamethasone will continue lenalidomide at the same dose
      and schedule as used during the treatment period. For those treated with pomalidomide with
      carfilzomib and dexamethasone, pomalidomide will be administered at the same dose and
      schedule as during treatment.

      During maintenance (cycle 9 and beyond), carfilzomib will be administered at the dose
      received during the last cycle of study treatment on Days 1, 8 and 15, and steroids will be
      administered using the same drug(s) at the same dose(s) and schedule(s) as given during the
      last cycle of study treatment. Patients will remain on maintenance therapy until
      documentation of PD as defined by the modified Bladé criteria or until they develop toxicity.
      Patients with stable disease (SD) will remain on maintenance therapy. Dose reductions of
      carfilzomib and steroids will be permitted as per protocol guidelines.
    
  