
    
      Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) and stress urinary incontinence (SUI) are common conditions
      experienced by women. It is estimated that 20% of women undergo surgery for the treatment of
      prolapse. Transvaginal placement of surgical mesh for repair of POP and SUI are associated
      with complications such as erosion, infection, dyspareunia, bowel and bladder perforation as
      well as failure of the operation. Such complications have resulted in the FDA reclassifying
      transvaginal meshes to high risk medical devices. Most recently, National Institute for
      Clinical Excellence (NICE) in the United Kingdom has limited the use of transvaginal meshes
      for anterior and posterior compartment prolapse to a research context only.

      Since the FDA and NICE publications, there has been much controversy and increasing
      litigation arising from complications of transvaginal mesh use. Recent negative media
      attention has likely affected patients' perception regarding mesh use in gynaecology. There
      are no studies assessing the knowledge and perception of mesh use in gynaecological surgery
      within the United Kingdom. Previous studies have found patients have limited knowledge and
      often are misinformed. However, these have been limited to transvaginal meshes. Laparoscopic
      procedures using mesh for POP such as sacrohysteropexy and sacrocolpopexy are become
      increasingly popular with comparable outcomes to vaginal surgery. The risk of mesh erosion
      with laparoscopic surgery is less than vaginal placement.

      The use of mesh of gynaecology remains a topical issues and given the amount of information
      available to patients, this concept merits study, as it may influence patients' decision
      making and therefore a prominent part of the consent process. The use of mesh in
      gynaecological surgery remains a highly effective method of treating POP and SUI in
      appropriately selected patients and routes. It is therefore important to understand patients'
      understanding and perception regarding mesh use and sources of information in the wake of
      media coverage and attention. The investigators seek to evaluate patients' knowledge and
      attitudes towards use of mesh in gynaecological surgery presenting to gynaecology clinics.

      The investigators aim to survey 150 women attending gynaecology clinics using a
      questionnaire. A power calculation has not been performed however, similar studies have
      included 164 and 77 women respectively. The questionnaire consists of 20 questions that
      should take 10 minutes to complete.

      Consent: A valid consent with detailed written information sheet will be sought before
      including them in this trial.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria: All women attending the clinic will be eligible to
      participate if they are over the age of 18, with an understanding of English or translator
      available and able to provide informed consent.

      Risks and benefits: All women will receive the same standard of care regardless if they agree
      to disagree to participate in the trial. There are no disadvantages associated with
      participation in taking part in the study.

      Data storage: All the information obtained from this study will be stored in a confidential
      manner and will only be available to the researchers for future analysis.Participants can
      withdraw their consent at any point and this will not affect the standard of care given to
      them in future.All the information pertaining to the trial will be destroyed securely.

      This research does not involve any use, storage of any tissue
    
  