
    
      Background Intertrochanteric fractures are common types of hip fractures. With the growth of
      the global aging population, the elderly fracture patients with osteoporosis are increasing.
      Thus, the difficulty of treating intertrochanteric fractures increases accordingly. Unstable
      intertrochanteric fractures refer to the fractures from femoral neck base to lesser
      trochanter level. With the continuous development of China's aging trend, the number of aging
      population is increasing gradually; the incidence of unstable intertrochanteric fractures is
      increasing year by year. Clinically, more than 90% of intertrochanteric fractures occur in
      the elderly over 65 years of age, and the mortality rate is at a high level. Patients with
      unstable intertrochanteric fractures are older, and body function gradually degrades. The
      reduction and fixation of this disease are difficult. Therefore, early to find timely and
      effective treatment is of great significance to patients with unstable intertrochanteric
      fractures.

      Clinically, internal fixation and artificial joint replacement are the primary methods of
      treating unstable intertrochanteric fractures. The surgical approach of internal fixation is
      easily affected by the bone quality of the patients. If the patient has different degrees of
      osteoporosis, it will lead to the failure of the first operation, affecting the prognosis of
      the patient. Therefore, this kind of operation method is not accepted gradually in clinical
      practice. The efficacy of joint replacement for treatment of intertrochanteric fracture is
      remarkable. It can make the patient obtain the immediate stability and reduce complications,
      so it is very popular with the patients and physicians in the clinic. The most commonly used
      artificial joint replacement materials in clinic have two types: cemented and cementless
      prostheses, but the difference in their efficacies and safeties remains poorly understood.

      Adverse events To record adverse events, including incision pain, bone cement poisoning,
      pulmonary infection, mental disorders and acute cerebral infarction.

      If severe adverse events occurred, investigators reported details, including the date of
      occurrence and measures taken to treat the adverse events, to the principle investigator and
      the institutional review board within 24 hours.

      Data collection, management, analysis and open-access Data collection: Records of all cases
      reported in the trial were complete, clear and true. The case reports were consistent with
      the patient's original data and the declared data. The collected data were input to the
      computer in the record room of Harrison International Peace Hospital.

      Data management: Data were processed by a special person, and aggregated once a month. During
      clinical trials, hospital clinic visits were conducted periodically by the clinical ombudsman
      to ensure that all the contents of the protocols were strictly observed. Simultaneously, raw
      data were checked to ensure the consistency with the case report form.

      Data analysis: Statistical analysis was performed by professional statisticians. The
      statisticians wrote the research report and submitted it to the researcher for review.

      Data open-access: Anonymized trial data will be published at www.figshare.com.

      Statistical analysis Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS 19.0 software (IBM,
      Armonk, NY, USA) and followed the intention-to-treat principle.

      Normally distributed measurement data were expressed as means ± standard deviation and
      minimums and maximums. Non-normally distributed measurement data were expressed as the lower
      quartile (q1) and median and upper quartiles (q3). Count data were expressed as the
      percentage. Two-sample t-test was performed for comparison of Harris hip scores, operation
      time, intraoperative blood loss, postoperative blood transfusion volume, ambulation time and
      postoperative amount of drainage in both groups. Repeated measures analysis of variance was
      conducted for intragroup comparison of Harris hip scores at various time points. Pearson X2
      test was carried out for comparison of excellent and good rate of Harris hip scores and
      incidence of adverse reaction in both groups.

      The significance level was α = 0.05.
    
  