
    
      Gout is a chronic and progressive form of arthritis occurring as a result of monosodium urate
      deposition in the joints and surrounding tissues. Despite its extremely well known
      pathogenesis and the availability of highly efficacious therapies, gout continues to lead to
      considerable morbidity and mortality due to poor management and limited therapeutic
      adherence. The investigators translational research study will address this deficit in
      evidence implementation.

      The treatment of chronic gout is based primarily on the use of urate lower therapy (ULT) to
      reduce the frequency of, and eventually eliminate, acute flares in addition to reducing the
      risk of progressive joint destruction. There are currently four ULT agents approved for the
      treatment of gout in the United States (US) including probenecid (a uricosuric), pegloticase
      (a biologic therapy approved for treatment-refractory gout), allopurinol, and febuxostat.
      Available for more than 40 years, allopurinol remains the most frequently prescribed ULT,
      accounting for ~99% of all ULT prescriptions. Many early studies confirmed the robust urate
      lowering effect of allopurinol, a treatment also yielding ample improvements in long-term
      outcomes including a reduction in gouty flares. A recent 28-week randomized trial examining
      fixed dose daily allopurinol revealed a 34% reduction in serum urate concentrations vs. a
      decrease of 3-4% for those receiving placebo. There are factors that contribute to
      sub-optimal allopurinol administration and likely include, but are not limited to: 1) failure
      of prescribers to appropriately titrate allopurinol dose to achieve optimal serum urate
      target levels; 2) poor long term patient adherence to therapy; 3) drug intolerance,
      recognizing that this affects only a small proportion of patients; 4) limited data regarding
      the effectiveness of doses exceeding 300 mg/day; and 5) concerns regarding increased toxicity
      with higher doses, particularly in the context of chronic kidney disease (CKD).

      To date, there have been no published studies examining the impact of a large scale
      intervention implemented to optimize allopurinol administration in gout. Intervention studies
      that have been done have universally involved small sample sizes and have been limited to
      single centers, substantially limiting the external validity of these efforts. The impact of
      these interventions, largely employing prescription audits and performance feedback to
      providers, have either gone unreported or have been quite modest in effect. Given the
      potential cost-effectiveness of allopurinol in gout treatment compared to alternative ULTs
      and the growing number of reports that have consistently characterized its everyday use as
      sub-optimal, interventions focused on improving and optimizing allopurinol administration in
      the context of 'real-life' gout care are urgently needed.
    
  