
    
      The patients who underwent radiologic examination at Severance Hospital of Severance Hospital
      and who will received total knee arthroplasty or total hip arthroplasty due to primary
      degenerative osteoarthritis or osteonecrosis of femoral head. Patients will be divided into
      two groups: ERAS (early recovery after surgery) protocol group and standard protocol group.
      On the day before the surgery, the patient group was randomly assigned by the researcher
      (research nurse) who did not participate in the surgical procedure.

      The patients in the ERAS group were given a pre-treatment drug [300 mg (gabapentin) and 10 mg
      oxycontin (oxycontin) and 2 mg prednisolone (prednisolone 10 mg)] on the evening before
      surgery. And pre-operative fasting should not exceed 6 hours, and clear liquid fasting should
      not exceed 2 hours. In addition, 400 ml of oral carbohydrate should be taken 2 to 4 hours
      before surgery to ensure adequate blood sugar and encourage regular diet (light meal) as soon
      as possible within a tolerable range after surgery. The initial pain after surgery is
      actively controlled by oral drugs such as celebrex and IR codon, and injections such as
      tramadol and demerol. On the first postoperative day, the urinary catheter is removed and CPM
      (continuous passive motion) rehabilitation is started.

      On the other hand, in standard group, there is no medication as a pre-treatment drug.
      Patients should be fasted for 8 hours in both solid and liquid preoperatively. After the
      surgery, allow a small amount of clear liquid to remain at the 4-hour fasting period after
      the operation, and allow the fluid to start within a tolerable range after 4 hours. The
      urinary catheter is removed on the first postoperative day and CPM rehabilitation is started
      from the afternoon. Post-operative ambulation should begin as early as possible on the second
      postoperative day.

      All patients will undergo anesthesia for general anesthesia or spinal anesthesia with a nerve
      block (adductor canal block or femoral nerve block). The quality of recovery index was
      assessed on the day before surgery and on the POD 1 quality of recovery score (QoR) 40
      questionnaire. And the length of hospital stay, first eating time, first assisted walking
      time, and start of rehabilitation after surgery of all patients will be recorded. The number
      of times that need antiemetics due to nausea / vomiting during the hospitalization period
      will be recorded. After discharge from the hospital, the patient will visit outpatient clinic
      at 4 ± 2 weeks postoperatively and will be checked a physical examination such as the ROM of
      the knee. At 3 ± 1 months and 6 ± 1 months after surgery, VAS, WOMAC, AKS, knee ROM, and PF
      score of all patients would be checked in outpatients clinic. In addition, morbidity,
      complications, mortality, and re-admission before and up to 6 months after surgery would be
      recorded.
    
  