
    
      Optimal prosthetic alignment is essential to achieve a functional gait pattern in people with
      a transtibial amputation (TTA). A suboptimal alignment decreases stability, increases the
      metabolic costs of walking, and increases the risk of secondary musculoskeletal and stump
      problems. Prosthetic alignment is defined as the position of the prosthetic parts relative to
      the body and to each other. Dynamic alignment of the prosthesis, especially the 'fine tuning'
      of the prosthesis based on the patient's needs, is a continuous process during
      rehabilitation.

      Throughout the entire alignment process the prosthetists takes the shoe heel height of the
      patient into account. Moreover, patients are advised to search for a similar heel height when
      purchasing new shoes. However, prosthetic walkers frequently report complaints during their
      follow-up visits with their prosthetist or rehabilitation physician that possibly are related
      to prosthetic misalignment. Although several studies describe the effects of heel height on
      gait in healthy individuals, our knowledge about the effects of heel height within the TTA
      population is still limited to one study examining heel height changes of 20 millimeter. The
      variation in heel height of commercially available shoes is often smaller, and therefore
      easily overlooked by people with a TTA. Since it is not clear what the effects of smaller
      heel height variations on the gait pattern are, additional research is needed to enable
      prosthetists and therapists to better advise their patients.

      Therefore, the primary objective was to examine the effect of small increases in heel height
      on gait symmetry in people with a TTA. It was expected that a larger increase in heel height
      would result in more gait asymmetry and lower walking comfort. In addition, healthy
      individuals were included in whom smaller effects of the heel height changes were expected.
    
  