
    
      Patients who meet all the above mentioned criteria and who were diagnosed as sleep-apnoea
      syndrome patients in our hospital were asked to participate in the study.

      We divided the patients in two groups:

      Group 1: started with CPAP and continued with SOMNOvent CR Group 2: began with SOMNOvent CR
      and ended with CPAP

      First of all a CPAP-titration was applied to both fixed groups during the second night.
      During the third night they received either the CPAP- pressure (first group) or the adaptive
      servo ventilation (second group. The patients were discharged from the hospital continuing
      with the procedure of the third night.

      After four weeks a new admission for the sleep laboratory was necessary and, during the first
      night, a control investigation with the procedure of the last four weeks. The procedure
      changed during the next night, so that the patients of the first group now slept with the
      SOMNOventCR-device and the patients of the second group with the CPAP-device.

      After a wash-out-period of a week and a four-week treatment with the last procedure a final
      in-hospital polysomnography was performed in which adaptive servo ventilation was applied to
      the first group and fixed CPAP to the second group.

      After the study ended, the patients received the therapy procedure which was the most
      effective and which was better tolerated.

      The following analyses were carried out in addition to the polysomnographic measurements:

      Admission 1: Berlin questionnaire, European sleep questionnaire, echocardiography, 6 minute
      walking test, patients questionnaire.

      Admission 2: ESS, Berlin questionnaire, echocardiography, 6 minute walking test, patients´
      questionnaire.

      After the wash-out-period: ESS, Berlin questionnaire, patients questionnaire.

      Admission 4: ESS, Berlin questionnaire, echocardiography, 6 minute walking test, patients
      questionnaire.
    
  