
    
      The study hypothesis is that high lipid peroxidation and decreased antioxidant defenses
      characterize the natural history of Alzheimer's disease.

      It will be evaluated the release of malondialdehyde (MDA) from ex-vivo photo-oxidized
      erythrocyte ghosts, through a very easy and convenient lab procedure for the preparation of
      erythrocyte membrane samples.

      Isolated and purified red blood cell membranes will be in vitro exposed to oxidative stress
      by UV-B radiation. The extent of cell membrane damage will be quantified by the fluorometric
      determination of MDA.

      Induction of oxidative stress through ultraviolet rays, unlike that obtained by chemical
      oxidizing agents, is fully controllable, since it produces effects only during irradiation.
      Moreover, using isolated erythrocyte membranes allows for a greater specificity in the
      evaluation of MDA produced, and reduces the amount of blood required for the assay.

      A portion of the blood sample (500 µL) will be sent to the laboratory of Lipinutragen
      (spin-off of CNR- National Research Center Bologna, Italy) where an erythrocyte membrane
      lipidomic analysis will be performed for the characterization of membrane phospholipids, in
      order to determinate the different lipid components (saturated fatty acids, monounsaturated
      and polyunsaturated, trans fatty acids), each one characterized by a different oxidative
      reactivity.

      Recently published papers showed a striking association between urinary excretion of cortisol
      and the increase of some markers of oxidative damage of DNA and RNA (in humans). This finding
      provides further support to the idea that chronic psychological stress, who is associated to
      hypercortisolemia, can lead to an acceleration of the aging process.

      The brain is a major target of the effects of glucocorticoids (CCS). The harmful consequences
      of cortisol on the hippocampus (one of the first brain areas affected by Alzheimer's disease)
      are well known. Some studies showed inverse correlations between cortisol levels and
      neuropsychological performance in patients with depression, dementia as well as in people
      treated chronically with CCS.

      Alzheimer's disease is associated with states of hypercortisolism. Nonetheless, so far, its
      correlation with the level of oxidative stress has not been studied. We will investigate the
      relationship between 24h excretion of urinary cortisol and the level of malondialdehyde,
      produced by isolated and purified red blood cell membranes, in vitro exposed to oxidative
      stress by UV-B radiation.
    
  