
    
      Studies will be conducted in the Clinical Research and Trials Unit at the University of
      Mississippi Medical Center. All study visits will follow the same procedures, except for the
      drug or supplement being administered.

      For Aim 1, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled crossover designs will examine the
      effects of increasing nitric oxide and cyclic guanosine monophosphate bioavailability on
      vascular function of young Black and White individuals. Three sets of two visits will be
      performed:

        -  Aim 1a: At the beginning of each visit, participants will ingest either a nitrate-rich
           beetroot juice or a nitrate-depleted beetroot juice (serving as placebo) in their liquid
           commercial form, which has a distinct color and flavor. The nitrates will be absorbed
           and reduced in the plasma to nitrite and nitric oxide, increasing
           endothelium-independent nitric oxide bioavailability.

        -  Aim 1b: Participants will receive a 7-day supplement of L-citrulline or placebo before
           each study visit, with a washout period of 7 days between visits. The activity of the
           endothelial nitric oxide synthase converts L-arginine into nitric oxide and
           L-citrulline, which is normally recycled back into L-arginine. Unlike L-arginine, oral
           ingestion of L-citrulline is not catabolized in the gut, nor is it extracted from
           systemic circulation through hepatic first-pass metabolism. Thus, ingested L-citrulline
           becomes available in large quantities in the plasma for enzymatic conversion into
           L-arginine, increasing endothelium-dependent nitric oxide bioavailability.

        -  Aim 1c: At the beginning of each visit, participants will ingest a liquid mixture
           prepared by Investigational Drug Services at the University of Mississippi Medical
           Center containing Sildenafil or placebo. Sildenafil inhibits phosphodiesterase 5, an
           enzyme that degrades cyclic guanosine monophosphate in the vascular smooth muscle cells
           inactivating the nitric oxide-mediated signal; thus, Sildenafil will prolong the
           availability of cyclic guanosine monophosphate, enhancing the nitric oxide-mediated
           intracellular cascade.

      For Aim 2, a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled crossover design will examine the
      role of endothelin-1 on the vascular function of young Black and White individuals. Two
      visits will be performed, with a minimum of 7 days between them.

      • Aim 2: At the beginning of each visit, participants will ingest a liquid mixture prepared
      by Investigational Drug Services at the University of Mississippi Medical Center containing
      Bosentan or placebo. Bosentan blocks ETA and ETB receptors, leading to a reduction in
      vasoconstrictor tone and a greater magnitude of vasodilator responses.
    
  