
    
      In the Highly Active Antiretroviral Treatment (HAART) era, anemia is one of the most common
      abnormalities in HIV-infected subjects. Epoetin alfa is proven to increase hemoglobin levels
      and improve quality of life in HIV-infected subjects. Although there are data to show that
      epoetin alfa dosed weekly significantly increases hemoglobin to a target level of 13 g/dL and
      every other week dosing can maintain target hemoglobin, there is no data to show that
      initiation of epoetin alfa every 2 weeks will increase hemoglobin levels significantly.

      This randomized, two-arm, open-label study will evaluate if initiating PROCRIT® every other
      week dosing is as effective as initiating PROCRIT® weekly dosing, in increasing hemoglobin in
      anemic HIV-infected subjects. The Screening phase will start 2 weeks prior to the first dose
      of PROCRIT®. HIV-infected subjects who have a hemoglobin level of <12.0 g/dL and are on a
      stable antiretroviral regimen will be screened for study eligibility. In the treatment phase,
      subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive 40,000 IU PROCRIT® subcutaneous
      injections either weekly (QW) or every other week (Q2W). The primary endpoint is the change
      in hemoglobin from baseline to the end of study at Week 12. The safety and tolerability of
      PROCRIT® in this subject population will be assessed by evaluating adverse events, laboratory
      results and vital signs. The total duration of this study is 14 weeks, including a 2-week
      screening phase and a 12-week treatment phase. The primary hypothesis is that the mean
      increase in hemoglobin for subjects receiving PROCRIT® every 2 weeks is not lower than those
      receiving weekly PROCRIT® dosing by more than 1 g/dL. Subjects will initially receive 40,000
      IU PROCRIT® subcutaneous injections either weekly (QW) or every other week (Q2W), with
      subsequent dose adjustments, if appropriate. The maximum length of PROCRIT® treatment for
      this study is 12 weeks.
    
  