
    
      Background:

      Body image is a significant and prevalent concern for adolescents in high-income countries
      such as the UK, the USA, and Australia. For example, a study of 1,600 girls in the UK found
      that four in ten 11-16 year old girls are unhappy with the way they look. Similarly, a
      nationally representative survey of nearly 22,000 young people in Australia found that 3 in
      10 adolescent boys and girls are very concerned about their body image, and body image was
      voted among the top three life concerns. The high prevalence of body image concerns among
      adolescent boys and girls is worrisome, given their serious negative physical and
      psychological health consequences. For example, body dissatisfaction is associated with
      engagement in unhealthy weight loss behaviours and the onset of eating disorders, depression
      and self-harm, substance use, and lower levels of academic engagement.

      There is increasing recognition that body image is a global issue, as opposed to one
      relegated to privileged adolescents in high-income Westernised countries. For example, in
      India, 57% of adolescents aged 15-19 years report being concerned with their appearance.
      Further, adolescent girls across different regions of India have expressed concerns in
      relation to their weight and report dieting behaviours. Skin colour has also been indicated
      as an additional source of appearance concern among young people in India. A large-scale
      study among Asian, African, and South American countries, found that 19% of Indian
      undergraduate students had used a skin lightening product in the previous 12 months, strongly
      suggesting dissatisfaction with their natural skin tone, which may be pertinent to younger
      groups.

      Collectively, these findings indicate the importance of developing and disseminating
      interventions to promote positive body image among adolescents in India. The investigators
      recently finished developing and evaluating a school-based body image programme, Dove
      Confident Me, among adolescents in New Delhi, India. Immediate and 3-month follow-up
      improvements were found in body image, disordered eating, self-esteem, and other related
      outcomes. Whilst these findings offer an effective body image programme for school students
      in urban areas of India, this may not be feasible for schools in more rural areas in India;
      where they do not have electricity or computers.

      The aim of the present study is therefore to conduct an acceptability study followed by a
      pilot randomised controlled trial of a comics-based body image programme among adolescents in
      a rural area of India (Rajasthan), in order to understand its acceptability, feasibility, and
      preliminary efficacy. This comic-book-based programme will be based on Dove Confident Me,
      which was found to be effective among adolescents in Delhi, India.

      Design:

      First, an acceptability study will be conducted to explore the target group's opinions of the
      comic books. Interviews will be conducted with 24 students across years 6-8 in one government
      school. They will be asked questions such as: What do they like about the comic books? Could
      they identify with the characters in the stories? What did they think were the key messages?
      Focus groups will also be conducted with 9 teachers who teach across years 6-8 of the school
      to understand their thoughts on the comic-book-based programme. They will be asked questions
      such as: Do they think the content is appropriate for their students? How could the key
      messages be improved? Is the Teacher Guide easy to understand? Investigators will gather
      in-depth feedback from students and teachers, and this will be used to optimise the programme
      prior to conducting a cluster randomised controlled trial (RCT).

      Next, a cluster RCT will be conducted, whereby at least 8 schools (aiming for 2,400 students
      across both conditions) will be randomly allocated to receive the comic-book-based body image
      intervention or classes-as-usual (control). Students will be assessed on body image and
      related outcomes at baseline, post-intervention and 10-12 weeks follow-up, under standardised
      conditions.

      Participants & recruitment:

      For the acceptability study, one co-educational government school in Rajasthan will be
      invited to take part. 24 students across years 6-8 (50% male) will be randomly selected by
      the headmaster to participate in the interviews, if the students so wish to. Focus groups
      will also be conducted with 9 teachers who teach across years 6-8 of the school. The head
      master will also select these teachers, and aim to ensure variability in terms of age,
      gender, and length of time teaching.

      Regarding the RCT, at least eight co-educational government schools in Rajasthan will be
      invited to take part. All students in classes 6-8 (equivalent of UK years 7-9; students aged
      11-14) in each school will be invited to take part. The total number of schools will depend
      on the number of students across the year groups. However, the aim will be to recruit 1,200
      students for each condition, with 50% males. This will allow us to detect a small effect.

      For both studies (acceptability and RCT), after expressing their initial interest, each
      school will receive detailed information regarding the aims, objective and requirements of
      the study to help them decide if they would like to take part in this research project.
      Depending on the school, either the head teacher will provide active informed consent, or
      parents will consent. Students will also be required to provide their consent before taking
      part. All students will have the opportunity to opt out of the study, or withdraw from the
      study at any time, irrespective of head teacher consent.

      Intervention:

      AdhaFULL AdhaFULL is a comic-book series co-created by BBC Media Action and UNICEF, which
      follows the journey of 3 adolescents as they solve cases related to important issues (e.g.,
      under-age marriage, nutrition, gender-stereotypes, peer pressure etc). The comics aim to
      raise awareness and encourage adolescents to take action against these issues. There are 6
      different comics based on AdhaFULL, which target issues relating to gender stereotypes and
      appearance concerns amongst adolescents in rural India. Specifically, they focus on gender
      prejudice (Comic 1), societal appearance ideals (Comic 2), media literacy (Comic 3),
      appearance comparisons (Comic 4), appearance-related conversations and teasing (Comic 5), and
      promoting 'body activism' (Comic 6). At the end of each comic, the teacher will facilitate
      one or two activities with the students based on the comic.

      Procedure:

      Investigators from the Centre for Appearance Research (CAR) based at the University of the
      West of England will be leading the study remotely from Bristol, UK. CAR researchers will be
      responsible for designing the study, analysing the data, and writing up the manuscript. They
      will also be working with the Dove Self-Esteem Project, UNICEF, and BBC Media Action to
      design the comics. The investigators will work with an Indian research agency, who will be
      'on the ground' collecting the data (as travel from the UK is currently forbidden due to the
      COVID-19 pandemic).

        1. Acceptability Study As described above, both students and teacher will participate in
           interviews and focus group to provide their thoughts and opinions on the comic books (in
           addition to the Teacher Guide among teachers). Permission to audio record the focus
           groups and interviews will be sought from participants prior to commencing the
           discussions.

        2. RCT Independent randomisation by a blinded researcher external to the project will be
           used to assign schools to each condition. This will be done using freely available
           computer software. The teachers of years 6-8 will be trained by two researchers from CAR
           and/or collaborators.

      A questionnaire comprising the self-report measures described below will be used to assess
      the impact of the intervention on students' body image and associated risk factors. After
      obtaining consent from the school head teachers, and the students, these measures will be
      administered in the classroom to the 11-14-year-old students at pre-intervention (1-2 weeks
      before intervention delivery), immediately after intervention delivery (within 1 week of the
      final session), and again at 10-12 weeks follow-up. The questionnaire will take students no
      more than 20-25 minutes to complete. Students will complete questionnaires under standardised
      conditions supervised by their teachers and trained research staff. Blinding of students,
      teachers, and researchers is not possible due to the nature of the intervention. However,
      risk of bias from teachers and researchers is minimised due to anonymous self-report
      assessments. Risk of contagion is also minimised by randomising at the school level. This
      project has ethical approval from the University of the West of England's Faculty Research
      Ethics Committee.

      In order to assess the fidelity of the intervention manuals, all sessions will be
      audio-recorded as well as observed by a researcher and rated based on adherence to lesson
      plans. The teachers will be asked to complete a brief form after each lesson stating which
      activities were completed.
    
  