
    
      RESTORE study:Thailand is a prospective observational study of HIV-1-infected patients who
      are either treatment naïve or who have been off anti-retroviral therapy for a ≥12 months, who
      have a CD4+ T cell count less than or equal to 350 cells/µL and who have been deemed by their
      treating physician that commencement of combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) which is
      expected to reduce plasma HIV RNA by ≥1log10 copies/mL is necessary.

      The primary intent of this protocol is to prospectively establish a cohort of patients from
      whom clinical data and peripheral blood samples (serum, plasma and peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells) can be stored for substudies examining reconstitution of the immune system
      and its relationship to disease outcomes.

      Patients who have recently had an opportunistic infection (OI) can also be enrolled.
      Investigators should consider the results of the ACTG A5164 (1), SAPIT (2), and Makadzange
      and colleagues (3) studies in regard to the timing of cART introduction following the acute
      OI. This observational protocol does not stipulate the timing of cART introduction, but cART
      should not normally be delayed beyond 2 months after the diagnosis of an acute OI.

      Patients will be commenced on cART regimens as determined by the treating physician. Patients
      will be observed and pertinent clinical data will be recorded at visits that will coincide
      with their standard of care visits. The visit schedule in year 1 is as follows:
      screening/baseline (cART is commenced), week 4, 8, 12, 24 and 48. In year 2 and 3 visits are
      every 6 months. In those who, in the opinion of the investigator, develop a major clinical
      manifestation of immune restoration disease (IRD) an extra visit (IRD baseline) will be
      conducted. If the patient is in the first 12 weeks of study follow-up, this is the only
      additional visit required. If, however, the major IRD event occurs after the week 12 visit in
      year 1 or in years 2 and 3, in addition to the IRD baseline visit a second additional visit
      will be conducted 4 weeks later. It is likely that these extra visits would be required for
      the management of their clinical disease. Details pertaining to the cause, course and
      treatment of the IRD event will be recorded. These will include clinical data and pathology
      results. Prior to starting cART and at each study visit, extra blood samples will be taken
      for storage and subsequent analysis. It is envisaged that these storage samples will be used
      for subsequent exploration of aspects of immunity (including but not limited to pathogen
      specific immune responses including pathogen load; anti-HIV immunity; pathogen specific (and
      other) clinical syndromes associated with immune reconstitution; B-cell responses); immune
      activation and HIV viral dynamics. A sample for genetic testing will be obtained at baseline.
      The rationale for this is to determine host genetic polymorphisms that may predict immune
      reconstitution with cART and/or predispose to the development of IRD. Patients will be
      followed for 3 years.
    
  