
    
      Effect of FODMAP reduction in patients with celiac disease. Celiac disease is an
      immune-mediated disease that causes damage to the intestines. The condition affects 1-2% of
      the population, and the incidence is increasing. Treatment with gluten-free diet usually
      produces good results, yet there are many patients who have persistent gastrointestinal
      symptoms. Studies indicate that this applies to as many as 20%, but the situation in Norway
      in unknown. Nor is it known why somebody has persistent gastro- intestinal complaints. It may
      be due to difficulty following the diet or what is called irritable bowel syndrome (IBS),
      which is a fairly common condition in the population.

      It has been shown that people with IBS can benefit from a diet with reduced FODMAP content.
      The term FODMAP is an acronym for: Fermentable Oligo, Di-, Monosaccharides and Polyols. It is
      a type of carbohydrate that is not absorbed in the large intestine, but continues to the
      colon where they are fermented by the bacteria. Example of foods with a high content of
      FODMAP is wheat, onion, garlic, parsley, apples, pears, mango, beans, honey and milk. It is
      not known whether celiac patients with persistent symptoms will have the beneficial effect of
      low FODMAP diet.

      In this study, investigators want to study the prevalence of persistent gastrointestinal
      symptoms and compliance with gluten-free diet and the intake of FODMAP in adult celiac
      patients. Members of the Norwegian coeliac organization will be invited to participate in the
      study. A web-based questionnaire is used to make it easy for members to respond.

      Participants who report persistent gastrointestinal intestinal symptoms will then be invited
      to a randomized and controlled study. They will be divided into two groups where one group
      will be advised to reduce the intake of FODMAP and the other group will be advised to follow
      a strict gluten-free diet. Participants will record stomach and intestinal complaints before
      and after four weeks with study sites. Investigators will find out whether there is a
      difference between gastric and intestinal complaints between the two groups. Blood- and feces
      samples will also be collected.

      The results will provide new knowledge about how to adapt dietary advice to celiac patients
      with persistent gastrointestinal complaints, and hopefully help them to a better quality of
      life.
    
  