
    
      This study, promoted by the "Turkish Neonatology Society", involved preterm infants who are
      being screened for ROP between April 1, 2016 and April 30, 2017 in level III Turkish NICUs.

      An electronic questionnaire is being filled by certified neonatologists in Turkey via a
      special network. Neonatologists working in 69 centers who agreed to participate in this study
      provide their data regarding the ROP in their NICU. The medical records of retinal
      examinations of preterm infants who met the screening criteria will be evaluated.

      A case report form for each patient will be filled including risk factors for the development
      of ROP such as gestational age, birth weight, small for gestational age (SGA), gender,
      multiple gestation, antenatal steroid therapy, invitro fertilisation, preeclampsia/eclampsia,
      infants of diabetic mother, chorioamnionitis, resuscitation in delivery room, respiratory
      distress syndrome (RDS), duration of mechanical ventilation and oxygen therapy, intracranial
      hemorrhage, hemodynamically significant patent ductus arteriosus (PDA), early/late sepsis,
      necrotising enterocolitis (NEC), number of blood transfusions, bronchopulmonary dysplasia
      (BPD), weight gain at postnatal 28th days and breastfeeding.

      Risk factors for developing ROP will be evaluated. Multivariate analysis will be performed
      among significant variables.

      In addition, the incidence of any ROP, severe ROP in relation to GA and BW and treatment
      modalities will be determined. Severe ROP is defined as ROP requiring treatment.

      Since Turkey is receiving many refugees in recent years, the investigators also planned to
      evaluate the incidence and risk factors for developing ROP in preterm babies of refugees.

      Ophthalmologic examination is continued until full vascularisation. So, the maximum stage of
      ROP detected for every infant will be reported. Data from 69 NICUs will be pooled together
      and analyzed.

      The "International Classification of ROP" guidelines are used to record stage of disease,
      location by zone, signs of plus disease and signs of regression. Criteria for treatment of
      ROP are based on the Early Treatment for Retinopathy of Prematurity (ETROP) recommendation.
      Confirmed forms are also assigned by the parents before the initial screening and treatment.
    
  