
    
      Fibromyalgia (FM) is a common syndrome characterized by widespread pain and at least 11/18
      painful tender points (American College of Rheumatology). Fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) is a
      rheumatic condition of increasing prevalence worldwide) approximately 2-7% of the populations
      are affected. Some of the symptoms associated with fibromyalgia is sleep disturbance,
      dizziness, headache, fatigue, depression/tension, pain, cognitive disorder, irritable bowel
      syndrome, and different somatic symptoms. These factors negatively influence physical and
      emotional characteristics and decrease the quality of life. Fatigue and dyspnea are the
      significant signs and symptoms of fibromyalgia, which can be related to respiratory system
      changes. Major affected areas in fibromyalgia include breathing mechanics, the upper
      trapezius muscle, the cervical muscle mass, the scalene, Sternocleidomastoid, and the area
      around the second rib and all the paravertebral muscle mass. These regions are coordinated
      with the tender points placed in the upper half body of patients with FM. Fibromyalgia
      patients, without a doubt, exhaust and come to be fatigue due to the dyspnea. It is
      widespread among females; however, it can additionally affect both men and teenagers. Many
      pharmacological therapies were being used to treat FM with uncertain consequences, and
      steadily growing small doses are usually recommended to maximize efficacy. Among non
      pharmacological management including exercise is typically endorsed in the management of
      patients with fibromyalgia. Regular workout is an essential keystone of fibromyalgia
      management. Aerobic workout interventions have shown reduced ache, depression, and fatigue,
      improving health-related quality of life (HRQOL). Related literature includes meta-analysis
      regarding the exercise effects (endurance, aerobic, or mixed aerobic and strength workout) on
      worldwide welfare in people with fibromyalgia. Breathing issues tend to intensify FM
      symptoms. The FM patients exhaust quickly, and dyspnea causes fatigue related to respiratory
      muscle weakness, mainly diaphragmatic deficiency, that can decrease the physical condition
      and capability inside the daily activities. Breathing exercises have been proven to be useful
      in decreasing symptoms of FM. MET is the osteopathic manipulation strategies of the tender
      tissues that evolved to recover the musculoskeletal system's function and decrease pain. Both
      these techniques have proven effects for reduction of symptoms in FM patients. This study is
      intended to compare the effects of both in order to find out the technique that can
      effectively improve the functional outcomes in patients with fibromyalgia.
    
  