
    
      The primary objective of this open label exploratory study is to evaluate the effect of CR to
      improve autonomic cardiovascular regulation in participants with symptoms of stress, anxiety,
      or insomnia.

      The secondary objective is to evaluate the effect of CR on a variety of self-reported symptom
      inventories.

      Tertiary objectives are to explore the impact of selected medications on outcomes associated
      with use of CR, the effect size in subgroups of participants who also report specific
      co-morbid symptoms or conditions of interest, and any unexpected challenges or barriers for
      working with the same. The latter includes those with TBI, PTSD, hypertension, hot flashes,
      chronic pain, or prior stroke.

      Methods: This will be a single site, open label, pilot clinical trial, enrolling people aged
      11 or older, who have self-reported symptoms of stress, anxiety, or insomnia, and meet a
      threshold score on self-reported inventories. Up to 150 participants will be enrolled.
      Participants will receive between 6 and 12 sessions of audible tones echoing current
      brainwave activity (CR). Participants will continue their other current care throughout the
      study. There will be pre- and post-intervention data collection of physiological outcomes
      (BP, HR, and measures of autonomic cardiovascular regulation assessed by heart rate
      variability and baroreflex sensitivity), which will alse serve as the primary outcome.
      Secondary outcomes to be collected include symptom inventories for insomnia (Insomnia
      Severity Index, ISI; Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, PSQI), depression (Center for
      Epidemiological Studies- Depression Scale, CES-D), anxiety (Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7,
      GAD-7), stress (Perceived Stress Scale, PSS), traumatic stress (PTSD Checklist for civilians,
      PCL-C, or military, PCL-M), , and overall quality of life (QOLS). Other secondary outcome
      inventories will be collected for physical activity (International Physical Activity
      Questionnaire, IPAQ-SF), and physical activity satisfaction questions, as well. Participants
      who also self-report having specific co-morbid symptoms or conditions of interest may
      complete additional condition-specific outcome measures. All measures will be collected at an
      enrollment visit (V1), and the intervention will begin 0-14 days thereafter. Mean contrasts
      will be used to compare the changes in measures of autonomic cardiovascular regulation from
      V1 to V3, the primary outcome, as well as for secondary outcomes. Linear mixed models, which
      can accommodate within-subject correlations due to repeated assessments over time, will be
      used to generate point estimates for effect size along with 95% confidence intervals.
    
  