
    
      Adult male and female volunteers (n=60, aged 18-64) with a diagnosis of Fibromyalgia will be
      recruited by referral, newspapers, flyers, radio and internet ads, and asked to complete an
      Informed Consent document and take an on-line, validated, Combined Fibromyalgia Symptom
      Questionnaire or Survey Form. Potentially eligible participants (Since there are approx.
      twice as many female as male patients with this diagnosis, the investigators anticipate that
      more female than male participants will be recruited) will have the Fibromyalgia diagnosis
      confirmed using the American College of Rheumatology criteria. If participants have not done
      so, participants will be asked to provide 10 cc of blood for a Chem 20 analysis. Participants
      that meet the inclusion criteria will be randomized into placebo (42 days) or supplement arms
      (4 g NTFactor Lipids® per day for 42 days) by a Research Nurse/Associate, and blinded to the
      Principal Investigators and Participants for this cross-over trial. After the first arm is
      completed, participants will return for a clinic visit and enter the second arm for 42 days
      after a 2-week wash-out period. Once the data has been collected online (at Day 0 before
      starting supplement/placebo and on Days 1, 2, 3, 7, 14, 21, 30 and 42 for each arm), data
      will be placed into spread sheets, unblinded and analyzed by an independent statistical unit
      at the University of California, Irvine, School of Medicine. Principal objectives will be to
      assess various categories of pain, fatigue, GI symptoms and QOL and compare these outcomes in
      this study among supplement and placebo arms for each participant over time and combined for
      all participants. Statistical significance of any differences will be determined by t-test
      and other methods. Regression analysis of the data will be used to assess fidelity of the
      data and reliability of outcomes, and R2 values will be calculated for combined data.
    
  