
    
      Multicenter prospective study in consecutive patients hospitalized with a wide spectrum of
      ACS and clinical indication to coronary angiography.

      Consecutive patients older than 55 years with an ACS undergoing coronary angiography are
      eligible for the study, irrespective of subsequent revascularization. Eligible are women and
      men with a 2:1 enrolment ratio.

      Patients will be stratified according to gender and age, including four age categories:
      55-64, 65-74, 75-85 and >85 years. Each age category will include 200 patients, and enrolment
      in each category will be stopped once this number has been reached.

      A specific electronic web-based CRF will collect clinical and procedural data. Clinical data
      input will take place at the participating Centers. Angiographic data input will be performed
      at rthe angiographic corelab, blinded of clinical data.

      The e-CRF will collect data on

        -  the characteristics of the ACS

        -  the relevant risk factors for CAD and known prognostically relevant variables

        -  prior clinical history (prior MI, PCI, CABG, heart failure, stroke)

        -  in women fertility history will be captured by specific items, including age at first
           and last menstrual period, past use of oral contraceptives, ongoing and past hormone
           replacement therapy (HRT) and whether they had undergone a hysterectomy and/or
           oophorectomy, as well as information on the number of full-term pregnancies (the sum of
           live births and stillbirths). Age at menarche is defined as the age at the first
           menstrual period. Reproductive life span is automatically calculated calculated by
           subtracting the age at menarche from the age at menopause. The presence of hot flushes,
           their severity and duration in years will be also captured.

      The extent of coronary artery disease will be evaluated at a central corelab using the
      Gensini score and the SYNTAX score
    
  