
    
      DETAILLED PLANNED STATISTICAL METHODS

      Hypothesis

      Null hypothesis: In patients with interstitial rotator cuff tear, there is no difference in
      term of tendon tear size percentage between baseline and 6 months after intervention.

      Alternative hypothesis: In patients with interstitial rotator cuff tear, there is a
      difference in term of tendon of tendon tear size percentage between baseline and 6 months
      after intervention.

      Determination of Sample Size

      No previous data allows predicting the standard deviation of supraspinatus tear volume. In
      order to evaluate the standard deviation of tear size progression in percentage from
      baseline, investigators aimed to identify patients followed conservatively for interstitial
      supraspinatus tears, and in which two MRI has been performed at 3 to 9 months of interval. In
      this way, 25 patients were identified, and their tear sizes were measured. From this sample,
      an hypothetical standard deviation of 76% of the initial teas size was estimated. The
      investigators considered that potential PRP effect on tear size is clinically relevant if it
      allows a healing of 50% of the lesion size. Taking on consideration those points, 76 patients
      should be included to be able to reject the null hypothesis that the population means of the
      experimental and control groups are equal with probability (power) of 80%. The Type I error
      probability associated with this test of this null hypothesis is 0.05. Taking in
      consideration 10% of potential dropouts, it was planned to include 84 patients.

      Following planned Analyses will be performed by Dr Adrien Schwitzguébel at the end of the
      study:

        -  Baseline clinical parameters They will be compared between the two groups with adapted
           statistic tests (Chi-squared, Wilcoxon, or T test).

        -  Primary outcome Supraspinatus tear size percentage difference between baseline and 6
           months post intervention will be compared between the two groups with Student test.

        -  Secondary outcome Clinical scores (Constant, ASES, SPADI, SANE, and VAS) differences
           between baseline and different time points will be compared between the two groups with
           Student test (or Wilcoxon test in case of non-parametric distribution). Even if those
           multiple analysis aims to evaluate clinical evolution of the two groups, no corrections
           will be applied on p values, but rather the aspect of a global tendency will be
           integrated in the discussion. In order to see whether small tears are more prone to
           beneficiate from treatment, correlation coefficient will be calculated between tear size
           percentage difference and initial tear size.

        -  Handling of missing data and drop-outs In case of missing clinical parameters on
           interest for primary outcome calculation, patients will be excluded of the study. In
           case of missing clinical parameters on interest for secondary outcome calculation or
           baseline clinical parameters, analysis will be performed by removing patients with the
           missing value from corresponding analysis only.
    
  