
    
      The aim of this study is to determine the efficacy of cannabinoid (CBD) patch on reducing
      pain and improving functional status in patients with knee osteoarthritis (OA). The
      investigators hypothesize that the use of CBD patch will provide superior pain relief to
      placebo patch. This will be a randomized, double-blind 2-arm parallel group study in 74 male
      and female subjects with pain from knee osteoarthritis. Site staff will document the
      patient's prior treatment for knee osteoarthritis and once the diagnosis has been made, they
      will be offered to enroll in the study.

      After randomization, patients will either be prescribed CBD patch to be used topically for
      diagnosed knee osteoarthritis versus placebo patch. It will be performed at one site, the
      physician's office. The study coordinator will be in charge of keeping track of the different
      patches and all other study personnel and patients will be blinded to the treatment arm. The
      statistician will conduct the randomization. He will be unblinded and assign participant
      numbers.

      Patients will be diagnosed in an office setting for knee osteoarthritis based on radiographs
      using the Kellgren Lawrence classification. It is the standard of care to obtain orthogonal
      knee radiographs when evaluating a patient for knee pain. This will be considered when
      assessing if the patient is eligible to participate given their pathology. This can be a new
      diagnosis or an already established diagnosis. The previous treatments that they have
      received will be noted in the patient charts while screened for eligibility.

      Patients taking opioids only recently (less than 3 months) will be required to halt treatment
      at the time of study enrollment. Opioids don't have anti inflammatory properties so a washout
      period is not necessary. General patient demographics will be collected using the electronic
      medical record including: Age, Sex, BMI, Radiographic Osteoarthritis scale (Kellgren
      Lawrence), which will be put into database by the study investigators and co investigators.

      Consent will be obtained by study personnel in the clinical office setting after meeting all
      study criteria and diagnosis of knee osteoarthritis based on exam and knee xrays. All
      patients diagnosed with knee osteoarthritis, and who are enrolled in the study, will be
      prescribed physical therapy that focuses on non-operative treatment such as low impact
      exercises and activity modification. The patients will not medicate with anti-inflammatory
      while enrolled in the study. Administration will follow a model of topical patch application
      which will consist of either the formulated CBD patch (35mg) or identical placebo patch. This
      patch will be applied to the arthritic knee directly central on the knee. In the event of
      patients with a diagnosis of bilateral knee OA, the patch will be placed on the knee that has
      visual analogue scale (VAS) >3 but <9. This patch will be placed daily for 24 hours and
      replaced each day. Including the initial enrollment visit, the patient will meet with the
      diagnosing orthopedic surgeon at various time points, and will also have remote check ins by
      study personnel to assess for adverse events and any issues they are having at 2, 4, and 8
      weeks. The patient will have the patch for the first 4 weeks of the study followed by 4 weeks
      without patch which will conclude their participation at 8 weeks. The patients will all begin
      physical therapy as part of their routine clinical care within 1 week of beginning the study.
      During this time the patient will be distributed various surveys to measure patient outcomes.
      The investigators will be looking at pain as a primary endpoint using visual analogue scale
      with a 2 point difference deemed the minimal clinically important difference.

      Subjects who are randomized to either group who have uncontrolled pain will be instructed to
      take a rescue medication, acetaminophen over the counter use Q 6 hours as needed will be
      allowed and recorded in a daily drug use diary which will be provided to them.

      The patients will have contact information of the surgeon and residents to contact if any
      side effects are encountered. Compliance with patch use/application, side effects and
      adherence to physical therapy will also be recorded. Software with be used for both data
      collection and survey administration for confidential participation, which is a user-friendly
      HIPAA compliant service utilized by our health system. If the patient is unable to respond to
      the surveys via their phone app then hard copies of the survey will be given to them and
      collected by the investigator.
    
  