
    
      Setting and Participants The investigators will adopt a cross-sectional survey design to
      assess the public's immediate psychological and level of physical activity response during
      the epidemic of COVID-19 by using an anonymous online questionnaire. A snowball sampling
      strategy, focus on recruiting the general public living in Ibero-America countries during the
      epidemic of COVID-19, will be utilized. The online survey will be first disseminated to
      contacts and participants will be encouraged to pass it on to others.

      Procedure As the Governments recommended the public to minimize face-to-face interaction and
      isolate themselves at home, potential respondents will be electronically invited by existing
      study respondents. Participants will complete the questionnaires in Spanish through an online
      survey platform (Google Forms). Information about this study was posted on a dedicated
      website. All respondents will be provided with informed consent. Data collection will take
      place over the confinement period.

      Survey Development Previous surveys on the psychological impacts of SARS and influenza
      outbreaks were reviewed. The structured questionnaire consists of questions that covered
      several areas: (1) demographic data; (2) physical symptoms in the past 14 days; (3) contact
      history with COVID-19 in the past 14 days; (4) the psychological impact of the COVID-19
      outbreak; (5) mental health status; and (6) level of physical activity.

      Sociodemographic data will be collected on gender, age, education, residential location days,
      marital status, employment status, monthly income, parental status, and household size.
      Physical symptom variables in the past 14 days included fever, chills, headache, myalgia,
      cough, difficulty in breathing, dizziness, coryza, sore throat, and persistent fever, as well
      as persistent fever and cough or difficulty breathing. Health service utilization variables
      in the past 14 days will include consultation with a doctor in the clinic, admission to the
      hospital, being quarantined by a health authority, and being tested for COVID-19. Contact
      history variables will include close contact with an individual with confirmed COVID-19,
      indirect contact with an individual with confirmed COVID-19, and contact with an individual
      with suspected COVID-19 or infected materials.

      The psychological impact of COVID-19 will be measured using the Impact of Event Scale-Revised
      (IES-R). The IES-R is a self-administered questionnaire that has been well-validated in the
      Spanish population for determining the extent of psychological impact after exposure to a
      public health crisis within one week of exposure. This 22-item questionnaire is composed of
      three subscales and aims to measure the mean avoidance, intrusion, and hyperarousal. The
      total IES-R score will be divided into 0-23 (normal), 24-32 (mild psychological impact),
      33-36 (moderate psychological impact), and >37 (severe psychological impact).

      Mental health status will be measured using the Depression, Anxiety and Stress Scale
      (DASS-21) and calculations of scores will be based on the previous study. Questions 3, 5, 10,
      13, 16, 17 and 21 will form the depression subscale. The total depression subscale score will
      be divided into normal (0-9), mild depression (10-12), moderate depression (13-20), severe
      depression (21-27), and extremely severe depression (28-42). Questions 2, 4, 7, 9, 15, 19,
      and 20 will form the anxiety subscale. The total anxiety subscale score will be divided into
      normal (0-6), mild anxiety (7-9), moderate anxiety (10-14), severe anxiety (15-19), and
      extremely severe anxiety (20-42). Questions 1, 6, 8, 11, 12, 14, and 18 will form the stress
      subscale. The total stress subscale score will be divided into normal (0-10), mild stress
      (11-18), moderate stress (19-26), severe stress (27-34), and extremely severe stress (35-42).
      The DASS has been demonstrated to be a reliable and valid measure in assessing mental health
      in the Spanish population. The DASS was previously used in research related to SARS.

      The IPAQ short form will be used to measure physical activity level. Total physical activity
      metabolic equivalent of task (MET)-minutes/ week will be calculated through the following
      formula: sum of walking + moderate + vigorous MET-minutes/week scores. Using guidelines for
      data processing and analysis of the IPAQ, participants will be divided into those who are
      (≥600 MET-minutes/week) and those who are not (<600 MET-minutes/week) sufficiently active.
      The IPAQ has been validated in adult populations from different countries showing acceptable
      validity (Spearman's ρ = 0.30, 95% CI: 0.23-0.36) and reliability (Spearman's ρ = 0.81, 95%
      CI: 0.79-0.82).

      Statistical Analysis Descriptive statistics will be calculated for sociodemographic
      characteristics, physical symptoms and health service utilization variables, and additional
      health information variables. Percentages of response will be calculated according to the
      number of respondents per response with respect to the number of total responses of a
      question. The scores of the IES-R and DASS subscales will be expressed as mean and standard
      deviation. The investigators will be linear regressions to calculate the univariate
      associations between sociodemographic characteristics, physical symptom and health service
      utilization variables, contact history variables, additional health information variables,
      and the IES-S score as well as the subscales of the DASS and level of physical activity. All
      tests will be two-tailed, with a significance level of p < 0.05. Statistical analysis will be
      performed using SPSS Statistic 21.0 (IBM SPSS Statistics, New York, United States).
    
  