
    
      Background

        -  IMC-A12 is a fully recombinant IgG1monoclonal antibody to the insulin-like growth factor
           receptor (IGFR). It acts as an antagonist of IGF-1 and IGF-2 ligand binding and blocks
           ligand binding to IGF-1R and inhibits downstream signaling of the two major insulin-like
           growth factor pathways: MAPK and PI3K/AKT.

        -  Temsirolimus is a small molecule inhibitor of mTOR, which like rapamycin and everolimus
           forms a complex with FK506-binding protein (FKBP)12 and mTOR, inhibiting mTOR and
           leading to anti-proliferative effects, including G1 phase cell cycle arrest and
           apoptosis.

        -  Inhibition of mTOR signaling leads to upregulation of IGF-1R signaling which leads to
           activation of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway. Pediatric pre-clinical models have demonstrated
           synergistic anti-tumor effects combining IGF-1R antibodies and mTOR inhibitors.

      Objectives

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended Phase II dose of IMC-A12
           (anti-insulin growth factor-1 receptor monoclonal antibody) administered as an
           intravenous infusion once weekly in combination with temsirolimus administered
           intravenously once weekly to children with refractory solid tumors.

        -  To define the toxicities of the combination regimen and characterize the
           pharmacokinetics of IMC-A12 in combination with temsirolimus in this patient population.

        -  Secondary objectives include defining in a preliminary fashion antitumor activity,
           assessing biologic activity of IMC-A12 and temsirolimus and assessing the incidence of
           IGFR expression and mTOR pathway activation in recurrent or refractory solid tumors of
           childhood.

      Eligibility

        -  Patients > 12 months and less than or equal to 21 years of age with a diagnosis and
           histologic verification (except patients with intrinsic brain stem tumors, optic pathway
           gliomas or pineal tumors and elevations of serum or CSF alpha-fetoprotein or beta-HCG)
           of measureable or evaluable relapsed or refractory solid tumors. Current disease state
           must be one for which there is no known curative therapy, or therapy proven to prolong
           survival.

        -  Must have fully recovered from acute toxic effects from all prior therapy, which has
           been completed within the specified prior time frame.

        -  Have adequate organ function as determined by laboratory evaluation including normal
           random or fasting blood glucose within the upper normal limits for age and grade < 2
           serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels.

        -  Subjects with uncontrolled infection, known type I or type II diabetes mellitus, known
           bone marrow involvement or who have received prior monoclonal antibody therapy targeting
           IGF-1R or temsirolimus are not eligible.

      Design

        -  This is a phase I study of IMC-A12 administered every 7 days as a 1-hour intravenous
           infusion at a starting dose of 6 mg/kg. Temsirolimus will be administered intravenously
           over 30 minutes immediately after IMC-A12 on a once weekly schedule, at a starting dose
           of 15 mg/m(2).

        -  One cycle of therapy is considered to be 28 days. Therapy may continue for up to 2 years
           in the absence of progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  All patients will have required trough blood samples for pharmacokinetic analysis of
           IMC-A12 and temsirolimus and immunogenicity studies collected at the same time as select
           routine safety labs. Optional participation in additional pharmacokinetic studies and
           correlative biology studies will be offered.
    
  