
    
      Overview of data to be collected from enrolled infants followed longitudinally and entered
      into the NBSTRN Longitudinal Pediatric Data Resource

        1. Past medical history relevant to pregnancy, delivery, complications in the immediate
           neonatal period, birth parameters, family history and any medical problems other than
           SMA (ie prematurity, etc)

        2. Ongoing medical history indicating problems related to the following areas:

           feeding, growth, respiratory status including use of cough assist and bilevel
           respiratory support, gastrointestinal issues, cardiac symptoms, neurologic symptoms or
           signs including muscle weakness, hospitalizations, ER visits, other adverse events

        3. Assessment of dietary intake and use of nutritional supplements

        4. Surgical history and ongoing documentation of assessments and need for g-tube, Nissen,
           tympanostomy, adenoidectomy/tonsillectomy or other airway surgeries, and orthopedic
           procedures

        5. Caregiver obtained developmental history and documentation of newly acquired and/or loss
           of previously acquired gross motor skills at the time of each visit

        6. Documentation of caregiver reported outcomes

        7. Documentation of anthropometric measures, vital signs, general physical examination
           parameters

        8. Neurological examination using standardized tools

        9. Time to death, permanent invasive ventilation and/or need for > 16 hours/day of bilevel
           respiratory support

       10. Specific assessment of motor function as measured using age appropriate motor outcome
           measures such as: the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Infant Tests of Neuromuscular
           Disorders (CHOP-INTEND), Test of Infant Motor Performance Screening Inventory, WHO motor
           milestones or others, and Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale for SMA Expanded for
           children 18 months and older

       11. Electrophysiologic studies such as maximum ulnar compound muscle action potential (CMAP)
           amplitude and area

       12. Documentation of range of motion, development of limb contractures and/or presence of
           scoliosis, lordosis, hip dysplasia or other orthopedic outcomes

       13. Additional optional exploratory biomarker assessments

       14. DEXA measurements to assess body composition and bone density

       15. The option to enroll in an autopsy study at the time of death to contribute samples to a
           research biorepository

      Normal control subjects such as unaffected siblings will undergo these same measurements, as
      applicable. Unaffected parents' participation will be limited to collection and banking of
      blood and cell lines.
    
  