
    
      This is an prospective observational study designed to collect data on the IPI in
      mechanically ventilated pediatric patients undergoing the weaning process and extubation
      using the FDA approved Capnostream 20® bedside monitor (CS20) (Covidien Inc., Mansfield, MA,
      USA). Inclusion criteria include patients intubated at least 24 hours who are less than 18
      years of age but greater than 1 year of age. Exclusion criteria include patients less than 1
      year of age or the presence of a tracheostomy tube. The IPI number will be blinded throughout
      the study but directly monitored values (SpO2, HR, PETCO2, RR) will be available for clinical
      use.

      Upon meeting inclusion criteria, the subject will be given a code number to protect their
      identity. Study personnel will verify that the CS20 monitor matches the institutional
      time/date prior to use and the de-identified subject ID will be entered in the CS20 monitor.
      The subject will be connected to the CS20 device via a pulse oximeter probe and a CO2
      sampling line attached to the ventilator circuit, both are standard of care in monitoring
      ventilated pediatric patients. Subjects will be monitored for 10 minutes prior to the
      initiation of physician directed weaning evaluation or extubation. Study personnel will
      verify that the IPI number on the monitor is not visible to clinicians in order to prevent
      changes on routine interventions.

      Investigators will record date, time, and mechanical ventilator settings when the CS20
      monitor is started to collect baseline data. Physician directed weaning trials or ventilator
      changes to test readiness for extubation will be recorded to correlate IPI values at a later
      date. Venous and/or arterial blood gas (ABG) data and nebulizer treatments occurring during
      the study will be recorded along with the PETCO2 when the ABG is drawn or nebulizer treatment
      administered and CS20 monitor will be marked with an event. For nebulizer treatments, mark
      event and also push the pump off button to pause IPI monitoring for 15 minutes in order to
      prevent sample line from becoming clogged. CS 20 IPI monitoring will automatically resume 15
      minutes after pausing the pump. If the weaning trial is stopped or the patient is extubated,
      the date and time will be recorded and the monitor will be marked with an event. Subjects
      that fail the weaning readiness determination will have the process repeated for up to three
      weaning attempts. If not weaned from mechanical ventilation after the third attempt,
      participation in the trial will be terminated. Participation in the study will be terminated
      if extubation does not occur within 72 hours of enrollment.

      If extubated, the event will be marked on the monitor and the date and time will be recorded
      on the case report form (CRF). After extubation, the subject will remain reconnected to the
      CS20 monitor via a PETCO2 sampling nasal cannula capable of providing supplemental oxygen and
      a pulse oximeter. Subjects will continue to be monitored for up to 48 hours post extubation
      or until transferred out of the ICU. If a subject fails extubation and requires re-intubation
      or use of noninvasive ventilation, the event and time will be recorded and the study will be
      terminated. The subject may withdraw from the study at anytime or the attending physician may
      terminate their participation in the trial.

      Necessary protected health information (PHI) includes subject name and medical record number
      to track the subject at 48 hours post extubation. PHI will be maintained on a site enrollment
      log separate from any collected data in a locked file cabinet.

      Quantitative data for this study will include the time stamped electronic parameter data by
      subject ID from the CS20; the CRF with de-identified demographic information, significant
      pulmonary medical history, ventilator parameters prior to extubation, method used to
      determine readiness to discontinue mechanical ventilation, number of days on mechanical
      ventilator, rapid shallow breathing index, VD/VT, ABG and co-morbidity, date and time of
      extubation and 48 hour post extubation status.

      Time stamped electronic parameter data from the CS20 will be obtained from the monitor via a
      USB drive. Data from the CS20 will be stored in a secure computer by subject ID number. The
      de-identified subject demographic information, medical and pulmonary history will be obtained
      from the subject's electronic medical record by the study staff and recorded on the CRF. The
      CRFs will be stored in a Study Binder in a locked filling cabinet in the College of Sciences.
      The Study Binder will be stored in a secure location and the data will be retained for three
      years.
    
  