
    
      Background Work problems are common in people with inflammatory arthritis (IA). In rheumatoid
      arthritis (RA) 33% stop working within two years and 50% within 10 years. Work difficulties
      include: pain (particularly hand pain); fatigue; unadapted work environments, equipment and
      work schedules; poor work self-efficacy (i.e. lack of confidence about working); job strain;
      limited use of self-management strategies; and limited support from employers and work
      colleagues. Two USA trials of brief (3 hours) job retention vocational rehabilitation (VR)
      identified job loss was postponed by modifying such factors. A UK proof-of-principle trial
      (n=32) identified 10 hours (minimum) of VR reduced work instability. VR is not routinely
      available in the NHS and Rheumatology departments. It is unclear from the evidence if brief
      VR provided by therapists is effective and cost-effective in the UK.

      Aims

        1. Assess if there is a difference in work presenteeism between people with RA,
           undifferentiated IA (UIA) or psoriatic arthritis (PsA) who receive either: usual care,
           written work self-help information plus brief VR (WORKWELL) provided by a therapist
           trained in providing VR; or usual care and written work self-help information only
           (WP1).

        2. To assess if there are differences in self-reported work instability, work, activity
           limitations, work productivity, absenteeism, work status, work self-efficacy, health
           status, NHS and societal costs between people receiving WORKWELL or written work
           self-help information only (WP1)

        3. To assess the cost-effectiveness of WORKWELL from the perspective of: the NHS using
           health-related quality of life as the primary outcome; the employer using presenteeism
           as the primary outcome; and the employer using health-related quality of life as the
           primary outcome and including presenteeism as a cost. (WP5)

        4. To update and evaluate a VR programme for occupational therapists and physiotherapists
           to help them keep people with RA, IA or PsA in work (WP2).

        5. To measure fidelity to the WORKWELL intervention (WP3).

        6. To understand the social and structural context in which the intervention is delivered
           and to identify factors which may influence the quality of implementation (WP3).

        7. Investigate contextual factors influencing participants' presenteeism (WP4).

      Design A pragmatic, multi-centre individually randomised controlled trial (RCT) comparing the
      effects of brief VR (intervention) with written self-help advice only (control).
      Cost-effectiveness and process evaluations will also be conducted.

      Methodology Employed people with RA/ UIA/ PsA who have concerns about being able to continue
      to work in future due to arthritis, will be consented into the study. They will complete a
      baseline questionnaire (hard copy or online according to participant preference) and will
      then be randomly allocated in equal numbers, stratified by participants' job skill levels, to
      either intervention or control groups. Participants (in both groups) will be mailed a
      self-help work information pack. Participants' in the intervention group will be referred to
      receive the WORKWELL intervention from a trained occupational therapist/ physiotherapist. The
      Lancashire Clinical Trials Unit (CTU: University of Central Lancashire) will contact
      participants monthly by text/ e-mail/ telephone to identify numbers of days on sick leave.
      Six months after completing the baseline questionnaire, participants will complete a short
      postal/online questionnaire including presenteeism, productivity health status measures and
      resource data. At 12 months, participants will complete a third postal/online questionnaire
      with most of the measures collected at baseline. Two sub-samples from the intervention group
      will be interviewed: employed participants about their views of VR; and any unemployed/
      retired due to ill-health participants about factors contributing to job loss.

      Planned Sample Size 240 people will be recruited from 18 sites. On completion of the trial,
      qualitative interviews will be completed with 15 employed participants and up to 7 (if any)
      unemployed / early retired through ill-health from the intervention group. WORKWELL
      participants' line managers/employers will also be interviewed (where possible: n=10).
      WORKWELL Therapists and their line managers will also be interviewed (one each from each
      site, or less if data saturation is reached (n=18 for each).

      Analyses Statistical analyses will investigate differences in outcomes at 12 months after
      baseline between intervention and control groups using mixed effects linear, logistic or
      ordinal logistic regression modelling, adjusted for baseline values and stratification
      variables (as applicable). The primary outcome is the summed score of the Combined Work
      Activities Limitations Scale -Work Limitations Questionnaire-25 (a measure of work
      presenteeism) at 12 months after baseline assessment. The health economic analysis will be
      conducted from the UK National Health Service (NHS) and employer perspectives. Interviews
      will be thematically analysed. Records will be analysed using content analysis.
    
  