
    
      There are a variety of normal microbial communities in the healthy human intestines, which
      maintain the physiological balance of the host. Under normal circumstances, there are about
      104 intestinal microflora in the adult's intestines. The total number of genes is about 150
      times the number of human genes. More and more studies have found that intestinal flora plays
      an important role in the occurrence of many human diseases. In recent years, the role of
      intestinal microflora in the brain axis has gradually been recognized and become a hot spot
      of research, and a new concept of the brain - gut axis is proposed.

      The brain-gut axis is a bidirectional communication system between the central nervous system
      (CNS) and the gastrointestinal tract. Compared with ordinary mice, mild exposure to pressure
      can increase the level of corticosterone and adrenocorticotropic hormone in sterile mice, and
      this overreaction can be reversed by transplantation of normal rats' feces.Together, it is
      clear that the gut microbiota can be a key regulator of mood, cognition, pain, and obesity.
      Understanding microbiota-brain interactions is an exciting area of research which may
      contribute new insights into individual variations in cognition, personality, mood, sleep,
      and eating behavior.The abnormal expression of GABA (GABA) receptor in central nervous system
      is related to anxiety and depression. It is found that probiotics can regulate the expression
      of GABA receptor in the cerebral cortex through vagus nerve, thereby reducing anxiety and
      depression.5-HT signal system abnormalities may be associated with the pathophysiological
      changes of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), while intestinal flora can affect the generation
      of neurotransmitter 5-HT in the intestine, resulting in changing of gastrointestinal motility
      and sensibility of internal organ. The above study means that the brain axis plays an
      important role in maintaining the diversity of intestinal microbiota.

      It is essential that using sedatives to maintain the safety and comfort of the patient in
      ICU.Most patients also need receiving mechanical ventilation.Many patients in Intensive care
      unit appear varying degrees of intestinal microflora imbalance,especially received mechanical
      ventilation.So far,whether sedatives used for a long time in mechanically ventilated patients
      will affect the diversity of intestinal flora or not still not been reported. The effects of
      different sedative drugs on the intestinal flora diversity also need further study.Therefore,
      the topic will discuss the diversity of intestinal microbiota in patients with different
      sedative-hypnotics and mechanical ventilation.
    
  