
    
      Drug-coated balloon (DCB) intervention is a non-drug treatment of coronary heart disease with
      the advantage of "no implantation". In recent years, it is more and more used in primary
      coronary artery disease. Timely detection of restenosis after DCB is very important to ensure
      the safety of patients. Invasive coronary angiography (ICA) is the "gold standard" to reflect
      coronary artery stenosis, but it is difficult to become a routine follow-up tool for surgical
      trauma, radiation exposure and other reasons, let alone for elderly patients.

      Coronary artery computed tomography angiography (CCTA) can provide a variety of anatomical
      information such as the degree of coronary artery stenosis and the nature of plaques. It is a
      commonly used tool for non-invasive imaging diagnosis of coronary heart disease. However,
      because of its low diagnostic specificity and can not reflect the lesion-related myocardial
      ischemia, the positive rate of coronary heart disease and the rate of revascularization in
      patients undergoing ICA are low. In recent years, based on CCTA data, CT-derived fractional
      flow reserve (CT-FFR) developed by artificial intelligence and other technologies can provide
      both anatomical and functional information of coronary artery disease. A number of studies
      have shown that, compared with CCTA alone, CT-FFR has a better ability to diagnose coronary
      ischemic lesions and can effectively reduce the need for unnecessary ICA, to predict
      revascularization more accurately. Due to the absence of metal foreign body implantation, DCB
      intervention makes it possible for CT-FFR to be used in imaging evaluation after DCB. At
      present, there is no study on the use of CT-FFR in patients after DCB.

      In this study, the self-developed CT-FFR based on artificial intelligence was used for the
      first time to analyze coronary artery lesions in patients after DCB, and to compare the
      guiding value of CT-FFR and simple CCTA in ICA and revascularization, in order to provide an
      ideal non-invasive imaging follow-up tool for elderly patients after DCB.
    
  