
    
      It is accepted that nutrition support is essential in the treatment of critically ill
      patients. It is also reasonable to initiate nutrition support therapy as soon as possible.
      Although malnutrition is most frequently associated with a risk for immune dysfunction, it
      can affect all organ systems. Thus, ICU patients are in need of immunonutrients
      supplementation. An additional strategy to maximize the benefits is to consider using
      products supplemented with specific nutrients that modulate the immune system, improve wound
      healing, and reduce oxidative stress. The lower incidence of infectious complications may
      follow in shorter lengths of both intensive care units (ICU) and hospital stays. Many studies
      have concentrated on nutrients to stimulate the function of cellular immunity in these
      patients. These nutrients include arginine, glutamine and omega-3 fatty acid which has direct
      effect on T lymphocytes and macrophage. Enteral formulas designed as immune-enhancing diets
      (IED) contain supplemental amounts of L-arginine, L-glutamine, nucleotides and the long chain
      polyunsaturated fatty acids: eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), docosahexanoic acid (DHA) and
      arachidonic acid (ARA) in addition to nutrient substrates essential for general nutrition and
      metabolism. These formulas vary considerably in composition of these four primary substrates.
      They introduce the immune cell function augmentation, inflammation regulation and infections
      minimization. Glutamine, a conditional-essential amino acid, an essential energy source, a
      precursor for protein synthesis and donates nitrogen for the synthesis of purines,
      pyrimidines, nucleotides, amino sugars, and glutathione antioxidant.

      Glutamine also plays an important role in enhancing immune cell function with no elevation in
      proinflammatory cytokine production. The lower levels of glutamine have been associated with
      impaired tissue healing, immune dysfunction and increased mortality.

      Omega-3 fatty acid (n-3 fatty acid or omega-3 fatty acid) directly affects the function of
      monocyte by membrane characteristic alteration, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) synthesis that has
      the action of macrophage phagocytosis, IL-1 and superoxide synthesis. Moreover, omega-3 fatty
      acid reduces cellular immune response reaction by compete arachidonic acid resulting in less
      inflammation.

      Arginine is considered a nutrient that enhances the immune response. Studies have shown
      arginine-supplemented immune formulas in helping decrease protein catabolism, improve
      nitrogen balance, enhance wound healing and wound strength resulted in less infection and
      shorter hospitalization days. Arginine has also been shown to support the immune system by
      enhancing lymphocyte proliferation and phagocytosis. Arginine may provide some benefits.
      However, recent meta-analysis conducted in a subgroup of critically ill patients by Heyland
      and colleagues revealed that arginine may be harmful to some group especially septic patients
      by stimulating nitric oxide (NO) production.

      Based on these scientific rationales, it is recommended that arginine should not be used in
      critically ill patients who are clearly septic. And many evidences exist for supplementation
      with antioxidant and immunonutrition in the critically ill. Glutamine and fish oil/borage oil
      should be considered. These result in the development of immune-enhancing diet (IED) without
      arginine. In addition, two types of lipids are added into the formula to further modulate
      immune response. First, fish oil as a source of omega-3 fatty acids and borage oil as a
      source of docosahexanoic acid (DHA), a unique omega-6 fatty acid (n-6 fatty acid). Both n-3
      and n-6 fatty acids are polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) and are essential fatty acids
      (EFA). Therefore, immune-enhancing diet composes of L-glutamine, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA),
      docosahexanoic acid (DHA), antioxidant vitamins and trace minerals such as vitamin A, vitamin
      E, vitamin C, selenium and betacarotene.
    
  