
    
      Lung cancer is the most common malignant tumor in the world. Surgical treatment is the first
      and most important treatment for lung cancer. It can completely remove the primary lesions of
      lung cancer and metastasis of lymph nodes to achieve clinical cure. Opening the chest into
      the chest allows for an excellent surgical field of view, but it is usually necessary to
      divide the pectoralis and separate the ribs. To prevent these shortcomings, in the early
      1990s, video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) was first applied to anatomical
      pneumonectomy and proved to be safe and feasible. Nowadays, for patients with stage I lung
      cancer, the NCCN guidelines point out that if the patient has no contraindications for
      anatomy and surgery, as long as it does not violate the standard of tumor treatment and the
      principle of thoracic surgery, it is highly recommended of VATS or minimally invasive
      surgery.

      For lung cancer, the benefit of VATS over open surgery is mainly due to the reduction of
      surgical trauma and the relative maintenance of chest integrity, the reduction of immune
      function, the reduction of postoperative pain, and the preservation of lung and shoulder
      function. What's more, the incidence of postoperative complications is reduced, patients
      recover faster, hospitalization is short, and normal activities are restored early. Although
      previous papers seem to have obvious advantages, there is a lack of clinical prospective data
      from patients with stage II-III lung cancer, and especially in the prevalence of uniportal
      VATS, there is still no objective analysis of this hypothesis.

      Therefore, the investigators plan to conduct a randomized, prospective study to compare
      perioperative complications, postoperative pain, life quality, lung function recovery,
      tumor-free survival rate, etc., in lobectomy for stage II-III lung cancer patients with VATS
      and thoracotomy. the investigators would complete the real and effective accumulation of data
      through strict enrollment, detailed records, and regular follow-up, in order to provide
      suggestions for the development of new guidelines.
    
  