
    
      Capillary malformations are congenital abnormalities of the capillaries in the skin. These
      abnormally developed blood vessels cause a red color of the skin (also known as 'port-wine
      stain'),often in combination with a cobble-stone like aspect of the skin. Currently, the only
      widely accepted treatment option is laser therapy, in which the abnormal blood vessels are
      targeted with photocoagulation. However, in approximately 50-60% of patients, treatment
      outcome of laser therapy is suboptimal. Furthermore, re-darkening of the capillary
      malformation often occurs after laser therapy. Hence, there is a need for an alternative
      treatment option - especially for treatment-resistant and recurrent capillary malformations.

      Intralesional bleomycin injections (sclerotherapy) are a common treatment option for vascular
      malformations of blood vessels and lymphatic vessels with a larger diameter (venous and
      lymphatic malformations). According to the literature, this treatment is effective in
      approximately 80-90% of patients. Unfortunately, the diameter of capillary blood vessels is
      too small, and therefore adequate localized injections of bleomycin are not possible in
      capillary malformations.

      'Electroporation' is a physical phenomenon that causes an alteration of the structure of cell
      membranes through the exposure of cells to a short but intense electric field; this
      modification of the cell membrane increases its permeability. After electroporation,
      molecules that normally do not cross the cell membrane, either by diffusion or by active
      transport, can reach the intracellular environment. Therefore, electroporation is an ideal
      method for localized drug delivery, in particular for localized bleomycin delivery.

      The combination of electroporation and bleomycin is already used in a variety of skin
      lesions, such as squamous cell carcinoma, with a surprisingly high rate of complete
      remission. Especially in vascular tumors, such as Kaposi sarcoma, there is an extremely high
      percentage of complete remission (90%), since the combination of bleomycin and
      electroporation causes a 'vascular lock' and intravascular thrombosis of tumor
      vascularization, leading to tumor regression.

      This phenomenon (intravascular thrombosis and lesion regression) is exactly the intended
      effect of capillary malformation treatment.

      The investigators therefore hypothesize that intralesional bleomycin injections combined with
      electroporation (electrosclerotherapy) can be an alternative treatment option for capillary
      malformations. This proof of principle study aims to explore the feasibility of this
      potential treatment option in a small patient sample.
    
  