
    
      Conducting studies on the possible association between CCBs and cancer using a
      pharmaco-epidemiological approach based on data collected in existing databases and cancer
      registries is challenging. The challenge lies in working within the limitations of the
      available data (in terms of quality and completeness) and simultaneously maximizing the value
      of the available data through thoughtful study design and statistical analysis.

      CCBs represent a chemically and pharmacologically diverse group of agents that are widely
      used for the treatment of hypertension and angina. It has been proposed that CCBs may
      interfere with apoptosis, leading to an increased potential for abnormal cell proliferation
      and tumor growth. The underlying biological mechanism for this effect is thought to be linked
      to the role of transmembrane Ca2+. This hypothesis has been critically reviewed and results
      have shown that the action of CCBs on apoptosis are complex with both increases and decreases
      in intracellular Ca2+ linked to this form of programmed cell death (2). CCBs have also been
      shown to inhibit apoptosis in certain non-transformed cell lines but promote apoptosis in
      other non-transformed and transformed cell lines. The results from non-human genotoxicity
      studies have shown no link between CCB use and tumor development

      Epidemiologic studies have also provided inconsistent results. While only a few follow-up
      analyses reported an increased risk for all cancer or breast cancer, further observational
      studies have so far provided no evidence to support the hypothesis that long-term use of CCBs
      might be carcinogenic. As a whole, these studies have been limited by lack of statistical
      power and/or inadequate methods for defining the exposure window of antihypertensive
      treatment in relation to the index date (cancer outcome), making the establishment of a
      causal relationship between CCBs use and risk of cancer problematical. Studies often assumed
      a relatively short period of CCB use (usually between 2 months and 1 year) before entering
      the study as users. In other cases, information on the use of CCBs was only available at
      study entry or during follow-up. Overall, most studies were limited by follow-up periods that
      could be considered too brief to measure a carcinogenic effect. The vast majority of studies
      collected information from electronic medical or administrative databases.

      The current study aims to learn from the experience, strengths and limitations of previous
      research to present a best-practice approach to addressing the hypothesis in question.
      Combined with the objectives of the PROTECT program, we hope that this study will help to
      provide a framework for guiding methodological choices in future research and contribute to
      increasing the usefulness and reliability of pharmacoepidemiological studies for benefit-risk
      assessment and decision making.
    
  