
    
      Aims and hypothesis:

      Recognizing the benefits and safety of the Mediterranean diet in CVD prevention, the
      investigators seek to develop behavioral change strategies in the fire service to modify the
      existing food culture based on key principles of the Mediterranean diet. Using education,
      participation and incentives, the investigators propose to motivate firefighters and their
      families to incorporate Mediterranean diet principles at work and home. The research design
      will allow us to measure the effectiveness of our Mediterranean Nutrition Interventions
      (MDNIs) in the "field settings" of the fire services for changing eating behavior and
      modifying CVD risk. Additionally, the cost-effectiveness of these strategies for future wider
      implementation will be examined. Specifics aims are:

        1. Develop a multi-pronged, MDNI behavior change strategies including: diet/lifestyle
           education; discounted access to key Mediterranean diet foods; electronic education
           platforms and reminders; and targeted incentives. MDNI components will be refined via
           surveys, literature review and local/national firefighter input including
           labor/management and fire service focus groups.

           Hypothesis (1). Cost-effective, fire-service MDNIs will be developed for the career
           randomized controlled trial (RCT).

        2. Cluster Randomized Diet Intervention-Phase I- the Indianapolis Fire Department (IFD) has
           over 1,000 members. All 45 IFD firehouses will be cluster randomized into two groups and
           then individual members will be consented regarding study participation. Group 1 will
           receive an active 12-month MDNI, while Group 2 will receive no intervention.

        3. Cluster Randomized Diet Intervention -Phase II: Group 1 will cross-over to
           "self-sustained continuation" for 12 months to examine persistence of behavior change
           during this less intense, self-directed maintenance diet intervention. Group 2 will
           cross-over to receive the MDNI for 6 months (assessing a shorter MDNI), followed by a
           final 6 months of self-sustained continuation. Our existing modified Mediterranean diet
           score (mMDS) will be further integrated with other validated scores and nutrition
           questionnaires. Questionnaires, mMDS and clinical data will be collected longitudinally
           throughout both phases of the RCT.

      Hypotheses (2-3). Both MDNI lengths will improve mMDS, reduce weight, and improve
      Cardiovascular Disease (CVD) risk profiles in career firefighters. The 12 month MDNI will
      produce greater persistence of adherence than a 6 month MDNI. Cost-effective methods that
      combine messaging and discounts for improving firefighters' diets will be developed and
      validated, and these low cost methods will be adaptable for widespread translation and
      implementation throughout the career fire service.

      Implementation by Fire Service:

      Our national surveys of career and volunteer firefighters demonstrate several common key
      facts. Firefighters would like more nutrition information from the fire service and want to
      learn more about healthy eating. Moreover, to succeed, the dietary approach must be
      acceptable to firefighters. The Mediterranean diet does not require completely giving up any
      food; and therefore, is easily adopted for long-term adherence. In our surveys, the
      Mediterranean diet had the greatest appeal among five proposed diet descriptions. In
      addition, the web-based tools, other educational materials and behavior change strategies
      proposed to develop will be low-cost and cost-effective. With the support of fire service
      partners, they should be practical for widespread implementation both on a local basis by
      individual fire departments and regionally/nationally by fire service organizations.

      Project/Statistical analyses:

      Data recording, storage, management, cleaning and basic analyses will be performed using
      SPSS. The data will be imported into Stata and SAS for more advanced statistical analyses
      such as multivariable regression and longitudinal data analysis, as needed. Differences in
      the mean values of a quantitative variable between two groups will be assessed using the
      independent t-test whereas differences in mean values among three or more groups will be
      examined using the analysis of variance (ANOVA) technique (or non-parametric Wilcoxon and
      Kruskal-Wallis tests, respectively, as appropriate). Differences in qualitative
      characteristics will be compared using the chi-square test, or Fisher's exact test, or
      McNemar's test (for paired comparisons), as appropriate. Statistical significance for all
      analyses will be p < 0.05, and all tests will be two-tailed.

      RCT: During the first 12 months of the RCT, groups 1 and 2 will be compared directly on an
      intention to treat basis according to the randomization of each subject's fire house. This
      type of analysis- disregarding the personal level of compliance or engagement of any
      particular participant- is most rigorous and appropriate because our primary interest is to
      test the effect of the behavior change strategies. As several outcomes will be assessed on
      each participant throughout the study (3 annual medical exams and 5 semi-annual assessments
      (where weight, mMDS, etc. will be evaluated)), repeated measures techniques, such as mixed
      modeling and generalized estimating equation models, will be utilized to estimate changes
      over time on key outcomes. The investigators will take into consideration the specific
      variance-covariance structure of correlated measurements. After adjusting for baseline and
      time-dependent covariates, changes in the outcomes of interest will be assessed and compared
      among groups. The investigators expect our greatest power to be for within-group changes
      (paired comparisons).

      For the RCT, sensitivity analyses have been performed and demonstrate that even in the worst
      case scenario where only 500 firefighters would be enrolled, the study is well-powered for
      intention to treat comparisons of MDNI vs usual care. Several conservative examples are given
      below for very small changes. However, consistent with previous studies, the investigators
      expect the MDNI to actually produce larger changes that would be more easily measured. The
      first example assumes the MDNI can achieve a small increase in the mMDS of 6 points (about
      1.0 times the population's baseline SD based on our cross-sectional study of mMDS).

      Barriers:

      Several potential barriers to successful completion of the MDNIs have been identified and
      taken specific steps to prevent and surmount these barriers. Some question whether
      firefighters will follow the diet at home as well as work. First, our preliminary work
      demonstrates that firefighters eat better at home than work. Second, our proposal recognizes
      the family's importance and has incorporated measures to educate and involve family members
      who share meals and may do much of the shopping and cooking. Another challenge is MDNI cost
      for sustainability and wider implementation. Therefore, an economist has been added to our
      team with expertise in food and nutrition to ensure that the interventions developed are low
      cost, cost-effective and sustainable. MDNIs are very most cost-effective measures from a
      societal perspective. An additional challenge identified in the career randomized trial is
      the potential movement of firefighters from one station to another during the study period.
      This is one of the reasons the investigators chose the Indianapolis fire department: 90% of
      members are permanently assigned to a fire house. Thus, there will be minimal loss/change of
      firefighters' intervention assignments over the course of the project. Finally, our current
      proposal facilitates the challenge of national implementation by directly addressing both the
      career and volunteer fire services.

      Human Subjects: Recruitment- Previously, the investigators have been very successful in
      participant recruitment for our FEMA-sponsored studies. For example, about 90% of IFD members
      approached have consented to our current FEMA cardiac imaging study. Additionally, the
      research proposal has been endorsed by significant fire service partners, which should
      increase trust and willingness to participate. The extent to which consented participants
      personally engage in the MDNIs is voluntary, and the additional time commitment required for
      the study is nominal- for the RCT: a weigh-in, blood pressure check, waist circumference
      measure and questionnaire completion every six months; and for the demonstration project only
      a web-based survey every six months. Moreover, our study designs are such that all
      firefighters who consent will receive the MDNI at some point and have an opportunity for
      health benefits. Therefore, no problems identifying and recruiting the necessary participants
      for the RCT and demonstration project are expected.

      Confidentiality and IRB:

      Any RCT data from the proposal transferred to Harvard is extracted in de-identified form
      without personal identifiers and is maintained in a confidential manner. PHI linkages to
      de-identified data are maintained in locked, safe locations at PSM's clinical facilities.
      Harvard researchers have access only to de-identified data ensuring that the research has a
      very low risk of breaching any confidentiality. For the demonstration project, consent forms
      and names will be linked to study codes to be used in all electronic data collection. The
      linkages to volunteer names will be maintained in a locked, safe location at Harvard. All
      electronic data will be restricted to authorized personnel and will be password protected.
      All protocols, questionnaires and procedures will be approved by Harvard's IRB and DHS before
      any participants are contacted/recruited.
    
  