
    
      Study Objectives and Hypotheses

      Primary Objective

      The primary objectives of this study are to understand the in vivo effects of dehydration on:

        1. Sympathetic neural control of cardiovascular function (MSNA), and

        2. Neuromuscular function (CAC) via the IT Test

      The primary hypotheses of this study are:

        1. Baseline MSNA, and MSNA responses to tilt, will be higher in response to extracellular
           dehydration due to larger intravascular volume losses and greater baroreceptor
           unloading.

        2. Neuromuscular function (CAC) via the IT Test will a) be more impaired by intracellular
           dehydration (cell stress) and b) CAC will show a greater performance reduction than CAR
           because it reduces the emphasis placed on the voluntary portion of performance (i.e.,
           MVC).

      Ancillary Questions/Sub Studies

        1. The collection of blood and urine before and after exercise-heat stress and dehydration
           provides an opportunity to measure and characterize cytokine and intestinal barrier
           integrity marker (I-FAB, claudin-3) responses (blood) and renal stress biomarkers
           (urine) in humans. This descriptive research 'sub-study' directly complements Task Area
           T10 (Hot Weather Operations and Hydration: Injury and Performance Optimization) near and
           mid-term research goals of identifying biomarkers of heat stress for protection against
           heat injury. There are no hypotheses associated with this sub-study.

        2. The study of dehydration requires rehydration for recovery. Rehydration provides an
           opportunity for a novel comparison of renal water retention (urine volume) when
           consuming equal volumes of two different commercial beverages (Gatorade® or
           Enterade-S®). Unlike Gatorade®, which is a carbohydrate-based beverage containing
           electrolytes, Enterade-S® is an amino acid-based beverage containing electrolytes. We
           hypothesize that the unique formulation of Enterade-S® will improve the rate of fluid
           absorption and fluid retention compared to Gatorade® in both intracellular and
           extracellular dehydration trials.
    
  