
    
      We previously characterized hemisphere-specific motor control deficits in the non-paretic arm
      of unilaterally lesioned stroke survivors. Our preliminary data indicate these deficits are
      substantial and functionally limiting in patients with severe paresis. We have specifically
      designed an intervention to remediate the hemisphere-specific deficits in the non-paretic
      arm, using a virtual-reality platform, and then follow this training with manipulation
      training of a variety of real objects, designed to facilitate generalization and transfer to
      functional behaviors encountered in the natural environment. We propose a 2-site, two-group
      randomized intervention with a treatment group, which will receive unilateral training of the
      non-paretic arm, through our Virtual Reality and Manipulation Training (VRMT) protocol. This
      intervention protocol is grounded in the premise that targeted remediation of fundamental
      control deficits exhibited by the non-paretic arm will generalize and transfer beyond
      practiced tasks to performance of activities of daily living (ADL). This approach contrasts
      with the more pragmatic approach of task-specific training of essential ADL's, which is
      limited in scope, more cumbersome, and ignores known fundamental motor control deficits. Our
      control group will receive conventional intervention, guided by recently released practice
      guidelines for upper limb intervention in adult stroke. The impact of the proposed research
      is that we address persistent functional performance deficits in chronic stroke patients with
      severe paresis, who's non-paretic arm impairments are generally ignored in most current
      rehabilitation protocols. Our first aim addresses the overall effectiveness of this
      intervention, relative to our control group: To determine whether non-paretic arm VRMT in
      chronic stroke survivors with severe paresis will produce durable improvements in non-paretic
      arm motor performance that will generalize to improve functional activities and functional
      independence to a greater extent than conventional therapy focused on the paretic arm. Our
      second aim focuses on the mechanistic basis of potential training-related improvements in
      motor performance: To determine whether intervention-induced improvements in non-paretic arm
      performance are associated with improvements in hemisphere-specific reaching kinematics.
      Finally, our third aim monitors for potential negative effects of our experimental
      intervention on paretic arm impairment.
    
  