
    
      The modern team-based approached to patient care often involves transitioning care between
      providers. Critical details may be lost during transition, or handovers, resulting in delays,
      inefficiencies, suboptimal care, or even patient harm. The Joint Commission on Hospital
      Accreditation declared that communication failures are the root cause of almost two-thirds of
      all sentinel events. The World Health Organization similarly listed "communication during
      patient care handover" as one of the highest patient safety initiatives. The consequence of
      ineffectual communication may be especially detrimental during surgery when patients are
      often unstable and post-handover decisions must be made quickly and accurately. In a
      preliminary study the investigators observed an 8% increase in odds of experiencing major
      in-hospital morbidity or mortality per for each intraoperative handover.

      Checklists have been used for transitions of care in a variety of areas; orthopedic trauma,
      urological robotic surgeries, and emergency departments. The field of anesthesia has also
      embraced the use of checklists, especially in the handover to intensive care units.
      Post-anesthesia checklists have been the particular focus of anesthesia providers in recent
      years. Post-operative checklists clearly enhance information transfer, but have only been
      evaluated using historical controls which do not account for bias. The anesthesia area most
      lacking valid studies is intraoperative handovers.

      Anesthesia-specific intraoperative handovers differ because the interaction is primarily
      between anesthesia providers while surgery continues without disruption. To date, there has
      only been one proposed checklist for intraoperative handovers between anesthesia providers
      and it has not been prospectively evaluated. A randomized study with contemporaneous
      controls, utilizing an anesthesia specific, electronically pre-populated checklist measuring
      objective "hard" outcomes will address the limitations of previous studies.

      The investigators propose to test the hypothesis that incorporating an electronic handover
      checklist during transitions of intraoperative anesthesia care reduces serious complications.
      Specifically, the investigators will quantify the effect of a handover checklist on adverse
      outcomes as defined by a composite of mortality and serious cardiovascular, respiratory,
      gastrointestinal, urinary, and infectious complications.
    
  