
    
      Recent evidences in immuno-oncology showed an important role of the immune system in tumor
      control. In fact, immune response, both innate and adaptive one, is the first defensive
      mechanism against cancer. However, several tumors, during their progression, develop an
      immune-tolerance characterized by the activation of immune inhibitory pathways including PD-1
      and PD-L1.

      The recent introduction of anti-PD-1 (nivolumab and pembrolizumab) and anti-PD-L1
      (atezolizumab, durvalumab, avelumab) immune checkpoint inhibitors revolutionized oncological
      guidelines.

      Currently, the aforementioned agents are approved for the treatment of advanced malignant
      melanoma; non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and the number of
      treatment indications for immune checkpoint inhibitors is expanding. Durable responses and
      prolongation of survival with these agents come at the price of the development of
      immune-related adverse events (irAEs).

      Immune-related adverse events are due to the loss of immune-tolerance towards structures of
      the self, with the induction of chronic inflammation with an autoimmune mechanism that can
      involve numerous organs and systems. The most frequent irAEs reported in clinical trials are
      represented by skin toxicity, gastrointestinal toxicity, endocrine toxicity, pulmonary
      toxicity, and others such as polymyalgia rheumatica, polyarthritis, myositis, nephritis,
      polyradiculoneuritis, encephalitis and myocarditis.

      The irAEs reported in clinical trials with nivolumab amount to a maximum of 85% considering
      all grade of toxicities, while approximately 75% of patients treated with pembrolizumab
      presented irAEs. Grade 3/4 irAEs were reported in 10% of patients treated with anti-PD-1.
      With atezolizumab fewer patients had treatment-related grade 3 or 4 adverse events (15%).

      In most cases, irAEs occur within some weeks after starting of immunotherapy; however these
      toxicities have been reported later and also years after treatment discontinuation. The
      development of irAEs is associated with significant morbidity and mortality in cancer
      patients treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors, and therefore they may significantly
      affect the quality of life, even in patients achieve the control of neoplastic disease.

      The overseeing, early diagnosis and clinical management of immune checkpoint inhibitors'
      toxicities in the clinical setting are, currently, not standardized.

      Innovative tools are required in order to manage irAEs and to prevent their potential
      relapse, with the goal to improve the outcome and quality of life of these patients.

      In this regard, the Investigators also aim to evaluate a model of multidisciplinary clinical
      pathway for cancer patients that are treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors in order to
      improve their management and also ameliorate the quality of life of patients that develop
      irAEs.
    
  