
    
      Given the absence of regulatory data related to the safety of repeated dosing, the European
      Medicines Agency has set a conservatively long 2-month "wash-out" period before
      administration of subsequent courses can be recommended. Unfortunately such a recommendation
      would make it impossible to implement effective mass drug administration with PPQ as this
      probably requires a maximum interval of one month between doses (in order to ensure that drug
      levels remain high enough to prevent infections occurring between doses). Therefore it is
      important that a formal evaluation is performed to regulatory standards that can conclusively
      document the safety of repeated monthly doses of PPQ. The extensive previous experience from
      monthly PPQ administration in China suggests that such a study would pose minimal risks to
      study participants.

      Various studies have looked at the potential of DHA/PPQ to cause prolongation of corrected QT
      interval (QTc) intervals in humans. In a study of 62 adults and children, in Cambodia,
      electrocardiographic (ECG) findings after DHA/PPQ treatment showed a lengthening of the mean
      QTc by 11 ms. In two randomized controlled trials in Thailand, the mean QTc prolongation of
      56 patients was 14 ms after the last dose of DHA/PPQ. The degree of QT prolongation observed
      in these studies was therefore similar to that seen with other anti-malarial drugs (including
      lumefantrine, and chloroquine) generally considered to have no cardiotoxicity in conventional
      dosing, and substantially less than with others such as halofantrine.and quinidine that have
      been associated with cardiotoxicity. Study-DM09-006 compared QTc data of healthy subjects
      that received DHA/PPQ with respective placebo groups and found maximum mean QT Fridericia's
      correction (QTcF) prolongation of 45.2 ms if co-administered with high fat, and 21.0 ms if
      fasting (EMEA/H/C/119). Of total of 96 participants given DHA/PPQ in the three studies
      mentioned above, no subjects showed QTc > 500ms post-treatment or prolongations (after- vs
      pre-dose) >60ms.

      The proposed project is a pharmacovigilance study for electrocardiographic safety evaluation
      of monthly DHA/PPQ (administered as a conventional 3-day course repeated monthly for 3
      months). The investigators aim to assess the safety of the drug to be used monthly in mass
      treatment campaigns.
    
  