
    
      This study is a prospective randomized controlled study; which will include all patients who
      will undergo Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy reconstruction during the period from 9-2017 to
      12-2019.

      * Methodology:

      Patients will be randomized into three groups according to the surgical procedure performed
      as follows:

        -  Group A: Patients undergoing modified hepaticojejunostomy with gastric access loop

        -  Group B: Patients undergoing modified hepaticojejunostomy with subcutaneous access loop

        -  Group C: Patients undergoing standard hepaticojejunostomy with no endoscopic access loop

             -  Pre-operative preparation:

      For all patients, full medical history, clinical examination, laboratory investigations in
      the form of complete blood count (CBC), prothrombin time and concentration (PTT), liver
      function tests (LFT) and kidney function tests (KFT) will be performed.

      Imaging studies will also be carried out in the form of abdominal ultrasonography (US),
      computerized tomography scan (CT) of the abdomen and magnetic resonance cholangiography (MRC)
      if indicated.

      ERCP will be performed, whenever applicable, whether for diagnosis or therapeutic trial.

      * Surgical Technique:

      For gastric access loop:

        -  Surgical technique: under general intubation anesthesia, a generous right subcostal
           incision is performed and could be extended on demand upward to the xiphoid process
           and/or to the left subcostal area. Thorough dissection and adhesiolysis is performed to
           reach the CBD and prepare the unaffected proximal part for anastomosis. The Roux jejunal
           loop is prepared and passed retrocolic to reach the porta hepatis.

        -  Then, the hepaticojejunostomy is done via end to side anastomosis using interrupted
           sutures of polyglactin of 3-0 or 4-0 size. The anastomosis is done 10-15 cm away from
           the free distal end of the Roux jejunum loop to allow anastomosis without tension to the
           stomach. A biliary stent may be optionally placed according to operative circumstances
           and is brought out through the anterior abdominal wall.

        -  The end of the Roux jejunal loop taken up for hepaticojejunostomy is not closed but is
           anastomosed to the anterior wall of the gastric antrum near the pyloric orifice.

        -  All the enterogastrostomies and enteroenterostomies were in the form of single-layer
           continuous sutures of polyglactin of 3-0 size. An intraperitoneal drain was left in the
           hepatorenal pouch before closing the incision.

      For subcutaneous access loop:

      In the subcutaneous access loop, the same steps are done for performing roux-en-Y
      hepaticojejunostomy.

      The closed free end of roux loop is passed through the anterior abdominal wall in the right
      subcostal area and then fixed to the wall in a subcutaneous position using 3/0 polyglactin
      sutures. The limb between the hepaticojejunal anastomosis and the subcutaneous fixation
      should be short and straight.

      Four Ligaclips are used to mark the jejunal loop by clipping the sutures holding the access
      loop in place.
    
  