
    
      This study is open, prospective study, multi-center, randomized controlled trial, unobtrusive
      research. This study is start on June 1 2020. And will include 400 patients who have just
      undergone PCI and 300 CABG patients who diagnosis of stable coronary artery disease. And
      random allocation 350 experimental group (Non-invasive Wearable Device) and 350 control group
      (routine medical).

      Ask whether the patients who meet the exclusion criteria are willing to participate in the
      screening (Screening), if they are willing to join and sign the consent of the subject, and
      after the patient's condition is stable, conduct an electrocardiogram (V0) before discharge
      from the hospital. On day 7 (±2 weeks), day 84 (±4 weeks), 168 days (±4 weeks), 252 days (±4
      weeks), 336 days (±8 weeks) during routine clinical referral (V1-V5) Both are done once. The
      results of these two tests and other basic information of the patient, including Demography,
      Vital Signs, High, Weight, Medication, and European and Taiwan Cardiology Association
      recommended routine test results of high-risk patients, including Blood Chemistry Panel,
      NT-proBNP, Echocardiography, Myocardial Perfusion Scan, etc., will record the information of
      the logged-in subjects on the paper case report form. The CRF only displays the study number,
      and no subject is available. In addition to the examination of each return visit, the
      subjects also took the ECG bracelet home at the time of discharge (V0) and wore it every day.
      After the discharge, the ECG was measured every morning and evening, and their personal
      activity and sleep were collected. Relevant information. After the subject was discharged
      from the hospital, the subject tracked the date of all adverse events due to cardiovascular
      disease within one year, including: heart failure, restenosis due to blood vessel, and
      non-fatal myocardial infarction , To do blood vessel-related surgery again, and data on the
      occurrence of death.
    
  