
    
      For this study, the investigators want to treat adolescents with concurrent disorders.
      Eligible subjects will be invited to participate in the combined intervention described in
      detail below.

      In order to determine eligibility, designated research staff will conduct a phone screen
      interview with interested youth (ages 14 - 18). Candidates will be asked questions about
      their current mental health and substance use status. Based on the information obtained in
      this interview, those youth who report co-occurring mental health and substance use problems
      will be asked to complete three internet-based self-report questionnaires using a designated
      link and unique identification numbers. Once the information from this assessment is
      collected and scored by research personnel, those candidates who meet the criteria for this
      study will be asked to participate in the remaining portion of the study. These subjects will
      be required to meet with the research assistant in person to complete a computer-based
      self-administered structured diagnostic interview and self-report questionnaires.

      If eligible and interested, subjects will be asked to meet with a therapist for one
      individual session of MI. These sessions will assess subjects' readiness to engage in
      treatment, and help identify treatment goals and any barriers that may make treatment
      difficult.

      After these sessions, subjects will be invited to attend a DBT-focused orientation prior to
      joining the 12-week skills group. The investigators expect to have approximately 8 youth in
      each group and each session will run for 2 hours, weekly. The purpose of these group sessions
      is to learn skills that will help subjects cope in healthier ways. The following skills will
      be taught: (1) interpersonal effectiveness; (2) emotion regulation; (3) distress tolerance:
      and (4) mindfulness. The use of skills will be geared to addressing substance use problems
      and other mental health issues (e.g. anxiety, depression, self-harm, etc.).

      Participants will be asked to complete questionnaires at the following time-points:
      screening, baseline, post-MI (2 weeks), mid-DBT (8 weeks), post-DBT (14 weeks), and at 14
      weeks follow-up. Participants will be offered financial compensation upon completion of each
      assessment package.
    
  