
    
      1. BACKGROUND JIA includes all chronic arthritis of unknown cause starting before the age
           of 16. JIA is the most common rheumatic disease of childhood, affecting approximately 1
           in 1,000 Canadian children. Despite trends to more favorable outcomes, JIA continues to
           have disabling sequelae that reduce mobility, quality of life and future productivity,
           affecting the child, their families and society as a whole. After a diagnosis of JIA,
           families have many questions about the prognosis of their child, treatments that may be
           required and their potential side-effects. Despite numerous studies, our ability to
           answer these questions remains limited.

           International League of Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR) criteria classify children
           with JIA into seven categories based on clinical manifestations and laboratory tests.
           Current practice recommendations propose use of medications tailored according to JIA
           category or according to treatment groups defined by number of joints affected and
           features of poor prognosis. In general, initial treatment with intraarticular
           corticosteroids and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is recommended for JIA
           affecting a few joints; while methotrexate and biologic agents are recommended when many
           joints are affected and for children with features of poor prognosis.

           CAPRI is the collaborative network of all pediatric rheumatology investigators across
           Canada, with an outstanding track record of successful collaboration in a number of
           research projects. Since 2005 CAPRI investigators have worked on a project called
           ReACCH-Out, a team grant funded by the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR) to
           study the impact of arthritis on Canadian children. CAPRI developed a robust web-based
           longitudinal data base and enrolled 1,500 newly diagnosed children with JIA during a
           five year period. This study has resulted in one of the largest longitudinal JIA cohorts
           in the world and six published scientific manuscripts to date. Most importantly it has
           provided essential new answers about disease presentation and short to medium-term
           prognosis. The initial study was leveraged into two subsequent studies also funded by
           CIHR: Biologically Based Outcomes Predictors in JIA (BBOP) and Linking Exercise,
           Activity, and Pathophysiology in Canadian children with Arthritis (LEAP).

           Continuation of this effort with a new registry can illuminate longer term prognosis for
           JIA patients. The rapidly changing landscape of available therapies necessitates
           maintenance and extension of the registry to elucidate the changing prognosis in
           different therapeutic eras, and to enable contemporary prognostic counseling to new
           patients and their families.

           In April 2015, The Arthritis Society provided an infrastructure award to continue,
           expand and strengthen a harmonized Canadian registry of patients with JIA, to support
           pediatric rheumatology research. This award has been enriched with other sources to
           include assessment of medication adverse events, thus providing the funding that will be
           used for this CAPRI national JIA registry.

        2. GOALS AND PRINCIPLES

      The goal of the CAPRI JIA registry is to prospectively collect information on disease course,
      outcomes and medication adverse events among Canadian children with JIA. The registry will:

        1. Provide answers about the expected disease outcomes and the risks of medication adverse
           events for patients and care providers.

        2. Contribute to new insights about JIA and its treatment through yearly updates of
           registry findings and publication of scientific papers.

        3. Allow Canadian researchers to answer their own research questions about JIA.

        4. Allow comparison of JIA outcomes and treatments across Canada and with other
           jurisdictions, in support of quality improvement initiatives.

      The registry will operate following five principles:

      Universal: all children newly diagnosed with JIA across Canada will be eligible.

      Simple: the registry will require minimum training and time to collect information.

      High-Quality: the registry will emphasize quality over quantity of data and the quality of
      data will be continually monitored.

      Clinician-centered: the registry will ensure that physicians who follow children with JIA are
      engaged and see value from their contribution to the registry.

      Linkable: the registry will make provisions for future linkages to existing research and
      healthcare cohorts, to Statistics Canada data and to other databases.

      3. METHODS

      3.1 Registry oversight

      The registry will be managed through CAPRI. A registry committee of CAPRI has been
      established, with the following responsibilities:

        1. Oversight of all registry functions.

        2. Report to CAPRI executive.

        3. Supervision of the registry coordinator.

      The registry committee consists of CAPRI members who volunteer for a 2-year renewable term.
      The group has elected a chair (Dr. Jaime Guzman) who will be the direct contact for the
      registry coordinator, organize teleconferences and provide reports to the chair of CAPRI. The
      registry committee chair will sit on the CAPRI executive committee.

      Funding from registry sponsors will come to a central registry account. The registry
      committee and its chair will be responsible for fund payments, as per agreed CAPRI budget.
      Financial accounting will be managed by the registry coordinator.

      The registry will be subject to the following reporting processes:

        1. Annual report to registry sponsors including budget use and progress.

        2. Bi-annual report to the CAPRI membership on progress, registry statistics, and budget. A
           copy of the bi-annual report will be sent to registry sponsors.

        3. Annual research output report after the first year of registry operations.

        4. Annual update on registry findings to be shared with families and care providers.

      3.2 Set up of registry centres All CAPRI centres and pediatric rheumatology practices in
      Canada are eligible to participate in the registry. Participating sites will designate a
      registry site director for communication and management purposes. Each site will be
      responsible for patient enrollment, data entry, and maintenance of appropriate registry
      records for their site. The registry site director will manage their own site budget, and be
      required to provide annual budget records.

      The registry coordinator will assist each registry site in completing the following steps
      necessary for set up:

        1. Submission of registry protocol for ethics review by the local ethics board and
           amendments as needed

        2. Deciding on the logistics of patient recruitment and registration that best fit with the
           centre current practices and processes.

        3. Deciding on the logistics of data collection that best fit their local practices and
           processes, including timelines for data submission and locking of the data.

        4. Review and agree on the processes for data quality monitoring.

      3.3 Patient recruitment and registration At the medical visit where a new diagnosis of JIA is
      made, the pediatric rheumatologist making the diagnosis will introduce the registry to the
      patient. The registry site director or delegate will then provide the family with full
      information about the registry and ask for their written consent. ReACCh-Out and LEAP
      participants will be asked to re-consent for the registry at their first regular visit.

      Registration includes three steps:

        1. Review and signing of the consent form

        2. Assignment of a unique registry identification number by an automated online system

        3. Collection of initial registry data as described below

      3.4 Data collection The registry will collect data from the pediatric rheumatologist caring
      for the child, and from the child and the child's parent or guardian. Data will be collected
      from the physician and families at registration followed by a minimum set of data at every
      subsequent clinic visit. Additional data once yearly at a visit close to the anniversary of
      the diagnosis will be collected from families. All data will be collected at clinic visits
      and there will be no visits booked specifically for registry purposes.

      The primary method of data collection from physicians will be direct entry online using a
      secure web site located at a Canadian academic centre, via computer or smart phone. The
      secondary method of data collection will be in paper forms for physicians who prefer that
      method. Data in paper forms will then be entered online by research assistants.

      The primary method of data collection from families will be in paper forms. The answers will
      be verified by research assistants and then entered online. The secondary method of data
      collection will be direct entry online for centres where existing infrastructure allows for
      direct entry by families at the time of the visit.

      3.5 Protection of privacy and confidentiality All data collected will be handled in
      accordance with federal and provincial personal information legislation. Information that
      would allow identification of a child, such as name, date of birth and address will only be
      collected in the consent form. This information will be separate from registry information
      and will not be available in any online system. All subsequent data collection will have no
      personal identifying information, only the registry identification number.

      The de-identified registry information will be stored online in a dedicated RedCap server at
      a Canadian academic centre that complies with all encryption and audit regulatory
      requirements. As this is an ongoing registry de-identified electronic records will be kept
      indefinitely in the secure servers. There is a possibility in the future to have
      international collaborations to help with data analysis. In this case, data sent outside of
      Canada will not contain any personal identifying information and will be strictly
      de-identified.

      Any de-identified paper records used during the process of entering information in the
      registry will be kept under locked storage for ten years and then destroyed. They are to be
      used in case of need for confirmation of the veracity of the data for scientific publication
      purposes.

      3.6 Data quality monitoring

      The continuous monitoring of data quality is an essential function of the registry and the
      major responsibility of the registry coordinator. The registry committee and its chair bear
      final accountability for the quality of the data entered in the registry. The following four
      complementary methods will ensure the data contained in the registry is complete and of the
      highest possible quality:

        1. Quality control during data entry: Defines the automatic quality controls set up as part
           of data entry for each questionnaire or form.

        2. Daily quality control by registry coordinator: Defines the daily activities of the
           registry coordinator to monitor data quality and actions to follow through on issues
           identified.

        3. Quality control at periodic centre audits: Defines indications for quality audits, their
           periodicity and how their results are assessed and followed through.

        4. Monthly update on quality control to registry chair: defines the components of the
           monthly quality update, how it is prepared and how it is assessed by the chair.

      3.7 Access to data To assist healthcare provision: Patients and their physicians will have
      access to their data to obtain estimates of expected outcomes and risks of side effects based
      on analyses of registry data.

      To answer research questions: CAPRI and non-researchers may request access to registry data
      to answer research questions.

      To assist planning and program development: Healthcare organizations, registry sponsors,
      health authorities and ministries of health services, may request access to summary
      statistics or de-identified group data for use in knowledge translation activities or to
      assist in their planning of programs and delivery of care.
    
  