
    
      Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a major comorbid psychiatric disorder in
      children with Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) that significantly undermines behavioral,
      social, and emotional adjustment. Although the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
      Disorders (DSM-IV) does not specifically allow for a comorbid diagnosis of ADHD with ASD,
      many children with an ASD manifest symptoms of ADHD and are treated for it with stimulants or
      other medication. The few studies on ADHD in ASD have not consistently established its
      cognitive and behavioral manifestations, or the optimal parameters for treatment. The
      proposed project will address these issues through studies of cognitive and behavioral
      functioning in children with ASD, with and without ADHD, and through a study of medication
      treatment of ADHD symptoms in autism.

      Participants between the ages of 7 to 12 with an autism spectrum disorder participated in the
      initial phase of the study to examine the nature and effects of ADHD symptoms on behavioral
      and cognitive functioning. Participants underwent an initial psychological testing session
      that included standardized measures of intellectual, adaptive behavior, language, behavioral,
      and emotional functioning, along with standardized diagnostic measures to confirm their
      diagnoses of ASD and/or ADHD (Visit 1). Children with intelligence quotients (IQs) below 50
      or greater than 130 or with major sensory, motor, neurological, genetic, or psychiatric
      disorders that may interfere with testing were be excluded. The participants who meet
      eligibility criteria completed computerized tasks of attentional functioning in a second
      visit (Visit 2).

      A subset of the children meeting criteria for the ASD/ADHD group (N=24) participated in a
      six-week randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment trial using various doses
      (low, medium, or high dose) of methylphenidate (MPH). Children participated in the treatment
      trial will be those who qualified based on the initial phase and who do not have any physical
      contraindications to MPH (e.g., history of MPH intolerance). In each week of the treatment
      trial, the children took one of the three doses of MPH or a placebo. At the end of each week
      the child were evaluated in the clinic by including a medical check-up, parent interviews
      about the child's behavior and functioning that week, and computerized cognitive testing.
      Additionally, the child's parent and teacher completed questionnaires about the child's
      behavior each week, so that the child's home and school behaviors at each MPH dose could be
      assessed.
    
  