
    
      No premedication was given. The temperature of the operating room was maintained at 22˚ C.
      Patients were positioned supine with 15° left lateral tilt achieved using a wedge under the
      right buttock. Electrocardiograph(ECG), pulse oxygen saturation (SpO2), systolic blood
      pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate
      (HR) were monitored by one anesthesiologist (S/5 Anesthesia Monitor, GE Healthcare, Helsinki,
      Finland). Peripheral vein catheterization on the right hand was then performed, but no
      prehydration was given. A fixed volume of 500 ml hydroxyethyl starch solution was infused at
      the rate of 0.2 ml•kg-1•min-1, then Lactated Ringer's solution was infused at the same rate
      to the end of surgery. Combined spinal-epidural anesthesia was administered with patients in
      the left lateral position at the L3-4 vertebral interspace. A 16-gauge Tuohy needle was
      placed in the epidural space using loss of resistance to saline, then a 25-gauge Whitacre
      spinal needle was inserted through the Tuohy needle until the dura mater was punctured. Once
      free flow of clear cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was observed in the spinal needle, 10 mg (2 mL)
      of isobaric bupivacaine 0.5% was diluted with CSF to 2.5 mL, then injected over 15-30 s.
      After placement and fixation of an epidural catheter, the patients were positioned supine
      with 15° left lateral tilt, and oxygen was given via nasal catheter at 2L.min-1. The sensory
      block level to cold was monitored every three minutes (1, 4, 7 and 10 min) with alcohol swabs
      and was recorded at the time point of 10 min. Hypotension was defined as SBP lower than 80%
      of the baseline value, and was treated with intravenous phenylephrine 100 µg as required.
      Intravenous atropine 0.3 mg was given for severe sinus bradycardia (HR < 50 beats/min).
      Surgery was allowed to start after the sensory block reached the T6 level; if this level was
      not achieved, patients were excluded from the study. For patients with inadequate sensory
      block, 1.5% lidocaine was given through the epidural catheter.

      Four groups were divided based on surgical types and postoperative analgesia regimens, with
      20 cases in each group: primary cesarean section + postoperative analgesia with sufentanil
      plus flurbiprofen axetil group(Group SF1), primary cesarean section+postoperative analgesia
      with sufentanil group (Group S1), repeated cesarean Section + postoperative analgesia with
      sufentanil plus flurbiprofen axetil group(Group SF2), and repeated cesarean section+
      postoperative analgesia with sufentanil group(Group S2). Analgesia regimen: PCIA,100 ml;
      sufentanil 100 ug, ramosetron 0.3 mg, flurbiprofen axetil 100 mg (varied in groups);
      backgroup dosage 2 ml/h, PCA 2 ml each time, lock time 20 min. The scores of incision pain
      and uterine contraction pain 24 h, 48 h and 72 h after operation and the dose and pumping
      times of analgesia pump 24 h after operation were recorded.
    
  