
    
      In recent decades, treatment of neurogenic detrusor overactivity (NDO) with
      onabotulinumtoxinA has emerged as an alternative method for the management of urological
      complications due to spinal cord injury (SCI) or multiple sclerosis. Injection of 200-300 U
      of onabotulinumtoxinA into the detrusor muscle can reduce contractility, improve bladder
      compliance, and restore urinary continence in patients with NDO. However, detrusor
      underactivity will develop after injection of 300 U of onabotulinumtoxinA and improvement of
      urodynamic and quality of life parameters lasted 9 months. Currently, a 200 U single
      injection of onabotulinumtoxinA into the detrusor has been recommended as standard treatment
      for NDO. However, the therapeutic duration of this dosage on NDO was shorter than that of a
      300 U injection.

      OnabotulinumtoxinA effectively improves lower urinary tract symptoms by inhibiting signal
      transmission at the neuromuscular and neuroglandular junctions. OnabotulinumtoxinA cleaves
      synaptosome-associated protein 25 and inhibits signal transmission by disrupting fusion of
      neurotransmitter- containing vesicles with the neuronal wall. In the urinary bladder, release
      of acetylcholine from both pre- and postganglionic parasympathetic nerves is blocked after
      onabotulinumtoxinA administration. This toxin was also found to modulate afferent activity of
      the bladder associated with reduced urgency and urgency urinary incontinence symptoms in NDO
      patients. Although the impact of onabotulinumtoxinA on the sympathetic nervous system within
      the urinary bladder is unclear, it has an inhibitory effect on release of norepinephrine to
      α- and β3-adrenoreceptors (β3-ARs) which regulate bladder neck contraction and detrusor
      relaxation, respectively.

      A previous study reported decreased expression of adhesion and junction proteins E-cadherin
      and zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1), respectively, and increased suburothelial inflammation with
      apoptosis in patients with chronic SCI bladders.The urothelial inflammation and dysfunction
      in SCI bladders might also alter sensory protein expression, such as in purinergic receptor
      P2X3, transient receptor potential vallinoid receptor subfamily 1, adenosine triphosphate,
      and nitric oxide. Urothelial dysfunction might also result in increased excitability of the
      C-fibers which become predominantly afferent nerves of the micturition reflex after SCI. In
      humans with NDO, the levels of bladder P2X2, P2X3, and muscarinic receptors M2 and M3 were
      reduced after detrusor onabotulinumtoxinA injection, suggesting this toxin inhibits DO by
      inhibiting both the sensory and motor arms of the micturition reflex. In addition, β3-ARs are
      known to promote urine storage in the bladder by inducing detrusor relaxation in animal and
      human bladders. In humans, β3-AR is the predominant β-receptor subtype in the urinary
      bladder. There has been no report on β3-AR changes in SCI bladder urothelium before or after
      onabotulinumtoxin treatment.

      After onabotulinumtoxinA injection, patients may be symptom-free for a period of 3-6 months
      before symptoms relapse. Most studies of onabotulinumtoxinA on NDO come from animal models,
      and only a few human studies have been noted. The current study investigated changes in
      urothelial dysfunction and sensory protein expression in the bladder urothelium with time
      after a single onabotulinumtoxin injection in SCI patients.

      Materials and Methods

      A total of 26 patients with chronic SCI causing NDO and urinary incontinence were treated
      with a single injection of 200 U onabotulinumtoxinA to the detrusor muscle. All patients
      presented with urinary incontinence with or without difficult bladder emptying. In patients
      who received detrusor injections, clean intermittent catheterization was suggested as a
      possible mode of urinary management after treatment. The current study was approved by the
      Institutional Review Board and Ethics Committee of Buddhist Tzu Chi General Hospital
      (IRB:098-53). Each patient was informed about the study rationale and procedures, and written
      informed consent to participate was obtained before any bladder procedure.

      Video urodynamic studies

      All patients received a video urodynamic study (VUDS) before their enrollment. Bladder and
      urethral dysfunction were classified as the presence of DO with coordinated or dyssynergic
      urethral sphincter activity. Patients with urinary tract infection were properly treated
      before they were scheduled for onabotulinumtoxinA injection. VUDS results were interpreted
      according to the recommendations of the International Continence Society. VUDS parameters
      included maximum flow rate (Qmax), detrusor voiding pressure at Qmax (Pdet), cystometric
      bladder capacity (CBC), voided volume (Vol), and post-void residual (PVR) volume.

      OnabotulinumtoxinA injection

      All patients received 200 U of onabotulinumtoxinA in 20 mL normal saline (BOTOX®, 100 U/vial,
      Allergan Inc., Irvine, USA) in the operation room by rigid cytoscopic injection (22 Fr,
      Richard Wolf, Knittlingen, Germany) into 40 sites of the bladder wall, sparing the
      trigoneAfter injection, a urethral Foley catheter was routinely inserted and removed the next
      morning before patients were discharged. Broad spectrum antibiotics were prescribed for 3 d
      after treatment.

      After onabotulinumtoxinA injection, four bladder cold-cup biopsies were taken randomly at the
      posterior wall about 2 cm above the interureteric ridge, and only the bladder mucosa and
      submucosa were taken to prevent bladder perforation; any erythematous or inflammatory bladder
      mucosa were avoided. One bladder biopsy specimen from each patient was sent to the pathology
      department to exclude the possibility of carcinoma in situ. The remaining three specimens
      from each patient were stored at optimum cutting temperature and in liquid nitrogen for
      further immunohistochemistry studies.

      Patient follow-up and outcome assessment

      Patients were followed up at OPD monthly, and VUDS and assessment of bladder and voiding
      conditions and satisfaction with treatment were performed 3 and 6 months after treatment. If
      the CBC increased by 50% from the baseline value, the treatment outcome was considered
      successful; otherwise, the outcome was considered a failure at that time-point. Ten female
      patients with stress-related urinary incontinence without frequent urgency served as
      controls. All control patients were confirmed free of bladder outlet obstruction or DO by
      VUDS. Control bladder tissue was obtained during anti-incontinence surgery and processed the
      same as SCI patients. Male patients were not selected to serve as controls because the
      prostate could cause bladder outlet obstruction and affect urothelial function.

      Immunofluorescence

      Bladder tissue samples from SCI patients and controls were examined for changes in urothelial
      E-cadherin (adhesive protein), ZO-1 (junction protein), and mast cell activation (tryptase)
      levels by immunofluorescence; cellular apoptosis was examined by terminal deoxynucleotidyl
      transferase dUTP nick end-labeling assay. These procedures were performed similar to those in
      our previous study, with 6-μm thickness tissue sections. Urinary bladder specimens were
      immersed and fixed for 1 h in ice-cold 4% formaldehyde in phosphate-buffered saline (pH 7.4)
      then rinsed with ice-cold phosphate-buffered saline containing 15% sucrose for 12 h. Biopsy
      specimens were embedded in optimum cutting temperature medium and stored at -80 °C. Four
      sections per specimen were cut using a cryostat at a thickness of 8 μm and collected on new
      silane III-coated glass slides (Muto Pure Chemicals Co., Ltd, Tokyo, Japan). Sections were
      postfixed in acetone at -20 °C and blocked with rabbit serum. The sections were incubated
      overnight at 4 °C with antihuman E-cadherin (BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA, USA) or tryptase
      (Chemicon, Temecula, CA, USA) primary antibodies. After rinsing the sections with 0.1%
      Tween-20 in BPS, rabbit antimouse-conjugated fluorescein isothiocyanate secondary antibodies
      (DakoCytomation Denmark A/S, Glostrup, Denmark) were applied and incubated on sections for 1
      h. Finally, sections were counterstained with 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (Sigma Chemical
      Co., St. Louis, MO, USA). Negative controls included the isotype of the primary antibody. We
      obtained the mean, maximum, range, and standard deviation of the staining intensity and
      percent positive area measurements using three random hot spots within each specimen.

      Immunofluorescence quantification was determined in four consecutive high-power fields (400X)
      in the area with the greatest density. Immunofluorescence (tryptase and terminal
      deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end-labeling) assays were quantified by counting the
      number of positively stained cells per unit area (4 μm2) and are shown as percentages. The
      intensity of E-cadherin (ﬂuorescence microscopy) and ZO-1 (confocal microscopy) fluorescence
      was quantified using Image J.

      Western blotting was used to assess the levels of sensory proteins in bladder mucosa
      specimens. Primary antibodies included P2X3 (1:2000), endothelial nitric oxide synthase
      [eNOS] (1:1000), M2 (1:1000), M3 (1:500), and GAPDH (1:100000; internal control) from GeneTex
      (Irvine, CA, USA); inducible NOS [iNOS] (1:1500; ThermoFisher, Rockford, IL, USA); and β3-AR
      (1:1000; Abcam, Cambridge, UK). Donkey antigoat (for β3-AR) or goat antirabbit (for all other
      proteins) IgG-horseradish peroxidase (1:3000; Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Dallas, TX, USA)
      secondary antibodies were used. The scanned ﬁlm after gel electrophoresis was quantiﬁed using
      a gel documentation system (Quantity One Version 4.6.2, Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hemel
      Hempstead, Herts, UK). Procedures were similar to those described in our previous study.

      Statistical Analysis

      Continuous variables were presented as means ± standard deviations, and categorical data were
      presented as numbers and percentages. Eligible SCI patients were grouped according to
      treatment outcome and compared with controls. Differences in the levels of functional
      proteins in the urothelium at baseline and 3 and 6 months after onabotulinumtoxinA injection
      were analyzed using a paired Student's t-test. Differences in immunofluorescence and Western
      blot of sensory proteins between successful and failed treatment groups were analyzed using
      the Kruskal-Wallis test. In order to clarify the roles of urothelial sensory proteins in NDO,
      correlation analysis using linear regression was also performed, including VUDS and
      urothelial dysfunction parameters. All calculations were done using SPSS for Windows version
      16.0 (SPSS, Chicago, IL, USA). Differences were considered statistically significant if P
      values were less than 0.05.
    
  