
    
      The main objective of the proposed study is to evaluate the therapeutic effect of multi-site
      repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) on chronic pain and inflammatory
      responses in Major Depressive Disorder (MDD). MDD is the leading cause of disability
      worldwide. One reason for the extraordinarily high burden of depression is painful somatic
      symptoms: more than half of MDD patients complain of moderate to severe pain that is
      associated with interference in function and unemployment and which can lead to opioid use
      disorder. The neuro-immune interaction is increasingly understood as the underlying mechanism
      of this comorbidity. Sustained psychosocial stress can cause a lasting increase in systemic
      inflammation, which may be a key mediator of chronic pain and depression. Pro-inflammatory
      cytokines have been linked to the dysregulation of signaling in the mesocorticolimbic system
      and affect-related circuits present in both chronic pain and depression. Meta-analyses have
      identified higher CRP, IL6, and TNFa among depressed patients. Additionally, CRP was found to
      be increasingly higher with higher number failed treatment trials, suggesting that treatment
      resistant depression (TRD) patients who qualify for rTMS tend to have higher inflammation
      than those who respond to pharmacological antidepressant treatment [6]. Further, baseline
      levels of transcriptional control pathways (TCP) related to immune or sympathetic activation
      and glucocorticoid insensitivity mediate experimentally induced depressed mood. Even though
      the inflammatory reaction may originate in the periphery, downstream effects can result in
      neuroinflammation and changes in neural network function through several immune-to-brain
      signaling pathways. Previous research has shown that functional connectivity between DLPFC
      and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) also mediates neuroinflammation levels in ACC, and which
      was linked to depressive scores in chronic pain patients [8]. rTMS to the left dorsolateral
      prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) is a non-invasive neuromodulation technique that has proven
      clinical efficacy for MDD and rTMS to primary motor cortex (M1) has been demonstrated to
      reduce chronic pain, including fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain, headache and regional pain].

      Based on these findings, the investigators hypothesize that combined rTMS to depression and
      pain targets will reduce both depressive and pain symptoms and will also result in an
      effective reduction of systemic inflammation. The proposed research will examine the effects
      of 30 neuro-navigated sessions of active vs. sham rTMS using four conditions: A) active rTMS
      at DLPFC and sham at M1; B) active rTMS at M1 and sham at DLPFC; C) active rTMS at DLPFC and
      M1; D) sham rTMS at DLPFC and M1. This design will help to dissociate the impact of an
      antidepressant response on pain reduction (condition A), the analgesic effect on depressive
      symptoms (condition B), or whether the combined treatment (condition C) will result in a
      synergetic effect. The investigators will focus on pain types related to inflammation
      including fibromyalgia (FM) and ME/CFS, whose symptomatic profiles are closely overlapping
      with those of MDD and may thus preferentially respond to rTMS.

      The investigators will combine the analysis of circulating pro-inflammatory cytokines with
      transcriptomic analyses, which may be even more sensitive to short-term changes. Functional
      magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and electroencephalography (EEG) data will be used to
      assess biomarkers and mechanisms of action (MOA) of successful rTMS treatment for pain. The
      conceptualization of pain treatment in MDD at the brain network and systemic levels makes
      this study a highly innovative approach to neuropsychiatric research.
    
  