
    
      ECP uses ultraviolet A radiation to treat lymphocytes. Although the exact reason why ECP may
      be beneficial is not completely understood, researchers believe that the lymphocytes treated
      this way are less likely to continue causing GVHD.

      In this study, researchers want to evaluate whether adding another treatment to standard
      therapy with corticosteroids, in this case ECP, will improve the response to therapy,
      duration of therapy, and survival. After the diagnosis of acute GVHD, you will be randomly
      selected (at the toss of a coin) to be in one of 2 treatment groups. One group will receive
      treatment with corticosteroids (like methylprednisolone or prednisone) alone, and the other
      will receive ECP treatments in addition to the corticosteroids. ECP treatments are explained
      below.

      In order to have ECP, you will need a special central venous catheter similar to the one you
      have now. A central venous catheter is a sterile flexible tube that will be placed into a
      large vein while you are under local anesthesia. Your physician will explain this procedure
      to you in more detail, and you will be required to sign a separate consent form for this
      procedure.

      Blood is drawn by a machine called "photopheresis machine". This blood goes into a bowl
      inside the machine, where it is spun and separated into white cells (called buffy coat), red
      cells, and platelets. The red cells and platelets are promptly returned to you, while the
      white cells in the buffy coat undergo the process of ECP. The buffy coat will come out of the
      bowl and will be mixed with a substance called methoxsalen, that will make lymphocytes more
      sensitive to the effects of light. After mixing with methoxsalen, the buffy coat goes in to
      chamber where it is exposed to ultraviolet A radiation, and from there back to you. This
      process is done gradually, in cycles, and takes about 3 hours.

      You will have up to 4 of these treatments weekly for the first 14 days of therapy, then 3
      treatments weekly from Day 15-28, and after that 2 treatments weekly until Day 60, which is
      the end of the study. After Day 60, your doctor will decide whether ECP is worth continuing,
      and also the frequency of treatments. It is not necessary to be in the study to continue to
      receive ECP treatments. If you respond to the treatment, your corticosteroids will be reduced
      slowly to prevent the GVHD from coming back.

      The length of corticosteroid therapy will depend on how GVHD responds to the treatment. You
      will follow a corticosteroid therapy tapering schedule according to the suggested guidelines.
      You will continue to receive tacrolimus or cyclosporine, whichever you have been using as
      GVHD prevention, throughout the study independent of what treatment group you are assigned.

      While you are getting treatment in this study, every week you will have a physical exam and
      blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests. If your doctor thinks it is
      necessary, blood may be drawn more often.

      You will be considered off-study after 6 months of treatment completion. You will be taken
      off study if you are unable to comply with study requirements, you refuse to continue
      participation in the study, or intolerable side effects occur.

      This is an investigational study. ECP has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of a
      certain type of lymphomas of the skin and is commercially available. Its use in patients with
      GVHD is considered to be investigational. Up to 95 patients will take part in this study. All
      will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  