
    
      Individuals with new-onset severe non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy or retinal
      neovascularization who present to the retinal service of the UBC/VGH Eye Care Centre will be
      offered participation in this study. Subject inclusion criteria will parallel those of the
      DRS (Diabetic Retinopathy Study) and ETDRS (Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study).
      One PRP session will consist of between 800 to 1000 laser burns. Subjects with discomfort
      during laser (a known side-effect) will be treated with local anesthetics.

      As noted, participating subjects will all receive PRP according to present standards of care;
      however, subjects will be randomized to either a 10-day course of oral Trientine at 1500mg
      administered for 7-days prior to and 3 days after the PRP sessions, or a placebo. Serum
      copper levels and urinary copper levels will be evaluated before and after Trientine
      administration to determine the amount of free copper present systemically at the time of PRP
      treatment.

      Ocular outcomes will include visual acuity testing (ETDRS), fluorescein angiography and
      ocular coherence tomography (OCT). These studies will be used to evaluate retinal morphology
      and photoreceptor function pre and post laser. All these evaluations are considered part of
      the routine evaluation of diabetic retinopathy in subjects being treated with PRP.

      Outcome measures will be assessed at day 2-post laser, week 1, and Day 28-30. Further
      clinical PRP treatment will be administered if necessary after Day 28-30 at the discretion of
      the patients' ophthalmologist.

      The primary analysis will involve comparing the retinal thickness measurements between
      subjects undergoing PRP with and without Trientine use. Secondary analyses will involve
      evaluations of visual acuity and fluorescein angiography. As well, changes in visual acuity,
      angiographic leakage, and retinal thickness will be regressed against serum copper levels.
      Sample size calculations suggest 15 subjects per arm should be adequate to demonstrate a 40%
      reduction in retinal thickness with a power of 80% comparing subjects receiving Trientine to
      controls.

      Subjects who are randomized to Trientine will receive 1500 mg Trientine PO daily for 10 days.
      Subjects, study-coordinators, and investigators will be masked to treatment group. The
      primary analysis will be a comparison of OCT thickness measurements.

      This is a single centre study involving 30 subjects (15 cases and 15 controls). A 1:1
      randomization will be employed (Trientine 1500 mg: Placebo). No normal subjects will be
      enrolled.
    
  