
    
      Infertility is a medical condition of increasing significance with an estimated 48.5 million
      affected couples around the world . Anovulation is a major cause of infertility in women with
      polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) accounting for about 80% of women with anovulatory
      infertility. The prevalence of PCOS varies widely among different ethnic populations and is
      highest in the Middle East. One way to diagnose PCOS is on the basis of the Rotterdam
      criteria, according to which women should satisfy 2 of 3 criteria including anovulation,
      polycystic ovarian morphology on ultrasound and hyperandrogenism (either clinical or
      biochemical). Trans-vaginal ultrasound evaluation is an important tool to assess ovarian
      features and determine the risk for ovarian hyper-response to follicle stimulation.

      Ultrasound morphological features of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) include the presence of
      16 or more follicles measuring 2-9mm in diameter, and/or an overall large ovarian volume of
      >10mm3. Women with PCOS ultrasound features exhibit an exaggerated response to controlled
      ovarian stimulation . It was demonstrated that the number of baseline follicles seen on
      ultrasound strongly correlates with the number of recovered oocytes, and that was especially
      documented in women with a baseline number of pre-antral follicles exceeding 15 who were
      found to be at increased risk for ovarian hyper-stimulation syndrome .

      Controlled ovarian hyperstimulation is an established prerequisite to assisted reproductive
      techniques with the aim of obtaining a higher yield of oocytes and ultimately increasing
      success rates. According to the ESHRE/ASRM consensus on infertility treatment related to
      polycystic ovary syndrome (2008), IVF seems to represent a reasonable treatment option as the
      risks of multiple pregnancies and ovarian hyper-stimulation syndrome may be kept to a
      minimum. The optimal stimulation protocol however is still debatable.

      The investigators plan to conduct a prospective non-randomized controlled trial comparing a
      mild ovarian stimulation protocol to conventional treatment for assisted reproductive
      technology at the Division of Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility - Haifa Idriss
      Fertility Center - American University of Beirut Medical Center.

      Interest in embryo cryopreservation will be discussed with candidates before the start of IVF
      treatment. Women meeting the inclusion criteria who show no interest in embryo
      cryopreservation and in obtaining supernumerary embryos will be allocated to the mild
      stimulation (group A) protocol. Alternatively, women interested in obtaining a high number of
      embryos for the purpose of cryopreservation will be allocated to the conventional stimulation
      (group B) protocol.
    
  