
    
      This study is a first-in-human study designed to establish preliminary human safety,
      tolerability and pharmacokinetic parameters of Prolanta monotherapy in patients with
      recurrent or persistent ovarian cancer, primary peritoneal cancer, or fallopian tube cancer.
      In addition, biomarkers related to the activity of human prolactin will be examined in tumor
      samples obtained prior to treatment and at the end of study treatment to determine the
      pharmacodynamics of the dose levels of Prolanta administered. Three dosing levels will be
      evaluated, and the dose at which no dose-limiting toxicities are observed will be the
      recommended Phase II dose.

      Because of its antagonist effect and the expected lower toxicity, Sponsor believes that
      Prolanta may be administered continuously as a monotherapy or in conjunction with the
      periodic administration of chemotherapy (i.e., a dual therapy). The dosing schedule to be
      used in this trial is designed to evaluate, in increments, the safety and tolerability of
      Prolanta over this 90 day cycle. Subjects will be assessed for antibody presence throughout
      the study, initially on a weekly basis and then bi-weekly. Subjects will be initially dosed
      for 28 days followed by a safety assessment period, and then continue for an additional 56
      days if no toxicities are observed.

      The primary objectives of this study are to determine the safety and tolerability of Prolanta
      in women with recurrent ovarian cancer and to determine the optimal dose of Prolanta to use
      in Phase II studies. The safety evaluation will be determined by assessing treatment-emergent
      adverse events, physical examination, ECG, changes in clinical laboratory results including
      clinical chemistry, hematology and urinalysis, changes in pituitary hormone levels, and vital
      signs including blood pressure, pulse and respiratory rate. The optimal dose of Prolanta will
      be determined by evaluating both the safety profile and blood levels of Prolanta. If
      possible, the effect of the Prolanta dose on tumor biomarkers and tumor burden will also be
      used to determine the optimally bioactive Phase II dose level.

      The secondary objectives of this study are (i) to determine the pharmacokinetic parameters of
      Prolanta including Cmax, Tmax, half-life and area under the curve (AUC); (ii) to determine
      the effect of treatment with Prolanta on tumor markers; (iii) to determine clinical efficacy
      of Prolanta by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), version 1.1
    
  