
    
      Patients undergoing general anesthesia and mechanical ventilation during major abdominal
      surgery commonly develop pulmonary atelectasis or even hyperdistension of the lungs can occur
      leading to adverse consequences either intraoperatively or postoperatively. Lung protective
      ventilation (LPV, PEEP = 6 cmH2O, TV = 6 mL/Kg IBW and regular recruitments) during the
      intraoperative period can reduce the risk of ventilator induced lung injury (VILI) and
      prevent the formation of pulmonary atelectasis.

      In our investigator-initiated, double-center, single-blinded, prospective, randomized,
      controlled clinical trial a total number of 40 patients with bladder cancer undergoing open
      radical cystectomy and urinary diversion (ileal conduit or orthotopic bladder substitute)
      will be enrolled and randomized into two groups. Standard lung protective mechanical
      ventilation with the use of 6 cmH2O of PEEP and low tidal volumes (6mL/Kg IBW), a fraction of
      inspired oxygen (FiO2) of 0.5 and a respiratory rate to maintain an end tidal carbon dioxide
      (ETCO2) between 35-40 mmHg will be performed in control group, and a strategy of lung
      protective mechanical ventilation applying an optimal, individual PEEP determined by static
      pulmonary compliance (Cstat) directed PEEP titration procedure will be performed in study
      group.

      During preoperative assessment, respiratory failure risk index (RFRI) will be recorded and
      informed consent will be obtained. Regarding to the protocol, a central vein catheter will be
      placed on the day before surgery, serum procalcitonin (PCT) level will be measured and a
      chest X-ray examination will be performed.

      Before induction of anesthesia, an epidural catheter and an arterial canula for invasive
      blood pressure monitoring will be inserted. Immediately after induction of anesthesia and
      orotracheal intubation, all patients will be submitted to an alveolar recruitment maneuver
      (ARM) using the sustained airway pressure by the CPAP method, applying 30 cmH2O PEEP for 30
      seconds. After ARM PEEP will be set to 6 cmH2O in the control group ("standard PEEP") and LPV
      will be performed. In the study group ("optimal PEEP") PEEP will be set to 14 cmH2O and a
      Cstat directed decremental PEEP titration procedure will be performed (every 4 minutes PEEP
      will be decreased by 2 cmH2O, until a final PEEP of 6 cmH2O) to determine the best individual
      PEEP. During surgery ARM will be repeated and arterial and central vein blood gas samples
      (ABGs, CVBGs) will be evaluated every 60 minutes. PCT levels will be measured 2, 6, 12, 24,
      48 and 72 hours after surgical incision.

      After extubation, patients will be addmitted to the Department of Anesthesiology and
      Intensive Care. ABGs and CVBGs will be collected and evaluated, PaO2/FiO2 and dCO2 will be
      calculated every 6 hours until 72 hours after surgery. On the first postoperative day chest
      X-ray will be performed and repeated on the following days if developing of pulmonary
      complications were suspected. Continuous epidural analgesia will be introduced, and evaluated
      effective if numeric pain rating scale point would be lower than 3 points.

      During postoperative care continuous intraabdominal pressure (IAP) monitoring via a direct
      intraperitoneal catheter placed before closure of the abdominal wall will be performed to
      eliminate bias caused by the elevation of intraabdominal pressure.

      Patients' clinical progress and secondary endpoints will be monitored by daily SOFA Scores,
      laboratory and physical examinations.

      During follow-up period in-hospital stay, 28-days and in-hospital mortality will also be
      evaluated.
    
  