
    
      Since the early part of 2020, the entire world has been affected by a pandemic of the
      coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome
      coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). The disease has a short incubation period (median, 3 days) and is
      highly transmissible. This disease may manifest as an asymptomatic infection and through an
      entire range of symptoms of varying severity to severe, life-threatening disease. Although
      diverse systemic features might be present, the usual presentation is with lower respiratory
      tract involvement in the form of pneumonia often resulting in the development of the acute
      respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). In some patients, multi-organ failure sets in, possibly
      as a result of a cytokine storm interplaying with a thrombotic microangiopathy.

      Early lung disease is characterized pathologically by neutrophilic and exudative capillaritis
      in the lungs with some evidence of microthrombosis.2 This may be followed by a picture of
      diffuse alveolar damage along with ongoing intravascular thrombosis in the pulmonary vessels.
      In late stages, an organizing pneumonia (OP) develops with extensive proliferation of
      fibroblasts within the airspaces. Clinically, most patients make a complete recovery after
      COVID pneumonia. Other patients may demonstrate some signs of recovery from the acute illness
      with resolution of fever and recovery of organ functions, however they continue to have some
      degree of breathlessness, persistent infiltrates on radiologic studies, and/or hypoxemia. The
      CT abnormalities in these patients are commonly characterized by patchy, multifocal
      consolidation and ground-glass opacities suggestive of the OP pattern. Coarse reticulation
      and parenchymal bands may also be present.

      Patients with such diffuse lung disease after COVID-19, herein referred to as post-COVID
      diffuse lung disease (PC-DLD) are often treated with glucocorticoids. Although most patients
      with a predominant OP pattern of injury would have a resolution of lung parenchymal
      abnormalities either spontaneously or with glucocorticoids, some of them might develop signs
      of lung fibrosis, in the form of traction bronchiectasis and/or honeycombing. Some subjects
      have ongoing respiratory symptoms despite treatment with steroids, and they may be found to
      have persistent reticulation or non-resolving consolidation on chest imaging that may
      represent early fibrosis.

      The antifibrotic agents, namely pirfenidone and nintedanib have been found to be effective in
      the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). Nintedanib has also been found to be
      effective in treating systemic sclerosis-related interstitial lung disease (ILD) and non-IPF
      progressive fibrosing ILDs. Pirfenidone has also been found beneficial unclassifiable ILDs.
      Whether these drugs would be effective in treating post-COVID lung fibrosis also is unknown.
      As the final pathway of lung fibrosis appears to be common among different diffuse
      parenchymal lung diseases (DPLDs), it is hoped that these antifibrotic agents might be
      helpful in post-COVID fibrosis. There are no randomized studies that have assessed the role
      of pirfenidone or nintedanib in post COVID fibrosis. In the current study, we aim to assess
      the efficacy and safety of pirfenidone and compare it with nintedanib in the treatment of
      post-COVID lung fibrosis.
    
  