
    
      Previous research and collaboration between patients, relatives and professionals in the
      research program has clarified the need to develop a PCC accessible at home. Previous
      research has shown that eHealth support, where the users are not involved in the process, has
      a low impact and has highlighted several limitations with respect to patients' participation
      in the design process; its anchorage in the home and local environment and opportunities for
      communication rather than information. Therefore, this project has a participatory design
      that assumes that all users (patients, relatives and health care professionals) are involved
      in the study design, which facilitates implementation. An end-user perspective as a starting
      point increases the chances that users adapt a positive attitude towards the new system. PCC
      along the chain of health care showed a 4-fold chance of improved self-efficacy in
      combination with return to work or prior activity level after an event of acute coronary
      syndrome.

      The aim of this project is to evaluate if PCC in the form of a combined eHealth and
      structured telephone support combined with an eHealth support available at home will improve
      return to work rates, reduced relapse, reduce costs and improved self-efficacy for patients
      with chronic pain.

      This study is a randomized, open, parallel group intervention study where patients on sick
      leave for chronic pain are eligible. Patients will be randomized into either the control or
      the intervention arm 1:1. The control group will receive usual care. The intervention group
      will receive usual care plus PCC in the form of a combined eHealth and structured telephone
      support combined with an eHealth support. Randomization will be done through
      computer-generated lists and stored in sealed envelopes.

      Patients listed in primary care with a confirmed diagnosis of chronic pain will be screened
      and sent an informing letter about the study from the chief at each center. Specially trained
      registered nurses (RNs) will then screen patients against study inclusion and exclusion
      criteria and by phone contact eligible patients and inform the patient about the aims of the
      study and ask if they are interested to participate. If the patient wants to participate, a
      consent form is sent to the patient and then returned to the RN. Written informed consent
      will then be obtained. Then the randomization procedure is performed which is stratified for
      age. The patient will be informed about the outcome by phone. Patients randomized to the
      intervention group will need a computer, smart phone or iPad with internet access to
      participate in the study. Patients randomized to usual care will be managed by regular
      evidence-based treatment and care as outlined in treatment guidelines and followed as usual
      at their local primary care center.

      In PCC, the goals, capabilities and needs of each patient, will be the starting point.
      Self-care strategies will be reinforced and empowered. Patients in the intervention group
      will be contacted by a RN who has received special training in PCC communication for an
      initial person-centered dialogue by phone. The RN presents the eHealth platform and the RN
      invites the patient and activates their account where he/she can login via an individual user
      name.

      During this phone conversation, the participants will also be invited to tell their story.
      Based on the patient narrative the patient´s goals, resources and needs are identified. The
      patient (sometimes maybe together with relatives) and the RN formulate a person-centered
      health plan. This plan is part of and will be up-loaded to the eHealth platform, which also
      contains individual notes and information about stress, depression and anxiety. The plan will
      be the point of departure for the forthcoming dialogue at distance via the eHealth platform
      that the patient and the RN will have during the study period (6 months).

      The eHealth support contains headings that may inspire the patient to make notes on "a good
      day" respectively "a bad day" and register daily health related status. The health plan
      contain three parts; 1. "My goal is to feel or be able to do". 2. "To be able to reach my
      goal I will." 3."Support I need to reach my goal". In the communication during the study
      period between the RN and patient, the personal health plan is discussed and any needs of
      reformulating the goals may be discussed. The overall goal is to help the patient to identify
      their own capabilities/resources such as a strong will, social relations etc. and formulate
      goals that help them increase their self-efficacy and to cope with their condition in daily
      life.

      At the end of each phone conversation, the participant and RN will agree on when and how they
      will be in contact next. I addition to these pre-agreed on phone conversations, the
      participants are free to contact the RNs via the eHealth platform or direct phone number.

      On the eHealth platform, the participants can and formulate, comment, evaluate and develop
      the health plan, rate and follow their symptoms and keep a diary. Access to the eHealth
      platform will be password protected. The RN can see the patient´s account and make comments.
      The participants can invite other health care professionals, family and friend that they want
      to give access to the eHealth platform. The participants can add or delete these invitees
      when they want and they can limit the access for each invitee. The RNs follow the procedures
      closely. A monitor controls the protocol adherence. All case record forms, questionnaires and
      referrals will be constructed (for intervention and usual care groups).

      Questionnaires on for example general self-efficacy, quality of life, anxiety and depression,
      symptom burden and daily functional level will be sent to all patients in both groups at
      inclusion and 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, 2 years and 5 years after randomization. In
      addition, data from registries, the platform and medical records will be collected.
    
  