
    
      Background.

      An effective prevention strategy is critical if the established epidemic of heart failure and
      cardiovascular disease is to be curbed. This is particularly important in the context of
      increasing community prevalence of stage B HFpEF and left ventricular diastolic abnormalities
      associated with hypertension and diabetes and requires community diagnostics and targeted
      preventative therapies. Individualising risk beyond the presence of established risk factors
      can be achieved with NP assessment. Elevated NP in a population with established
      cardiovascular disease defines a group more prone to cardiac dysfunction, heart failure and
      other cardiovascular events. This can be used to risk stratify asymptomatic populations,
      targeting those most likely to need intensive intervention and follow-up.

      In the prospective, randomised, pragmatic St Vincent's Screening TO Prevent Heart Failure
      (STOP-HF) trial [Ledwidge 2013], NP-based screening and collaborative care with general
      practice provided a multi-faceted intervention for patients with risk factors for heart
      failure. This involved community NP screening, improved use of RAAS modifying therapy,
      collaborative care with general practice as well as cardiovascular coaching for patients with
      mild elevations of BNP (>50 pg/mL).The intervention reduced stage B and C heart failure, most
      of which was preserved ejection fraction, as well as major adverse cardiovascular events
      requiring hospitalisation. This first of type study, along with a second study in diabetes
      [Huelsmann 2013], indicates that a biomarker driven strategy based on NP screening amongst
      stage AB heart failure patients is feasible and has an impact on heart failure and other
      cardiovascular diseases. These studies have been incorporated into 2017 American Heart
      Association/American College of Cardiology guidelines as well as other international
      guideline recommendations in heart failure.

      However, while successful, the STOP-HF biomarker strategy lacks a specific pharmacological
      intervention linked to the screening biomarker, NP. An analysis of the STOP-HF follow-up
      study, supports other work showing that the minor C allele of genetic variant rs198389 of the
      NPPB gene (in the promoter region) is associated with sustained, elevated circulating levels
      of BNP and reduced incidence of left ventricular dysfunction over a five-year follow up
      period. These data support the hypothesis that use of LCZ696 to pharmacologically raise NP
      could provide cardioprotection in stage A/B heart failure patients. As neprilysin degrades
      biologically active NP, LCZ696 increases myocardial cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)
      while reducing myocardial stiffness and hypertrophy. NPs also stimulate natriuresis,
      diuresis, vasodilation and have been shown to have anti-fibrotic and anti-sympathetic
      benefits which could augment the STOP-HF preventative strategy [Ledwidge 2103, Phelan 2012,
      Potter 2006, Gardiner 2007]. Atrial tissue gene expression of BNP in patients with stage B
      HFpEF is associated with atrial fibrosis, procollagen expression and presence of M2
      monocyte-derived-macrophage marker CD163 [Watson 2020]. Further analyses of the STOP-HF
      follow-up study shows that BNP strongly associates with the presence of atrial
      cardiomyopathy, an independent predictor of new onset major adverse cardiovascular events.
      Taken together, these data could support a role for sacubitril-valsartan versus valsartan
      alone in favourably modulating progression of left atrial volume index (LAVI) amongst
      patients with stage B HFpEF. If left atrial structure and function is also associated with
      new onset major adverse cardiovascular events, the intervention could also modulate
      cardiovascular events and propensity for thrombosis, which will be assessed using biomarkers.
      Finally, new CMRI imaging measures of cardiac function, such as CMR e' have been developed
      and will allow full characterisation of the cardiovascular impact of the intervention,
      including in subsets of patients with established atrial cardiomyopathy.

      Rationale for the study

      Elevated NP in an at-risk population independently identifies cardiovascular risk, which can
      be specifically targeted by LCZ696. In a small proportion of patients (<5%) with
      cardiovascular risk factors and elevated NP, significant asymptomatic LV systolic dysfunction
      will be present and for these RAAS modifying therapy is mandated. However, there is a larger
      group of patients with elevated NP who have stage B HFpEF, with or without diastolic
      dysfunction. These patients may have preclinical, or asymptomatic, left ventricular diastolic
      dysfunction (ALVDD), atrial cardiomyopathy (AC) or both and are at heightened risk for heart
      failure and other cardiovascular events [Watson 2020].

      The increase in NP in stage B HFpEF, ALVDD and AC is likely a fibro-inflammatory signal,
      which in-turn contributes to tissue remodelling, vascular disease, myocardial stiffening and
      left ventricular dysfunction. For example, hypertension, a common risk factor for ALVDD, is
      associated with an adverse accumulation of fibrous tissue and studies have demonstrated a
      strong relationship between ventricular stiffness, myocardial collagen content and plasma
      levels of myocardial collagen turnover markers [Hogg 2004, Querejeta 2004]. Cardiac
      inflammation, fibrosis and hypertrophy drive the pathophysiology [Gardiner 2007, Martos 2007]
      associated with vascular disease, myocardial stiffening, and left atrial as well as left
      ventricular dysfunction. [Phelan 2012, Jannuzzi 2019] Interrupting this pathophysiological
      process at an early stage before the development of ventricular dysfunction may prevent or
      slow development to heart failure and also have an impact on the development of other
      cardiovascular events driven by this pathophysiological process. This may be particularly
      important for prevention of the development of a sub-type of stage C HFpEF characterised by
      older age, elevated LAVI, atrial fibrillation and chronic kidney disease, which puts patients
      at very high risk adverse outcome [Shah 2015]. Importantly, there is currently no specific
      disease modifying therapy for these patients, beyond conventional risk factor control.

      Accordingly, suppressing the RAAS will reduce the pro-fibrotic impact of angiotensin II.
      Addition of sacubitril, which reduces degradation of endogenous, cardio-protective NPs, could
      augment the beneficial anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrotic effects of NPs beyond conventional
      RAAS modifying therapy. This may be mediated through impacts on the innate immune system,
      fibro-inflammation and monocyte-derived-macrophages in the myocardium [Watson 2020].

      Several studies have shown that the interplay between the myocardium and extracellular matrix
      (ECM) can now be evaluated via analysis of serum samples of markers of collagen turnover.
      [Martos 2007, Querejeta 2007] Altered serum levels of collagen markers (e.g. Collagen 1A1)
      and matrix metalloproteinase (e.g. MMP-2 and MMP-9) suggest increased collagen turnover
      associated with fibrosis in diastolic heart failure. [Martos, 2007, Ahmed 2006, Nikishimi
      2006] Other biomarkers of cardiac structure and function of relevance in ALVDD/AC include
      Galectin 3 and ST-2, biomarkers of cardiac remodelling and tissue fibrosis. Finally, cGMP,
      which blunts activation pathways and diminishes hypertrophy, fibrosis, cellular toxicity, and
      maladaptive remodelling in the myocardium, may also be modulated by sacubitril-valsartan, not
      only through inhibition of breakdown of BNP, but also ANP and other vasoactive peptides
      [Ibrahim 2019].

      In high risk patients with preserved ejection fraction, elevated LAVI reflects increased left
      ventricular filling pressures, fibro-inflammation and is a strong, continuous marker of
      diastolic dysfunction as well as future cardiovascular events. Interventions that could
      reduce progression of LAVI might also help prevent cardiac morbidity and progression to stage
      B/C HFpEF. Sacubitril-valsartan has been shown to modulate NP activity and reduce LAVI in
      comparison with valsartan in the PARAMOUNT study [Solomon 2012]. The reduction of 2.6 mL/m2
      with LCZ696 compared with an increase of 0.3 mL/m2 with valsartan (p=0.007 for difference)
      from a baseline of 36 mL/m2 over 36 weeks appears to be clinically significant in these
      patients with preserved ejection fraction. However, further work is required to understand
      the implications of this result in stage A/B HFpEF, especially using more precisely defined
      myocardial structure and function with cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (cMRI).
      Furthermore, in the PARAGON-HF study (Solomon 2019), there was no significant benefit of
      sacubitril-valsartan in patients with HFpEF with respect to the primary composite outcome of
      hospitalisation and death. The differential effect of sacubitril-valsartan versus valsartan
      in relation to left ventricular ejection fraction as well as stage B versus C HFpEF requires
      further evaluation. No study has evaluated sacubitril-valsartan in patients with stage A/B
      HFpEF, elevated natriuretic peptides and abnormal LAVI.

      Aim

      The main aim of the PARABLE trial is to assess the impact of sacubitril-valsartan versus
      valsartan alone on functional, structural and biochemical abnormalities of the myocardium in
      an asymptomatic cohort with preserved ejection fraction, cardiovascular risk factors,
      abnormal LAVI and elevated NP (brain type natriuretic peptide [BNP] and/or N-terminal of the
      prohormone BNP [NT-proBNP]). PARABLE tests the primary hypothesis that sacubitril-valsartan
      versus valsartan alone would result in beneficial effects on LAVI, as well as cardiac
      structure and function, preventing progression of stage B/C HFpEF in these patients.
    
  