
    
      This study is an exploratory, randomized, single center, 4-treatment, 3-period, partial
      crossover study in healthy participants with no signs of periodontal disease or excessive
      recession, to assess a prototype PTB in removing dental plaque after a single brushing event.

      At the screening visit, following provision of written informed consent, participants will be
      provided PTB training to familiarize themselves with how the different modes and different
      PTBs operate. Eligible participants will be provided with a washout fluoride toothpaste and
      toothbrush for use at home during the study.

      Participants will then be scheduled to attend appointment after a minimum of 3 days. For each
      treatment visit, participants must abstain from oral hygiene for a period of 12hours,
      immediately preceding the pre-brushing dental plaque evaluation.

      All the participants will undergo an oral soft tissue (OST) examination followed by plaque
      disclosing and a pre-brushing dental plaque assessment using the Rustogi Modified Navy Plaque
      Index (RMNPI) index. In in periods 1 and 2, participants will be randomized to the study
      treatment sequence with the prototype PTB and MTB used in a crossover manner and participants
      will then brush under supervision followed by disclosing and post-brushing plaque
      assessments. Participants assigned to the prototype PTB, it will be used for 2 minutes in
      'Gum line' mode brushing and 1-minute brushing in 'Interdental' mode.

      Participants will then brush once (1.3 grams [g] ± 0.1 g of assigned toothpaste), under
      supervision of study staff after which disclosing, and a post-brushing plaque assessment will
      be carried out.

      Participants will be allowed to brush with the washout paste following the post assessment
      plaque assessments. A minimum of three days washout period will follow each treatment period
      during which period Participants will brush with a standard washout toothpaste
    
  