
    
      This research project intends to examine the effectiveness of a Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
      and psychoeducational based program for adolescents with overweight and obesity delivered as
      a web-based intervention: APOLO-Teens. Therefore, a randomized controlled trial will compare
      a control group receiving medical treatment as usual for pediatric obesity in public health
      care centers in Portugal, and an intervention group receiving TAU plus the APOLO-Teens
      web-based intervention.

      The APOLO-Teens web-based intervention was designed to optimize treatment as usual for
      pediatric obesity, promoting the adoption of healthy eating habits and lifestyle behaviors.
      Particularly it aims to promote higher consumption of fruits and vegetables, increase
      physical activity levels, reduce sedentary time, enhance psychological well-being, and
      facilitating weight loss.

      All participants will be assessed at baseline, 3 months after the beginning of the research
      protocol/intervention, end of the web-based intervention, and at 6 and 12 months follow-up.
      All the assessments will be conducted in Qualtrics: Online Survey Software. Repeated Paired
      Samples T-test will explore differences between the two groups across the assessment times.
      Multiple linear regression analysis will be applied to explore predictors of weight loss and
      weight regain, and survival analyses to identify participants with the highest probability to
      regain weight. Additionally, 3-Level Hierarchical Linear Models will be conducted to explore
      the temporal occurrence and patterns of change of eating-related variables, physical
      activity, and BMI z-score in participants from the two groups.

      It is expected that the intervention group participants will present a higher frequency of
      healthy food consumption (fruit/vegetables) and increased physical activity levels at the end
      of the web-based intervention when compared with TAU group participants. We further expect,
      differences between the groups regarding eating behavior-related variables, as well as in the
      psychological features assessed throughout the different assessment points, and ultimately in
      weight maintenance or regain, with the intervention group presenting lower scores/weight.
    
  