
    
      The purpose of the study is to compare standard enteral nutrition regimen with the enteral
      nutrition regimen supplemented with whey protein in severe neurological disease patients and
      to observe nutritional indicators improvement in these patients. A total of 116 subjects will
      be included. Counting process is as follows: referring available literature and the mean
      value of serum albumin in patients on the 14th day of our preliminary tests, and the
      difference test is used to compare the mean values of two independent samples. The ratio of
      the experimental group and control group is 1:1. It was assumed that the serum albumin level
      in the experimental group was higher than that in the control group. A single end is taken,
      α=0.05, 1-β=0.80, experimental group patients serum albumin（Χ±S）=37.9±5.1, the control group
      serum albumin（Χ±S）=35.6±4.8, so the total sample size was 116.It was estimated that 116
      patients were enrolled consecutively, which were divided into experimental group and control
      group by computer generated random number table. Patients in both groups received enteral
      nutrition therapy with continuous tube feeding for 14 days. According to the nutritional
      treatment requirements of critically ill patients in the Asia-Pacific region in 2016,
      patients with severe acute stress were given energy demand for 25~30kcal/kg/d, protein demand
      for 1.2~2g/kg/d and other standardized clinical treatments. Control group nutrition program:
      standardized enteral nutrition preparation only. Experimental group nutrition program: whey
      protein powder was added on the basis of standardized enteral nutrition preparation.
      According to the body weight of the patients, different enteral nutritional preparations and
      dose adjustments were selected to ensure that the calorie and protein intake of the two
      groups of patients met the above nutritional treatment requirements.Primary endpoint: serum
      albumin level at 14 days of enteral nutrition. Secondary end points: 1. APACHE II, GCS and
      other clinical scores at 14 days; 2. total serum protein, proalbumin, hemoglobin and other
      nutritional indicators; 3. the number and ratio of white blood cells, neutrophils, c-reactive
      protein, interleukin-6, procalcitonin, absolute count of T lymphocyte subsets, immunoglobulin
      and other inflammatory indicators at 14 days; 4. the number of cases of gastrointestinal
      complications such as gastric retention, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal distention,
      constipation and gastrointestinal bleeding during the 14 days of enteral nutrition; 5. the
      number of patients with serum albumin < 30g/L within 14 days after admission.
    
  