
    
      Background and Rationale

      Spread of metastatic melanoma to the groin lymph nodes (LN) is a common event for patients
      with melanoma. In melanoma treatment centres around the world, patients without demonstrated
      pelvic LN disease receive 1 of 3 strategies of management in relatively equal proportions
      (Pasquali, Spillane et al. 2012):

      i. Inguinal Lymphadenectomy (IL) ii. Ilio-inguinal Lymphadenectomy (I-IL) iii. Variable use
      of either IL or I-IL surgery.

      Some larger melanoma centres have an institutional policy that all patients have either IL or
      I-IL for metastatic inguinal node involvement. Nearly all centres would agree that patients
      with pelvic LN involvement without distant metastatic disease should have I-IL.

      Study Objectives This study aims to provide a more rational evidence base for appropriate
      management for metastatic melanoma in the groin LNs, through assessing the effect of the
      addition of ipsilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy on patient disease-free survival (DFS),
      distant disease-free survival (DDFS), overall survival (OS), morbidity, and quality of life.
      In addition, the study will clarify the reliability of PET (Positron Emission Tomography) /
      CT (Computed Tomography) scans for staging pelvic LNs, clarify morbidity differences between
      the operations in a balanced cohort, evaluate any health economic benefits of I-IL over IL
      and provide a tissue and serum resource to be used to identify biological markers of
      recurrence and progression after inguinal metastases.

      Study Hypothesis There will be no significant difference in DFS between patients having IL or
      I-IL, conditional on PET/CT scan showing no evidence of pelvic disease at the time of
      diagnosis of groin LN metastatic melanoma.

      Study Population The aim is to recruit 634 patients in 5 years who are 15 years or older with
      cytologically or histologically confirmed metastatic melanoma in inguinal LNs (H&E & IHC);
      specifically with no evidence of pelvic node involvement or distant spread of melanoma
      clinically or on PET/CT staging scans. To be eligible patients must have an Eastern
      Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status 0-2 at randomisation.

      Study Treatments Eligible patients will be randomised 1:1 to undergo an IL or I-IL.

      Study Design This is an international, multi-centre, phase III, non-inferiority, prospective,
      randomised clinical trial.
    
  