
    
      A customized correction for the individual eye seems to be the most promising solution for
      tailored correction of spherical aberration.

      On the other hand, Wave front analysis of the ocular optical system has increased our
      knowledge of the aberrations in the eye. The importance of measuring optical aberrations lies
      not only in the presence of natural aberrations in the human eye, but also in its usefulness
      for evaluating individual surgical outcomes. By using Zernike polynomials, the aberrations of
      the ocular system can be characterized. Zernike coefficients of the higher-order aberrations
      can be derived from corneal topographic data. And for those generated by the whole optical
      system of the eye can be derived from aberrometry.

      With current small-incision cataract surgery, it has been reported that the average
      postoperative corneal topography does not differ significantly from average preoperative
      corneal topography, so in our study we will focus on the ocular & internal wave front
      changes.

      With the high resolution pyramid wavefront sensor incorporated in (SCHWIND PERAMIS®,
      topography and Aberrometry, Kleinostheim, Germany) we will evaluate and compare the total
      ocular wave front and the corneal wave front in our study to identify and estimate the
      internal aberrations . This new sensor uses an extended source instead of a point-like source
      avoiding in this manner the oscillation of the pyramid.

      SCHWIND PERAMIS evaluates the ocular wave front aberrations with 45,000 measuring points -
      without any overlap and with clear assignment of each point & records 33 images per second
      and automatically selects the image with the best measurement. Together with real-time
      measurement, this ensures a new level of detail resolution and precision. SCHWIND PERAMIS can
      also be used to compare a patient's corneal and ocular wave front data. The direct comparison
      provides information about whether a visual defect is located on the surface of the cornea or
      within the eye itself, thus allowing us to identify and evaluate internal aberrations.
    
  