
    
      1. INTRODUCTION 1.1 BACKGROUND Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis Psoriasis is a chronic
           relapsing immunologically mediated skin disease manifesting as red scaly plaques, which
           affects about 1-3% of the population.(ref.1-3). Ten to 20% of the people with psoriasis
           may develop an arthropathy, which affects small or large joints in a symmetrical or
           asymmetrical fashion(ref.4). Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) is the second most common
           inflammatory arthritis after rheumatoid arthritis, accounting for 10% to 15% of the
           patients attending early arthritis clinics(ref.5).

           PsA is a heterogeneous disease affecting 0.3 to 1% of the population(ref.6) and recent
           evidence showed significant disability if this condition is not adequately treated.
           About 15-35% had marked limitations of their functional capacity. Moreover patients with
           PsA have an increased mortality risk compared to the general population. A 59 and
           65%-increased death rate was seen among respectively male and female PsA
           patients(ref.7).

           Different systemic treatments such as sulfasalazine, leflunomide, methotrexate, and
           biologics are widely used to treat PsA (ref.8) but not all patients respond to or
           tolerate these treatments. In addition, not all manifestations of PsA (like joints,
           dactylitis, scalp, enthesitis, or nails) may respond equally well.

           Apremilast Mechanism of action and indications Otezla (apremilast) is an innovative oral
           small-molecule inhibitor of phosphodiesterase (PDE) 4 that works intracellularly to
           modulate a network of pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators (ref.9,10). PDE4 is a cyclic
           adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-specific PDE and is the dominant PDE in inflammatory
           cells. Inhibition of PDE4 elevates intracellular cAMP levels, which in turn
           down-regulates the inflammatory response by modulating the expression of tumour necrosis
           factor alpha (TNF-α), interleukin (IL)-23, IL-17, and other pro-inflammatory cytokines.
           Elevation of cAMP also increases anti-inflammatory cytokines. These pro- and
           anti-inflammatory mediators have been implicated in psoriasis and PsA. The
           pro-inflammatory mediators that are upregulated in PsA include the cytokines TNF-α,
           IL-1, IL-6, and IL-8, and the chemokines monocyte chemotactic protein-1 and macrophage
           inflammatory protein-1 beta (ref.9,11-13,17).

           Based on these effects, apremilast has been developed for use in the treatment of
           various immune-mediated inflammatory conditions such as psoriasis and PsA and it is
           under investigation in Behçet disease. A total of 4,089 patients have been exposed to
           apremilast across multiple indications, including 1,945 patients in the PsA Phase 3
           clinical program (PALACE program)(Ref.14) and 1,184 patients in the psoriasis Phase III
           clinical program (ESTEEM program)(Ref.15,16).

           Otezla was approved in Europe in January 2015 for the treatment of active PsA, alone or
           in combination with disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), in adult patients
           who have had an inadequate response or who have been intolerant to a prior DMARD therapy
           (Ref.17). In the same time, Otezla was approved for the treatment of moderate to severe
           chronic plaque psoriasis in adult patients (≥18 years) who failed to respond to, or who
           have a contraindication for, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy including
           cyclosporine, methotrexate or psoralen and ultraviolet-A light. The recommended dose is
           30 mg twice daily following an initial up-titration phase of 5 days. Otezla is
           administered orally, without regard to meals.

           Summary of efficacy and safety data Efficacy and safety of apremilast in the treatment
           of patients with active PsA who were inadequately controlled by DMARDs and/or biologics
           have been demonstrated in 3 multi-centre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled
           trials (PALACE 1, 2, and 3) (Ref. 6,13,14,17). Results from these trials showed that
           apremilast treatment with or without concomitant DMARDs, compared with placebo with or
           without concomitant DMARDs, resulted in greater improvement in the signs and symptoms of
           PsA and more specifically in dactylitis and enthesitis in patients with these
           pre-existing symptoms, and these improvements were sustained. In clinical trials with
           apremilast, the majority of the most common adverse reactions occurred within the first
           2 weeks of treatment and tended to resolve over time with continued dosing. The most
           frequently observed adverse reactions leading to discontinuation after 16 weeks of
           treatment with Otezla 30 mg twice daily were nausea, diarrhoea, and headache. Recently,
           reports of suicidal ideation and depression have been published, prompting more rigorous
           evaluation of the risk: benefit ratio and monitoring (Ref.18).

           1.2 STUDY RATIONALE Psoriatic arthritis is a chronic inflammatory disease, leading to
           impaired function and a reduced quality of life. Fortunately, improved knowledge about
           disease mechanisms has catalyzed rapid development of effective targeted therapies for
           this disease (Ref.19).

           Our laboratory has gained international recognition in the evaluation of transcriptomic
           patterns of synovial biopsies from patients with arthritis. Our work not only led to the
           identification of disease-specific molecular patterns in synovial tissue from patients
           with early rheumatoid arthritis (RA) (Ref.20,21), and the development of a diagnostic
           kit (Rheumakit®), but also to the identification of synovial markers of disease severity
           and poor response to therapy in early RA (Ref.22). In addition, using longitudinal
           synovial biopsy samples collected prospectively in patients prior to, and 3 months after
           initiation of therapy, we were able to identify synovial molecular targets of several
           therapies in RA : methotrexate, tocilizumab, adalimumab and also rituximab
           (Ref.23-26).While TNF blockade decreases expression of genes involved in cell
           proliferation in RA synovitis, the other drugs induce very similar molecular changes in
           the RA synovium, characterized by a decrease in IL6-dependent T cell activation
           (Ref.26).

           In the present project, we want to compare global molecular profiles up-or
           down-regulated in synovitis of patients with psoriatic arthritis, before and after
           targeted therapy. This project takes advantage of our strong experience in the field of
           molecular profiling of synovial biopsies, and evaluation of responses to biological
           agents (Ref.20-26).

        2. STUDY QUESTION AND OBJECTIVES 2.1 STUDY QUESTION We intend to evaluate the global
           transcriptomic effects of Apremilast (Otezla®) in synovial biopsies from DMARD-naïve and
           biological-naive patients with psoriatic arthritis, obtained prior to and 24 weeks after
           initiation of therapy.

      Identification of the synovial effects of Apremilast therapy in psoriatic arthritis will be a
      step forward in understanding not only the mode of action of the drug at the site of
      inflammation, but also in the identification of molecular patterns associated with good
      response to therapy. The main advantage of our approach compared to other biomarker studies,
      is that we use synovial material as such, and not peripheral blood, which is a more remote
      location in terms of cellular targets of the drug.

      2.2 STUDY OBJECTIVES

      Primary Objective To evaluate the global transcriptomic effects of apremilast in synovial
      biopsies of DMARD (cs and b) naïve PsA patients, obtained prior to, and 24 weeks after
      apremilast therapy.

      Secondary Objective To correlate the molecular effects of apremilast therapy to clinical and
      ultrasound response, with a specific attention on joints, enthesis.

      Evaluate clinical response at W24, by using ACR20/50/70 response criteria.

      Identify candidate synovial markers/pathways associated with response to apremilast in PsA by
      correlating molecular signals at baseline with the clinical response observed at week 24.

      2.3 STUDY DURATION The study duration is 36 months. Screening phase: up to 4 weeks Active
      treatment: 24 weeks Follow-up period: 4 weeks

        -  Screening period will start: October 2020

        -  Estimated first patient inclusion (FPI): November 2020

        -  Estimated last patient inclusion (LPI): January 2022

        -  Estimated last patient last visit (LPLV): august 2022

        -  Publication summary: september 2022

        -  Final report: december 2022
    
  