
    
      Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) injury is increasingly common in sports involving jumping
      and cutting. Treatment for such injuries most often includes physical therapist-supervised
      rehabilitation, with or without surgical reconstruction. Care-as-usual rehabilitation often
      includes neuromuscular training in order to improve function and reduce knee-related
      symptoms. Recent data shows that 90% of athletes undergoing rehabilitation achieved normal or
      nearly-normal knee function when measured in strength and knee laxity. Despite this number,
      56% of these athletes did not return to sport or pre-injury activity levels. Due to this
      imbalance, the question is raised of whether there is a potential to supplement care-as-usual
      in order to improve upon current rehabilitative training programs.

      One attractive alternative is the use of dynamic motor imagery (DMI), which is a form of
      mental training intended to increase functional equivalence. This is done by imaging an
      activity-specific and relevant movement while simultaneously completing a similar movement,
      thereby simulating a real-life physical activity movement. This approach makes it possible to
      create a situation in which a person is able to create meaning and find relevance in movement
      used in a rehabilitative training environment.

      In this study, the investigators aim to create and test a new training model, referred to as
      MOTor Imagery to Facilitate Sensorimotor re-learning (MOTIFS), and compare the efficacy of
      neuromuscular training plus dynamic motor imagery vs neuromuscular training alone in terms of
      muscle function and patient-reported outcomes in people with an ACL injury and with a goal of
      returning to pre-injury level of activity.

      Primary Hypothesis: 12 weeks of neuromuscular training plus dynamic motor imagery will
      improve muscle function, measured by relative change in hop performance in the injured leg in
      side hop test, and patient-reported measures of psychological readiness to return to sport to
      a greater extent and with a quicker onset of recovery than neuromuscular training alone.

      Methods:

      In this randomized controlled trial, the inclusion criteria are as follows: (i) male and
      female ACL-injured people, (ii) over the age of 16, (iii) ACL injury or reconstruction with
      or without associated injuries to other knee structures, (iii) currently undergoing
      rehabilitation, (iv) active in recreational or competitive physical activity prior to the
      injury, and (v) have a goal of reaching pre-injury activity level. Exclusion criteria for
      participants include: (i) a disease or disorder overriding the knee injury, (ii) have
      undergone return-to-activity evaluation by a physical therapist, and (iii) do not understand
      a Scandinavian language (Swedish, Danish, Norwegian) or English.

      Those participants randomized to the care-as-usual group will receive rehabilitation
      according to standard practices.

      The experimental group will receive standard training which has been supplemented with the
      dynamic motor imagery in the MOTIFS model. In this experimental condition, physical
      therapists will be educated in the use of the new training model and will administer it
      during clinical practice with the participants. The new model includes information intended
      to open a dialogue with the participant in order to create a mental simulation in which the
      participant is able to mentally create a realistic and relevant situation in order to
      maximize the meaning and motivation of the rehabilitation exercises. This may include the use
      of sporting equipment, such as balls or sticks, in order to make the rehabilitation session
      seem as similar to a training session in the relevant sport as possible.

      Outcomes:

      At baseline and 12 weeks, participants will be measured in patient-reported outcomes, hop
      ability, and will be filmed in a series of functional tests in order to evaluate postural
      orientation errors. The main outcomes are relative change in hop performance on the injured
      leg in a side hop test, and psychological readiness to return to sport (ACL Return to Sport
      After Injury Scale). Secondary outcomes include a hop test battery (single-leg hop for
      distance and sidehop), postural orientation errors (single-leg squat, stair descending,
      forward lunge, side hop, and single-leg hop for distance), Knee Osteoarthritis Outcome Score,
      Rehabilitation Outcome Satisfaction, Motivation, Patient Enablement Instrument, Physical
      Activity Enjoyment Scale, and the Tegner Activity scale. A subgroup of both physical
      therapists and patients will also be asked a series of open-ended questions in a
      phenomenological interview upon completion of the intervention.
    
  