
    
      Researchers want to learn if telephone counseling can help smokers change their smoking
      patterns, when combined with other interventions.

      Study Groups:

      During the first (baseline) visit, you will be randomly assigned (as in a throw of the dice)
      to 1 of 4 study groups. The first group will receive free self-help materials, and a referral
      to the Quitline. The Quitline provides free quit smoking services to eligible callers. The
      second group will receive free self-help materials, a referral to the Quitline, and 300
      pieces of nicotine gum at baseline. The third group will receive free self-help materials, a
      referral to the Quitline, and 4 telephone counseling sessions over the next month. The fourth
      group will receive free self-help materials, a referral to the Quitline, 4 telephone
      counseling sessions over the next month, and 300 pieces of nicotine gum at baseline.

      Study Visits:

      If you choose to take part in this study, you will visit MD Anderson twice. Your first visit
      is the "baseline" visit when you enter the study and your final visit is the "follow-up"
      visit, which is 1 month after baseline.

      Study Tests:

      The following tests and procedures will be performed at the study visits:

        -  You will be asked to complete some questionnaires that will include questions about your
           feelings, moods, and smoking status. These will take 60 to 90 minutes to complete.

        -  You will have your height, weight, and waistline measured.

        -  You will complete a breath test to help estimate (guess) the amount of cigarette smoke
           you inhale. The breath test uses a disposable cardboard tube that is attached to the
           machine, and you blow a long, slow, steady breath into it.

        -  You will have saliva samples collected for cotinine tests. To collect the saliva, you
           will be asked to put a small piece of cotton in your mouth for a few minutes. These
           samples will be used to measure the amount of cotinine in your saliva. Cotinine is a
           chemical released in your body when it breaks down nicotine.

      All participants will be contacted by mail or telephone throughout the length of the study.
      You may be contacted by mail, telephone, and/or e-mail during the study and follow-up, to be
      given reminders of clinic visits. You will be asked to provide the names and contact
      information for family and/or friends for the study staff to contact if the study staff has
      trouble reaching you.

      Genetic Testing:

      As part of this study, you will be asked to provide a saliva sample that will be collected at
      the first visit. To collect the saliva sample, you will be spitting into a container.
      Researchers will perform genetic tests with these samples to look for genes that control the
      production and use of neurotransmitters, naturally occurring chemical messengers in the
      brain. People with certain genes may have a more difficult time quitting smoking, because of
      the way nicotine affects these chemicals. The saliva sample will be stored in a biorepository
      at MD Anderson for use in future research related to nicotine addiction, smoking, and/or
      cancer.

      Your saliva sample will be placed in a bank of biological samples and data that is available
      to researchers conducting research related to cancer or nicotine dependence.

      Before your saliva sample can be used for research, the people doing the research must get
      specific approval from the Institutional Review Board (IRB) of M. D. Anderson. The IRB is a
      committee made up of doctors, researchers, and members of the community. The IRB is
      responsible for protecting the participants involved in research studies and making sure all
      research is done in a safe and ethical manner. All research done at MD Anderson, including
      research involving your saliva sample from this bank, must first be approved by the IRB.

      Your samples will be given a code number. No identifying information will be directly linked
      to your samples. Only the researcher in charge of the bank will have access to the code
      numbers and be able to link the samples to you. Other researchers using your samples will not
      be able to link this data to you.

      Genetic information obtained will not be provided to you.

      Telephone Counseling:

      The telephone counseling sessions will be digitally recorded. The recordings, if not
      destroyed, may be kept for use in future research studies. The recordings will be used to
      help the researchers make sure that the counselors are following the correct procedures and
      may be used in the future to help the investigators better understand or improve the
      counseling treatment. No one but the study investigators and their staff will be allowed to
      view or listen to the recordings, and the identity of the participants will be kept strictly
      confidential. Your study identification number will be stated by the counselor at the
      beginning of the taped session. The recordings are stored digitally, encrypted, and password
      protected.

      This is an investigational study. The nicotine gum used in this study is approved by the FDA.
      Up to 100 smokers will take part in this research study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  