
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare fatty acid analysis of red blood cells, levels of eIF2α phosphorylation, and
           tumor differentiation grade, as measured by Gleason score, in patients undergoing
           prostate biopsy. (Part 1)

        -  Determine if neoadjuvant n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) induce phosphorylation
           of eIF2α in these patients. (Part 2)

        -  Compare eIF2α phosphorylation, Gleason score, and the time to prostate-specific antigen
           failure in prostate tumor samples obtained from the Gelb Center of the Dana-Farber
           Cancer Institute prostate tissue repository. (Part 3)

      OUTLINE: This is a prospective study, followed by a randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled study, followed by a retrospective study.

        -  Part 1: Patients undergo tumor biopsy and blood sample collection at baseline. Samples
           are analyzed by gas-liquid chromatography for determination of n-3 and n-6
           polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) red cell membrane concentrations. Biopsy samples are
           analyzed for eIF2α phosphorylation by immunohistochemistry. Some patients proceed to
           part 2.

        -  Part 2: Patients undergo blood sampling as in part 1 with additional tumor and blood
           collection on day 28. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive oral n-3 PUFAs (fish oil) once daily for 28 days prior to
                tumor resection.

             -  Arm II (control): Patients receive oral n-6 PUFAs (corn oil) once daily for 28 days
                prior to tumor resection.

        -  Part 3: Tumor samples and associated pathology data (Gleason score) and clinical data
           (PSA values and patient's outcome) are obtained from a prostate tissue repository at the
           Gelb Center of the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute. Samples are analyzed to correlate eIF2α
           phosphorylation, Gleason scores, and time to PSA failure.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 600 patients and 1,000 stored tissue samples will be accrued
      for this study.
    
  