
    
      A randomized control trial of healthy children (3-9 years old) undergoing ambulatory dental
      surgery was conducted to investigate the efficacy of intraoperative IV fluids containing
      dextrose for antiemetic prophylaxis.

      The control group (146 participants) received dexamethasone (0.15 mg/kg IV) and ondansetron
      (0.05 mg/kg IV); the intervention group (144) received dexamethasone (0.15 mg/kg IV) and
      intravenous 5% dextrose in 0.9% normal saline (D5NS) as per a weight based maintenance rate.

      Patients underwent a general anesthetic maintained with a volatile anesthetic. There was not
      a standardized protocol for anesthetic induction and maintenance, and all types and doses of
      anesthetic medications were chosen and administered at the discretion of the
      anesthesiologist. Intraoperative administration of any other antiemetic medications
      constituted protocol violation and excluded the patient from analysis. There were no
      modifications to the planned dental procedure.

      Once IV access was established and the patient was intubated, the maintenance study solution
      was connected and infused throughout the operative period. Additional fluid (Ringer's
      Lactate) was available to the anesthesiologists to administer as per their preference.

      The study drug was administered to the patient by the anesthesiologist at the end of the
      procedure, when the throat packing was removed and the IV maintenance study solution was
      stopped. Before emergence from anesthesia, the researcher measured and recorded the patient's
      blood sugar via a chemstrip (AccuCheck aviva ®). Ringer's Lactate IV fluid, not part of study
      protocol, was continued in recovery based on the anesthesiologist's preference.

      All patients were transferred to the post-anesthetic care unit (PACU) at the end of the
      procedure. Discharge from the PACU was based on the Post Anesthetic Discharge Scoring System
      (PADSS) and institutional guidelines. Nursing staff and researchers recorded the presence and
      incidence of POV in the PACU. Analgesics and antiemetic agents were prescribed by the
      anesthesiologist during the recovery period and given according to nursing assessment based
      on institutional guidelines.

      Researchers phoned participants 24 hours after discharge to inquire about incidence of emesis
      and any need to seek medical attention after being discharged from the institution.
    
  