
    
      The most successful treatment for aplastic anemia is bone marrow transplantation. However,
      few patients are eligible for this procedure. For others, treatment usually consists of
      immunosuppressive agents, such as antithymocyte globulin (ATG) and cyclosporine.
      Unfortunately, even with immunosuppressive therapy, relapse is common. New combinations of
      medications may offer alternative and more effective treatment options. Sirolimus and
      cyclosporine are two drugs routinely used to suppress the immune system and prevent rejection
      in patients who have received organ transplants. While cyclosporine has been proven effective
      for treating aplastic anemia, sirolimus has not been tested for this disease. This study will
      evaluate the safety and efficacy of sirolimus in combination with cyclosporine for treating
      individuals with aplastic anemia that has not responded to other treatments.

      This study will last at least 6 months. Participants will first be screened to verify
      diagnosis of aplastic anemia. The screening will include a physical examination, blood test,
      bone marrow biopsy from the pelvic bone, and review of medications and medical history.
      Individuals who are eligible will then start the first treatment period. Participants will
      receive two medications: cyclosporine will be taken twice a day and sirolimus will be taken
      once a day. Depending on side effects, the doses of either drug may be temporarily stopped or
      lowered. On Day 1, blood will be drawn and females will undergo a pregnancy test. Subsequent
      study visits will occur weekly for the first month, every 2 weeks for 2 months, and then once
      a month for the remainder of the study. Each visit will include a physical examination, vital
      sign assessment, and review of side effects and medications. Blood tests will be performed
      weekly for the first 3 weeks, and then every 2 weeks.

      After 6 months of treatment, if a participant has shown improvements in disease status
      without major side effects, the treatment will continue. Over time the doses may be lowered.
      If a participant has not improved while on the study medication, treatment will stop at 6
      months. Whenever treatment is discontinued, the participant will again undergo a physical
      examination, blood tests, and bone marrow biopsy.
    
  