
    
      Patients with possible operable NSCLC after staging with CT are randomised to PET-CT with FDG
      or not, prior to mediastinoscopy. All patients are referred to mediastinoscopy unless a
      positive FDG uptake results in a positive biopsy suggesting stage IV disease.

      Biopsies are performed according to the following criteria:

        1. Lymph nodes are numbered according the Mountain classification, and abnormal lesions
           must be confirmed histologically, by mediastinoscopy or thoracotomy.

        2. PET-positive lesions in the liver must be biopsied unless ultrasound or MRI
           unequivocally indicate the lesions are benign cysts or haemangioma.

        3. PET-negative adrenal lesions are accepted without biopsy if CT scan indicate the lesion
           is a benign adenoma.

        4. PET-positive bone lesions must be evaluated by plain x-ray, CT, MRI, or bone
           scintigraphy. In case of equivocal findings a biopsy must be performed.

        5. PET-positive brain lesions must be confirmed by CT or MRI.

      Number of patients:

      Patients with clinically operable NSCLC after CT-staging are included. All patients must have
      mediastinoscopy performed.

      All patients referred to mediastinoscopy can be randomised after informed consent. A total of
      430 consecutive, non-selected patients are planned. It is anticipated that approximately 60%
      of the referred patients with clinical stage I-IIIa NSCLC will undergo thoracotomy, and a
      risk of type I and II error of 5% and 10%, respectively, is accepted. Thus a total of 215
      patients are randomised in each arm in order to observe an absolute difference of 15% in the
      number of thoracotomies. This number seems to be sufficient to evaluate differences in the
      secondary endpoints.

      After inclusion of a total of 220 patients, corresponding to 110 PET-scans, an interim
      analyses are performed. In case of a highly significant difference in the number of
      thoracotomies (p < 0,001) the study will be closed.
    
  