
    
      The epidemic of child abuse in the U.S. (>670,000 confirmed annually) causes massive harm to
      children and the adults they become. Surprisingly, <1% of these substantiated cases of child
      abuse are identified and reported by early childhood professionals (ECPs) -though they take
      care of >10 million American children.

      In the parent study, the online learning program, iLookOut for Child Abuse (iLookOut), has
      been shown to significantly improve ECPs' knowledge and attitudes about child
      abuse/reporting; and preliminary data from an NICHD-sponsored randomized controlled trial
      suggest that iLookOut also improves ECPs' actual reporting of suspected abuse -ie, a greater
      likelihood of reports being screened-in, and screened-in reports leading to findings of abuse
      and/or social services being recommended.

      It is known that for gains in knowledge to be sustained, they must be reinforced …and
      reinforced again -because newly acquired knowledge decays over time unless it is put into
      use. To that end, the investigators have built and piloted a micro-learning platform that
      delivers gamified, interactive, micro-learning activities to 1) reinforce information taught
      in iLookOut's (3-hour) core learning program, 2) augment this learning with new material, and
      3) provide opportunities to practice applying what has been learned. ECPs can complete
      micro-learning activities on their smartphones, and receive 3 additional hours of
      professional development credit (at no cost). Since deploying this platform, the majority of
      ECPs enrolling in the parent iLookOut study have engaged in >1 hour of micro-learning.

      Because so many ECPs are willing to engage in iLookOut's micro-learning, and because spaced
      retrieval and spaced practice are known to improve learning, the investigators have reason to
      believe that this new intervention can help sustain ECPs' preparedness to appropriately
      identify and report suspected child abuse. What is not known is the rate of knowledge decay
      following iLookOut's core learning program; whether a multi-faceted implementation strategy
      (core + micro-learning) helps remediate decays in knowledge; and what is the best timing to
      introduce this reinforcement -immediately, or after a delay of some months.

      iLookOut's micro-learning platform is fully integrated with the learning management system
      for iLookOut's core learning program, and a cognitive sequencing map helps ensure that
      micro-learning content is fully aligned with the core learning program. Upgrading the
      functionality of the current micro-learning activities will enable the investigators to
      capture the kind of granular, question-level data needed for rigorous research. Conducting a
      randomized controlled trial in Pennsylvania (where micro-learning has not yet been
      introduced) will allow the investigators to evaluate how well interactive, micro-learning
      activities improve learning, and more generally how a multi-faceted implementation strategy
      that utilizes mobile technology-based learning (ie, using smartphones) can better prepare
      ECPs to appropriately identify and report suspected child abuse.
    
  