
    
      When cure is not longer possible, cancer patients enter the palliative phase. For many types
      of cancer several treatment options are available. The goal of this treatment is to prolong
      survival, but maintenance or even improvement of quality of life is of equal importance. The
      currently available systemic treatment options consist of conventional cytotoxic therapy,
      hormonal therapy, immunotherapy and the so-called targeted therapies. Combinations of these
      therapies are also being used. Targeted therapy concerns the application of a new class of
      drugs that are specifically directed against one or more well-defined molecular targets that
      are relevant for carcinogenesis, cell cycle regulation, tumour progression, metastasis,
      tumour angiogenesis and/or apoptosis. Today, the most successful drugs in this class are
      directed against the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and the epidermal growth
      factor receptor (EGFR). There is an explosive development ongoing in this field and many new
      drugs become available that have new targets or inhibit a combinations of targets. Meanwhile,
      targeted therapy has shown efficacy in many types of cancer and is registered for several
      indications.

      The toxicity profile of targeted therapies is still largely unknown, and the aetiology of
      many known side effects has not been clarified. This implies that the effective treatment of
      side effects is in an early phase of development. Given the impact of side effects on the
      quality of life of a patient, increased knowledge on this topic is urgently required.
      Currently only a few systematic studies are available that address this issue. At the moment,
      three targeted therapies that are directed against VEGF are registered and used in the
      Netherlands: Sunitinib (Sutent®) and Sorafenib (Nexavar ®) both oral drugs and Bevacizumab
      (Avastin®), an intravenously drug.

      In this study we will focus on fatigue, quality of life and depression in patients with
      metastatic cancer, treated with Sunitinib and Sorafenib. Fatigue is one of the most frequent
      side effects of targeted therapy that are directed against VEGF and that can have a huge
      influence on the quality of life. The incidence of fatigue in patients using Sunitinib in
      phase I studies was 70% and the fatigue was often dose limiting. (1-4) In phase II-III
      studies the incidence was 27% - 51%. 5,6 In a phase III randomized, double-blind
      placebo-controlled trial of Sorafenib the incidence of fatigue in the Sorafenib group was 37%
      and in the placebo group 28%. (7) It is possible that fatigue is a symptom of depression or
      anxiety, alternatively, prolonged fatigue in itself can lead to depression or anxiety.8 There
      has been found a significant and positive correlation between anxiety and depressive symptoms
      and fatigue after treatment for cancer.
    
  