
    
      Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) causes 1.8 million deaths annually. Sub-Saharan Africa
      carries the highest burden of tuberculosis (TB) with recurrent TB rates between 3-5% after
      treatment completion accounting for 10-30% of all cases within some TB control programs.
      Multiple risk factors have been identified to cause recurrent diseases. A recent study has
      identified persistent lesion activity by 18F-fluoro-D-glucose positron emission tomography
      (PET/CT) suggesting ongoing inflammation and Mtb mRNA suggesting ongoing infection after
      cure. The presence of inflammation and mRNA implies that current curative treatment options
      for pulmonary TB may not eradicate Mtb in most patients and more potent treatment options
      including host-directed therapy (HDT) to sterilize during or after TB treatment is required.

      Mtb accumulates host cholesterol ester in foamy macrophages and utilizes cholesterol for its
      persistence within macrophages. Statins lower cholesterol in cardiovascular diseases through
      inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase, the rate-controlling enzyme of the mevalonate pathway. In
      addition, statins also have broad-range immune-modulatory and anti-inflammatory properties.

      As previously reported in pre-clinical models that statins reduced Mtb burden by enhancing
      autophagy, phagosomal maturation and decreasing pulmonary pathology, suggesting a role for
      statins as HDT in TB. Others reported that statins as adjunctive therapy reduced the time for
      TB cure and decreased lung pathology in mice. A recent population-based study consisting of 1
      million people reported that statin treatment was associated with a decreased risk of active
      TB.

      This protocol builds upon successful studies suggesting that directly monitoring lung
      pathology using PET/CT correlates better with treatment outcome than culture and persistent
      inflammation measured by PET/CT is present after tuberculosis cure in most patients.

      The investigators propose a proof-of-concept phase IIB, double-blind, randomized,
      placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 40 mg atorvastatin per os
      daily to reduce persistent inflammation after TB treatment completion in HIV-infected and
      HIV-uninfected adults measured by PET/CT.

      If successful, this trial has proven that statins as HDT can be safe and effective adjunctive
      therapy to TB treatment in general and further efficacy trials can be undertaken to translate
      the results of this trial into reduced TB relapse rate and reduced post-TB chronic lung
      disease, thus decreased long-term TB-related morbidity.

      The investigators hypothesize that 12 weeks of 40 mg atorvastatin therapy per os initiated at
      the end of successful TB treatment in HIV infected and HIV-uninfected participants will
      significantly reduce persistent lung inflammation on PET/CT scan.

      Primary objective To compare persistent lung inflammation measured by total lung glycolysis
      (TLG) on PET/CT after 12 weeks of 40 mg atorvastatin therapy and placebo.
    
  