
    
      Overview: The goal of this study is to conduct a small randomized control trial (RCT) to test
      the safety and preliminary efficacy of a novel combination therapy to treat acne vulgaris.
      The investigators will also explore the effects of the treatments on psychosocial factors
      (Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI), social anxiety, depressive symptomatology, and
      self-esteem). The RCT will have 3 arms: 1) FDA approved treatment: blue light phototherapy
      (BLP); 2) Microcurrent therapy (MCT); and 3) combination therapy (BLP + MCT). The main
      outcomes will be: 1) number of acne lesions; 2) amount of sebum produced, 3) degree of acne
      severity; and 4) improvement in dermatologic quality of life. The specific aims of the study
      are:

      Aim 1: To explore the use of MCT to improve blood flow and lymphatic drainage and promote
      tissue repair in patients with acne vulgaris.

      Aim 2: To examine the safety and preliminary efficacy of enhancing traditional blue light
      therapy treatment with microcurrent therapy (BLP + MCT) to promote faster healing in patients
      with acne vulgaris.

      Aim 3: To determine if combination therapy is a more effective (fewer number of acne lesions,
      decreased amount of sebum produced, lesser degree of acne severity and greater improvement in
      dermatologic quality of life) for acne than either type of monotherapy.

      Aim 4: To explore the effects of the three modalities on psychosocial factors (social
      anxiety, depressive symptomatology, and self-esteem).

      The investigators will recruit up to 60 males and females and randomly assign them to one of
      3 treatment arms (blue light phototherapy (BLP); microcurrent therapy (MCT); and combination
      therapy (BLP and MCT). All participants will complete a baseline assessment prior to
      initiating treatment one follow-up assessment at 4 weeks post termination of treatment.
      During the treatment phase, the investigators will conduct intermediary assessments to track
      the progression of the treatment over time at weeks 3 and 5 as well as 1 week post the
      termination of the treatment (week 6). The investigators will conduct both physiological and
      psychosocial assessments; the content of the intermediary assessment will be much less than
      the other 3 assessments to reduce participant data. The most comprehensive assessments will
      be conducted at baseline and one follow-up points and will consist of all of the
      physiological and psychosocial factors as well as demographic factors that will be collected
      exclusively at the baseline assessment. At the intermediary assessments, the investigators
      will collect the number of acne lesions, amount of sebum produced and dermatologic quality of
      life. Psychosocial data will be collected via computer-assisted self-interviews (CASI).
      Physiological data will be entered into the computer program by research staff.

      Procedures for collecting psychosocial data: All assessments will be conducted using
      computer-assisted self-interviews (CASI). Participants will be assigned a unique study
      identification number (ID) that will be used to track data. Computer-assisted self-interviews
      are more effective than other tools for measuring sensitive and socially stigmatized
      behaviors. This mode of data collection eliminates interviewer bias, standardizes
      questionnaire administration, and reduces skip pattern errors. Using CASI, the participant
      responds to the questions using the computer keyboard or mouse. Selection of CASI for data
      collection decreases costs and error of entry, cleaning data, and publication lag, as well as
      enhances interviewer efficiency. The laptop computers the investigators use for data
      collection have been set up with two different log-in screens, one for participants and one
      for an administrator. The screen used by participants only contains the icon to access the
      CASI system. No other files appear or are available on this screen. The investigators access
      the CASI for participants by clicking the icon and filling in the assigned participant ID
      number (not participant name) completing all set up procedures. The investigator then
      provides a brief training on using the laptop and completing the CASI. As part of this
      training, the participant will complete a brief set of practice questions illustrative of the
      type of questions and the responses contained in the assessment. The investigator remains
      with the participant during the practice session to answer questions or to provide additional
      instructions. Participants will be encouraged to seek assistance, if needed, as they complete
      the interview. At this point, the interview starts and the participant completes the
      interview on their own. Once the participant completes the interview, he/she comes upon a
      screen instructing him/her to contact the investigators so that the file may be saved
      correctly.

      Procedures for collecting physiological data: The investigators will conduct visual
      inspection of the affected areas and systematically count the number of acne lesions present
      on the face. At baseline and the follow-up assessment the investigators will also take high
      quality digital photographs of the affected areas that will be used to compute the degree of
      acne severity. The photographs will be identified exclusively by study ID and will be kept in
      a password protected file in a secure NSU computer. The Sebumeter® SM 815 sebum meter will be
      used to estimate the amount of sebum produced. The investigators will bring the mat tape of
      the meter in contact with the affected areas. This instrument uses a non-invasive probe
      placed on the affected area and the instrument then calculates the amount of sebum produced.
    
  