
    
      The Cardiovascular Risk Factors, Aging and Dementia (CAIDE) study was initiated in 1998 with
      the main scope of investigating the potential role of modifiable risk and protective factors
      in the development of dementia. 2000 people, who, in mid-life between 1972 and 1987, had
      taken part in the North Karelia, and FINMONICA survey studies, were invited to participate.
      These previous cohort studies focused mostly on cardiovascular disease and related risk
      factors and provided baseline data for the CAIDE study. Within CAIDE, two follow-ups have
      been carried out so far, the first in 1998 and the second between 2005 and 2008, on average
      21 and more than 30 years after the baseline studies, respectively.

      The CAIDE study has, so far, provided essential knowledge on several midlife risk and
      protective factors for dementia, including interactions between genetics and lifestyle. In
      addition, the CAIDE Dementia Risk Score was developed as the first tool for predicting the
      risk of late-life dementia in middle-aged people, based on their lifestyle and cardiovascular
      risk profiles.

      Ten years after the second re-examination, the CAIDE participants are now well in their
      middle 80s' or older. Despite being the fastest growing segment of the population, this age
      group has been only rarely the subject of similar observational studies. By investigating the
      health status, quality of life, and overall psycho-physical functionality in this population
      the investigators aim to further examine risk and protective factors for dementia. To this
      aim, a life-course approach will be applied on a unique longitudinal population-based dataset
      spanning over 40 years, a very long period of time that is rarely achievable in observational
      studies. The results will also provide insights on the predictors and determinants of quality
      of life and psychosocial wellbeing in the oldest old.

      CAIDE85+ is the third follow-up of the main CAIDE study. At baseline (midlife), data on e.g.
      socio-demographics, lifestyle, anthropometric measurements, blood pressure, blood markers,
      and medical history were recorded. In addition, the first and second late-life
      re-examinations included cognitive assessments (three-step protocol for the diagnosis of Mild
      Cognitive Impairment and dementia), APOEƐ4 genotyping, and more detailed data on psychosocial
      factors, and medication use. In principle, the same measurements and methods will be used in
      CAIDE 85+, except for modifications/adaptations required by the specifics of the 85+ study
      population, or recent scientific developments related to the aims of the study. New
      developments compared with previous re-examinations include e.g. single-step assessment of
      cognitive status for all participants; more detailed assessment of physical functioning,
      multimorbidity and frailty; inclusion of questionnaires on oral health, sleep quality,
      malnutrition, and health-related quality of life.

      Potential participants will be identified within the original CAIDE cohort, i.e. individuals
      who are still alive and living in the area where the study takes place (Kuopio and Joensuu,
      Finland).
    
  