
    
      Cancer-Related Fatigue (CRF) is one of the common distressed symptoms that leukemia patients
      experienced during the period of chemotherapy. Exercise is the most effective
      non-pharmacologic treatment but inpatients refuse to do exercise in clinical settings in
      Taiwan. Decreased physical activity may increase the intensity of fatigue and degenerate the
      physical fitness; however, there is no study to explore the trajectories of fatigue and
      physical fitness for leukemia patient during hospitalization. Therefore, the purposes of this
      study are to (1) explore the severity of symptom of leukemia patients experienced before and
      after chemotherapy in hospital, (2) investigate the trajectories of the fatigue and physical
      fitness, and their related factors, and (3) the correlation between fatigue and physical
      fitness. A longitudinal designed study will be conducted to recruit the leukemia patients in
      a medical center in Taipei. Eligible patients are those will be going to receive chemotherapy
      and in hospital at least one week. Time periods for data collection will be in the first 48
      hours after hospitalization (T0) and the 48 hours before the patient discharged (T1). A set
      of structured questionnaire will be used to collected data including the Background
      information form, the Fatigue Symptom Inventory, the Cancer Fatigue Scale, the Symptom
      Severity Scale, and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale. Patients will be received
      physical fitness test including the 6-Minute Walking Test, grip strength, and 30-second chair
      stand test. The descriptive statistics will be used to analyze the severity of symptom
      distress, fatigue, and the change of physical fitness, and the inferential statistics was
      used to analyze the correlation of the symptom, fatigue, and physical fitness. Besides,
      generalized estimating equations (GEE) will be used to analysis the average of population
      change of fatigue and physical fitness.
    
  