
    
      Hypothermia in the perioperative setting is receiving increasing attention in anaesthetic and
      surgical care. The paediatric age group is arguably at increased risk and thus deserves more
      intensive focus.

      The investigators wish to undertake a randomized controlled non-inferiority study in which
      two different modalities for preventing inadvertent intraoperative hypothermia are compared.
      The trial will be carried out in a paediatric neurosurgical population in a South-East
      African regional tertiary care hospital.

      The primary objective is to determine whether a low cost and simple method can be as
      effective and safe as a more expensive and technically demanding method. The goal is to
      recruit 40 patients in each of the two study arms. Patients younger than 12 years of age
      presenting for scheduled neurosurgery will be approached and given information about the
      study. If informed consent (and assent, where applicable) is obtained, participants will be
      randomized to one of the two different techniques; either passive heat preservation using
      what has become known as Hibler´s method (interventional group) or active warming with
      warm-air blankets (control group). Throughout the study period core temperature will be
      measured continuously, both for purposes of data accuracy and to maintain safety standards.

      Primary study outcomes focus on the comparative ability of the methods in maintaining
      acceptable core temperatures. The trial will also examine a number of secondary end-points
      such as prevalence of shivering, conscious level, analgesia requirements, oxygenation and
      overall cost.

      Upon completion of the study the investigators will seek to publish the findings in a
      relevant medical journal. Presenting the results in abstract form or as a poster in an
      appropriate medical congress may also be desirable.
    
  