
    
      In the Netherlands all neonates are routinely screened for hearing during the first weeks
      after birth with the Otoacoustic Emissions (OAE) procedure. After the second refer an
      Automated Auditory Brainstem Response (AABR) is performed. The parents of all newborns, born
      at ≥ 37 weeks gestational age, that fail this AABR in the Netherlands (about 550 yearly) will
      be asked for consent for CMV-testing on the dried blood spots. Newborns diagnosed with
      congenital CMV and with confirmed SNHL (≥ 20 dB) are eligible for inclusion. After informed
      consent infants will be randomized before the age of 13 weeks to a treatment group (6 weeks
      valganciclovir 32 mg/kg daily dose; oral solution) or control group (no antiviral treatment).
      Infants will be monitored for leucopenia and liver- and kidney function. Inclusion will
      continue for at least 1.5 years, or until 25 infants in each treatment arm have been
      randomized.

      At 1 year follow-up hearing and child development are assessed. Hearing will be assessed with
      Brainstem Evoked Response Audiometry at an audiological center. Child development will be
      assessed during a home visit with the Bayley Scales of Infant Development III and parents
      will fill in the Dutch Child Development Inventory (NCDI) which will give more detailed
      information on communicative development of their child. Viral loads in blood and urine will
      be monitored during antiviral treatment as well as twice in the control group.

      This study will provide information on the percentage of infants with a congenital CMV
      infection who fail the neonatal hearing screening . The RCT will show whether early treatment
      of congenital CMV infected children with hearing impairment prevents deterioration of hearing
      loss and to what extent. The outcome may lead to implementation of congenital CMV testing in
      the neonatal hearing screening program or possibly into the newborn blood screening.
    
  