
    
      Aortic valve stenosis is a serious chronic life-threatening in the short or medium term since
      the onset of functional symptoms. Aortic valve replacement surgery is currently the treatment
      of choice. It is done by surgery with sternotomy and extracorporeal circulation. However,
      despite the considerable improvement of the conditions of care per and post operative, this
      procedure is sometimes burdened with high mortality, especially in the population with severe
      co-morbidities and / or many. For this reason, some patients are considered against the
      indicated surgery or high surgical risk.

      The recent development of aortic valve bioprostheses implanted with new approaches (pressure
      or transapical) can be considered for aortic valve replacement in a population that was
      previously excluded.

      Based on very thorough evaluation of these valves test benches and animal as well as human
      settlements achieved through multiple studies and registries mono or multi patients
      challenged by cardiac surgeons or considered at high surgical risk, it is clear that the
      implementation of these valves could allow, under conditions of optimal implementation and
      monitoring, improve short-and long-term clinical status, quality of life and prognosis of
      patients.

      FRANCE 2 registry, established in 2010, and whose inclusions ended 30 June 2012 has allowed
      an initial assessment of aortic valve bioprostheses implanted catheter The following registry
      France 2 has been requested by the highest authorities of health, FRANCE register TAVI is
      performed in continuity FRANCE 2. It takes account of the first data FRANCE 2. Data Report
      Form has been reduced, no new item has been added, it will be carried out in all centers
      authorized in France to implement this technique. The collection of data will TAVI France
      under the same conditions as those FRANCE 2, the database will be managed by the French
      Society of Cardiology
    
  