
    
      The prevalence of patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) worldwide has increased from 30
      million in 1985 to 180 million at the present time. In China, the incidence of overweight,
      obesity, and DM has increased rapidly due to the significant change of diet and lifestyle
      resulted from rapid economic development. As estimated by International Diabetes Federation
      (IDF), the number of the patients with DM was about 39.8 million in China in 2007, and it is
      anticipated that the number would reach 59.3 million in 2025 [11]. At the same time there are
      a similar number of pre-diabetes patients with risk factors of cardiovascular diseases in
      China. DM and its associated microvascular and macrovascular complications could severely
      affects patients' quality of life and duration of survival and lead to significant increase
      in medical expenditure.

      There have been a number of epidemiological surveys of diabetes conducted in other countries.
      However, there is little specific data available on the status of DM control and clinical
      outcomes of prevention and treatment of diabetic cardiovascular complications and other
      microvascular complications in China. This has made it difficult for clinicians to
      effectively make medical choices for patients with a variety of risk factors and
      complications.

      This study is thus designed to assess the level of control of CVD risk factors, including
      blood pressure, blood lipid, and blood glucose, in outpatients with type 2 DM nation-wide
      across 6 representative regions in China: Northeast, North, East, South, Southwest and
      Northwest. The difference in clinical outcomes between the regions and between the three
      different tiers of hospitals, i.e. tier 3 (primary or teaching hospitals), tier 2 (secondary
      or city level hospitals), and tier 1 (community hospitals/health centers), will be made. The
      primary measurements include 1)Proportion of patients reaching adequate control of blood
      glucose (1B); 2)Proportion of patients reaching adequate control of blood glucose and blood
      pressure, or blood glucose and blood lipid (2B); and 3)Proportion of patients reaching
      adequate control of all 3Bs, i.e. blood glucose, blood pressure, and blood lipid. Other
      measurements include proportion of microvascular and macrovascular diabetic complications, DM
      treatment pattern and influence factors, physician prescribing behaviors, etc.
    
  