
    
      Primary Objectives:

        1. To determine point estimates for the incidence of ovulation within five days of oral
           ulipristal acetate (UPA) administration with same day etonogestrel (ENG) implant
           insertion in the presence of a dominant follicle.

        2. To determine point estimates for the incidence of ovulation within five days of
           etonogestrel (ENG) implant insertion alone in the presence of a dominant follicle.

      Secondary:

        -  Define the timing of ovulation in the 1st seven days following UPA with same day ENG
           implant insertion in the presence of a dominant follicle.

        -  Define the timing of ovulation in the 1st seven days following ENG implant insertion in
           the presence of a dominant follicle.

        -  Assess ovarian quiescence by ultrasound, Luteinizing hormone (LH) and progesterone
           measurements 14 days (+/- 2 days) after implant initiation.

      Clinical hypotheses:

        -  Combined oral UPA administration with same day ENG implant insertion will interfere with
           UPA's effect in delaying ovulation as occurs with oral progestogens given within 1-2
           days of UPA.

        -  The ENG implant alone delays ovulation beyond 5 days when initiated at the time of a
           dominant follicle.

      Study Design: Pilot randomized, single site clinical trial with blinded analysis

      Participant recruitment and study site: The investigators will recruit participants
      interested in using the ENG contraceptive implant but not currently at risk for pregnancy
      from Planned Parenthood Association of Utah clinics, University of Utah Hospital and
      Community clinics, and through targeted social media ads. All study procedures will occur at
      the University of Utah Hospital Outpatient OBGYN Clinic or at the University Center for
      Reproductive Medicine clinic.

      Sample size: This is a pilot proposal to recruit a total of 40 participants across 2 study
      arms: (1) ENG implant only (n=20) and (2) UPA + same day ENG implant insertion (n=20). The
      investigators null hypotheses are:

        1. ENG implant along with UPA administration in the presence of a dominant ovarian follicle
           will not change the expected 97% ovulation suppression within 5 days of UPA use.

        2. ENG implant insertion alone in the presence of a dominant ovarian follicle will not
           sufficiently interrupt ovulation.

      Randomization scheme: block randomization with block size of 4

      Blinding protocol: This study will not be blinded as a pilot. The feasibility of the study,
      including clinic space limitations and provider time, relies on the same healthcare provider
      for implant insertion and ultrasound in many patients. All statistical analyses will be
      blinded to the statistician.

      Participant procedures:

      Screening Visit (Screening Visit 1): Subjects will be screened for eligibility and interest
      in the study. Each subject will have the study explained and, if participation is desired,
      informed consent documents will be signed prior to any study procedures. The screening visit
      will include: review of medical, surgical and social history, medications, menstrual dating,
      sexual history and contraceptive use, physical exam, including breast and pelvic, pregnancy
      test and a transvaginal ultrasound to ensure ability to document ovarian follicular activity
      in the treatment cycle.

      Progesterone Visit (Screening Visit 2): This brief visit will occur on days 20-24 of the
      menstrual cycle and may be combined with the screening visit (Visit 1) if the time-frame is
      met. This visit will include a review of any interim changes (if completed separate from the
      screening visit) in history, medications, pregnancy risk/contraception, and a serum
      progesterone level will be drawn. The participants will notify the study coordinator of the
      1st day of their next menses.

      Ovarian monitoring (Screening Visits 3-7 +/- 2 visits): Participants will undergo
      transvaginal ultrasound evaluation of their ovaries three times a week starting on cycle day
      #7 (+/- 2 days). If/ When investigators identify a lead follicle with a mean diameter of
      >13mm in at least 2 dimensions, study follow-up will switch to daily monitoring.

      Treatment Day #1 (Treatment Visit #1): Once a lead follicle (>14mm) is identified then
      participants will be randomized to one of two treatment groups:

        1. ENG implant insertion

        2. UPA 30mg PO tablet and same-day ENG implant insertion Assigned treatment will be
           administered (UPA and/or ENG implant insertion). Study team will obtain serum
           progesterone, LH levels, and estradiol levels.

      Treatment Days #2-8 (Treatment Visits #2-8): Participants will follow up daily for Days 2-8.
      Each day investigators will obtain transvaginal ultrasound measurement of ovarian follicle
      size, serum progesterone, LH levels, and estradiol levels. Daily transvaginal ultrasounds
      will continue until either follicle rupture is documented, the follicle is <12 mm on two
      consecutive visits, or Day 8 ultrasound occurs (7 days after implant insertion), whichever
      occurs first.

      Treatment Day #14 (Exit Visit): Repeat ultrasound will occur on Day 14 following ENG implant
      insertion, and this will be the exit visit.

      Data collection: Source documents for each participant and visit number will be completed by
      the study personnel at the time of the visit. Form development, data collection, and data
      management will occur in RedCAP, secure web platform for building and managing online
      databases and surveys. Source documents maintained in individual participant binders.

      Assessing and reporting adverse events: The reporting period for AEs is the period
      immediately following the subject signing the informed consent through the 30 days following
      the final study visit. Each visit will include assessment of how the participant felt since
      the last visit, review of adverse event reports, implant insertion site reactions, lab
      results, and vital signs and physical exam findings. AEs will not be reported for screen
      failures unless a SAE is experienced during screening. For all AEs, the investigator will
      pursue and obtain information adequate to determine the outcome of the AE and to assess
      whether it met criteria for a SAE. Participants who have ongoing AEs or SAEs will be followed
      until resolution or stabilization or referred for additional care. AEs will be documented
      both on source documents and in the clinical database with SAEs reported per IRB guidelines.
      Participants will be provided instructions for contacting the study site to report any
      untoward medical occurrences. With permission from the participant, whenever possible records
      from all non-study medical providers related to medical occurrences will be obtained for
      review. AEs and SAEs will be reviewed by the Data Safety Monitoring Board.

      Statistical Analyses:

      The investigator and study team will be responsible for analyzing the study data. The
      official clinical database in RedCAP will not be analyzed until medical/scientific review has
      been completed, protocol violators have been identified (if appropriate), and data has been
      declared complete.

      Variables/Time Points of Interest The primary outcome is delay in rupture of the dominant
      follicle by 5 days (yes/no) between group 1 (ENG implant alone) and group 2 (UPA with same
      day ENG implant). If the date of follicle rupture was unclear by ultrasound
      alone,investigators will utilize serum hormone levels to adjudicate day of rupture. These
      measures include day of follicle collapse, day and value of highest LH, day and value of
      highest progesterone level. Investigators will use an estradiol level of >100pg/ml to confirm
      the enlarged follicle is the dominant follicle on the treatment day.

      Statistical Methods The primary and secondary dichotomous outcome measures of ovulation by 5
      days will be assessed by Wilcoxon sign rank test and demographic will be analyzed using
      descriptive statistics.

      Power/Sample Size:

      The investigator and study team will be responsible for analyzing the study data. The
      official clinical database in RedCAP will not be analyzed until medical/scientific review has
      been completed, protocol violators have been identified (if appropriate), and data has been
      declared complete.

      Variables/Time Points of Interest The primary outcome is delay in rupture of the dominant
      follicle by 5 days (yes/no) between group 1 (ENG implant alone) and group 2 (UPA with same
      day ENG implant). If the date of follicle rupture was unclear by ultrasound alone,
      investigators will utilize serum hormone levels to adjudicate day of rupture. These measures
      include day of follicle collapse, day and value of highest LH, day and value of highest
      progesterone level. Investigators will use an estradiol level of >100pg/ml to confirm the
      enlarged follicle is the dominant follicle on the treatment day.

      This is a pilot study to obtain point estimates for future study proposals. Current data on
      ovulatory function with mid-cycle implant insertion or the pharmacodynamics interactions
      between same day UPA and ENG are lacking.

      Should data show that ovulation occurs <15% within 5 days of combined UPA use and ENG implant
      initiation, investigators will pursue an adequately powered study assessing ovulation delay
      with UPA only vs. UPA with ENG implant initiation. This finding would show that UPA's
      relationship with the ENG implant may be different than what has been found with oral
      progestogens. If ovulation occurs 15% in the first 5 days with combined use of these
      medications, this would support the current practice of delaying implant insertion after UPA
      administration.

      Should data show that the ENG implant insertion alone in the presence of a dominant follicle
      delays or stops ovulation >85%, investigators will pursue an adequately powered study
      assessing the ENG implant alone for EC. If ovulation occurs >15%, this would support
      continuation of the practice of using a backup method when an implant is inserted after the
      first 7 days of the menstrual cycle.

      These pre-specified criteria to judge if and how to proceed are consistent with CONSORT
      guidelines for randomized pilot and feasibility trials.[11]
    
  