
    
      Background:

      Overweight is a serious public health problem which can begin in early childhood. Factors
      which contribute to overweight include: overfeeding, excessive intakes of fat and sugar;
      frequent sedentary activities (i.e. television watching).

      Overweight, defined as a BMI > 95th percentile, in early childhood has reached epidemic
      proportions with 14% of 2-5 year olds overweight and 26.2% "at risk of overweight," defined
      as a BMI > 85th percentile (Ogden et al., 2006).

      Dietary and physical activity patterns established early in life track over time, making the
      first few years of life an ideal time to help families establish healthy eating and physical
      activity behaviors and avoid overweight. This project works to identify techniques that could
      prevent overweight.

      Purpose of Study:

      The investigators are collaborating with the Anne Arundel County, MD Special Supplemental
      Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) and the University of Maryland's
      Pediatric Ambulatory Center to implement strategies that will prevent overweight among
      toddlers. The project focuses on the dietary, physical activity, and growth patterns of WIC
      toddlers. The investigators are conducting a 3-cell randomized trial consisting of: 1) a
      maternal intervention focusing on healthy diet and physical activity patterns for mothers; 2)
      a toddler parenting intervention focusing on parenting, limit setting, and development
      strategies; and 3) an intervention on child safety. The interventions are implemented over 3
      months, with 8 sessions.

      The investigators hypothesize that altering maternal behavior will have a positive impact on
      the growth and development of the toddler by preventing behaviors that lead to overweight
      among children. The parenting intervention will improve parenting skills by offering
      information on proper approaches to feeding, discipline and educational play. The
      investigators will compare the growth patterns of toddlers whose mothers were randomized to
      the maternal and parenting interventions with those in the safety intervention. This study
      design allows us to examine the mechanisms linking the interventions to improvements in diet,
      physical activity, and growth.

      In addition, the investigators will conduct the safety promotion intervention for the
      attention control group, considering the high risk of unintentional injuries among the
      toddlers from low-income families. The investigators also hypothesize that the safety
      promotion intervention will reduce the safety problems of the toddlers' homes. The underlying
      mechanisms will be examined, if there is a significant intervention effect.
    
  