
    
      This is a phase I trial utilizing a traditional 3+3 design to evaluate maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) and optimal dose schedule of pixantrone in combination with bendamustine (120mg/m2 on
      day 1 of each 21 day cycle) and rituximab (375mg/m2 on day 1 of each 21 day cycle). No
      patients will be entered on an escalated dosage level until at least 3 patients have been
      treated at the previous level and assessed for a dose limiting toxicity. Dose levels will be
      escalated in cohorts of 3 patients as long as no drug-related DLT occurs in the first 2
      cycles. If one patient is observed to suffer a DLT, this cohort will be expanded to include
      at least 6 patients total. If less than 2 patients in the expanded cohort of 6 patients
      experience a DLT, dose escalation will resume. If 2 of 6 patients enrolled at the same dose
      level experience a DLT, the MTD has been exceeded, and the dose escalation will cease. The
      next lower dose will be considered the MTD. If any patient withdraws from the study prior to
      completing 2 cycles for reasons other than a DLT then that patient will be replaced in order
      to determine the MTD.

      If dose limiting toxicity is observed at the initial dose level in 2 patients, the MTD has
      been exceeded and the starting dose level will be reduced to 25mg/m2. If 1 patient
      experiences a DLT in the -1 dose range, the cohort will be expanded to at least 6 patients.
      If a second patient experiences a DLT at the -1 dose level, the trial will be closed.

      For part 1, those who have a confirmed diagnosis of relapsed/refractory B cell non-Hodgkin's
      lymphoma of any subtype will be considered eligible for enrollment. Each cycle will be 21
      days. Subjects will be assessed for DLTs during the first 2 cycles of study drug. They will
      be assessed for response after cycle 2. Patients not experiencing a DLT during the first 2
      cycles and who have stable disease or better may continue to receive up to 6 cycles of
      treatment with the triplet combination. If any patient withdraws from the study prior to
      completing 2 cycles for reasons other than a DLT then that patient will be replaced in order
      to determine the MTD.

      Phase II did not proceed as planned due to withdrawal of pixantrone from the US.
    
  