
    
      The overall objective of this proposal is to validate the potential of noninvasive magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) and spectroscopy (MRS) to monitor disease progression and to serve as
      an outcome measure for clinical trials in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). DMD is one of
      the most devastating genetically linked neuromuscular diseases and is characterized by the
      absence of dystrophin, resulting in progressive muscle weakness, loss of walking ability and
      premature death. Despite the poor prognosis for patients with muscular dystrophy, therapeutic
      interventions have been lacking, and outcome measures for clinical trials have been limited
      to measures of muscle function, serum biomarkers of muscle breakdown and invasive muscle
      biopsies. Additional quantitative outcome measures that are noninvasive and sensitive to
      changes in muscle structure and composition are needed to facilitate the rapid translation of
      promising new interventions from preclinical studies to clinical trials. As such, this
      proposal targets the development and validation of magnetic resonance as a noninvasive
      biomarker of disease progression in muscular dystrophy. Using a multi-site research design
      this study will examine the intramuscular lipid content, muscle damage/inflammation and
      contractile area in the lower extremity and/or upper extremity muscles of 200 ambulatory or
      non-ambulatory boys with DMD and 100 healthy age matched boys using a combination of MRI and
      MRS technologies. In order to assess the sensitivity of each MR measure to disease
      progression, all boys with DMD will be reevaluated in yearly or 6 month intervals. In
      addition, the investigators will correlate changes in MR measures with standard measures of
      disease progression, such as loss in muscle strength and functional ability. Using MRI/MRS
      the investigators will also examine the effect of initiating corticosteroid treatment on
      skeletal muscle characteristics and composition. Finally, the investigators will deposit
      immortalized fibroblasts from carefully characterized DMD boys participating in this study in
      established tissue repositories.

      The investigators anticipate that the MR techniques developed and validated in this proposal
      will be suitable for clinical trials in a wide range of muscular dystrophies and other
      neuromuscular diseases. In addition, MR characterization may serve as a powerful tool to
      further advance our understanding of the pathogenesis of muscular dystrophy and help guide
      the design of future trials.
    
  