
    
      The main objective of this project is to evaluate the efficacy, costs and benefits of
      homeopathic treatment therapies.This study will be conducted in the Kroo Bay community within
      Freetown, the capital city of Sierra Leone. This is a region where malaria is endemic with an
      annual average of one malaria episode per person.Further, given the high rates of poverty,
      most residents cannot afford to purchase the conventional drugs used to treat the malaria.
      Chloroquine, which is the cheapest drug available, is no longer efficacious for P.falciparum
      parasites.

      The study will utilize a longitudinal approach that is divided into three major phases. The
      first is a pre-test period involving the preparation and review of protocols, staff training,
      purchase of equipment and medical supplies. Phase two constitutes an open randomised
      controlled trial phase that is divided into five stages. The first stage IIA involves subject
      recruitment from the Kroo-Bay community in the capital city of Freetown. Approximately 780
      permanent residents (ages 18+) living within a radius of 10 km within the community would be
      recruited. A questionnaire would be administered to evaluate personal case histories, use of
      mosquito bed nets, frequency of malaria diagnoses, the kinds of treatments used in the past,
      and knowledge of alternative treatment therapies. Other variables such as age, height,
      weight, gender, occupation and socio-economic attributes would be collected. All subjects
      would be tested for malaria using blood smears. Those who test positive for malaria, with
      clinical symptoms such as high temperature (>37.5 C) and high levels of parasitemia (asexual
      forms of P falciparum >5000ul blood) would be sent to the local clinic for treatment. These
      individuals would constitute the first subgroup in the study sample. The remaining subjects
      eligible for the clinical trial would be those with no major underlying illnesses, normal
      body temperatures and a reduced load of asexual forms of P falciparum < 5000ul blood). All
      subjects would be monitored for four months and asked to return for their second prophylactic
      treatment in four months (Day 112).

      The next stage (IIB) begins after four months during which subjects are retested for malaria
      and based on their blood sample results (negative), healthy subjects would be given another
      dose of the pellets. They will be monitored for another four months. The same protocol is
      followed in the next three consecutive stages (IIC, IID, and IIE). During each follow-up
      visit, the subjects are retested and those with negative results are placed on their regimen
      for four months.

      The clinical trial phase ends after stage IIE. In the third phase, a post-intervention survey
      will be given to all subjects to evaluate the levels of awareness of malaria and knowledge of
      alternative treatment remedies. All data measures including, residential location, blood test
      results, health histories and socio-demographic attributes would be compiled and analyzed
      statistically to evaluate the effectiveness of the homeopathic treatment. The results are
      expected to be published in a scientific peer-reviewed journal.
    
  