
    
      Rationale: Globally, there are 1.8 million children living with HIV (CLHIV); however, despite
      great progress over the past 15 years, only 52% are receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART),
      leaving approximately 864,000 children in need of treatment. According to the ZAMPHIA study,
      only 50.6% of HIV-positive Zambian children aged 0-14 years knew their HIV status (UNAIDS 1st
      90). Pediatric case finding is the first and, critical step to close the pediatric ART gap.
      In Zambia, there are an estimated 25,920 CLHIV in need of HIV treatment. Reaching this
      population is challenging, because children are dependent on parents and caregivers to access
      HIV testing services. Parents and caregivers often face logistical, societal and other
      barriers that limit the uptake of testing services for children. In order to achieve the
      second and third UNAIDS 95 targets of pediatric HIV treatment coverage and viral load
      suppression to reach epidemic control, country programs need to utilize increasingly targeted
      and innovative testing modalities to optimize the identification CLHIV. Saliva-based
      screening tests may present a safe and reliable way to identify children living with HIV that
      can expand access to this essential service in resource-limited settings where most CLHIV
      reside.

      Methods: The study will have a cross-sectional cluster sampling design, in which large
      facilities in two provinces will be selected using probability-proportional-to-size (PPS)
      sampling. Within each of 15 selected facilities, adult index parent/caregivers who are the
      parent/caregivers of approximately 200 children will be recruited to accept oral fluid-based
      HIV test kits for their children. There will be 3000 participants in the sample. Index
      parent/caregivers will be consented to participate in the study, given a number of OTKs
      corresponding to the number of children eligible for testing, followed up to confirm
      saliva-based test (SBT) results, participate in a testing experience survey, and return the
      OTK. All children screening HIV-positive will receive active linkage to confirmatory
      diagnostic testing, and treatment services for newly diagnosed HIV-positive children. In
      addition to these data, a sample (n=445) of caregivers will be asked questions regarding
      their experiences with administering the screening kit on their children.
    
  