
    
      The scientific Objectives are to study in the Greek population the real-life patient
      characteristics of patients selected for treatment with the inhaled combination of propionic
      Fluticasone and Salmeterol (500+50)mcg - Rolenium- administered with Elpenhaler device and
      the performance of this inhaled combination in terms of effectiveness and safety in
      approximately 2500 COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease) patients with a FEV1 <50%
      predicted normal (pre-bronchodilator), a history of repeated exacerbations and who have
      significant symptoms despite regular bronchodilator therapy treated in Hospital and
      outpatient specialist ward settings, in the daily clinical practice

      The primary endpoints for the study are:

      • Change in FEV1, FVC, FEV1/FVC from baseline to 12 months (±2 weeks) from starting taking
      Rolenium®.

      The Secondary endpoints for the study are:

        -  Change in lung function parameters from baseline to month 6 (±2 weeks) from start of
           Rolenium® treatment

        -  Incidence and frequency of exacerbations

        -  Hospitalizations due to COPD exacerbation

        -  Change in MRC Dyspnea index.

        -  Patient's satisfaction with the use of Elpenhaler device assessed with FSI 10
           Questionnaire after 6 months and after 12 months (±2 weeks).

        -  Concomitant administration of inhaled bronchodilators

        -  ADRs during the treatment period (only via the post-marketing procedure). Methodology
           The study will be a purely observational, prospective study, collecting data on patient
           treated with the inhaled combination of propionic Fluticasone and Salmeterol (500+50)
           mcg,- administered with Elpenhaler device in Greece without any interference with the
           treatment practices of the physicians involved in the data collection. Thus patients
           will only be considered for inclusion after the decision has been taken to treat them
           with inhaled combination of propionic Fluticasone and Salmeterol (500+50) mcg
           administered with Elpenhaler device and no visits, diagnostic procedures or monitoring
           will take place which would not happen had the patient not been included in the study.
           This means that only data generated in usual daily clinical practice will be collected
           in the study, so that no extra examinations or study visits will take place due to the
           study. The study will not be comparative; only inhaled combination of propionic
           Fluticasone and Salmeterol (500+50)mcg,- administered with Elpenhaler device will be
           included. Consecutive patients who are to start the inhaled combination of propionic
           Fluticasone and Salmeterol (500+50) mcg,- administered with Elpenhaler device treatment
           shall be informed about the study and asked for consent. Following usual practice the
           patients will be followed after 6 months and after 12 months (±2 weeks) of the inhaled
           treatment.

      The patients' selection criteria will be according to SmPC.
    
  