
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the progression-free survival and survival of patients with advanced
      cervical cancer limited to the pelvis receiving either radiotherapy alone, or radiotherapy
      plus weekly cisplatin, or radiotherapy plus prolonged venous infusion (PVI) of fluorouracil.
      [Radiotherapy alone regimen closed 8/18/98] II. Determine the relative toxic effects of
      radiation therapy plus chemotherapy with either weekly cisplatin or PVI fluorouracil compared
      to radiation alone. [Radiotherapy alone regimen closed 8/18/98] IV. Compare the
      progression-free survival and survival of patients with advanced cervical cancer limited to
      the pelvis and who smoke at the time of diagnosis versus non-smokers and those who smoke
      during radiation therapy versus those who quit.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified by stage, performance of
      para-aortic lymphadenectomy, and brachytherapy method (HDR vs LDR). Prior to treatment
      patients complete a questionnaire regarding past and present smoking history and exposure to
      secondhand smoke. In arm I, patients undergo external radiation therapy to the pelvis once
      daily 5 times a week for 5 weeks. Then, patients receive either low dose rate or high dose
      rate intracavitary brachytherapy in one or two applications or 5 fractions once or twice a
      week, respectively. If intracavitary radiation therapy cannot be performed, then shrinking
      field technique is executed. In addition, patients receive parametrial boost once daily for 3
      to 5 days during intracavitary brachytherapy. Concurrently, patients receive IV cisplatin
      once a week for 5 weeks beginning on day 1 of external radiation therapy and once during the
      parametrial boost. Patients in arm II receive external radiation therapy and brachytherapy as
      previously described. [Arm II closed 8/18/98] In arm III, patients undergo external radiation
      therapy as described in arm I. In addition, patients receive prolonged venous infusion (PVI)
      fluorouracil daily for 5 days during external beam radiation therapy (whole pelvis and
      parametrial boost). If all 6 courses of cisplatin or fluorouracil cannot be administered
      during external radiation therapy, then the sixth course of chemotherapy will be given during
      brachytherapy. Patients are followed every 3 months for the first 2 years, then every 6
      months for the next 3 years, then annually until death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: This study will accrue a maximum of 870 patients over 66 months.
    
  