
    
      Multiple medications improve left ventricular remodeling, quality of life, and survival in
      patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF). Unfortunately, the
      real-world use of HFrEF medications is suboptimal, particularly for more recently approved
      agents such as aldosterone antagonists. The introduction of sacubitril/valsartan and
      ivabradine add to already complex HFrEF treatment regimens. Without novel mechanisms to
      improve medication use, the benefits of advances in HF treatment will be largely unrealized.

      Efforts to optimize HFrEF medication delivery have focused primarily on 1) provider decision
      support around prescribing and 2) patient education around adherence. An important gap is the
      failure to empower patients to engage more directly in HFrEF prescribing efforts. Patients
      have a direct stake in making sure they are getting efficacious treatments, want to be
      involved in decisions about their treatments, and if engaged are more likely to adhere to
      them. Direct-to-consumer marketing and proliferation of shared decision making reflect a
      culture where patients are increasingly involved in medication prescribing.

      Within this context, the American Heart Association (AHA) has funded four centers across the
      United States to examine ways in which heart failure treatment and prevention may be
      optimized. The University of Colorado, Denver is one of these sites; The Development and
      Trial of an Electronic health record-leveraged, Patient-centered, Intensification of Chronic
      care for Heart Failure Tool (EPIC-HF) is the population-focused arm of study. Inspired by the
      gap in HFrEF medication optimization, this study aims to develop a patient-centered
      intervention in order to 1) activate and engage patients with HFrEF in their prescribing
      regimen, 2) empower them to initiate discussions with their provider about ways in which
      their medication plan could be improved, which will result in 3) a superior HFrEF medication
      plan. The investigators modeled this tool with the previous success of flipped classrooms and
      patient empowerment initiatives in mind. The intervention was iteratively developed with the
      input of both clinician and patient stakeholders, and is innovative in its emphasis on
      patient self-actualization and role as an equal with their healthcare provider in the
      discussion around medication prescribing. This study applies the intervention in a two-arm,
      randomized controlled trial across three sites (UCH metro, Memorial, and Medical Center of
      the Rockies) in the UCH medical system.

      Aim 1: Assess the effectiveness of the EPIC-HF intervention on HFrEF medication optimization
      Hypothesis 1: Compared to usual care, EPIC-HF will increase the number of HFrEF medication
      optimizations (i.e., dose changes for βB, ACEI/ARB/sacubitril, AldaA, Ivabradine, etc.)
      without compromising secondary outcomes including safety and healthcare provider
      satisfaction.

      Aim 2: Assess the effectiveness of the EPIC-HF intervention on patient empowerment and
      activation around their HFrEF medication plan Hypothesis 2: Compared to usual care, EPIC-HF
      will result in increased patient empowerment and activation around their HFrEF medication
      plan as measured through patient self-assessment
    
  