
    
      Urinary incontinence is defined as an involuntary loss of urine, the World Health
      Organization (WHO) considers it is a public health problem having a negative impact on the
      quality of life of such patients. Its prevalence ranges from 3% to 55%, it is difficult to
      have a right number because different definitions used and the range age of the population
      studied. Its more common type is stress urinary incontinence (SUI), the involuntary loss of
      urine on exertion, coughing or sneezing.

      In the old days, those pathologies were seen as a natural consequence of aging, making people
      adapt to the changes imposed by them. Modern society and the increase of life expectancy made
      people care more about their quality of life and well-being, making them search for
      treatments to those pathologies.

      The International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics, International Continence Society,
      as well the most of national societies of gynecology and urology, deliberate that
      physiotherapy is the first option to urinary incontinence treatment. Perineal rehabilitation
      aims increase pelvic floor muscle strength, to intensify urethral closure.

      Perineal rehabilitation is showing to be an efficient treatment to urinary incontinence,
      studies show that rate cure is between 28 to 84%, this large interval is because different
      techniques and different assessments in each study.The treatments used in perineal
      rehabilitation are kinesiotherapy (pelvic floor muscle exercises), with or without
      biofeedback, electrical stimulation and vaginal cones.

      Although there are several studies about physical therapy to urinary incontinence treatment,
      there are not studies that use more than one of these techniques. Other problem is the fact
      that the protocols used in these studies start and finish with the same exercises intensity,
      there is no evolution in the treatment. It can be observed in the literature review made by
      Hay-Smith, 2012 and Margarida Ferreira e Paula Santos, 2011.

      The "Active Perineal Rehabilitation" (APR) protocol uses perineal kinesiotherapy with
      biofeedback, electrical stimulation, vaginal cones and home exercises, its intensity increase
      session by session, like is recommended by American College of Sports Medicine. This protocol
      is unique and innovative to urinary incontinence treatment.
    
  