
    
      Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by Severe Acute
      Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV2). COVID-19 primarily affects the respiratory
      system. However, in severely ill patients damage is also reported to other organ systems
      including the heart, the kidneys, the circulatory, and gastrointestinal system. Further,
      research indicates an impact of the virus on the brain and, thereby, on cognition. Patients
      experience neurological symptoms, MR imaging implies the presence of brain abnormalities,
      specifically in severely ill patients and studies on cognition suggest problems with memory,
      attention, information processing and executive function. Preliminary clinical data also show
      that COVID-19 is associated with neurological and neuropsychiatric illness.

      Brain damage and therefrom resulting emotional and cognitive deficits in ICU-treated patients
      are not uncommon findings. Post-intensive care syndrome (PICS) summarizes physical,
      cognitive, and mental impairments associated with ICU admission. PICS is assumed to be
      induced by a combination of patient-specific (e.g., psychiatric history), disease-related
      (e.g., hypoxemia), and ICU factors (e.g., invasive procedures). These factors can cause a
      variety of pathophysiologic states including atrophy, encephalopathy, and neuropathy,
      eventually leading to impairment and reduced quality of life. Additionally, ICU-admission has
      been found to also affect the mental health of patients´ family members (PICS-F). Many of
      these PICS-inducing factors can be assumed to occur during severe COVID-19 illness and
      treatment. Therefore, it is likely that COVID-19 patients and their family members exhibit
      PICS symptoms.

      To date, it is not known to what extend COVID-19 related brain injury and therewith
      associated symptoms are present after the (sub)acute stages of illness and whether this will
      lead to long-term deficits in function. Further, it is to be determined whether COVID-19
      patients develop PICS syndrome and if so, whether the therewith associated symptoms are
      limited to ICU-treated patients or may generally affect the broader group of hospitalized
      COVID-19 patients.

      The aim of this research is to fill these gaps in research through:

      (1) the identification of COVID-19 related brain abnormalities, cognitive impairments, and
      emotional deficits after the (sub)acute stages of illness (i.e., 6-9 months post-hospital
      discharge), 2) a comparison of COVID-19 related brain abnormalities, cognitive impairments,
      and emotional deficits to historical PICS cohorts 3) a comparison between COVID-19 ICU
      survivors and COVID-19 non-ICU patients in order to assess a potential PICS gradient and 3) a
      follow-up examination of the aforementioned groups 6 months after the first assessment to
      gain insight into the persistence of deficits.
    
  