
    
      Background:

        -  Zotiraciclib (TG02) is a pyrimidine-based multi-kinase inhibitor that has been shown to
           have inhibitory effects on CDKs, Janus Kinase 2 (JAK2) and Fm-like tyrosine kinase 3
           (Flt3). It is orally administered and penetrates blood brain barrier (BBB). There is
           clinical experience in using Zotiraciclib (TG02) as both a single agent and in
           combination with other chemotherapy agents for cancer treatment.

        -  Temozolomide (TMZ) is an oral alkylating agent that has proven efficacy in anaplastic
           glioma and glioblastoma. It was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
           to treat anaplastic astrocytoma and glioblastoma in adults. Both a dose-dense (dd)
           schedule, 7 days on and 7 days off and a metronomic (mn) daily dosing schedule have been
           used to treat recurrent high-grade gliomas.

        -  Our preclinical data have demonstrated that Zotiraciclib (TG02) down-regulates CDK9
           activity and its target proteins, such as anti-apoptotic protein Mcl-1, XIAP and
           survivin. A treatment with Zotiraciclib (TG02) and TMZ has synergistic anti-glioma
           effects in a variety of glioma models with different genetic background. This serves as
           the basis for this proposed clinical trial.

      Objectives:

      Phase I:

      -To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of Zotiraciclib (TG02) plus TMZ using both the
      dd and mn TMZ schedules in adult patients with recurrent anaplastic astrocytoma or
      glioblastoma/gliosarcoma.

      Phase II:

      -To determine the efficacy of Zotiraciclib (TG02) plus TMZ versus TMZ alone in patients with
      recurrent WHO grade III or IV astrocytoma as determined by progression free survival.

      Eligibility:

        -  Documented pathology diagnosis of anaplastic astrocytoma [WHO grade III], or
           glioblastoma/gliosarcoma (WHO grade IV) with recurrent disease. If the pathology
           diagnosis is anaplastic glioma or anaplastic oligoastrocytoma, evidence of either intact
           1p/19q chromosomes or molecular features suggesting astrocytic tumor must be present.
           (including, but not limited to ATRX and/or TP53 mutation)

        -  No prior use of bevacizumab as a treatment for brain tumor.

        -  No more than two prior relapses for Phase I and no more than one prior relapse for Phase
           II.

        -  Patients must have recurrent disease, either histologically proven or with imaging
           suggestive of recurrent disease

        -  Tumor tissues available for review to confirm the histologic diagnosis.

        -  Tumor tissue blocks available for molecular profiling analysis.

      Design:

        -  Phase I:

             -  This portion of the study is conducted in two stages: The MTD finding and cohort
                extension. Two treatment arms and several dose levels are planned.

             -  In the MTD finding part, TMZ with two alternate schedules (dd and mn) in
                combination with Zotiraciclib (TG02) will be administered.

             -  A cohort extension of both arms will be performed at each MTD and the treatment arm
                with a better progression free survival at 4 months (PFS4) will be selected for the
                combination treatment arm for Phase II.

             -  Pharmacokinetic, pharmacogenetic studies and neutrophil analysis will be performed
                during the cohort extension of both arms.

             -  A maximum of 72 patients will be enrolled to this component for the trial.

        -  Phase II:

             -  Patients will be randomized between two competing treatment arms: ("winner" of dd
                vs mn) TMZ + Zotiraciclib (TG02) versus dd/mn TMZ alone using a Bayesian clinical
                trial design. The dosage for the combination arm will be derived from the MTD
                determined in the Phase I

      component of the study.

        -  The treatment schedule will be identical to that described above in the phase I
           component, with each cycle comprising 28 days.

        -  Patients will continue treatment until tumor progression or unacceptable toxicity
           occurs.

        -  At progression, patients randomized to the control arm (Temozolomide [TMZ] alone) will
           be offered the opportunity to continue TMZ and additional treatment with Zotiraciclib
           (TG02).
    
  