
    
      1 KHUH Research Center

      The Premise of the study:

      Hyperbaric Oxygen as adjunctive therapy is effective towards the healing of diabetic lower
      extremity ulcers and has a role to play in major amputation prevention for persons with
      Diabetes Mellitus.

      Title of the project:

      Adjunctive Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy (HBOT) for Lower Extremity Diabetic Ulcers: A
      Prospective, Double-Blind, Randomized, Controlled Clinical Trial Background Diabetes Mellitus
      is a major health problem with significant morbidity and mortality. The number of people with
      diabetes mellitus worldwide is estimated at 285 million in 2010; and expected to increase to
      438 million by 20301. In western countries, like the United Kingdom, diabetic foot ulcers are
      the most commonly found chronic wound2. A diabetic foot ulcer is defined as a 'full
      thickness' lesion of the skin, that is, a wound penetrating through the dermis below the
      ankle joint3. The lifetime risk of developing foot ulcers in diabetics is estimated to be
      15%4. These ulcers may heal with proper wound care, but some may become chronic and others
      may lead to amputation. These different outcomes are influenced by several risk factors
      including, among others, peripheral arterial disease (ischemia), peripheral neuropathy,
      mechanical foot deformity, poor foot care and inappropriate shoe wear.

      Diabetic foot ulcers are associated with high risk of amputation. About 50% of patients
      undergoing non-traumatic lower limb amputations are diabetics5. The 5-year amputation rate is
      estimated to be 19% with a mean time to amputation 58 months since the onset of an diabetic
      foot ulcer6.Because infection and tissue hypoxia are the major contributing factors for
      non-healing diabetic foot ulcers, hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBO) carries a potential benefit
      for treating these problematic wounds that do not respond to standard therapy7.

      Vascular: Approximately 35% of diabetic foot ulcers result from peripheral vasculopathy with
      an additional 15-20% caused by mixed neuropathic-vasculopathic pathology8. There is an
      accelerated development of atherosclerosis in the distal arteries (tibial and peroneal
      arteries) of diabetic patients with the dorsalis pedis artery often spared. Abnormal smooth
      muscle tone and decreased perfusion exacerbate these changes. On a macrovascular level,
      thickening of the basement membrane and abnormal endothelial function is often found. Tissue
      ischemia may be worsened by capillary thrombosis and by impaired neurogenic control.9 The
      microcirculation of diabetic patients exhibits characteristic structural changes such as the
      reduction in the size of capillaries and thickening in basement membrane that impairs the
      normal hyperemic or vasodilatory response to injury10, 11 and interferes with transportation
      of nutrients and oxygen. Arterial thrombosis commonly develops in the presence of
      pre-existing atherosclerotic 2 changes in the vascular endothelium, as a result of low blood
      flow and increased blood viscosity or a pro-coagulative state. All of these changes are
      exacerbated by a smoking habit (cigarettes, cigars or water pipes) by inducing peripheral
      vasoconstriction that reduces available oxygen to tissue by 20-30% per cigarette for one
      hour.12 It induces alterations in lipid metabolism, increases platelet aggregation, and
      increase blood viscosity.12 Pressure: Peripheral neuropathy is the most common cause of foot
      ulcers and is present in 78% of the ulcer formation pathway.8 Foot deformity is the most
      common underlying cause and that is leading to unequal pressure redistribution and subsequent
      ulceration. Poor glycemic control and poor glycemic control increase the risk of neuropathy
      and is directly linked to the duration of living with diabetes (>15 years carrying a higher
      risk for developing neuropathy13), manifesting in all three components of the nervous system
      (autonomic, motor and sensory).

      Autonomic neuropathy of the foot results in loss of sweat and oil gland function leading to
      dry cracked skin prone to bacterial infections; the loss of sympathetic vascular tone that
      leads to vasodilatation and the development of edema8.

      Motor neuropathy causes loss of nerve supply to the intrinsic foot muscles with subsequent
      imbalance of the long flexor and extensor tendons. This produces an anatomic foot deformity
      with hyperextension of the toes, dropdown of the metatarsal heads and distal movement of the
      protective fat pad leading to pressure imbalance, callus formation and underlying skin
      breakdown.

      In sensory neuropathy the loss of the protective components of the foot is rendering patients
      unaware of repeated traumas and small injury as a pain response is absent. A wound remain
      undetected, worsen, becomes secondarily infected with the patient usually late in presenting
      to formal health care, adding to the severity of the foot condition on assessment.

      The role of oxygen in the wound healing cascade and subsequent combatting action against
      bacterial invasion, especially anaerobes, is well documented.14 Delayed or arrested healing
      and the development of infection is a direct result from decreased perfusion and poor
      oxygenation of tissue.15 The presence of wound hypoxia is an major etiological pathway in the
      development of chronic non-healing diabetic foot ulcers.16

      Measurement of tissue oxygenation is done with transcutaneous oximetry (TcPO2) and provides a
      simple, noninvasive diagnostic technique for an objective assessment of local tissue
      perfusion and oxygenation.17 TcPO2 measurements are frequently used in the assessment of
      diabetic ulcers to:

        1. Assess the severity of tissue hypoxia;

        2. Determine a saturation response to 100% oxygen;

        3. Serve as a predictor for response to HBO therapy;

        4. Provide a guideline on when to stop therapy; and

        5. Define healable levels for lower limb amputation18. Studies have shown that an achieved
           value below 40 mmHg on breathing normal air, is associated with poor healing of diabetic
           foot ulcers adding to amputation risk, while values higher than 40 mmHg is likely to
           yield spontaneous resolution of foot ulcers.19 Saturated TcPO2 values (breathing 100%
           oxygen via a non-rebreather mask for 15 minutes) that exceeds a cutoff value of 200
           mmHg, is associated with a positive predictive value to the extent of 74% for wound
           healing improvement, or limb salvage following a therapeutic course of hyperbaric oxygen
           therapy.20 Level 1A evidence of the beneficial effect of HBO therapy on diabetic foot
           outcomes was initially scant with only two prospective RCT studies available before
           2000.21, 22 One study was added in 200323 and 3 then a gap existed that was only filled
           in 201324 due to the difficulties associated with a trial using HBO as adjunctive
           modality. All of these studies have shown efficacy of HBO with the systematic review
           from Liu et al in 201325 showing a reduction of major limb amputations (minor
           amputations though present) and establishing a foundation for wound healing to progress
           (neovascularization and granulation stimulation). The retrospective cohort study of
           Margolis et al26 though, has disproved the effectiveness of HBO as modality in
           management of diabetic foot ulcers. Major limitations were identified on doing a
           systematic critique27 of that study with design, sample selection with inappropriate
           inclusions, unequal study arms, statistical usage of a propensity score to adjust for
           wound severity and unclear expected endpoints the most prevalent. This study has
           highlighted the difference between effectiveness (if something has been beneficially
           employed in the day to day setting) and efficacy (does it work) and that is the answer
           would like to provide with an effectiveness study in a prospective, rather than
           retrospective design.

      Objectives of the study:

      Study aim and objectives The aim of this study is to determine the effectiveness of 30
      sessions of adjunctive hyperbaric oxygen therapy on the healing rate of diabetic lower
      extremity ulcers.

      Primary objectives:

      To compare between the treatment and control group:

      The reduction of wound size at 4 weeks (granulation formation) as measured by the Silhouette
      three dimensional photography Time to achieve 80% wound surface reduction as measured by the
      Silhouette trajectory Time to achieve bipedal ambulation on an offloading device crossing the
      ankle joint The level of neovascularization achieved as measured by transcutaneous oximetry
      The proportion of patients ending up with a below knee amputation.

      Secondary objectives:

      Determine the TCpO2 criteria by which treatment response could be measured.Determine the
      TCpO2 criteria by which optimal treatment is assessed (to indicate completion of therapy).

      Evaluate the role of minor amputations (one or more toes up to the mid foot) in saving the
      major limb (integrity of the knee and ankle joint) Evaluate the role of HBO in resolution of
      infection/osteomyelitis in conjunction with appropriate systemic antibiotics.

      To determine and describe the side-effects of HBO therapy. 4 Improvement of quality of life
      with particular attention to pain. Setting: The hyperbaric and wound care unit of King Hamad
      University hospital, Kingdom of Bahrain

      Design: A parallel prospective double-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial.

      Sample size: 100-120 patients equally divided between the two treatment arms Sampling
      technique: Randomization by sealed envelope method to either Arm A or Arm B, both blinded to
      all apart from the primary researcher.

      Timeframe of the study: 12-24 months in order to fill the appropriate sample size on an 80%
      confidence interval

      Data Collection methods, instruments used and measurements:

        1. Transcutaneous oxygen measurements on air and saturated values pre-treatment, 10
           sessions, 20 sessions and 30 sessions

        2. Silhouette 3 dimensional wound surface photography on each dressing change to determine
           % wound size reduction and create a healing trajectory in a quantifiable manner

        3. Standard battery of HBO investigations pre-HBO: CBC, CXR, Foot x-ray, HbA1c, BMI

        4. Daily pre- and post HBO chamber investigations: Vital signs, random blood glucose, Pain
           scale 5

      Data management and analysis plan:

        1. Basic descriptive statistics to describe the sample demographics and randomization
           achieved

        2. T-test with Chi-square with confidence interval for healing achieved

        3. Logistic regression with linear markers for neovascularization achieved

        4. Analysis of co-variants for influence of confounding factors.
    
  