
    
      Background: Triage systems are used at EDs to prioritize patients to make sure that those who
      need it, receive immediate care.

      The MTS is used for children at EDs by many hospitals worldwide, also at the ED of the Isala,
      the Netherlands. This triage system has been proven safe, but many patients are classified as
      too urgent. This is a disadvantage because accurate triage is needed to provide access for
      immediate ill patients and for sufficient flow at the ED.

      Currently, adult patients at the ED of the Isala are classified by the early warning score.
      This is a score based on vital signs and it is easily calculated. It originally has been
      developed to determine clinical deterioration. For children normal values are different for
      each age. Therefore there has been developed the PEWS, which is now only used to evaluate
      clinical patients. Ideally for the continuity in this hospital, there would be one system
      which can be used for triage as well as for clinical patients. The investigators hypothesize
      that the PEWS is a safe alternative for the triage of children at the ED.

      Design: A form will be attached on the file of all children presenting at the ED, for
      recording data. These forms will be collected afterwards. The emergency department nurses
      will record the vital signs, which the investigators need to calculate the PEWS as well as
      the urgency determined by the MTS for each patient. The expert opinion will also be recorded.
      This is de urgency according to the doctor who has seen the patient, maximal acceptable
      door-to-doctor time: very urgent (immediate), urgent (<15minutes) or normal (<1hour). At the
      end of the consultation at the ED, the reference standard will be determined for each patient
      independent of MTS urgency or PEWS, with data available from the patient file. (1) For
      secondary outcome measures may or may not hospital admission or intensive care admission will
      be recorded.

      No interventions are made and this study is of no influence on the treatment of the patients.
    
  