
    
      The healthy vaginal microbiota is mainly colonised by strains of Lactobacillus which play an
      important role in defence against vaginal infections. The intravaginal use of probiotic
      strains stimulating the recolonisation of the endogenous vaginal microbiota and capable of
      inhibiting the growth of pathogens such as Candida albicans appears to be an interesting
      alternative to prevent recurrences of VVC. Recently, longitudinal studies have revealed that
      the vaginal microbiota is relatively stable and that the main cause of disturbance to the
      stability of the vaginal microbiota is over short menstruation periods. However, the use of
      antimicrobial agents induces severe disturbances with disappearance of certain endogenous
      species over several weeks. These results suggest that antimicrobial treatments severely
      affect the vaginal flora and that probiotics are therefore recommended to help re-establish a
      vaginal microbiota after this treatment.

      For this, a sufficient direct local supply must be provided. The general data from studying
      the vaginal microbiota reveal that in the healthy woman, the concentration of Lactobacilli is
      greater than or equal to 107 CFU/ml of vaginal secretion. During capsule administration, all
      the Lactobacilli are immediately released into the vaginal cavity. The natural vaginal
      secretions, estimated to be an average of 0.51 ml/day, result in daily elimination of around
      107 to 108 CFU and therefore generates very rapid elimination of this supply which requires
      daily administrations.

      The objective of this clinical trial is to prove that the two dosage forms, capsule
      administered daily and tablet administered at a certain dosage, enable equivalent local
      provision of a concentration which is greater than or equal to 10e7 CFU (this concentration
      ensures the establishment of a sufficiently large bacterial population to enable efficacy of
      the product).

      Therefore, the optimal dosage of the Lcr Regenerans® tablet to be administered and which will
      be equivalent to the daily administration of the Lcr Regenerans® capsule will be determined
      during this trial. To do this, 3 different dosages of the Lcr Regenerans® tablet,
      corresponding to or encompassing the time during which the tablet provides continuous release
      and presence of the strain in the in vitro model, will be compared to that of the Lcr
      Regenerans® capsule. For this reason, the frequencies of administration for the Lcr
      Regenerans® tablet will be 3, 4 or 5 days.
    
  