
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is the third leading cause of death and is
      characterized by clinical symptoms and spirometry. Additional measures for diagnosis can be
      taken using imaging modalities such as CT. However, the evaluation of lung destruction in
      COPD is limited by the inability to visualize the activation of pathological processes since
      imaging modalities are only able to evaluate end-organ damage. In this proposal, the
      investigators aim to assess a molecular imaging probe targeting apoptosis, a cellular process
      known to be pathogenic in COPD. Apoptosis, a process of programmed cellular death, correlates
      with COPD severity and is not seen in the normal adult lung. In the past several years the
      investigators have demonstrated the successful ability of AxV-128/Tc to detect apoptosis in
      vivo in a preclinical animal model of smoke exposure emphysema model. Additionally, Phase 1
      studies have demonstrated safety of this agent in healthy patients. Therefore, the
      investigators will bring AxV-128/Tc forward as a probe to image the apoptotic disease process
      of the lung in patients with COPD. The investigators will determine if the imaging signal
      correlates with serum biomarkers of apoptosis and inflammation. It is the investigators'
      hypothesis that AxV-128/99mTc imaging will show increased uptake in the lungs of patients
      with COPD, and that this signal intensity will correlate with accepted markers of apoptosis
      and inflammation. If successful, such an approach will be a powerful tool to potentially
      predict disease progression after diagnosis, identify patients at risk for disease
      exacerbation related lung function decline, and monitor response to disease targeted therapy.

      The total effective dose from the combined SPECT and CT scans is 6.2 millisievert (mSv). This
      effective dose is below what a patient receives during a standard 2 dose rest and stress
      cardiac nuclear imaging study and well within the range of current clinical nuclear imaging
      tests. The exact long term risk for development of cancer from diagnostic radiological
      procedures is currently under debate but all imaging procedures in this study are aimed to
      keep total radiation burden As Low As Reasonably Achievable (ALARA).
    
  