
    
      Laboring women are known to be at increased risk of pulmonary aspiration in the event of
      general anesthesia, due to reduced lower esophageal sphincter pressure and delayed gastric
      emptying. Reduction in the rate of general anesthesia for cesarean delivery, improvements in
      airway management and premedication to improve gastric motility and increase gastric pH have
      greatly reduced the risk of aspiration in laboring women. This has raised questions regarding
      the need for restrictive fasting policies during labor, and more liberal food policies have
      become widespread in certain countries and birthing centers. In light of this, it is crucial
      to elucidate and limit any factors that may increase a woman's risk for aspiration.

      Epidural opioids are usually added to the initial epidural bolus and the maintenance
      infusion, due to associated reduced local anesthetic dose requirements, while improving
      sensory block and decreasing motor block. However, systemic opioids are known to reduce
      gastric emptying. The effect of epidural fentanyl on gastric emptying has been investigated
      previously in various doses using the paracetamol absorption test. In several of these prior
      studies, epidural fentanyl administered in high doses (above the cut-off value of 100mcg) -
      either by bolus or infusion was associated with delayed gastric emptying, with no such effect
      with doses below this 100 mcg threshold. These studies were performed on fasting laboring
      women only. In addition, the paracetamol absorption test has been widely replaced by gastric
      ultrasonography to directly assess gastric contents by measuring the Cross-Sectional Area
      (CSA) of the antrum, and its feasibility has been demonstrated in laboring women.

      The aim of our study is to assess the effect of high versus low dose epidural fentanyl on
      gastric emptying in non-fasted laboring women, using gastric ultrasonography.

      Laboring women who consent to participate will be randomized to receive either high dose or
      low dose fentanyl in the epidural solution. A gastric ultrasound will be performed at the
      time of epidural placement (baseline) and two hours after the first measurement and will be
      compared between the two groups. Oral intake will be recorded as well in the 8 hours
      preceding epidural placement and between ultrasound measurements.
    
  