
    
      Pneumatic tourniquets are often used in orthopedic surgery to ensure bloodless surgical
      field. Besides their obvious positive effects, arterial tourniquets have some unfavorable
      properties. One of these is tourniquet pain, which can manifest in the presence of an
      otherwise adequate neuraxial or peripheral nerve block. If it develops, it is usually
      difficult to manage, and can be severe enough to necessitate conversion to general
      anaesthesia.

      In the past the incidence of tourniquet pain, associated with different nerve blocks has been
      estimated in clinical trials for which it was a secondary outcome measure. One recent
      meta-analysis addressed the question: is infraclavicular block (ICB) associated with a lesser
      incidence of tourniquet pain compared to other brachial plexus blocks. The studies selected
      by this meta-analysis used different types of nerve block. However it did not address the
      clinically relevant question: using standard techniques for ultrasound guided brachial plexus
      block (USgBPB) is the infraclavicular approach associated with a lesser incidence of
      tourniquet pain than the axillary approach? The following nerves contribute to the perception
      of tourniquet pain: musculocutaneous, radial, medial cutaneous brachial (MCBN) and
      intercostobrachial (ICBN). The potential advantage of the ICB over the axillary brachial
      plexus block (ABPB) in regards to tourniquet pain comes from anatomical reasons. In the
      pyramid shaped infraclavicular space the cords are much closer to each other; thus the
      likelihood of achieving effective MCBN and ICBN block is greater. The infraclavicular route
      has proven to result in an equally effective, reliable and safe block of the brachial plexus,
      compared to the axillary approach. We hypothesize that the incidence of tourniquet pain is
      less with infraclavicular block compared to axillary brachial plexus block.

      The aim of the study is, to compare the incidence and severity of tourniquet pain associated
      with ultrasound guided ICB and ABPB in patients undergoing orthopedic surgery at the level or
      distal to the elbow, with a tourniquet time longer than 45 minutes.
    
  