
    
      Hypothermia (HT) is used as an adjunctive treatment to improve outcome in comatose survivors
      of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA). Optimal temperature is debated and in the TTM-trial
      (Target Temperature Management study), which randomized to management at either 33 degrees C
      or 36 degrees C for 24h after return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC), no difference in
      mortality or neurological outcome was shown. The TTM-2-trial (Target Hypothermia Versus
      Targeted Normothermia After Out-of-hospital Cardiac Arrest, NCT02908308) was initiated to
      investigate if there is a difference in mortality, neurological function or quality of life
      between target temperature of 33 degrees C or avoiding fever in comatose patients after
      out-of-hospital cardiac arrest and meet some of the critique that was raised against the
      TTM-trial regarding the speed of induction of hypothermia, that both groups were treated at
      different degrees of hypothermia and that both groups could have benefitted from this
      intervention.

      This study is a prospective sub-study to the TTM-2 trial investigating the cardiac and
      hemodynamic effects of different target temperatures using echocardiography and pulmonary
      artery catheter (PAC). Data will be harvested and echocardiographic registration will be made
      during the target temperature phase, upon rewarming and after 48-72 hours. There will be a
      follow-up echocardiographic examination at 6 months from randomization.

      Ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury is a key challenge in myocardial infarction and cardiac
      arrest. In this study most patients will experience myocardial infarction affecting the heart
      only, while all patients will experience cardiac arrest affecting the whole body. A major
      determinant of long-term outcome is the degree of cell death due to stop of blood supply
      during ischemia and aggravation of organ damage during reperfusion caused by innate immune
      activation. In this study we will address the importance of the innate immune system in
      determining outcome and the interplay and dependency with cardiac function.

      Blood samples will be collected at the same time points as echocardiography registrations and
      collection of hemodynamic data and analyzed post study cessation.
    
  