
    
      This project has seven major components which will occur independently but are linked to the
      central theme of controlling and eliminating HCV infection from the majority of the
      Australian HIV positive population.

      Database of HIV-HCV individuals (CEASE-D):

      Surveillance of HIV-HCV positive individuals will occur through the enrolment into the
      CEASE-D observational study database. The proportion with HCV viraemia in this population
      will be determined through three cross-sectional surveys; at enrolment (2014-2016), follow-up
      1 (2017-2018) and follow-up 2 (2019-2020). Participation will involve providing informed
      consent, collection of limited clinic and demographic information, a dried blood spot sample,
      patient completed CEASE questionnaires and FibroScan® (where available). It is estimated that
      approximately 1000 HIV-HCV coinfected individuals will be enrolled into the CEASE-D database.

      Modelling (CEASE-M):

      Mathematical modeling will be undertaken to examine various treatment strategies, including
      HCV treatment scale-up timelines. The data from the first cross-sectional survey of the HCV
      surveillance phase (CEASE-D) will inform components of the modeling.

      HCV Education for HIV prescribers (CEASE-E):

      A comprehensive education program in HCV treatment with interferon-free DAA therapy will be
      conducted with HIV prescribers with high HCV caseloads in preparation for the rapid scale-up
      of HCV treatment.

      HCV Treatment Scale-Up (CEASE-T):

      HCV treatment scale-up with PBS listed regimens will involve primary and tertiary clinics.
      All patients who are commencing HCV treatment will be invited to participate in CEASE-T which
      will involve data collection regarding treatment with PBS listed regimens. The regimen and
      duration will be determined by the treating clinician according to PBS prescribing
      guidelines. At selected sites subjects will be offered enrollment into a more intensive
      follow-up substudy (I-STEP) involving collection of research EDTA plasma samples, patient
      completed behavioural questionnaires and FibroScan® (where available). Patients with
      recurrent viraemia during or following treatment (relapse/reinfection) may also be entered
      into a separate substudy cohort (CEASE-V)

      Recurrent Viraemia Treatment (CEASE-V) At selected sites patients with on-treatment
      virological failure (nonresponse or viral breakthrough) or post-treatment recurrent viraemia
      (relapse or reinfection) will be entered into an intensive follow-up cohort (CEASE-V).
      Participation will involve providing informed consent, collection of research EDTA plasma
      samples and patient completed behavioural questionnaires. Patients may be offered retreatment
      with PBS listed regimens. The decision to retreat as well as the regimen and duration will be
      determined by the treating clinician according to PBS prescribing guidelines.

      Dried Blood Spot Validation Sub-study (DBS Sub-study) At selected sites patients will be
      invited to participate in the Dried Blood Spot Validation Sub-study (DBS Sub-study). HIV/HCV
      study participants and HCV control participants will be mailed DBS self-collection kits and
      questionnaires to evaluate feasibility, acceptability and validity of self-collected DBS
      samples compared to clinic collected plasma samples. Pre and post DBS acceptability
      questionnaires will be completed.

      Qualitative Sub-study (CEASE-Q) At selected sites patients will be invited to participate in
      the Qualitaitive Sub-study (CEASE-Q). Semi-structured interviews will be used to explore risk
      behaviour pre and post DAA therapy, participant experience of DAA therapy and, in untreated
      participants, facilitators and barriers to DAA therapy.
    
  