
    
      Sarcoidosis is a multisystem disease. Cutaneous involvement occurs in approximately 25% of
      patients with lesion morphologies varying widely. There is no universally accepted treatment
      for sarcoidosis. Systemic agents such as oral corticosteroids are frequently necessary for
      treatment, but long-term therapy is limited by a multitude of serious adverse effects.
      Steroid-sparing agents such as methotrexate, azathioprine, anti-malarials, pentoxifylline,
      allopurinol, and thalidomide have been shown beneficial for select patients, but are limited
      due to significant toxicities of their own or inconsistencies in efficacy.

      Infliximab is a chimeric, monoclonal antibody directed against TNF-α and is currently
      approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat rheumatoid arthritis,
      ankylosing spondylitis, and Crohn's disease. Etanercept is a dimeric fusion protein
      consisting of the extracellular ligand-binding domain of the human TNF receptor linked to the
      Fc portion of human IgG1. Etanercept has been approved for the treatment of psoriasis,
      psoriatic arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Treatment with
      infliximab and etanercept was generally well tolerated and safe in these reports.

      To date, there have been no reports describing the treatment of sarcoidosis with adalimumab.
      Adalimumab (Humira; Abbott Laboratories, Abbot Park, IL) is a fully human, monoclonal
      antibody directed against TNF-α and is approved by the US FDA to treat rheumatoid arthritis.
      Given that adalimumab targets the same cytokine as infliximab and etanercept, one would
      expect that adalimumab may also be effective in the treatment of sarcoidosis. Treatment with
      adalimumab is advantageous over infliximab through differences in drug delivery. Infliximab
      is delivered intravenously in the office. This requires routine office visits and vital sign
      monitoring by a health care professional.

      Adalimumab, on the other hand, is administered subcutaneously once weekly or every other week
      by the patient at home. Patients can be instructed on proper injection technique during one
      nurse visit. Additionally, because adalimumab is fully human, patients may be less likely to
      form antibodies against the medication. Because of the lack of alternative safe, effective
      treatment for sarcoidosis, a clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of adalimumab in the
      treatment of sarcoidosis is warranted.
    
  