
    
      Atherosclerosis is the most common cardiovascular disease and accounts for the greatest
      number of deaths. Atherosclerotic disease starts at an early age and follows a subclinical
      course for decades, becoming apparent in the fifth or sixth decades of life in men and
      approximately 10 years later in women. Its main clinical signs include myocardial infarction,
      angina pectoris, sudden death, or stroke. Disease occurrence and progression are conditioned
      by the presence of the so-called risk factors: smoking, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and
      diabetes, among others. From these factors, a number of equations have been developed for
      predicting the risk of an individual to suffer the disease, in order to apply adequate
      prevention measures such as lifestyle changes or drug treatment. However, despite the proven
      efficacy of such interventions, cardiovascular prevention has many limitations due to three
      significant problems:

        1. The ability to predict risk from current equations is very limited because other genetic
           or environmental factors that may influence the course of disease are still unknown.

        2. The ability for early prediction of cardiovascular risk from current equations is even
           more limited in individuals under 55 years of age.

        3. Atherosclerotic disease is diagnosed too late, usually when the condition is very
           advanced and lesions are already irreversible, or when it has caused clinical signs or
           events in organs or territories vascularized by the diseased arteries. Clinical
           procedures currently used for detection of myocardial ischemia are however poorly
           sensitive and specific in the asymptomatic general population.

      Technological advances made in the past decade in both laboratory tests and medical imaging
      have opened up new expectations for detection and treatment of atherosclerotic disease.
      Current research is focused on two aspects:

        1. To improve the ability to predict the disease by incorporating risk factors obtained
           from the laboratory such as C-reactive protein, homocysteine, fibrinogen,
           myeloperoxidase, or lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2. At the same time,
           development of genetics and the new so-called "omics" techniques allows for exploring
           the genetic variability of individuals and its contribution to development of the
           disease and its complications. Such technologies include genomics, epigenetics,
           transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics.

        2. To detect the disease at an early stage using the advanced imaging techniques, which may
           be used with no or minimal risks in large population groups. Use of magnetic resonance
           imaging (MRI) with and without contrast, computed tomography (CT), and positron emission
           tomography (PET) allows not only for identifying subclinical lesions, but also for
           studying the mechanisms of disease and for monitoring its course.

      Very few population studies making combined use of some of these procedures are available.
      The actual potential of this approach and the impact it may have on early diagnosis of
      subclinical atherosclerosis, its progression, and its relationship to risk factors have not
      been assessed to date.
    
  