
    
      Purpose and Design The purpose of the study is to determine the value of measuring citrulline
      after oral challenge, aiming to examine this as a function of enterocyte mass in patients
      with short bowel syndrome. The investigators hope to accumulate sufficient preliminary data
      in order to develop a new biochemical test for assessing absorption in future patient groups.

      All subjects will provide written informed consent prior to their inclusion in the study. The
      study will be performed in accordance with International Conference on Harmonisation
      Guidelines for Good Clinical Practice (ICH GCP), the Helsinki Declaration and national
      regulations. Information about the study will be provided during one-on-one interviews with
      the help of a summary brochure which will be given to all potential subjects.

      The study has been considered by the UK Medicines Agency, Medicines and Healthcare products
      Regulatory Agency (MHRA), and they agree that it is not a clinical trial of an
      investigational medicinal product.

      Recruitment

        1. Potential participants will be identified by the investigator's team. The sources will
           include hospital and investigator databases.

        2. If permitted, advertisements will be posted for this study on University College London
           (UCL) electronic news sites, disseminated via UCL staff and student emails, with fliers
           to be posted on physical notice boards at UCL. Direct invitations from the researchers
           may also be attempted.

        3. Healthy volunteers will be offered £7.85/hour for their participation in this study.

      Consent Written informed consent will be obtained before any study-specific procedures are
      carried out.

      All participants will be free to withdraw from the study at any time.

      Risk, burdens and benefits Apart from the small risks associated with venous access the study
      is expected to be without important hazard. The agents to be administered are essentially
      constituents of the normal diet.

      There is no expectation that participants will benefit from being in this study.

      Confidentiality All data provided to the sponsor or designee will be identified only by
      subject number or initials, thereby ensuring that the subject's identity remains unknown.

      What will happen at the end of the study? Participants will be given a summary of the key
      results and the opportunity for further discussion on request.
    
  