
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose of oral coriolus versicolor extract in women
           with stage I-III, estrogen receptor- and/or progesterone receptor-negative or positive
           (as of 1/26/2009), infiltrating ductal adenocarcinoma of the breast who have recently
           completed standard post-surgery radiotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the feasibility of measuring changes in fatigue and quality of life of
           patients treated with this drug.

        -  To characterize the toxicity of this drug in these patients.

        -  To gather preliminary data that compare baseline and post-treatment immunologic
           measures, including differential blood counts (i.e., WBC), natural killer cell activity,
           phagocytic index, regulatory cell assay, T/B/NK cell population subset assays,
           peripheral blood mononuclear cell production of levels of interferon gamma, and tumor
           necrosis factor-alpha in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive oral coriolus versicolor extract twice daily for 6 weeks.

      Patients undergo quality of life and fatigue assessment at baseline, weekly during study, and
      at the 3-week follow-up visit.

      Blood samples are collected periodically for immunological marker studies. Samples are
      analyzed for T-regulatory cell, T-and B-lymphocyte, and NK cell activity in peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMC), phagocytic index in monocytes and granulocytes, and cytokine
      secretion and upregulation by flow cytometry, cytotoxicity assays, cytolysis assays,
      T-regulatory cell assay, or T/B/NK cell population subset assays. Changes in the production
      of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interferon-gamma in serum and in supernatants of PBMCs are
      analyzed via standard enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 3 weeks.
    
  