
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To estimate the sensitivity of the modified Center for Disease Control (CDC) hepatitis
      survey in diagnosing chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) among HOPE clinic patient.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the sensitivity of the modified CDC hepatitis survey in identifying chronic
      active hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection among HOPE clinic patients.

      II. To estimate the sensitivity of fibrosis serum biomarkers, non-alcoholic fatty liver
      disease fibrosis score (NFS), fibrosis-4 index (FIB-4), and fatty liver index (FLI) in
      detecting fibrosis (fibroscan result >= F2) among HOPE clinic patients with metabolic
      conditions.

      III. To estimate the sensitivity of the Alcohol Use Disorder Identification Test Alcohol
      Consumption (AUDIT-C) in identifying fibrosis (fibroscan result >= F2) among HOPE clinic
      patients.

      IV. To estimate the sensitivity of the AUDIT-10 survey in identifying fibrosis (Fibroscan
      result >= F2) among Hope Clinic patients who scored >= 4 for men or >= 3 for women on the
      AUDIT-C.

      V. To estimate the specificity and accuracy of each of these risk factor screening tools in
      HOPE clinic patients.

      VI. To estimate the prevalence of fibrosis and cirrhosis risk factors among HOPE clinic
      patients.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore factors associated with each fibrosis/cirrhosis risk factor. II. To investigate
      differential diagnostic accuracy of screening methods by fibrosis severity.

      III. To evaluate the diagnostic performance of each dichotomized biomarker (NFS, FIB-4, and
      FLI) separately and assess biomarker optimal cutpoints for identifying fibrosis in the study
      population.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients complete surveys over 10-15 minutes, and undergo blood testing, clinical evaluation,
      and fibroscan at baseline.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up at 3 months.
    
  