
    
      Rationale:

      In a large number of patients presenting with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) multivessel
      disease (MVD) is identified. Optimal treatment approach for bystander lesions in non-infarct
      related arteries (non-IRA's) has not been well established. Multiple RCT's favor preventive
      percutaneous intervention (PCI) over medical treatment, however medical treatment wasn't
      optimal in these studies. Revascularization of lesions in the non-IRA can be guided by
      fractional flow reserve (FFR). The investigators want to investigate if optimizing LDL-C
      lowering therapy after an ACS has an effect on functional impairment of a non-IRA lesion and
      could thus prevent mechanical intervention (PCI or CABG).

      Objective:

      To evaluate the effect of maximal LDL-C reduction by Evolocumab on top of optimal background
      lipid-lowering therapy (ESC guidelines) on FFR of non-IRA lesions, in patients presenting
      with MVD-ACS.

      Secondly to correlate baseline lipid core burden with changes in FFR and to investigate the
      relation between LDL-C reduction and change in pro-inflammatory monocyte phenotypes.

      Study design: This is a multi-center, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled clinical
      trial.

      Study population:

      Patients presenting with MVD-ACS and eligible LDL-C levels will be included in this study.
      Patients must be 18 years or older. The investigators aim to include at least 150 patients to
      achieve adequate power for this study.

      Intervention: The patients will be randomized 1:1 to (A), one group will receive 140mg
      Evolocumab every two weeks (Q2W) for 12 weeks, using personal injectors; (B) the other group
      will receive placebo. All participants will receive high intensity statin therapy (HIST) as
      background therapy (Atorvastatin 40mg or equivalent).

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      The primary study parameter is the change in FFR from baseline to follow-up in non-IRA
      lesions. The secondary invasive imaging endpoint is the correlation between baseline
      Near-InfraRed Spectroscopy (NIRS) derived lipid core burden (MaxLCBI4mm) and change in FFR of
      the non-IRA.

      The investigators will assess the index of microcirculatory resistance (IMR) as an
      exploratory endpoint.

      Main endpoint for the immunological parameters is the comparison of monocyte phenotype
      between the groups at t=14 weeks post-ACS.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      After inclusion, all patients have to undergo staged FFR + NIRS, meaning they will undergo
      invasive strategy for a second time, and if needed additional stenting of significant
      lesions, with the associated periprocedural risks (e.g. death, stroke, myocardial infarction
      (MI), vascular complications), however these risks are quite small (<2% major complications)
      .
    
  