
    
      Rationale

      Surgical removal of palatal tonsils is among the most common ear, nose and throat operations
      in adults in Finland. The vast majority of these operations are done for recurrent and
      chronic tonsillitis. Internationally accepted guidelines for the treatment of these diseases
      are lacking and the indications for tonsil surgery are practice-based rather than
      evidence-based. The choice of the surgical technique further confuses the picture. The
      traditional surgical technique has been the total removal of tonsils (tonsillectomy, TE). The
      relatively recent introduction of partial resection of tonsils, namely tonsillotomy (TT), is
      suggested to have the benefits of less postoperative pain and smaller risk of post-operative
      hemorrhage as compared to TE. The relative efficacy of these two techniques to alleviate
      infective tonsillar diseases is still unclear.

      Objectives

      The main aim of this study is to obtain reliable evidence on, whether tonsil surgery improves
      the quality of life in adult patients suffering from recurrent or chronic tonsillitis, and
      whether the lighter TT would be as effective as TE. We will also compare the scores of a
      generic quality of life questionnaire as well as several other subjective and objective
      beneficial and harmful outcomes between the groups.

      Methods

      In this pragmatic multi-center randomized controlled trial, adult patients suffering from
      recurrent or chronic tonsillitis will be randomly allocated to three groups: tonsillotomy
      group (TT), tonsillectomy group (TE) and control group with watchful waiting (WW) in ratio
      2:2:1. The patients in the surgical groups are blinded to the operation type (TT or TE). Our
      hypothesis is that both surgical treatments are more effective than watchful waiting in
      enhancing quality of life without significant risks (superiority assumption) and that TT is
      non-inferior to TE when the surgical groups are compared (non-inferiority assumption). Our
      principal outcome is disease-specific quality of life questionnaire score (Tonsillectomy
      Outcome Inventory (TOI)-14) at 6 months follow-up. We have validated this questionnaire in
      Finnish and explored the interpretation of the scores. Secondary outcomes have been listed in
      the Outcomes section.

      Separate random allocation lists for the main research center (Oulu University Hospital) and
      for the four other centers collectively as well as for recurrent and for chronic tonsillitis
      will be used. Random permuted blocks is used with block size varying between 5 and 10. Based
      on our earlier study, the principal outcome, TOI-14 score, will most probably be
      left-truncated at zero and right-skewed. Therefore, tobit-analysis is used with log (1+y)
      transformation. The primary analysis has two phases. Firstly, the TOI-14 score in the
      combined surgical group (TT+TE) is compared to that in the WW group. Secondly, the score in
      the TT group is compared to that in the TE group. Effects will be estimated by adjusted mean
      differences in the log-transformed scores with 95% confidence intervals. Based on our earlier
      observational studies on the subject, the following covariates are included in the
      multivariable adjusted tobit-model: gender and baseline TOI-14 score together with
      stratification factors: enrolling center (Oulu vs. others) and main complaint (recurrent vs.
      chronic tonsillitis). In case there is missing data on the primary outcome, a multiple
      imputation method will be used. The analyses will be performed on an intention to treat
      basis. Per protocol analysis will be performed as sensitivity analysis and results from
      comparisons on secondary outcomes and subgroup analysis (main complaint) are used to generate
      hypothesis for future trials.
    
  