
    
      Clinical trials testing potentially curative interventions for sickle cell disease - such as
      gene therapy (GT) or peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT) - have created a
      novel opportunity for patients with sickle cell disease, for whom standard therapies can only
      manage but not cure their conditions. But some of these experimental interventions may pose
      risk of significant adverse events. As the development of these interventions create a new
      decision-making situation for persons with longstanding diseases, these trials raise
      questions about the expectations and decision- making process of patients considering and/or
      participating in them. Given the longstanding debate in the bioethics literature about
      whether patients expressions of desire for benefit are (1) evidence of false hopes or poor
      understanding of risks and benefits, or, instead (2) expressions of natural optimism
      compatible with valid informed consent, these patients present an opportunity to learn about
      how they make their participation decisions which in turn could inform this longstanding
      debate.

      This study aims to explore the expectations, understanding, motivations, and decision-making
      of patients with sickle cell disease who have either chosen or declined to enroll in research
      studies testing experimental interventions. The aim is to better understand how these
      patients understand the research study, assess risks and benefits at the time of enrollment,
      make decisions, and react to their health outcomes. As faith and religion are known to play
      an important part in the lives of persons with sickle cell disease, we will also explore the
      role of religion and faith in sickle cell patients decision-making and retrospective
      perspective on their decision.

      Primary Hypothesis:

      This is a descriptive, explorative study. It may generate hypotheses for future studies.

      Purpose of the Study Protocol:

      To describe how patients with sickle cell disease understand and make decisions about
      participating in gene therapy (GT) or peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT)
      clinical trials to shed light about the ethically salient issues regarding enrollment and
      participation in high- risk, high-reward clinical trials. This information may inform
      practices around the informed consent process and help researchers better understand the role
      of family and religion/faith in clinical research decision making.
    
  