
    
      Thirty-four cervical MPS patients aged between 25-57 years (average age: 41,20±10,23 years)
      who diagnosed cervical MPS (myofascial pain syndrome), had cervical MPS for 6 months and who
      had at least one trigger point on their cervical, back and shoulder muscles were included to
      this study.

      Thirty-four participant were included to the study. Taking into consideration including and
      excluding factors 34 participants divided into two groups: intervention shock-wave therapy
      group, control group. Because of several private reason (not attending treatment regularly
      and not participating in the final evaluations), 4 participant were excluded from study.

      All assessments done by the same physiotherapist (FU) before the first session and one week
      after the last treatment session. Demographic data of participants recorded by using a form
      at the baseline of the study.

      Patients in the intervention group (n=15) received 6 sessions radial shock wave treatment
      once a week during 6 weeks. During the treatment, the patients sat on chairs and supported
      their upper bodies with a pillow on the bed. Ultrasound gel was applied to the application
      area. Radial shock-wave therapy was applied to each trigger point in the preliminary
      evaluation. The muscles related trigger points were stretched position during the
      application. Radial shock-wave therapy was applied in 1.0-4.0 bar intensity, 10-15 hz
      frequency interval. 300-700 pulse for a trigger point, 1500-3000 pulse for a muscle.
      Intensity, frequency and pulse increased every session regularly beginning from minimal
      taking patients tolerance into consideration. Trigger points in the upper, middle and lower
      trapezius, supraspinatus, infraspinatus and levator scapulae muscles were treated.

      Neck and upper back muscle static stretching exercises were teached to patients in the both
      groups as home exercise program. The patients were asked to do each stretching exercise given
      as a home-based program every day, 3 times a day and 3 repetitions. The exercise program
      consisted of static neck lateral flexors stretching, shoulder posterior capsule stretching
      and apley stretching exercises. Exercise booklets were prepared and given to the patients.
    
  