
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most prevalent malignancies in China, and
      approximately 90% of the patients with HCC are also infected with hepatitis B virus
      (HBV).Chronic HBV infections are a leading cause of liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular
      carcinoma. Surgical resection provides a potentially curative outcome for patients who are
      indicated to this procedure; however, survival is far from satisfactory because of the high
      recurrence rate, which is approximately 38-65% during the first 5 years， even for small HCC
      resection , it is still as high as 43.5%，and contributed to the major cause of mortality.
      Several approaches have been reported to decrease the recurrence rate after curative
      resection of HCC, such as postoperative transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) ,
      chemotherapy , cyclic retinoic acid , and adoptive immunotherapy . However, these approaches
      are either controversial or require further evaluation , a substantial need for novel
      treatments is required urgently.

      Tumor-induced immuno-suppression leads to an imbalance within the immune system, which
      closely related to the HCC recurrence and metastasis after resection, and an effective
      response is needed to eliminate residual tumor cells after removal of the major tumor tissue
      by surgery. Immunomodulatory peptides, like thymopentin (TP5), may act as immunomodulatory
      agents in cancer chemotherapy. TP5 comprises the amino acids (Arg-Lys-Asp-Val-Tyr) and
      represents residues 32-36 of the nuclear protein thymopoietin (TP) . A multitude of in vivo
      studies have shown efficacy of TP5 treatment in the therapy of various diseases including
      neoplastic, immune deficiency, autoimmune, and recurrent viral diseases etc. It rectifies
      imbalances in the immune system without observable side effects, even at very high doses.
      Furthermore, TP5 is able to significantly inhibit proliferation and induce apoptosis in some
      type of cancer lines.

      Thus TP5 can not only act as an immunomodulatory factor in cancer chemotherapy or anti-HBV
      therapy, but also has potential as a chemotherapeutic agent in human cancer therapy
    
  