
    
      Project Aims:

      The overall aim of the project is to investigate parental perspectives on the impact of using
      a modified electric toy car on social interactions of pre-school children with mobility
      impairments, over an 8 week period.

      A secondary aim is to understand from the parent's perspective, features of the toy car they
      valued and features they feel could be changed to improve the experience for their child.

      Methods:

      Participants will be recruited via a charity in Northern Ireland who supports parents of
      children with Spina Bifida who have mobility impairments (SHINE). Once participants are
      confirmed, they will attend clinic appointments at Musgrave Park Hospital, Belfast. At
      clinic, the principle investigator will complete an assessment of the child to determine what
      modifications are required to support the child in the toy car as well as modifications to
      access drive functions.

      The participants will be shown 3 possible toy car options and the child will have the
      opportunity to try driving the cars. Parents will then select the toy car they wish to use
      allowing them to consider aesthetic features. Giving the parents the option of selecting the
      car enhances patient and public involvement in the study.

      Following this, the car will be ordered and modifications completed. The rehabilitation
      engineer will complete a medical device risk assessment on each car to ensure safety. A
      second appointment will then evaluate modifications, complete final adjustments and a safety
      handover.

      Parents will be asked to use the toy car during social interactions with the child over an 8
      week period. They will be asked to keep a log of their experiences over this time. Following
      this, the principle investigator will complete semi-structured interviews with the parents to
      determine their experiences of using the toy car.

      Sample size: 5 child participants aged between 12 months and 47 months.

      Outcome measures: Semi structured interviews will be completed with parents after 8 week
      trial intervention. In addition the PIADS will be completed before and after the trial to see
      if this can predict the likelihood for the parents to use the modified toy car, and what
      impact it has on their quality of life.
    
  