
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may prevent cardiovascular events
      in high risk persons and improve skeletal muscle function in heart failure patients by means
      of mechanisms that are independent of blood pressure changes. However, there is limited
      knowledge of all the mechanisms underlying the therapeutic benefits of ACE inhibition. ACE
      inhibitors may favorably modify markers of fibrinolysis, inflammation, endothelial function,
      and extracellular tissue remodeling, all of which are associated with atherosclerosis and
      cardiovascular disease. But, clinical trial evidence on these effects is limited. In
      addition, polymorphisms of the ACE, angiotensinogen, PAI-1 and IL-6 genes may modify the
      therapeutic response to ACE inhibitors.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This was a double-blind cross-over, randomized, placebo controlled trial in 286 persons with
      high cardiovascular risk to compare the effects of 6 months of treatment with fosinopril and
      6 months with placebo on the following primary outcomes: plasma plasminogen activator
      inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) antigen, C- reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and soluble
      vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (sVCAM-1). The secondary objectives were (a) to assess the
      effects of fosinopril on IL-6/IL-6 Soluble Receptor ratio, PAI-1 activity, tissue plasminogen
      activator (TPA) antigen, fibrinogen, endothelin-1, TNF-alpha, soluble intercellular cell
      adhesion molecule-1 (sICAM-1), E-selectin, matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP-1) and tissue
      inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1); and (b) to explore the effects of ACE,
      angiotensinogen, PAI-1, and IL-6 gene polymorphisms on these biomarkers, and test the
      interaction of the gene polymorphisms with the effects of fosinopril. The study had
      sufficient power to detect small changes in several biomarkers compared to placebo. The
      assessment of these biological mechanisms had clinical relevance for identifying the patients
      who may benefit the most from ACE inhibition. While the focus of the study was on novel
      cardiovascular risk factors, the results may also have future implications for developing new
      indications for ACE inhibitors, such as, for example, the prevention of age-related muscle
      wasting and physical disabilities in older persons, for which inflammation may be a causal
      factor.
    
  