
    
      All study participants were monitored according to American Society of Anesthesiologists
      guidelines. All received intrathecal morphine (300 to 400 mcg) at L3-4 interspace via 25 G
      Whitacre needle. Participants were then randomized (computer generated) into one of four
      groups.

      General anesthesia was induced and endotracheal intubation was done. Immediately, after
      intubation, Lidocaine group (L) received a Lidocaine infusion at 0.33 mg/kg/h.

      The Ketamine group (K) received a ketamine infusion at 70 mcg/Kg/h. The Lidocaine-Ketamine
      group (LK) received a Lidocaine infusion at 0.33 mg/kg/h plus a Ketamine infusion at 70
      mcg/Kg/h.

      The control group (P) received a normal saline infusion to keep the blind. The infusions were
      stopped approximately 30-45 minute before the completion of surgery.

      All participants received a hydromorphone patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) via a pump. All
      were given acetaminophen 650 mg every 6 hrs for 4 days.

      Postoperatively, participants were monitored for nausea, vomiting, sedation, respiratory
      depression, light-headedness, perioral numbness, pruritus, disturbed dreams and
      hallucinations.

      Postoperative Hydromorphone consumption for the first, second and third day was recorded from
      the chart maintained by acute pain service team who were blinded to the group assignment.

      After the operation, study participants were interviewed at regular intervals by a blinded
      investigator about their current pain level, as well as satisfaction with pain management.
      They were also be questioned regarding the presence and severity of opioid-related side
      effects (nausea, vomiting, sedation, respiratory depression and, pruritus) and
      light-headedness, perioral numbness, disturbed dreams and hallucinations. Hospital charts
      were reviewed and data collected to analyze time to request for additional analgesia and
      total consumption of opioids, non-opioid analgesics, anti-emetics, and antipruritics within
      the first 72 hours postoperatively.
    
  