
    
      The Personalized Parkinson Project proposes an unbiased approach to biomarker development
      with multiple clinical, genomic and other molecular, and imaging biomarkers measured in a
      large population, measured at 3 time points (baseline visit, one year follow-up, and two
      years' follow-up). In addition, the study protocol includes day-to-day patient monitoring
      with a multisensor wearable device, the Verily Study Watch, that continuously collects data
      (movement, pulse, skin temperature, ambient information) and allows for real-time data
      collection between study visits. The goal of the device is to collect high-resolution,
      continuous biological signals from the body. These measurements of physiology, activity, and
      environmental conditions over the course of a 2-year study will be used to create a
      quantified functional assessment of patients with PD. Mapping these signals with clinical
      outcomes such as disease progression will allow the investigators to evaluate the
      relationship between biosensor data and the clinical variables, genotypic, and imaging
      biomarkers collected in the study.

      This study is intended to create a unique resource of genotypic, functional, and phenotypic
      data collected longitudinally on a cohort of Dutch subjects with PD (n=650), allowing the
      Research Collaborators to address a series of hypothesis-driven research questions. The aim
      is to develop novel etiological insights, to identify biomarkers that can assist in
      predicting differences in prognosis and treatment response between patients, to improve
      existing treatments, to develop new therapeutic approaches, and to develop a more precise and
      personalized disease management approach.

      Additionally, the cohort will serve as a source of data that can be accessed by qualified
      researchers worldwide, allowing them to add their research capacity to further address the
      main aims of this study. For this reason, data governance will be managed by dedicated
      advisory boards and data review committees, as specified in the study protocol. Participation
      in this study and results from this study will not be used for patient treatment decisions.

      The aim of this study is threefold:

        1. The primary objective of the study is to perform a set of hypothesis-driven analyses on
           the study data set, aiming to correlate established biomarkers (obtained clinically,
           from brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), from known
           genetic factors, and from monitoring of biosensors signals) to the rate of disease
           progression, and to responses to treatment (both pharmacological and behavioral, such as
           participation in exercise). Also, the investigators aim to identify biomarkers that can
           assist in predicting differences in prognosis and treatment response between patients.
           Finally, by developing novel etiological and pathophysiological insights, the study aims
           to improve existing treatments and to develop new therapeutic approaches, as a basis for
           development of a more precise and personalized disease management approach.

        2. The secondary objective of the study is to evaluate the Verily Study Watch, to assess
           how these devices could provide information about the function of patients with PD.

        3. The tertiary objective of this study is to create an extensive longitudinal dataset
           describing the genetic, clinical, functional, and phenotypic characteristics of a
           representative Parkinson's disease (PD) subject cohort (n = 650) to allow researchers to
           investigate important unanswered questions in PD.
    
  