
    
      Study design: Randomized double-blind placebo controlled study Study setting: Bronchoscopy
      room in Department of pulmonary medicine and sleep disorders at AIIMS, New Delhi Sample size:
      200 patients (100 in each arm)

      Inclusion criteria:

      a) All adults > 18 years of age undergoing flexible bronchoscopy via nasal route

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Uncontrolled hypertension

        2. coronary artery disease

      b) Pregnancy c) refusal of consent d) Hypoxemia (oxygen saturation [by pulse oximetry] < 92%
      with Fio2 of ≥ 0.3 e) Bronchoscopy not performed by nasal route f) Bronchoscopy performed
      through an artificial airway

      Randomisation:

      Computer generated Block randomisation with block size of 10 will be used to generate list of
      random numbers based on which subjects will be allocated to either of the groups.

      Procedure of study The operator, assistant, drug administrator and outcomes assessor will be
      blinded. Patients meeting eligibility criteria will be randomized to receive either study
      drug Xylometazoline (0.1% nasal drops) (Otrivin, Novartis) (3 drops into each nostril) or
      0.9% saline (3 drops into each nostril) placebo. This will be administered as ten minutes
      before bronchoscopy. This will be followed by the standard topical anesthesia procedure
      followed in our institution involving 5ml of 2% lignocaine gel into the nostril and 4 sprays
      of 10% lignocaine to the pharynx. Nebulized lignocaine shall not be administered. Transnasal
      flexible bronchoscopy will be performed with additional 1% lignocaine solution administered
      as "spray as you go" method. All diagnostic procedures or airway inspection procedures will
      be included. Patients shall undergo hemodynamic monitoring throughout the procedure.
      Procedures shall be performed without administration of upfront sedation and intraprocedural
      sedation shall be at the discretion of the operator.

      Data will be recorded on a predesigned proforma. Baseline patient characteristics will be
      compared between the two groups. Categorical variables will be summarised by frequency (%)
      and chi-square test of proportion will be used to compare between the two groups.Quantitative
      variables will be summarised by mean±SD or median(IQR),as appropriate. Student's t-test or
      Wilcoxon rank sum test as appropriately be used to compare distribution of quantitative
      variables between the two groups. Stata statistical software will be used for data analysis.
    
  