
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The Radiation Epidemiology Branch and the University of Minnesota have followed a nationwide
      cohort of 146,022 U.S. radiologic technologists (USRT) since 1982 to assess cancer and other
      disease risks associated with long-term repeated low doses of ionizing radiation. The USRT
      Study is the largest cohort of medical radiation workers studied to date and the only one
      with substantial numbers of women, extensive covariate data, incident and fatal cancer and
      other outcomes, estimates of individual historical occupational radiation doses, personal
      medical radiation doses, and personal and residential solar ultraviolet radiation (UVR)
      doses, and biospecimens for breast and thyroid cancer cases and comparison subjects. This
      cohort is uniquely suited for addressing outstanding scientific questions about differences
      in risk related to the nature of radiation exposure, specifically whether risks are the same
      from a single or a few high-dose exposures (e.g. atomic bomb, radiotherapy) or from many
      small exposures over time that might be mitigated by DNA repair or other mechanisms. The
      nationwide distribution of the cohort, with wide-ranging UVR exposures, also offers a rare
      opportunity to evaluate risks for non-melanoma skin cancer with UVR, which will be a major
      focus of study during the next few years.

      OBJECTIVES:

        1. Assess risks of cancer and other diseases from long-term low-dose occupational and
           personal medical exposures.

        2. Assess risks of cancer and other diseases from occupational exposure to emerging and
           evolving radiologic modalities (i.e. nuclear medicine, fluoroscopically-guided
           procedures).

        3. Assess risks of skin and other cancers from solar ultraviolet radiation exposures.

        4. Conduct discovery of genetic determinants for thyroid cancer and rapid replication of
           main genotype effects for breast cancer.

        5. Evaluate gene-radiation and ionizing radiation-ultraviolet radiation interactions.

      ELIGIBILITY:

      All radiologic technologists certified by the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists
      for at least two years during 1926-1982 were eligible for study. Excluded were technologists
      who resided outside the U.S.

      DESIGN:

      Cohort study: The full USRT cohort consists of 146,022 radiologic technologists. The cohort
      is predominantly female (73%), Caucasian (93%), and presently 67 years old on average; 83%
      are living and 16% are deceased or presumed deceased. Three questionnaire surveys were
      conducted during 1983-2005 to collect information on occupational, personal medical, and
      personal and ambient residential ultraviolet radiation exposures, other cancer risk factors,
      and cancer and other disease outcomes. More than 110,000 technologists participated in the
      first and/or second surveys. The most recent follow-up (third survey) was conducted during
      2003-2005 to obtain detailed work history information for improving occupational dosimetry.
      Enhanced estimates of individual annual badge dose (personal dose equivalent) and radiation
      absorbed doses to 12 organs and tissues (breast, thyroid, brain, red bone-marrow, lung,
      heart, ovary, colon, testes, skin of extremities, skin of head and neck, and lens of eye)
      were recently completed for survey participants. Linear dose-response analyses are underway
      to quantify risks from protracted low-dose radiation for cancers (e.g., breast, thyroid) and
      other radiation-related diseases (e.g., cardiovascular, cataracts). A fourth questionnaire
      survey is under development and will collect information on cancer and other disease
      outcomes, work history with nuclear medicine and fluoroscopically-guided procedures, and
      other risk factors. Fourth survey outcomes will be used to assess incident cancer risks with
      UVR exposure data collected on the third survey. Collection of blood or buccal cell samples
      from breast and thyroid cancer cases and comparison subjects continues. Future plans include
      a case-control study of basal cell carcinoma to assess risks with ultraviolet and ionizing
      radiation exposure, genetic variants, and interactions.
    
  