
    
      Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm (AAA) is a life threatening disease. Endovascular repair of
      infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms (EVAR) has replaced open surgical repair as the
      standard of care treatment for most patients. Endovascular repair offers several benefits
      over open surgical repair, including: less invasive procedure, faster recovery, lower
      morbidity and lower early post-operative mortality. The configuration of vascular anatomy is
      important to the successful placement and subsequent performance of infrarenal EVAR devices.
      In particular aortic neck angulation and length are important for the success of EVAR.
      Challenging necks with an aortic diameter ≥28 mm, angulation ≥60°, length <10mm,
      circumferential thrombus, reversed tapered configuration or neck with bulging, make it more
      difficult to oppose the endograft to the aortic wall and are related to an increased risk of
      type Ia endoleak and reinterventions. In order to overcome these issues, fenestrated and
      branched stent grafts have been developed. Fenestrated and branched endovascular aneurysm
      repair is now a routinely utilised procedure in the treatment of complex aortic aneurysm
      anatomy, especially in patients unsuitable for open surgical repair.

      The Fenestrated Anaconda™ device (Vascutek Ltd, Glasgow, Scotland, UK) has been commercially
      available since 2010. The Fenestrated Anaconda™ device has potential advantages over other
      FEVAR devices, since it can be repositioned after deployment, has a magnet-assisted limb
      cannulation, and the device contains less metal, allowing a better view of the radiological
      markers on the device during intra-operative imaging. Additionally, the potential to position
      fenestrations anywhere in the main body is unrestricted due to the absence of other stent
      structures.

      This prospective, real world study of the Fenestrated Anaconda™ device will provide insight
      into both the short and long term clinical outcomes of the device. An attempt will be made to
      identify predictors of success or failure, and this study will help to identify patients that
      are likely to benefit from repair and improve results. The effect of FEVAR on post-operative
      patient reported quality of life will be assessed. In addition, the study will provide
      insight into the potential decline in renal function after FEVAR, a well-known concern after
      both EVAR and FEVAR.
    
  