
    
      Detailed Description:

      "Recruitment manoeuvre" which has been defined and become popular in the recent years is
      nowadays widely accepted and applied. The positive effects of the recruitment manoeuvre
      during and after surgery on respiratory mechanics and oxygenation have been reported. The
      duration and the applied pressure values of recruitment manoeuvre have been defined well and
      in detail regarding the definitions for this manoeuvre (1-3). Despite these definitions, no
      detailed information has been provided on the effects of the oxygen and oxygen concentration
      during recruitment manoeuvre .

      Atelectasis develops after the induction of anaesthesia, even in healthy subjects, and is
      associated with an increase in intraoperative shunt leading to impairment of gas exchange
      (4). It is well known that in patients, who have undergone mechanical ventilation with high
      oxygen concentration levels, oxygen replaces the less insoluble nitrogen. Partial oxygen
      pressure increases with the implementation of oxygen in high concentrations, and the oxygen
      flow into the blood increases. But when the gas flow into the blood is more than inspired,
      absorption atelectasis develops in lungs - due to appliance of high oxygen concentration.
      Atelectasis may also develop due to different reasons such as failure in secretion clearance
      during the surgery, replacement of nitrogen with inhalation anaesthetics and appliance of
      pneumoperitoneum.

      In the recent years, many studies have analyzed the effects of recruitment manoeuvre during
      pneumoperitoneum and laparoscopic surgery on respiratory mechanics and oxygenation, and
      reported the benefits of recruitment in these operations (4-6).

      In this study, our goal is to compare the effects of recruitment manoeuvre which is applied
      with different oxygen concentrations on oxygenation and respiratory mechanics during
      pneumoperitoneum.
    
  