
    
      Psoriasis is a common autoimmune disease; affecting approximately 2 % of the western
      population. Among these 15% are estimated to have severe disease that requires systemic
      therapy with e.g. methotrexate, cyclosporine or acitretin that are all drugs associated with
      high frequencies of side-effects. In contrast to this the recent development of the biologic
      drugs has provided very efficacious and in general well-tolerated new therapeutics. But even
      with these newer drugs treatment-failures exist and for this group new treatments are needed
      TNF-like ligand 1A (TL1A) is a novel member of the TNF family of cytokines. Increasing
      evidence suggests that in addition to TNF-alfa and IFN-gamma psoriasis is also an IL-23 and
      IL-17 dependent disease so TH1 and TH17 T cells are suggested to be important in driving the
      disease. Therefore TL1A, which through binding to DR3 influences TH1 and TH17 T cell
      differentiation, could be an important cytokine in the early inflammatory process in
      psoriasis. Recently expression of TL1A in psoriatic skin lesions has been demonstrated but
      the importance of this remains to be investigated.

      TL1A exists in both a membrane bound- and a soluble form and is secreted from antigen
      presenting cells (APCs) such as monocytes, dendritic cells and macrophages in response to
      stimulation with immune complexes, bacteria or cytokines (TNF-alfa and IL-1beta). Membrane
      bound TL1A has also been described in T cells. Recently, a new isoform of soluble TL1A
      (TL1A(V84-L251)) was discovered with functional differences to TL1A(L72-L251. It's unknown
      whether this isoform is present in psoriatic skin.

      Research on TL1A has focused on autoimmune diseases where immune complexes are formed, e.g.
      rheumatoid arthritis. However, studies have suggested that early pathogenesis in psoriasis
      could dependent on formation of large complexes between bacterial DNA and the anti-microbial
      peptide LL-37 which induce cytokine secretion from APC. Cytokines that could lead to TL1A
      excretion. Whether TL1A can be secreted in this way is unknown.
    
  