
    
      The objective of this study is to determine if a single shot multimodal peripheral nerve
      block containing bupivacaine, dexamethasone, buprenorphine, clonidine, and epinephrine will
      provide comparable (equivalent) analgesic control when compared to an adductor catheter. The
      primary end point will be pain scores at 30 hours post block initiation. Secondary end points
      will include, opioid consumption, time to first analgesic request; pain scores; binary
      patient satisfaction (yes/no); likeliness to recommend their analgesic regimen, straight leg
      raise test on post-operative day (POD) number 1; adverse events, incidence of post-operative
      nausea, and vomiting.

      Methods and Measures Design The study will be a randomized, double-blind, sham catheter
      study. Patients will be recruited and randomized to one of two groups: The "Treatment Arm"
      receive a single shot adductor canal block containing 20 milliliters (ml) of solution
      including 0.25% bupivacaine, 150 mcg of buprenorphine, 2 mg of dexamethasone, 1.67 mcg/ml of
      clonidine, and 1:400,000 epinephrine with sham catheter. The sham catheter will be placed in
      the Sartorius muscle in the same sterile, aseptic fashion as patient's in the control arm.
      The pump will be set at the lowest possible volume per hour of normal saline (0.1 ml/hour in
      the current pump in use at our hospital). An opaque bag will be placed over the pump for
      blinding purposes. The "Control Arm" will receive an adductor canal catheter through which
      they will receive a 20 ml bolus of 0.25% bupivacaine with 1:400,000 epinephrine followed by
      an adductor canal catheter infusion of 0.125% bupivacaine at 10 ml/hour. An opaque bag will
      be placed over the control arm pumps in similar fashion. For all patients, the order in the
      electronic medical record will be per research pharmacy protocol. For their primary
      anesthetic, patients in both arms will then receive either a subarachnoid (spinal) anesthetic
      or general anesthetic per the anesthesiologist in the operating room.
    
  