
    
      Kidneys have a key role in sodium hemostasis through their excretory function. In patients
      with chronic kidney disease (CKD), kidney function is impaired; thus, suggesting that sodium
      handling is abnormal in this setting with long-term sodium loading (from oral intake) and
      lack of adequate urinary excretion. Yet, sodium concentration needs to stay relatively
      constant to prevent fatal intra-cellular accumulation, which would result in cell injury and
      death. In hemodialysis patients, at least a part of this extra sodium is non-osmotically
      active and deposited in the skin, muscle, and skeleton.

      Furthermore, it has become increasingly recognized that sodium (once accumulated in tissues)
      is directly pro-inflammatory, affecting the innate immune system by regulating the activity
      of macrophages in skin. This linkage between sodium and inflammation indicates a potential
      link between sodium deposition and uremic symptoms experienced by patients.

      There have been no studies to date examining the sodium deposition in the skin, muscle, and
      skeleton of patients with different kidney function and renal replacement therapy.

      This is a pilot study involving a single center recruiting patients from the prevalent
      maintenance hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis , CKD stage 1-5, and heart failure populations
      of London, Ontario, compared to healthy controls. Once recruited, participants will undergo
      one study visit with the potential of up to two follow-up visits (on a non-dialysis day for
      hemodialysis patients). Participants will be followed for up to two years after the first
      study visit. Each session will include symptom questionnaires, the five times sit to stand
      and 60-second chair stand test (excluding all children), blood pressure and heart rate
      measurements, blood work (excluding healthy children and adolescents), urine sampling
      (excluding those on dialysis), an echocardiogram (excluding healthy controls), and an MRI
      scan of the lower leg detecting sodium content.
    
  