
    
      Recently, the academic hospital Maastricht invested in an integrated MR-PET system (Biograph
      mMR, Siemens Healthcare, Erlangen, Germany), ready to use for routine clinical application.
      Applications of this system are numerous and various types of cancer, including ovarian
      cancer, could benefit from the possibilities. The whole-body MR-PET system integrates the
      strengths of MRI and PET within a single examination. MRI provides anatomic detail in staging
      local tumor extent due to its high soft tissue resolution and advanced functional techniques
      such as DWI further enhance both local and distant lesion detection and characterisation. PET
      imaging complements this structural and functional information with molecular imaging
      technology useful in staging of adenopathy and metastatic spread. These characteristics
      contribute to a wide spectrum of possible clinical oncological applications, from primary
      tumor detection to local and distant staging, selection of patients for neoadjuvant therapy
      and assessment of response to chemotherapy and finally evaluation of recurrent disease.

      The importance of selecting patients with ovarian cancer who will benefit from either primary
      debulking surgery or neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery has been
      acknowledged worldwide but the optimal diagnostic modality to serve in this matter remains to
      be discovered. We believe that combined magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission
      tomography (MR-PET) can be of great clinical value in preoperative staging of patients with
      ovarian cancer. Both positron emission tomography (PET), computed tomography (CT) and
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) have proved to be useful in ovarian cancer staging but
      understaging due to difficulties in depicting peritoneal dissemination remains a great
      problem. In conclusion, the best method for staging ovarian cancer and assessing operability
      remains to be discovered, hence this study.
    
  