
    
      Sequential AC followed by a taxane initiated concurrently with trastuzumab has become a
      standard of care in the United States for operable HER2-positive breast cancer following
      initial surgery.

      Trastuzumab, a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody against the extracellular domain of
      the HER2 protein, was developed to block HER2 signaling pathways and has been shown to
      substantially improve the efficacy of chemotherapy in women with metastatic and early-stage
      HER2-positive breast cancers.

      However, some patients develop recurrence and succumb to the disease following
      trastuzumab-based adjuvant therapy. Evaluation of additional approaches that target this
      pathway have shown promising results in trastuzumab-resistant breast cancer.

      Neratinib (HKI-272), an orally administered small molecule, is an irreversible inhibitor of
      pan ErbB receptor tyrosine kinases, which distinguishes this small molecule from lapatinib.
      Because of the high degree of homology between kinase domains of EGFR and HER2, neratinib
      inhibits both EGFR and HER2 function. Neratinib is designed to block kinase activity by
      binding to the ATP site of the enzymes. In BT474 cell lines, HKI-272 effectively repressed
      phosphorylation of MAPK and Akt signal transduction pathways, whereas trastuzumab failed to
      completely inhibit HER2 receptor phosphorylation or downstream signaling events. In tumor
      xenografts which overexpress HER2, neratinib has been observed to repress tumor growth in a
      dose-dependent manner.

      A comparison of overall response rates with lapatinib and neratinib in comparable patients,
      albeit in separate Phase II studies, suggest favorable efficacy of neratinib as monotherapy
      in trastuzumab-refractory patients (response rate of 5.1% vs. 26%) and in trastuzumab-naïve
      patients (response rate of 24% vs. 56%). Taken together, the data support the rationale that
      a small molecule TKI may be more efficacious than trastuzumab in the neoadjuvant setting, and
      that neratinib may be more active than lapatinib.

      The study started as a two-arm design with randomization to the control arm (Arm 1) and to
      the investigational arm (Arm 2) in a 1:2 ratio. With the addition of a second investigation
      arm, (Arm 3), the study becomes a three-arm design with a 1:1:1 allocation ratio (about equal
      numbers of patients randomized to Arms 1, 2, and 3). The sample size will be up to 126
      patients with about 42 evaluable patients in each arm. Patients who enter the trial but are
      not treated for any reason will be replaced. Accrual is expected to occur over 18 months.
      Patients will be randomized to one of three neoadjuvant therapy regimens: Patients in Arm 1
      will receive 4 cycles of paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 administered on Days 1, 8, and 15 of a 28-day
      cycle. Trastuzumab will begin concurrently with paclitaxel and will be given weekly for a
      total of 16 doses (4 mg/kg loading dose, then 2 mg/kg weekly). Following
      paclitaxel/trastuzumab, standard AC will be administered every 21 days for 4 cycles; Patients
      in Arm 2 will receive 4 cycles of paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 administered on Days 1, 8, and 15 of a
      28-day cycle. Neratinib 240 mg will be taken orally once daily beginning on Day 1 of
      paclitaxel and continuing through Day 28 of the final cycle of paclitaxel. Standard AC
      administered every 21 days for 4 cycles will be administered following paclitaxel/neratinib
      therapy; Patients in Arm 3 will receive 4 cycles of paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 administered Days 1,
      8, and 15 of a 28 day cycle with trastuzumab, beginning concurrently with paclitaxel, given
      weekly for a total of 16 doses (4 mg/kg loading dose, then 2 mg/kg weekly). Neratinib 200 mg
      will be taken orally once daily beginning on Day 1 of paclitaxel and continuing through Day
      28 of the final cycle of paclitaxel. Standard AC will be administered every 21 days for 4
      cycles following paclitaxel/trastuzumab/neratinib therapy.

      In all arms, clinical response will be assessed by palpation between the chemotherapy
      regimens and prior to surgery. Following recovery from surgery, trastuzumab (8 mg/kg loading
      dose, then 6 mg/kg) will be administered every 3 weeks to complete 1 year of targeted therapy
      (either preoperative trastuzumab therapy or neratinib therapy). Patients will receive
      adjuvant radiation therapy and endocrine therapy as clinically indicated.

      At the time of local IRB approval of amendment #6, submission of fresh tumor samples for FB-7
      correlative science studies will be optional for all patients. For patients who agree, a core
      biopsy procedure to procure three fresh tumor samples will be performed before randomization
      (after the patient has signed the consent form and has been screened for eligibility).
      Submission of a tumor block from the diagnostic core biopsy sample and a tumor block from
      gross residual disease greater than or equal to 1.0 cm, if found in the surgical specimen,
      will be required. In addition, a blood sample collected after randomization (before the start
      of study therapy) will also be required for the correlative science studies.

      Beginning with Amendment #8, Arm 1 and Arm 2 were closed to accrual in the US subsequent to
      FDA approval of pertuzumab when given in combination with trastuzumab for neoadjuvant therapy
      in breast cancer. Pertuzumab and trastuzumab are both targeted therapy drugs. US patients
      enrolled in the study will not be randomized but will be placed into the combined targeted
      therapy group, Arm 3 NR, only. Randomization and study therapy for patients entered via
      institutions outside of the US remains unchanged.
    
  