
    
      Bruxism is a prevalent condition that differentially burdens individuals. The overall
      objective of this pilot study is to measure the effects of BTX-A (Xeomin®) injections into
      bilateral masseter muscles for the management of sleep bruxism and associated symptoms. The
      hypothesis is that BTX-A reduces masticatory muscle activity. The aim of this study is to
      instrumentally monitor subjects closely over an extended time period of three months before
      and after application of BTX-A.

      Botulinum toxin type A ( BTX A; Xeomin ® ) temporarily blocks neuromuscular synapses. It is
      successfully and safely used therapeutically in various types of movement disorders and in
      chronic migraineurs. The mechanism of action of this treatment is related to a reduction of
      neurotransmitter release leading to reduced muscle activity.

      The following Null hypothesis will be tested:

      Injections of Xeomin® into the masseter muscles bilaterally (25 Units per muscle applied with
      2 injections in each muscle) have no effect on bruxism measured by A) Masticatory muscle
      activity (1° objective) B) Subjects' well-being (2° objective) C) Sensitivity of masticatory
      muscles and jaw joints (2° objective) D) Anxiety over tooth wear (2° objective) E) Disturbed
      sleep by bed partner (2° objective)

      Following instruments will be used:

        1. WISE questionnaires. A comprehensive web-based interdisciplinary symptom evaluation
           tool.

        2. Algometer for sensitivity measure of masticatory muscles and jaw joints.

        3. Bio-signal recorder. Parallel to the Electromyography (EMG) of the masseter muscles,
           other bio-signals such as a number of electroencephalographic (EEG) derivations,
           electrooculogram (EOG ) as well as an electrocardiogram (ECG) will be recorded, in order
           to detect sleep stages and better identify bruxism episodes. The device used in this
           study has been approved for projects NIH #2R01DE016417-05A1 and #1 R01DE028548-01.

        4. Ultrasound for masseter muscle thickness measure

        5. Dual-color chewing gum for chewing efficiency measure.
    
  