
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory disease characterised by polyarthritis
      and erosive synovitis and is associated with progressive impairments and activity
      limitations. It may cause destruction of bone and cartilage by affecting synovial joints
      symmetrically. Organ involvement may be seen in the patients with RA as well as joint
      involvement. Initiation of the disease is mostly insidious and varies from patient to
      patient. Hand, wrist, foot, elbow and knee joints involvement are common. Furthermore almost
      all joints may be affected. Extraarticular symptoms are subcutaneous nodules, visceral
      nodules, cardiologic involvement, pulmonary involvement, eye involvement, neurological
      involvement, vasculitis, felty syndrome, amyloidosis, osteoporosis, liver and renal
      involvements. These symptoms may cause some extra complaints such as depression, fatigue,
      kinesiophobia and physical inactivity. Studies in literature have reported reduction in
      physical activity level in patients with RA. Reasons of physical inactivity can be listed as
      general obstacles such as lack of time, lack of motivation, weather condition and disease
      related blocks such as pain, fatigue, disease activity, depression, kinesiophobia. Depression
      prevalence in RA patients is found between 14.8% and 38.8% and this rate is estimated five
      times more than healthy people. Also, a study investigating pain in RA patients resulted that
      pain may be correlated with fatigue and depression. Fatigue which is frequently observed
      complaint of patients with rheumatic diseases is reported incidence between 40% and 80%. RA
      patients have been reported at high risk for cardiovascular diseases in EULAR
      recommendations.

      Positive effects of physical activity and exercise on physiological, morphological and
      psychosocial conditions are known. Endurance, flexibility, muscle strength, body composition,
      self confidence and mood improve by regular exercise and high physical activity level.
      Furthermore, anti-inflammatory affects of exercise are proved in last years. Aims of pilates
      exercises which are developed by Joseph Pilates are to increase motor control, range of
      motion, flexibility, muscle strength and endurance, to improve balance, respiratory pattern
      and body awareness, to reduce stress. There are many studies investigating affects of pilates
      exercises on quality of life, functional capacity, posture, pain for different diseases
      including Multiple Sclerosis, Ankylosing Spondylitis, breast cancer. Aerobic and
      strengthening exercises reported to have positive affects on fatigue, quality of life,
      depression and pain for RA patients. The aim of this study is to investigate effects of
      clinical pilates exercises on fatigue, depression, aerobic capacity, pain, quality of life,
      disease activity and sleep quality.
    
  