
    
      The Study Drugs Cetuximab and IMC-A12 are both designed to block proteins that are thought to
      cause cancer cells to grow. This may help to slow the growth of tumors.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the roll of dice) to 1 of 3 groups. There is an equal chance of being assigned to any
      group.

        -  Group 1 will receive cetuximab alone.

        -  Group 2 will receive IMC-A12 alone.

        -  Group 3 will receive cetuximab and IMC-A12 in combination.

      If you are assigned to group 2 or 3 you will have a hearing test within 90 days before
      starting treatment with the study drug.

      Study Treatment:

      Groups 1 and 3:

      Cetuximab will be given by vein on Days 1 and 8. The first dose will be given over 2 hours.
      The second dose will be given over 1 hour.

      To lower the risk of allergic reaction, Groups 1 and 3 will also receive diphenhydramine by
      mouth or by vein before the first dose of cetuximab. If the study doctor decides it is
      needed, diphenhydramine may also be given before the second dose of cetuximab (and the third,
      if applicable).

      Groups 2 and 3:

      IMC-A12 will be given by vein over 1 hour on Days 1 and 8.

      All Groups:

      You will have surgery on Day 10. If for some reason the surgery is delayed, the study doctor
      may decide that you will receive a third dose of your assigned study drug(s) on Day 15. In
      that case, cetuximab will be given over 1 hour and/or IMC-A12 will be given over 1 hour,
      depending on which group you are in.

      You will sign a separate consent form that describes the surgery and its risks in more
      detail.

      Study Tests:

      Within 5 days before your second dose of study drug(s), and again within 5 days before your
      third dose (if applicable), the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may be experiencing.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of vital signs.

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      On the day before surgery, you will have a CT scan or MRI of the head and neck. If needed,
      these tests can instead be done before surgery but sometime after the last dose of the study
      drug(s).

      On the day of surgery, blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and your
      vital signs will be measured. If needed, these tests can instead be done up to 2 days before
      surgery.

      Length of Study Drug Dosing:

      After your last dose of the study drug(s), on Day 8 or Day 15, your participation in the
      study treatment period will be over. You will be taken off the study drug(s) early if the
      disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      Follow-Up:

      If you return to the clinic within 30 days after surgery, the following tests and procedures
      will be performed:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects that may have occurred.

      Otherwise if you do not have a visit scheduled during that time, the study staff will call
      you by phone instead. You will be asked how you are doing.

      If you are experiencing side effects from the study drug(s) at the time of the follow-up
      visit or call, you may have additional follow-up if the doctor decides it is needed. The
      follow-up tests, procedures, and schedule will be the doctor's decision depending on the side
      effects.

      You will have a repeat hearing test within 90 days after surgery if you received at least 1
      dose of IMC-A12.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      On a long-time basis after surgery, the study staff may review your medical record to collect
      information about your health. During this time, you or your family members may be contacted
      and asked to confirm or provide information about your health. The contact may occur during
      clinic visits or by phone, mail, or e-mail.

      This is an investigational study. Cetuximab is commercially available and FDA approved to
      treat squamous cell carcinoma that has spread or come back, in patients who did not respond
      to platinum-based therapy.

      Using cetuximab in combination with surgery is investigational.

      IMC-A12 is not FDA approved or commercially available. At this time, IMC-A12 is only being
      used in research.

      Up to 60 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  