
    
      Comprehensive analysis linking breast tumour subtypes and their genetic profile with tumour
      metabolism are required. Traditional model systems are inadequate for this purpose.

        1. In vitro models do not represent a true tumour environment and are a subject of
           prolonged adaptation to artificial cell culture conditions.

        2. There is a need for in vivo and ex vivo models representing breast cancer diversity and
           tumour environment that can be used for predicting and testing the personalised
           therapies.

      Metabolic analysis of fresh tissues (by metabolomics and Mass Spectrometry Imaging (MSI)) and
      tissues grown as patient derived xenograft models in vivo should reveal the unperturbed
      relationships between genetic profiles of tumour cells, tumour microenvironment and metabolic
      profiles of tumours. These relationships should provide new targets for metabolism-based
      therapies. The experimental systems required to perform this research require fresh breast
      cancer biopsies.

      ENSEMBLE is a prospective multi-centre cohort study that aims to address these issues. Fresh
      breast tumour tissue will be collected from consented female participants diagnosed with
      invasive breast cancer, for translational research. Up to 240 participants will be enrolled
      over a 36-month period and clinical follow-up data will be collected for up to 5 years. Study
      participants will undergo a "research biopsy" (core biopsy) for translational research that
      aims to collect up to four cores. The procedure is the same as the standard of care
      percutaneous core needle biopsy that the patient will have to inform their diagnosis,
      however, as it is an additional procedure, it is called a "research biopsy". Wherever
      possible biopsy samples will be taken from the operative specimen at the time of primary
      surgery however, where neo-adjuvant therapy is planned in a patient's care plan, these
      patients will undergo a research percutaneous biopsy prior to their surgery, performed either
      using image-guidance or as a clinical biopsy.

      Collected tumour material will be divided: a portion will immediately be frozen in liquid
      nitrogen, and a portion will be kept fresh. The material will be transported to the primary
      receiving laboratory at the Francis Crick Institute where part of the sample will be
      immediately engrafted into immune-deficient mice to create a patient-derived xenograft (PDX)
      model. The remaining primary samples and samples from PDXs will be used for genomic,
      metabolomic and other biochemical analyses.

      Information about participant demographics, medical history and tumour characteristics will
      be collected at registration. Participants may be followed up for up to 5 years for clinical
      outcome data and to clarify information about medical history
    
  