
    
      Fibromyalgia Syndrome (FMS) is a highly prevalent condition often affecting individuals in
      the prime of life, causing severe reduction in quality of life and productivity, as well as
      social isolation, anxiety, and depression. FMS has recently been estimated to affect
      approximately 2.6% of the Israeli population. Over the last decade, it has repeatedly been
      shown that Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) of the primary motor cortex (M1) induces
      an analgesic effect both in experimental pain, as well as in various chronic pain conditions,
      possibly by activating intrinsic pain-modulation systems.

      Thus, the purpose of this study is to explore the efficacy of H1 deep TMS for the treatment
      of FMS patients. In addition, the investigators attempt to assess the effect of dTMS on the
      perception and modulation of pain in patients suffering from FMS.

      The study will take place in Shalvata Mental Health Center, After receiving the hospital's
      BRI approval. Forty FMS patients between 18-65 years of age will sign an informed consent
      form, and be randomized to an active arm (dTMS) and a placebo arm (sham-dTMS). Twenty
      treatments will be delivered to each subject over a period of 4 weeks. At base-line subjects
      will complete a series of epidemiological and clinical questionnaires (assessing symptoms of
      FMS, depression, pain, anxiety), as well as pain sensation and modulation tests. At the
      termination of the study and two weeks after the final treatment all questionnaires and
      physical measurements will be re-administered for a final assessment of post-treatment status
      comparison with initial status The importance of the study lies in its potential to: 1)
      provide evidence for the efficacy of dTMS in treating patients suffering from FMS 2)enhance
      the investigators understanding of the pathophysiology of FMS and its underlying pain
      perception and modulation mechanisms 3) explore the role of the
      Dorso-Lateral-Prefrontal-Cortex (DLPC) in modulating pain and as a possible target to further
      therapeutic interventions in FMS.
    
  