
    
      According to the classification （revised in 2014）by International Society for the Study of
      Vascular （ISSVA ）, vascular anomalies are classified into two distinct disease
      entities，including vascular tumors and vascular malformations differing in their biologic and
      pathologic features. Vascular tumors include infantile and congenital hemangiomas, Tufted
      angiomas (TA), and Kaposiform hemangioendotheliomas (KHE). Vascular malformations are
      classified according to their vascular tissue of origin which include capillary, venous,
      arteriovenous, lymphatic, and mixed malformations. Infantile hemangiomas, the most common
      vascular anomaly, generally have a good prognosis due to its specific biological
      characteristics（a predetermined life cycle from proliferation to subsequent involution).
      However，KHE and TA are rare vascular tumors with incidence less than 1/1000000 and along with
      complex lymphatic malformations and complex mixed malformations，are difficult to be
      successfully treated resulting in clinical problems such as disfigurement, chronic pain,
      recurrent infections, coagulopathies (thrombotic and hemorrhagic,including life-threatening
      Kasabach-Merritt Phenomenon), organ dysfunction. Rapamycin directly inhibits the mTOR
      pathway, thereby inhibiting cell proliferation and angio/lymphangiogenesis and is recently
      applied to refractory vascular . Preclinical data and case reports have confirm that
      rapamycin is effective for KHE/TA and some slow-flow vascular malformations. The overall goal
      of this trial is to objectively determine the effectiveness and safety of rapamycin
      monotherapy in KHE/TA and complex vascular malformations in pediatric patients and to explore
      the rational doses. In this study, 30 patients (aged from 1 month to 14 years old) diagnosed
      with KHE/TA or complex vascular that respond poorly to propranolol hydrochloride and
      corticosteroid are enrolled. Oral rapamycin is given as a monotherapy at a initial dose of
      0.8mg/m2, once daily for children under 3 years old and twice daily (every 12 hours) for
      those above 3 years. And further dosage is adjusted to target a trough concentration of
      rapamycin in plasma as 10-15ng/ml （OR 15-20ng/ml if the efficacy of treatment is not
      satisfactory with concentration at 10-15ng/ml. One course lasts for 12weeks and no more than
      4 courses are given.Volumetric changes as the primary outcome measure will be analysed by
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and/or ultrasonography. Frequency of adverse events as
      assessed by CTCAE v4.0 is calculated to evaluate the safety of rapamycin.
    
  