
    
      Patients of Dr. Nick Carr's who have elected to undergo an abdominoplasty (tummy tuck)
      procedure and have a fitzpatrick skin type of IV-VI will be offered participation in the
      study.

      A full tummy tuck requires a horizontally-oriented incision in the area between the pubic
      hairline and belly button. The shape and length of the incision will be determined by the
      amount of excess skin. The excess skin is trimmed and the remaining skin is sutured together.
      A natural part of the healing process includes the body producing a fluid. The body is also
      able to reabsorb some fluid, but in the beginning there is more than the body can handle.
      Drains are inserted for one week post-operative to help remove that fluid. The usual standard
      of wound treatment to prevent scarring is to cover the incision with a self adhesive gauze
      type dressing (Mepore) covered by paper tape. The tape will be replaced at one-week
      post-operative and will be removed at two-weeks post-operative when the incision has fully
      healed. At this point the tape will then be replaced with a silicone strip for three
      additional months. In addition to the dressings the patient wearing a pressure garment for 1
      month post-operative.

      Patients who choose to be in the study, will have one half of the incision treated with the
      standard of care (explained in the previous paragraph) and the other side will be treated
      with SutureSafe dressings. Based on the Canadian medical device classification system,
      SutureSafe bandages are considered a class I device (which is the lowest risk category). The
      same process of wound care will be followed as outlined above, half of the incision will be
      treated with Mepore and paper tape, the other half of the incision will be treated with
      self-adhesive SutureSafe dressings. Both sides of the incisions will be replaced at one-week
      post-operative and will be removed at two-weeks post-operative when the incision has fully
      healed. At this point the tape will be replaced with a silicone strip and the SutureSafe
      bandages will be reapplied for three additional months.

      The scar will be assessed at 3 months, 6 months and 1 year post-operative by observer Baillie
      Redfern. The clinical assessment of the scar will be performed using the Vancouver Scar Score
      criteria.
    
  