
    
      HIV-based antisense vectors may provide several important advantages over current HIV
      combination therapies. VIRxSYS Corporation (VIRxSYS) is developing the candidate clinical
      vector VRX496. VRX496 is an HIV-based lentiviral vector containing an anti-HIV antisense
      sequence targeted to the HIV envelope (env) coding sequence. First, HIV-1 vectors are likely
      to be less toxic than current combination drug therapies because the genetic antisense
      antiviral is expressed only in cells that become infected with wt-HIV. The payload is located
      upstream of a major splice acceptor site and is thus dependent on the expression of Tat and
      Rev proteins that are provided by wt-HIV. Second, the length of the antisense region is over
      900 nucleotides long, making it difficult for wt-HIV to create resistant strains that are
      sufficiently fit to cause disease. Third, HIV vectors are predicted to be safe because no
      novel genetic sequences are introduced into the patient (i.e., no novel functional genes are
      contained in the HIV-1 vector). All the sequences present in the vector are derived from
      highly conserved regions of wt-HIV that would almost certainly be present in any
      HIV-1-infected individual. The HIV sequences that are used to create VRX496 are solely
      derived from pNL4-3, a prototypic HIV-1 molecular clone that is derived from two North
      American strains of HIV-1.

      In the present trial, T cells will be harvested from infected individuals, transduced ex vivo
      with the vector at the University of Pennsylvania, and then reintroduced by autologous
      transfusions. VIRxSYS recently completed a Phase 1 clinical study at the University of
      Pennsylvania of the vector VRX496 in 5 HIV-positive subjects who had failed at least two
      HAART regimens. Data available to date for the primary endpoints, viral load and CD4 counts,
      are promising. Specifically, 4 of 5 subjects had stable or increased CD4 counts, and viral
      loads were stable in 4 of 5 patients, and decreased by 1.7 log in 1 of 5 subjects following a
      single infusion of VRX496 T cells. In the present trial, subjects will receive up to 6
      infusions of VRX496 modified CD4 T cells, and then undergo a series of tests, including
      rectal mucosal biopsies, to determine the longevity and trafficking of the VRX496 T cells. In
      addition, subjects will have the opportunity to have a supervised drug holiday (structured
      treatment interruption) to determine if the VRX496 have an antiviral effect.
    
  