
    
      The project is divided into the following phases:

      T0 - at the beginning of the study children included will be subject to the following
      procedures and assessments:

        1. demographic and anthropometric data collection;

        2. randomization by concealed allocation to one of the following two groups:

             -  AFO - Ankle_7 group

             -  Ankle-7 - AFO group Both, AFO and ankle-7, will be tailored to the patient

           The two groups are distinguished by the order of the assignment of the two orthoses,
           respectively defined as the first assignment orthosis (O_1) and second assignment
           orthosis (O_2). The first group will use the orthoses AFO as a first assignment and then
           the orthoses Ankle_7, while the second group will use the two orthoses according to the
           reverse order. The two will be used with the same orthotic footwear, with the exception
           of the cases where it will be necessary to change it due to accretion.

        3. collection of the measures necessary for making the two orthotic devices at OttoBock of
           Reggio Emilia

        4. training in the use of the orthoses according to a standardized protocol;

        5. try on the patient's in-process first assignment orthoses (O_1) and subsequent delivery
           of them (see Annex A);

      Subsequently, the patient will use O_1 for a period of 4-6 weeks.

      T1 - patients will receive the following procedures and assessments:

        1. try on the patient's in-process second assignment orthoses (O_2)

        2. instrumental gait analysis and video recording of the walking while using O_1 (covered
           by elastic gaiters);

        3. withdrawal of O_1

        4. delivery of O_2 to the patient

      Subsequently, the patient will use O_2 for a period of 4-6 weeks.

      T2 - patients will undergo the following procedures and evaluations:

        1. instrumental gait analysis and video recording of the walking while using O_2 (covered
           by elastic gaiters);

        2. return of O_1 to the patient;

        3. Delivery of the diaries and directions for completing and mailing back them at the end
           of the follow-up period;

      T3 - three months follow-up to detect the preference of use of AFO or Ankle-7 (by the
      child/parent)
    
  