
    
      All patients presenting to the Prentice Women's Hospital's (PWH) Labor and Delivery Unit for
      spontaneous labor, induction of labor and scheduled cesarean delivery are routinely
      interviewed by a member of the anesthesia team to obtain a detailed history and physical
      examination and to discuss labor analgesia options. Immediately following this usual and
      customary preanesthetic evaluation the member of the anesthesia team performing the
      preanesthetic consultation (anesthesiology attending, resident physician, or nurse) used a
      standard verbal consent script to obtain verbal consent from the subject for study
      participation. Study participants were asked to complete a written validated survey, the
      Berlin Questionnaire, evaluating self-reported snoring and daytime sleepiness as well as
      basic demographic data (age, height, current weight and pregnancy weight gain). Survey
      completion time was 1 to 2 minutes.

      The survey was available in English and Spanish. It did not contain any subject personal
      health information. The survey sheet remained in the labor and delivery room with the
      subject's usual anesthesia medical record paperwork until the patient was discharged from the
      unit. At the time of discharge, the infant's birthweight and APGAR scores were recorded on
      the survey and the survey collected.

      All female patients, ages 18 - 45, presenting to the PWH Operating Room for elective
      gynecologic surgery, and all female patients, ages 18 - 45, presenting to the Northwestern
      Memorial Hospital (NMH) Ambulatory Surgery Center were interviewed by a member of the
      anesthesia team to obtain a routine preoperative history and physical examination and to
      discuss the anesthesia options. Immediately following this usual and customary preanesthetic
      evaluation the member of the anesthesia team performing the preanesthetic consultation
      (anesthesiology attending, resident physician, or certified registered nurse anesthetist)
      used a standard verbal consent script to obtain verbal consent from the subject for study
      participation. Study participants were asked to complete a written validated survey, the
      Berlin Questionnaire, evaluating self-reported snoring and daytime sleepiness as well as
      basic demographic data (age, height, and weight). The survey was available in English and
      Spanish. Survey completion time was 1-2 minutes. The survey did not contain any patient
      identifying information and was collected after completion.
    
  