
    
      Bone lengthening using distraction osteogenesis has found many clinical applications in the
      treatment of limb length discrepancies, limb deformities, bone defects and fracture nonunion.
      Animal studies have shown that mechanical conditions significantly affect the biological
      process of osteogenesis. Knowledge of the influence of mechanical stimuli on the formation of
      bone is thus essential for the improvement of the current technique, contributing to the
      treatment and care of patients receiving bone lengthening. Previous in vivo human studies
      have approached the problem by measuring the interfragmentary movement of bone fracture and
      the loading in the limb in terms of the ground reaction forces. The mechanical environment in
      the callus is not available with these approaches. As the stress and strain behavior of bone
      is critical to its normal function, the response to bone osteotomy and osteogenesis, a
      limited number of studies have used simplified FEM technique to examine the strain and stress
      patterns in the callus in two dimensions during simplified loading conditions. The calculated
      strain patterns, however, can be far from the real situation in the callus. No data are
      available for the stress and strain patterns during the process of distraction osteogenesis.

      The present study is a further step of our current one-year NSC project, aiming to bridge the
      above-mentioned gap by continuously monitoring the mechanical stimuli applied to the limb and
      callus, both through experimental measurements and FEM calculations, and by correlating the
      observed quantity and quality of the mechanical stimuli with the calculated stress and strain
      patterns of the callus tissue. Specifically, in this proposed study, 3D finite element models
      of the osteogenesis at four temporal points during the limb lengthening process for each
      subject will be developed from CT data of the osteotomy sites. A 3D model of the
      musculoskeletal model of the lower limb will be used to calculate the forces transmitted by
      the bone and surrounding tissues, which will be used for subsequent FEM analysis. The purpose
      of the study is to determine the stress and strain patterns in the callus at different
      distraction stages and, with the data collected from gait laboratory experiments performed in
      our current NSC project, to provide a clearer picture of the influence of mechanical stimuli
      on distraction osteogenesis.

      It is hoped that the present study will lead to a better understanding of the mechanisms of
      osteogenesis, which will be helpful in finding appropriate fixation methods in distraction
      osteogenesis that optimize the mechanical environment for bone formation.
    
  