
    
      Mental illness is very common in todays' society, and it is the most common cause for sick
      leave in Sweden. Affective diseases, such as different states of anxiety and depression, are
      the two most common conditions of mental illness that has been reported by different
      workplaces in Sweden. Pharmacological treatment of anxiety using benzodiazepines, tends to be
      long, and it may lead to substance dependence, as well as severe side effects such as
      increased anxiety levels, cognitive impact and psychomotor effects. The Swedish Council on
      Health Technology Assessment (SBU) have identified that there are scientific knowledge gaps
      that needs to be filled regarding the mental illness care, such as anxiety. There is a need
      for evaluations of non-pharmacological, complementary treatments as well as research with a
      high methodological quality.

      Acupuncture is a nonpharmacological treatment method based on complementary medicine, for
      which interest has increased over the last years. It has, to some extent, been introduced in
      the ordinary health care system. Auricular acupuncture (AA) is a branch of acupuncture where
      needles are inserted in different areas in the outer ears AA has been used to treat anxiety
      as well as vid depression and post-traumatic stress syndrome (PTSD) among veterans. A
      standardised insertion pattern, defined as the National Acupuncture Detoxification
      Association (NADA) protocol, is normally practised, and it has also been used to treat
      insomnia.

      Evaluations has shown that AA according to the NADA-protocol has a calming effect and seem to
      alleviate symptoms of anxiety, depression and to some extent, also sleeping difficulties.

      The aim of this study is to study and evaluate effects of AA as an add-on treatment to
      treatment as usual (TaU) within affective outpatient care.

      regarding:

        -  Anxiety/depression: is the treatment symptom relieving?

        -  Does it change the participants' intake addictive drugs (i.e. benzodiazepines)?

        -  Sleep: Is there some improvement in any sleep disorders that are linked to the basic
           problem?

        -  Do the treatment effects persist 6 months after the treatment has ended?

      A prospective, non-inferiority randomised controlled study (RCT) with a number of (N=72)
      participants will be conducted to answer the study aims. A qualitative interview study will
      also be conducted to find out how the patients experience AA as an adjunctive therapy.

      The participants will be randomised in two groups. The participants in group 1 will receive
      AA as an adjunctive therapy to TaU (i.e. individual counseling therapy, psycho therapy,
      pharmacological therapy) during 8 weeks. The add-on treatment will be administered at the
      treatment sessions with their caregiver (i.e. registered nurse, psychologist, curator), and
      at each session the participants receive 5 sterile stainless needles in each outer ear. The
      needling is standardised according to the NADA-protocol (10). The needles will remain in the
      outer ears for approximately 45 minutes, and will be removed by the care giver. Group 2, the
      control group, will receive TaU and will, just like group 1, have a follow-up after 8 weeks.

      During the trial 12-15 participants from the AA group will be recruited to participate in an
      interview study. Semistructured interviews will be conducted after the 8 weeks intervention
      has finished. The questions are aimed to find out how the participants experienced the AA as
      an add-on treatment, and if AA was helpful to reduce symptoms of anxiety and depression.
    
  