
    
      Atrial fibrillation, which can result in stroke and thromboembolism in an approximately
      5-fold increased risk, has been a great burden to health care system with the aging of
      population. Catheter ablation is the most promising treatment of atrial fibrillation.
      However, the recurrence rates of AF after catheter ablation are high, ranging from 20%-60%.
      Therefore, non-invasive predictors for AF recurrence after catheter ablation is necessary to
      select the optimal patients for this procedure.

      Fibroblast growth factor-23 (FGF-23) is a bone-derived hormone that plays a central role in
      phosphate homeostasis. Recent study showed that fibroblast growth factor 23 plays an
      important role in cardiac remodeling and is considered to be independently associated with
      the occurrence of atrial fibrillation. In this study, we are going to observe the
      relationship between the serum FGF-23 and the arrythmia recurrence after catheter ablation of
      AF.

      This research is going to recruit 200 consecutive patients with a history of atrial
      fibrillation for 180-360 days who intend to undergo catheter ablation. The day before
      catheter ablation, serum FGF-23 level will be detected. Echocardiogram and left atrial CT
      scan will also be performed on the day before catheter ablation. All patients will be
      routinely follow up in the outpatient department by cardiologists every month for 1 year. If
      patients complain about palpitations, fatigue, or other symptoms related to arrhythmia,
      Holter monitoring will be performed. Patients will also be advised to see their doctor
      anytime they have these symptoms and to undergo a 12-lead ECG examination or 24-hour Holter
      monitoring. In asymptomatic patients, 24-hour Holter monitoring or 7-day cardiac event
      recording will be performed every three months after the procedure. The endpoint for
      follow-up is the recurrence of atrial fibrillation, which is considered to be any episode of
      AF/AFL/AT after a blank period of 3 months after the procedure of catheter ablation. Those
      who develop recurrence of AF during follow up will be assigned to recurrence group, and those
      who do not develop recurrence of AF during follow up will be assigned to non-recurrence
      group. Comparison of the serum FGF-23 level between the two groups will be carried out in
      order to investigate the relationship between serum FGF-23 level and the recurrence of AF.
    
  