
    
      The investigators therefore propose a volunteer-based clinical trial testing the hypothesis
      that providing ropivacaine at different concentrations and rates (0.1% at 8 mL/hour vs. 0.4%
      at 2 mL/hour)-but at an equivalent total basal dose (8 mg/hour)-produces comparable effects
      when infused for a continuous popliteal-sciatic nerve block. The primary endpoint will be
      tolerance to cutaneous electrical current applied on the plantar aspect of the foot. This is
      an objective endpoint that has been validated in multiple previous publications and
      correlates with intra- and post-operative pain.

      This investigation will be a randomized, observer-masked, controlled, split-body,
      human-subjects clinical trial.

      Enrollment. Subjects will be volunteers of both sexes, age 18 and older. Volunteers will be
      solicited using newspaper advertisements, fliers, and an existing database of volunteers (IRB
      approved). If a volunteer meets inclusion/exclusion criteria and desires study participation,
      written, informed consent will be obtained. Selection for inclusion will not be based on race
      or socioeconomic status. The study population of interest includes men and women of all races
      and socioeconomic status. A urine pregnancy test will be administered to all women of
      childbearing age following written informed consent but before any study interventions. This
      urine test will be administered by CTRI nursing staff using standard, FDA-approved urine
      pregnancy testing devices.

      Inclusion criteria for the trial will be: (1) age ≥ 18 years; and (2) willing to have
      bilateral femoral perineural catheters placed with a subsequent ropivacaine infusion and
      motor/sensory testing for 6 hours, requiring an overnight stay in the UCSD GCRC/CTRI to allow
      dissipation of local anesthetic infusion effects by the following morning. Exclusion criteria
      for the trial will be: (1) current daily analgesic use; (2) opioid use within the previous 4
      weeks; (3) any neuro-muscular deficit of either femoral nerves and/or quadriceps muscles; (4)
      morbid obesity [weight > 35 kg/m2]; (5) pregnancy (as determined by a urine pregnancy test
      prior to any study interventions); and (6) incarceration. We expect to recruit a maximum of
      30 healthy volunteers; with a target goal of 24 for the analysis. Selection for inclusion
      will not be based on gender, race, or socioeconomic status. The study population of interest
      includes men and women of all races and socioeconomic status. There will be no participants
      from vulnerable populations, such as pregnant women, children, or prisoners

      Perineural catheter insertion. Following written, informed consent, subjects will be admitted
      to the UCSD CTRI and have demographic/morphometric data recorded (e.g., age, weight, height).
      An intravenous line will be placed in an upper extremity, followed by external monitors
      (pulse oximeter, blood pressure, and EKG), and oxygen by nasal cannula. Sedation will be
      provided with intravenous fentanyl (50 mcg) and/or midazolam (1 mg), or oral valium (10 mg)
      and/or dilaudid (4 mg), as necessary. Subjects will then have bilateral popliteal-sciatic
      perineural catheters placed using standard UC San Diego techniques as previously published by
      the current P.I.7,8

      Treatment Group Assignment. Subjects will have the right-sided catheter randomly assigned to
      one of two treatment groups: a ropivacaine concentration of 0.1% or 0.4%. Subjects will act
      as their own controls, with the contralateral side receiving the alternative concentration.
      The Investigational Drug Service will prepare the randomization list as well as the two
      ropivacaine reservoirs and two electronic infusion pumps (SIGMA Spectrum Infusion System,
      Baxter Healthcare International, Deerfield, IL) used to infuse the ropivacaine. All pumps
      will be FDA approved for infusion of local anesthetic. The basal rate of each infusion will
      be determined by the ropivacaine concentration in each pump reservoir: 0.1% (8 mL/h) or 0.4%
      (2 mL/h). While the basal rate and bolus volume will differ for each concentration, the total
      dose of local anesthetic will be the same for both treatments (8 mg/h). The local anesthetic
      reservoirs will be contained within an opaque bag prepared by the Investigational Drug
      Service, and the infusion rates displayed on the pumps covered, ensuring masking for both the
      subjects and observers (clinical research nurse taking the measurements). Following 6 hours
      (48 mg), the infusions will be discontinued and the catheters removed.

      Treatment Group Basal Rate (mL/h) Basal Dose (mg/h) Total Dose (mg in 6 h) Ropivacaine 0.1% 8
      8 48 Ropivacaine 0.4% 2 8 48

      The tubing from the pumps to the subjects will be gently wound at least 5 rotations and
      covered with opaque tape, masking which perineural catheter is receiving which treatment
      (ropivacaine is clear, so the flow through the clear tubing from the tape to the perineural
      catheters will not be visually distinguishable). Subjects will remain within the CTRI until
      the following morning at least until Hour 22 for the final measurement; or, until their
      perineural infusion sensory and motor effects have resolved. If a subject requests early
      withdrawal from the study, they will remain in the CTRI until their perineural infusion
      sensory and motor effects have resolved.

      Outcome Measurements. The selected measures have established reliability and validity and
      minimal inter-rater discordance. Measurements will be performed at Hour 0 (baseline), and on
      the hour until Hour 14, as well as the following morning at Hour 22. In all cases,
      measurements will be taken in the supine position with the dominant side measured first,
      followed by the non-dominant side.

      Tolerance of transcutaneous electrical stimulation: Sensory perception-depth of
      analgesia-will be evaluated using tolerance of transcutaneous electrical stimulation with the
      same quantitative procedure validated and used in multiple clinical trials. Electrocardiogram
      pads are placed on the lateral aspect of the plantar surface of the foot which is covered by
      the sciatic nerve distribution; and, the tolerance to cutaneous electrical current is
      obtained using a nerve stimulator. The current is increased from 0 mA until subjects detect
      the electrical current (up to a maximum of 80 mA), at which time the current is recorded and
      the nerve stimulator turned off.

      Muscle strength: We will evaluate muscle strength with an isometric force electromechanical
      dynamometer to measure the force produced during a maximum voluntary isometric
      plantar-flexion (muscles innervated by the sciatic nerve). The dynamometer will be placed
      against the bed's foot board (immobile) and the subject will be asked to take 2 seconds to
      come to maximum effort contracting the target muscles, maintain this effort for 5 seconds,
      and then relax. The measurements immediately prior to perineural ropivacaine administration
      will be designated as baseline measurements, and all subsequent measurements will be
      expressed as a percentage of the pre-infusion baseline.

      Food and Drink: Both food and accompanying beverages/water will be provided by the hospital
      and served by the nursing staff immediately following catheter insertion. Meals will be
      provided without charge to the study subjects. There is no restriction on oral intake
      following catheter insertion.

      Statistical Analysis. Sample size calculations are based on the primary aim of determining
      the relationship between perineural ropivacaine concentration and continuous
      popliteal-sciatic nerve block effects. To this end, we will perform an equivalency trial with
      the primary endpoint designated as the maximum tolerance to transcutaneous electrical
      stimulation at Hour 6. We will aim to demonstrate that differing the concentration (0.1% vs.
      0.4%) applied to different legs of each subject, but providing an equal total dose (8 mg/h)
      of ropivacaine through a popliteal-sciatic perineural catheter does not result in a
      significant difference in tolerance between legs at Hour 6. We will conclude that the
      interventions are equivalent if the 95% confidence interval for the mean difference in
      tolerance between legs is contained within the pre-specified tolerance interval of +/- 10 mA.
      This value is used as the minimally clinically-relevant current since it approximates the
      tolerated electrical current range at baseline of the general population-in other words,
      natural variability and therefore a relatively small amount of current to detect.4 Based on
      previously-published data,1,4 we assume the standard deviation of tolerance difference
      between legs is SD=13 mA. With n=24 subjects, we will correctly conclude equivalence with
      approximately 80% probability ("power"). Alternatively, if the population difference is 10
      mA, we will correctly reject equivalence with probability 5%. The mean difference between
      treatments will be estimated by Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA), using baseline tolerance
      difference as a covariate. Subjects will receive each of the two treatments applied randomly
      to the left and right legs.

      The same analyses will be applied to the secondary endpoints. Profiles of the responses over
      time will be examined with spaghetti and mean plots. Further secondary analyses will include
      mixed-effects modeling of the repeated measures. These models account for the hierarchical
      correlation of paired measures from each subject over time, and will be used to test the
      effects of subject characteristics, including sex, height, weight, body mass index, and age.
      The model will also allow simultaneous analysis of all observations while accounting for
      within-subject correlation, which can improve the standard errors of the estimated
      differential at each time point. The within-subject correlation will be modeled via a
      subject-specific random intercept. This is similar to a compound symmetric correlation
      structure without a random effect. The change from baseline, Y, for subject i and time t will
      be modeled with the linear mixed-effect model:

      Yi(t¬j) = Yi(0) β0 + 1{t¬j=1}β1 + … + 1{t¬j=9}β9 + bi + eij

      where 1{t¬j=k} is 1 if t¬j=k and 0 otherwise. The subject-specific random intercepts bi and
      residuals eij are assumed to follow a Gaussian distribution. We will present the estimated
      difference at each hour with unadjusted p-values, and p-values adjusted using the single-step
      method for simultaneous inference from parametric models.

      Analyses will be executed using R version 2.12 (http://www.r-project.org). Additional
      analyses will include the Mann-Whitney U for nonparametric comparisons and Fisher's exact
      test for categorical variables (InStat, GraphPad Software, San Diego, California, United
      States).
    
  