
    
      TAK-020 is being developed for the potential treatment of autoimmune diseases including
      rheumatoid arthritis. Currently TAK-020 is available as an oral solution. This study is to
      develop an oral tablet formulation. There are three parts to this study. Part 1 will compare
      different tablet formulations of TAK-020 compared to a reference oral solution to identify
      the best tablet formulation to use in Parts 2 and 3. Part 2 will look at the effect food has
      on TAK-020. Part 3 is optional; its implementation will be decided upon using data from Part
      2. It will evaluate whether increased doses of TAK-020 produce an expected proportional
      increase in the plasma concentration of TAK-020.

      In Part 1 participants will receive a single dose of the following:

      Period 1: TAK-020 Oral Solution Period 2: TAK-020 Co-Crystal Tablet Period 3: TAK-020 Solid
      Dispersion Tablet Period 4: TAK-020 Immediate Release Tablet

      In Part 2 participants will be split into two groups; one will receive the chosen formulation
      of TAK-020 in the fasted state followed by the fed state and the other group will receive it
      in the fed state followed by the fasted state. The dose used in Part 2 will be based upon
      data from Part 1 and previous studies.

      Participants in Part 3 of the study will be split into 2 cohorts. Each cohort will be
      administered, in the fasted state, a single dose of the tablet selected as optimal from
      previous study parts. The dose used will be based upon data from Parts 1 and 2 and previous
      studies.

      Part 1 will assess the relative bioavailability of TAK-020 by using analysis of variance
      (ANOVA) on tmax, and the natural logarithms of AUCs, and Cmax. Part 2 will assess the food
      effect of TAK-020, also using ANOVA on tmax, and the natural logarithms of AUCs, and Cmax.
      The power model will be used to assess dose proportionality of single doses of the solid
      formulations in the fasted state from Parts 2 and 3.
    
  