
    
      Evidence suggests that a period of localized muscle stimulation have positive effects on
      muscle function and in relieving pain and muscular stiffness.

      In 2014 local muscle vibration frequency's acute effects on peak torque, EMG activity and
      rate of torque development was studied. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects
      of vibration on quadriceps muscle. Findings of this study suggest that local muscle vibration
      can encourage improvement in quadriceps activation and it can be useful in the treatment of
      quadriceps dysfunction that can occur in several knee pathologies.

      A study was conducted in 2009 to examine the effects of vibration on arm muscles during
      isometric activity of muscles. Analysis according to the recordings revealed a significant
      increase in the waves on electromyography when vibration was applied. This study results
      revealed that vibration given to the specific muscles produces an increase of the activation
      and the coactivation.

      A study in 1999 was held to investigate the effects of muscle vibration on the muscle
      spindles of Para spinal muscles in active lumbosacral position sense in sitting .This study
      suggest that muscle vibration technique was used to alter the potential afferent input from
      these Para spinal muscle receptors. Result shows that the muscle vibration on multifidus
      encouraged the illusion of significant muscle lengthening in the patients.

      Another study in 2003 was held to inspect the facilitation of triceps brachii muscle
      contraction by applying the vibration on tendon after chronic cervical spinal cord injury.
      The efficacy of the vibration was checked by the analysis of a tonic vibration reflex was
      induced in each of the triceps brachii muscles at rest. If a reflex response was induced by
      the vibration before or during the voluntary contraction of the triceps brachii, vibration
      may facilitate the initiation, maintenance, and/or strength of the voluntary contraction.
    
  