
    
      Background and Purpose:

      Children born with cleft palate require surgical correction in order to prevent nasal
      regurgitation of food and in order to create normal palate function for speech. Uncorrected,
      speech is hypernasal and unintelligible. Normal speech has very few sounds that are normally
      nasal. In English, there are only three, "m" as in "Mama", "n" as in "no", and "ng" as in
      "ring". The remaining 43 sounds in English are made with the soft palate (or velum) closing
      off the nasopharynx, and projecting speech orally. The goal for surgical separation of the
      nose and mouth at the hard palate (palatoplasty) is to create a complete separation of the
      nose and mouth at the hard palate and a functioning soft palate that can open and close the
      nasopharynx appropriately for speech sound.

      Unfortunately, primary closure of the palate is not completely successful in all patients. In
      some patients, an opening (fistula) remains in the (anterior) hard palate allowing food and
      speech to leak through the nose. A second problem is that the (posterior) soft palate may not
      be long enough or move far enough to close off the nasopharynx. This is called a
      velopharyngeal incompetence. These patients may also suffer from nasal regurgitation and
      hypernasal, unintelligible speech. Both palatal fistula and velopharyngeal incompetence will
      require secondary surgery. Any information gained from review of surgical outcomes of the
      primary palatoplasty might improve surgical success and reduce the number of secondary
      surgeries required. This would reduce possible morbidity to the patient and expense to the
      families.

      The purpose of this review will be to evaluate the outcome of the palatoplasty children and
      follow through the Center for Craniofacial Disorders at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta on
      the Scottish Rite campus. The investigators will evaluate for the occurence of palatal
      fistula and velopharyngeal incompetence.

      Summary of Procedures:

      General Procedures: The clinical databases at the Center for Craniofacial Disorders will be
      evaluated Locations Involved: The Center for Craniofacial Disorders is at Children's
      Healthcare of Atlanta and is on the Scottish Rite campus Number of Subjects: 1295 patients
      have been treated since 1998.

      Potential Risks:

      There are no physical, psychological, or financial risks to the patients.

      Due to the nature of this records review study, information collected in this study will
      contain Protected Health Information (PHI) on subjects. There is the potential risk of
      unintentional disclosure of this information. However, certain steps will be followed in this
      study to minimalize PHI disclosure to help protect the subjects' privacy and confidentiality.
      Patient confidentiality wil be protected since the databases are on secure servers within the
      Children's network. The databases are password-protected and are accessible only to
      clinicians entering clinical notes and approved researchers. Other than institutions required
      by law to have access to research records, only authorized research staff will have access to
      the research database associated with the study. Furthermore, no data will be identifiable to
      study subjects, as each subject will be assigned a unique study number when entered into a
      database. If published or presented, no identifying features will be provided.

      Potential Benefits:

      There might be no immediate benefit to the patients whose records are evaluated. There is
      potential benefit to future patients seen at the Center. Evaluation of surgical outcomes
      might identify potential hazards that reduce the effectiveness of surgery. Efforts can be
      made to avoid these hazards in the future. The investigators might also find that certain
      surgical techniques or ages at surgery lead to better outcomes. Surgical protocol could be
      modified with the potential of improvement of surgical outcomes in the future.

      Informed Consent Process:

      Due to the nature of this retrospective records review study, informed consent from the
      subjects is not required and a Request for Waiver of Authorization was submitted. This
      research involves no more than minimal risk to the subjects, as there will be no subject
      contact and only the subjects' data will be utilized in the conduct of the research. There is
      the minimal risk of a breach in confidentiality with the subjects' PHI being disclosed,
      however, a procedure is in place for the protection of any collected PHI. The waiver of
      informed consent will not adversely affect the rights and welfare of the subject as this
      research does not change their standard of care and their confidentiality rights will be
      respected. This research could not be practicably carried out without the waiver of the
      informed consent as it is a retrospective chart review study where subject data is needed to
      meet the objectives of the study and consent cannot be practicably obtained from the
      patients. Whenever appropriate, the subjects will be provided with additional pertinent
      information after participation, however, in this case, the subjects' standard of care will
      not be affected so there will be no need for contact with subjects. The Request for Waiver of
      Authorization outlines the types of PHI that will be collected, protection and destruction
      plan for PHI, assurances against PHI re-disclosure, and the need for collection of PHI in
      order to conduct the study.
    
  