
    
      Not all face masks are "born equal" and care must be taken in mask design, particularly for
      the early pediatric age group. Unfortunately, facemasks provided for infants and young
      children have been merely smaller versions of those used for adults with little consideration
      given to their special needs

      We believe that a major advance in answering the needs of infants rely in making the mask
      more friendly user by making sucking on the infant's soother an integral part of the newly
      developed mask. This is based on the following premises:

        1. Sucking is a vital feeding and soothing activity of infants. Incorporating sucking into
           the act of aerosol delivery greatly reduces the fear engendered and inconvenience of
           putting an obtrusive mask on the infant's face.

        2. Linking the mask to the sucking action ensures a tight seal between the mask and the
           face. Every time the baby sucks on the pacifier or the bottle nipple, the mask is
           pressed onto the face by atmospheric pressure thus ensuring a good mask to face seal.
           This then also ensures that the aerosol that has been sprayed into the holding chamber
           will be drawn into the baby's lungs through the nose with each inspiration.

        3. The material of the mask's rim is relatively wide, soft, corrugated and is thus highly
           flexible. This makes the mask easily compressible without overdue force on the infant's
           face. Thus, the act of sucking attracts the mask to the child's face, assists in
           achieving a good seal and compresses it thus substantially reducing the dead space
           volume of the mask.

      The ultimate goal of the present study is to answer these specific needs of infants and to
      develop an appropriate infant's oriented face mask. In order to achieve this goal the study
      will have three specific objectives.

      Objective #1 Define morphometric data of infants' faces Objective #2 Design and develop an
      optimally adapted face mask SootherMask (SM) based on the morphometric results Objective #3
      Compare the acceptance levels between Soothermask (SM) and a conventional commonly used masks
      without a pacifier.
    
  