
    
      Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) accounts for the 20% of the most common skin
      malignancies, i.e. the non-melanoma skin cancer. cSCC is considered one public health problem
      because of the high costs of its treatment as cSCC are increasing due to a higher sun
      exposure, as well as more efficient dermatological examinations. In addition, this kind of
      skin cancer is characterized by a relatively high risk of metastasis.

      The gold standard treatment for local invasive cSCC is based on the surgical excision,
      leading to a 5-years control rate in low-risk patients of 96%. Nevertheless, surgery for
      local invasive cSCC is not always an option as a consequence of the age and/or the poor
      health status of the patient. Therefore, ionizing radiation is used as either primary or
      adjuvant therapy against cSCC in elderly patients or when surgery would be extremely
      invasive. Although radiotherapy seem to be a promising option, it needs to be improved in
      order to damage locally the tumor area, thus avoiding damaging secondary effects on healthy
      tissues. Typical skin radiation sources are based on superficial, orthovoltage X-rays (XR)
      beams, as well as electron-beam therapy.

      In particular, irradiations of local invasive cSCC by using a superficial XR source at
      kilovoltage (kV) energy permit a local dose deposition within the tumor volume, with a
      significant smaller penetration capacity with respect to the higher-energy XR sources.
      Therefore, kV XR sources become a perfect tool for the treatment of superficial lesions, such
      as the cSCC. The combination of these keV-energy photons with metallic atoms localized in the
      tumor would enhance the dose deposited locally in the target, improving thus the therapeutic
      index of the treatment. Among all the chemotherapeutic options available, platinum-based
      agents, such as cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (II) (cisplatin or cisPt) has become an
      essential anti-cancer drug with a substantial therapeutic impact against the most
      carcinomas-like tumors.

      The distortion of the structure of the DNA duplex, converts cisPt in a highly toxic agent per
      se because of its influence on DNA replication, apoptotic death, and inhibition of the major
      nuclear repair pathway of cisPt-DNA adducts and radiation-induced DNA breaks. However, dose
      administration is a key limitation due to the high toxicity of this agent. It is for this
      reason that the lowest cisPt concentration was used in this study, and the expected
      effectiveness of cisPt on a cSCC cells were enhanced with a subsequent low-energy XR
      irradiation in an attempt to explore some new therapeutic strategies against local invasive
      cSCC.
    
  