
    
      BACKGROUND:A specific group of neurons in the brain produces hypocretin, also called orexin,
      a peptide which has been established as an important regulator of anesthesia and emergence in
      the latest few years. In the animal experiment,we found that the level of orexin A in aged
      rats was higher when compared with that of the young ones. Whereas the numbers of both the
      orexin receptor 1 and 2 in aged rats decreased. We wonder if there is a similar phenomenon in
      human beings which might account for the difference between the intervals of elderly and
      young patients recovering from anesthesia. This study aims to investigate difference of
      plasma orexin A levels between elderly patients and young at emergence from
      sevoflurane-fentanyl anesthesia.

      DESIGNING:Forty patients with ASA physical status I or II scheduled for elective lumbar
      surgery under general anesthesia (lasting for 2h to 4h)were enrolled. Anesthesia was induced
      with propofol 1-1.5mg/kg and fentanyl 2-3μg/kg. Following muscle relaxation with iv
      rocuronium bromide 1mg/kg endotracheal intubation was performed. Anesthesia was maintained
      with sevoflurane(inhalational concentration: 0.8-1.5 MAC) fentanyl (total 6μg/kg) and target
      controlled infusion remifentanil (targeted concentration:2-7ng/ml ) along with an oxygen/air
      mixture (FiO2 = 0.5). Muscle relaxation was maintained with intermittent rocuronium.
      Inhalational concentration of sevoflurane and injected target concentration were titrated to
      maintain the bispectral index (BIS) between 45 and 65 during anesthesia. The end-tidal carbon
      dioxide level was maintained between 30 and 40mmHg by controlled mechanical ventilation. When
      the surgery was complicated we adjust the concentration sevoflurane to 0.8MAC of the patient
      and targeted concentration of remifentanil to 2ng/ml and then stop all anesthetics . Record
      time from stopping anesthetics to emergence. Arterial blood (2ml) was collected at the
      following time, such as before and 1h after induction of anesthesia, at emergence (1min after
      tracheal extubation) and half an hour after tracheal extubation. This was centrifuged at 3000
      rpm for 15min at -4 ◦C in order to separate plasma then stored at -80 ◦C until assay for
      orexin A concentrations.

      EXPECTED RESULTS:The plasma orexin A of group elderly will be higher with the emergence time
      longer than youth patients.
    
  