
    
      Background:

      Chordoma is a rare, slow growing, often fatal bone cancer derived from notochord remnants. It
      occurs in the axial skeleton (skull base, vertebrae, sacrum, coccyx), is more frequent in
      males, and has a median age at diagnosis of 58.5 years, with a wide age range. This typically
      sporadic tumor is often advanced at presentation, and mortality is high due to local
      recurrence or distant metastases. The usual treatment is surgery, followed by adjuvant
      radiation therapy. Chemotherapy has not had a significant treatment role. Reports of a few
      families with two or more relatives with chordoma support an etiologic role for chordoma
      susceptibility genes. We determined that T-gene duplications co-segregated with disease in
      four multiplex chordoma families. The T gene encodes brachyury, a tissue-specific
      transcription factor expressed in notochord cells that is essential for notochord formation
      and maintenance. The other chordoma families that we studied did not have T-gene
      duplications; chordomas in these families may result from changes in other susceptibility
      genes or other types of T-gene mutations. We are continuing gene identification studies of
      multiplex chordoma families under NIH protocol 78-C-0039. We also want to determine whether
      alterations in any identified chordoma susceptibility genes are associated with sporadic
      chordoma in the general populations.

      Objectives:

      The major goal of this protocol is to identify sporadic chordoma patients willing to provide
      germline and tumor DNA for studies to determine the frequency of alterations in chordoma
      susceptibility genes. Our previous protocols with SEER and Massachusetts General Hospital to
      identify chordoma patients were limited to residents of specific regions (2 states and 2
      metropolitan areas) or to patients with pediatric skull base tumors. This protocol will
      enroll patients who more broadly represent the age, site and gender distributions of sporadic
      chordoma in the general population.

      Eligibility:

      Eligible patients are males and females with chordoma diagnosed at any age and at any primary
      site. Because we want to obtain saliva from all participants, eligibility is limited to
      patients who will be greater than or equal to age 6 years at time of enrollment.

      Design:

      The study description and contact information including an e-mail link to the study contact
      person will be posted on web sites of two chordoma support groups. We will mail study
      information to be given to patients to colleagues at major medical centers that treat
      chordoma.

      The components of the study will be carried out in subjects' homes using materials mailed to
      them. Up to 100 participants will: 1) complete a self-administered Personal and Family
      Medical Questionnaire, 2) collect saliva using a saliva collection kit, and 3) provide
      permission to obtain medical/pathology records, and paraffin blocks or slides on each primary
      chordoma. Parents will serve as proxies for minor children.

      We will recontact patients who report chordoma in at least one blood relative. If we confirm
      the relative's chordoma diagnosis, we will invite the study subject and selected family
      members to participate in clinical and gene mapping studies under protocol 78-C-0039. We may
      also recontact study participants to tell them about any new studies on chordoma etiology.
      They can decide at that time whether they want to participate in them.
    
  