
    
      If you agree to participate in this research study you will be asked to undergo some
      screening tests or procedures to find out if you are eligible. Many of these tests and
      procedures are likely to be part of regular cancer care and may be done even if it turns out
      that you do not take part in the research study. If you have had some of these tests or
      procedures recently, they may or may not have to be repeated. These tests and procedures
      include: complete medical history, physical examination, blood collection, disease
      assessment, bone marrow aspirate, electrocardiogram and HIV/Hepatitis blood test. If these
      tests show that you are eligible to participate in the research study, you will begin the
      study treatment. If you do not meet the eligibility criteria, you will not be able to
      participate in this research study.

      Since we are looking for the highest dose of the study drug that can be administered safely
      without severe or unmanageable side effects in participants that have lenalidomide, not
      everyone who participates in this research study will receive the same dose of the study
      drug. The dose you get will depend on the number of participants who have been enrolled in
      the study before you and how well they have tolerated their doses. The total duration of the
      treatment on this study is 12 weeks or three cycles of 28 days each. At the beginning of each
      cycle you will receive all the lenalidomide capsules that you will need to take for that
      cycle. If you take more than the prescribed dose of lenalidomide you should seek emergency
      medical care if needed and contact study staff immediately. Females of childbearing potential
      that may be caring for you should not touch the lenalidomide capsules or bottles unless they
      are wearing gloves.

      During the treatment you will be seen in the clinic every two weeks. At every visit the
      following will be performed: Complete medical history and physical exam, blood collection and
      research blood testing. If you have myeloma, at the beginning of each cycle you will undergo
      a disease assessment with blood and urine tests. Any unused Revlimid (lenalidomide) should be
      returned as instructed through the RevAssist program.

      After you have completed taking the drug on the study, the following procedures and tests
      will take place: Complete medical history and physical examination, blood collection, disease
      assessment, bone marrow aspirate/biopsy and research blood testing. You will be on the study
      treatment for about three months and will be followed every three months after your treatment
      ends for two years.
    
  