
    
      Body dissatisfaction increases throughout adolescence; strong associations have been
      established between body image emotions and negative self--perceptions, reduced
      self-compassion, low self- esteem, and depression in adolescent girls. This is heightened in
      at--risk adolescent girls, including those of low socioeconomic status, who have experienced
      abuse and who have limited social support. As such, unique strategies aimed at reducing
      negative self--perceptions of one's physical self and improving self- compassion among
      at--risk adolescent girls are needed. Engagement in physical activity is one way in which
      adolescent girls may experience positive self--perceptions, enhanced body image emotions, and
      increased self--compassion, yet the research has primarily focused on girls who are already
      involved in organized physical activities (i.e., athletes). To address this need, the
      research team and representatives from the Central Okanagan Elizabeth Fry Society, a National
      charitable organisation dedicated to advancing the safety, legal rights, and economic
      security of women and children, have co--created the unique 9- week Girls United and on the
      Move (GUM) integrated program (psycho-social and physical activity) to improve physical
      self--perception, body image, and self--compassion among at--risk adolescent girls living in
      the Okanagan Region of British Columbia. This is particularly important in the Okanagan where
      there is a high number of adolescent girls from low income, abusive households, with many
      facing sexual exploitation and extreme despair, compared to other adolescent girls in British
      Columbia. Thus, the current aim is to implement and undertake a comprehensive evaluation of
      the program's effectiveness in terms of physical self--perceptions, body image,
      self--compassion, and commitment to and enjoyment of physical activity, in order to refine
      and deliver the program more widely.

      This 9- week, integrated program will be implemented in up to 8 middle schools throughout the
      Okanagan. It includes a 1.5 hour, weekly session held at local schools and facilitated by a
      trained researcher and registered social worker. These sessions include psycho-social
      components (e.g., understanding healthy relationships, building self--confidence) in addition
      to engaging in various physical activities (e.g., soccer, dance, and martial arts). At--risk
      adolescent girls from the participating schools will be identified and recruited by school
      counsellors. Each school group will include 10- to 12 participants, yielding a total sample
      of approximately 80-100.
    
  