
    
      The purpose of this study is to compare the value of the current approach of encouraging
      contact between mothers and their babies (Standard Care) in the NICU with a more wide ranging
      enhanced approach (Family Nurture Intervention). This approach is based on enhancing aspects
      of maternal nurturing including mother-infant reciprocal calming, which are vital to early
      development. A specific goal is to improve the mother's view of her baby, reduce negative
      emotions about having delivered a baby prematurely, and help her gain confidence in her
      caretaking abilities. Since preterm babies are often easily upset, this study will facilitate
      mothers in comforting and calming their babies. An earlier study at Morgan Stanley Children's
      Hospital of New York (CHONY) has shown positive outcomes in the enhanced treatment group in a
      variety of areas, including EEG brain activity at term age. Assessments in the NICU and in
      secondary follow-up measures at 4, and 12 months of age will test the immediate and long-term
      effects of this new enhanced approach to the nurture of prematurely born infants. We will
      undertake a replication study on patients in the NICU at CHoNJ to confirm and further
      elucidate the positive effects of enhanced nurturing.

      We hypothesize that enhanced nurturing will alter a wide range of physiologic regulatory
      capacities, reduce morbidity, decrease Length of Stay (LOS) and increase brain activity as
      measured by EEG (power and coherence). In addition this approach may influence a brain
      activation pattern (particularly in the area of the anterior cerebral cortex responsible for
      executive decision-making) in the intervention group that is more similar to that of a full
      term infant. Longer term measures of mother's psychological and infant's neurobehavioral
      outcomes will also be improved when assessed during the first few months of life.

      This study aims to replicate and build on an existing study at Morgan Stanley Children's
      Hospital of New York (CHONY) that compares the current protocol for encouraging mother/infant
      interactions (standard care) with a multifaceted intervention to enhance mother and infant
      bonding (Family Nurture Intervention - FNI). The FNI was piloted and studied in a cohort of
      150 mother-infant pairs at CHONY beginning in 2009. While the study is ongoing, significant
      differences in brain activity of these preterm infants was found at term as measured by EEG
      power in the intervention premature infants as compared to the standard care group, with no
      increased risk of morbidity or mortality in the intervention group. The study demonstrated
      that the approach may influence a brain activation pattern (particularly in the area of the
      anterior cerebral cortex responsible for executive decision-making) in the intervention group
      that is more similar to that of a full term infant (38-42 weeks gestation).

      This and other research warrants the investigation of better intervention strategies that can
      reduce morbidity and ameliorate adverse outcomes in these infants.

      The purpose of this current study is to determine whether the findings from CHONY are
      replicable, the efficacy of the FNI protocol in improving developmental outcomes in preterm
      births in a different cohort (at CHoNJ) and to compare the outcomes of patients in two
      different hospital environments.

      The study will again compare the current standard of care in the NICU, which includes
      periodic skin-to-skin holding, to a Family Nurture Intervention (FNI) which adds other
      interventions: interactive touch with vocal soothing, sustained reciprocal olfactory
      exposure, and family modeling and practice in comforting as well as a more systematic
      implementation of skin-to-skin holding. The behavioral, neurobiological and clinical insights
      gained from this project may eventually lead to better prevention of developmental disorders,
      reduced morbidity and more effective clinical intervention strategies both in the neonatal
      intensive care unit (NICU) and after discharge. We hypothesize that the treated babies will
      show better results in the primary outcome measure in the short term and secondary long term
      as compared to infants undergoing standard care.
    
  