
    
      Background:

        -  Adoptive cell therapy (ACT) using autologous tumor infiltrating lymphocytes can mediate
           the regression of bulky metastatic melanoma when administered along with high-dose
           aldesleukin (IL-2) following a non-myeloablative lymphodepleting chemotherapy
           preparative regimen consisting of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine.

        -  In a series of consecutive trials using this chemotherapy preparative regimen alone or
           with 2 Gy or 12 Gy total body irradiation (TBI) objective response rates using RECIST
           criteria were 49%, 52%, and 72%, respectively. Complete regression rates in these three
           consecutive trials were 12%, 20%, and 40%, respectively strongly suggesting that the
           addition of TBI could improve the complete regression rate. Of the 20 complete
           regressions seen in this trial, 19 are on-going at 37 to 82 months.

        -  Because of the complexity of developing selected TIL for use in adoptive transfer, we
           have recently developed a simplified method for producing TIL that is more applicable to
           use in outside institutions. Utilizing young TIL cells (sometimes with CD8 purification)
           in 105 patients, the objective response rate was 34% with a 6.6 % incidence of complete
           regressions. All patients in this trial received the cyclophosphamide fludarabine
           regimen alone.

        -  Because of the strong suggestion that the addition of TBI to the chemotherapy regimen
           could increase durable, complete regression rates in patients with metastatic melanoma,
           we are now attempting to definitively determine whether the addition of TBI to the
           chemotherapy preparative regimen can improve complete response rates, and overall
           survival in patients receiving young TIL .

      Objectives:

      -To determine, in a prospective randomized trial, the complete response rate and survival of
      patients with metastatic melanoma receiving ACT using young TIL plus aldesleukin treatment
      following either a chemotherapy preparative regimen alone, or the same chemotherapy
      preparative regimen plus TBI.

      Eligibility:

      -Patients who are 18 years or older must have:

        -  Evaluable metastatic melanoma;

        -  Metastatic melanoma lesion suitable for surgical resection for the preparation of TIL;

        -  No contraindications to high-dose aldesleukin administration or total body irradiation;

        -  No concurrent major medical illnesses or any form of immunodeficiency

      Design:

      -Patients with metastatic melanoma will have lesions resected and after TIL growth is
      established patients with will be prospectively randomized to receive ACT with young TIL plus
      aldesleukin following either a non-myeloablative chemotherapy preparative regimen or this
      same regimen plus TBI.
    
  