
    
      Basilar invagination (BI) refers to the skull base into the direction of cervical spine,
      mainly to the odontoid process into the foramen magnum is a major change of congenital
      cranial vertebral junction malformation. Different from trauma or inflammatory lesions, there
      exists not only in horizontal but also vertical direction dislocation between atlas and
      axis，At present there is no satisfactory and widely accepted operation method. At present,
      the main treatment strategy is adopt skull traction to patients preoperative or
      intraoperative and make vertebra X-ray observation. If the skull traction restored the
      atlanto-axial dislocation, This case belongs to restorable atlanto-axial dislocation. If the
      skull traction cannot restore the dislocation, that is non-restorable atlanto-axial
      dislocation. For the restorable type, posterior occipital cervical internal fixation and
      fusion should be performed. For the non restorable cases, the main theories is that various
      ligaments and scars is formed between the anterior arch of atlas and the odontoid process
      lead to the causes of the longitudinal traction, so transoral anterior atlanto-axial joint
      lysis is needed first, and then adopt posterior occipital-cervical internal fixation and
      interbody fusion after the atlanto-axial dislocation is restored. Because the anterior
      trans-oral atlanto-axial joint lysis has weakness of difficult and high risk, it has limit
      the popularization of the treatment of atlanto-axial dislocation. Currently only a few
      several spinal surgery centers have the ability to carry out. Another problem of this
      treatment strategy is that the function of posterior operation confined to occipital-cervical
      fixation in situ but not considered the try to adopt the posterior open reduction, this is
      mainly due to the current clinical application of occipital cervical posterior fixation
      system be lack of the pressure reduction effect.

      Abumi proposed posterior operation incision, atlanto-axial restore intraoperative technique
      in 1999, and designed the first compression screw that has a restore function in the
      operation. But it hasn't been widely used because of the intraoperative reposition and
      internal fixation instrument design is not reasonable and the restore technique has a lot of
      deficiencies In 2006 Wangchao reported another posterior atlanto-axial dislocation reduction
      technology. The restore direction of this technology is more reasonable than Abumi's, but the
      occipital titanium plate adopted in this kind of restore technique is still evolved the
      occipital-cervical internal fixation system designed by Abumi, just have the mechanical
      properties of restore level atlanto-axial dislocation. but for atlanto-axial dislocation
      caused by the Basilar invagination is still need to adopt restore by skull traction. And in
      many cases also need to perform anterior transoral atlanto-axial joint lysis in order to
      achieve expected reduction effect.

      Wangchao adopt the same occipital-cervical internal fixation system as Abumi technique to
      perform pressure reduction of atlanto-axial dislocation. This technology is more reasonable
      in the pressing direction. Using the occipital-cervical internal fixation system was same as
      Abumi technique it doesn't own the function of Distraction reduction. Therefore for the
      vertical dislocation of atlanto-axial Still need to restore by skull traction, some patients
      need the anterior transoral atlanto-axial joint lysis to restore by traction.

      In 2010 the members of the project group reported the atlanto-axial dislocation restore by
      simple posterior screw internal fixation technique and has achieved effect. We can restore
      vertical dislocation between the atlanto-axial effectively by applying distraction force
      between occipital screws and axis pedicle screws. For those Basilar Invagination (BI)
      complicated with Atlanto-axial dislocation(AAD), the rate of Atlanto-axial reduction100%
      reached 65%. But due to the use of internal fixation system is ordinary occipital cervical
      internal fixation system （Summit system，DePuy Co) lacking of the function pressure reduction,
      therefore the effect of level reduction of atlanto-axial dislocation is poor. In some cases
      it induct atlanto-axial joint rearward opening angle increases(picture 5), odontoid falling
      backwards aggregately, the medulla spinal cord angle narrowed further[10].Furthermore, Part
      of the reasons why atlanto occipital complex malformation patients failed to achieve 100%
      reduction is that atlanto-axial lateral is deformities seriously, utual locking, it is
      difficulty to restore by this technology.

      The technology divided intraoperative reduction process into two operating. First of all,
      restore the level of dislocation between atlanto-axial through pressure, and then restore the
      vertical dislocation between atlanto-axial through distraction. I designed the compression
      occipital plate (COP) owned functions both compression and distraction reduction in order to
      make it convenient in intraoperative technical operation. This type of titanium plate has
      been obtained the national patent, Patent certificate No. ZL 201320355786.X. The
      investigation report of Patent Bureau indicated that the design of this type of titanium
      plate is creative and novel.

      The clinical application of this technique has achieved initial success in the treatment of
      basilar invagination complicated with atlanto-axial dislocation patients. This technology so
      far is the most reasonable posterior reduction technology in the treatment of basilar
      invagination complicated with atlanto-axial dislocation mechanics mechanism.

      This type of titanium plate has been obtained the national patent, Patent certificate No. ZL
      201320355786.X.

      Although the compression distraction reduction technology has obvious advantages analyzed
      from the mechanical properties of angle application of pressurized occipital titanium plate,
      but if the application of this technology can be safely effective cure basilar invagination
      and atlanto-axial dislocation patients, improve neurological function, still need further
      prospective clinical study.
    
  