
    
      Introduction: the source of embolic stroke , in thrombotic embolism , is of unknown origin in
      30-40% of cases. Fortunately , Mechanical thrombectomy provide a direct method to retrieve
      the stroke-incriminated clots from stroke patients for possibility of exo-autopsy analysis.

      Aim of the study : collecting stroke-incriminated clots from definite known etiological
      sources, could build a matchable markers database (MMD) to identify the source of cryptogenic
      embolism in the near-future. Identification of that markers is done by novel RNA sequencing
      technology to identify the clot composition in direct way.

      Methodology: This is a prospective REB-approved study of acute LVO ischemic stroke in
      patients receiving mechanical thrombectomy at a multiple centers . Immediately after thrombi
      will be retrieved by mechanical thrombectomy, they will be placed in RNA stabilization and
      storage solution (RNAlater). Each sample will be extracted for total RNA by the one approved
      regional university's Human Genomics lab using a standard protocol. NanoDrop Microvolume
      Spectrophotometers and Fluorometer will be used for RNA quantification.

      Thrombi weight will be recorded among other patient data , risk factors , procedural data,
      usage of adjunctive drugs and macroscopic morphology of each clot . Pearson correlation was
      used for correlation analysis.

      all clots will be handled in double blinded control manner ; where clots analysis will be
      divided into 2 groups where Group A : include clots with definite stroke etiology and
      submitted to the RNA analysis in blinded coded label .

      Group B: include all clots with unknown stroke etiology and submitted to RNA analysis in
      cryptogenic label .

      the trial will be conducted over 4 years period from 2018 to 2022, with expected sample size
      of 350 cases with 7 : 3 ratio of enrollment in both groups ( a, b).

      all analysis will be re-audited in central genome analysis lab of Alexandria University .
    
  