
    
      The investigators have planned and developed the following approach: fetal cells are first
      enriched from blood of pregnant women, between 7 and 12 weeks gestation, employing the ISET
      (isolation by size of epithelial tumor cells) technique. Cells presumed to be of fetal origin
      are microdissected and subsequently genetically analyzed, using STR markers, to verify their
      fetal nature. The investigators then plan to test two strategies in order to assess the
      number of copies of chromosome 21. The first one involves the DNA of a single fetal cell to
      be analyzed with CGH (comparative genomic hybridization) array. In fact, our team has already
      developed an application of the metaphase CGH method to single cells isolated by ISET in
      which we were able to demonstrate the gain of chromosome 21 DNA in single fetal cells
      isolated from cord blood of a fetus with Down syndrome. The second strategy will be
      accomplished with the use of quantitative fluorescent PCR analysis of short tandem repeats
      (STRs), applied to single cells. At least 5-8 highly polymorphic STR markers specific for
      chromosome 21 will be tested to minimize the effects of a phenomenon called allele drop out,
      in which one allele fails to amplify, and to maximize the number of triallelic signals for an
      accurate diagnosis of disomy or trisomy 21.

      This survey is performed in collaboration with the Department of Gynaecology-Obstetrics -
      Reproductive Medicine of Antoine Béclère Hospital in Clamart. The women included in the
      survey will be taken a 20 ml blood sample and a cervical Pap smear before the invasive test
      (amniocentesis). The blood sample will be treated by the ISET method within 3 hours after
      collection and the filter will be stored at - 20°C. The cells obtained by Pap smear will be
      kept in an appropriate liquid and then treated by the ISET method in the Biochemistry
      Laboratory of Necker Hospital. The molecular analyses directed to the Trophoblastic cells for
      the NI-PND of Trisomy 21 will be performed in a blind study.

      The instigators have planned to use the ISET method in a blind study including 100 cases of
      trisomy 21 and 300 control cases with normal caryotype. This study will allow to obtain
      results with sensitivity higher than 97 % and specificity higher than 99 % (IC 95 %
      [70-100]). The validation will be obtained by the opening of the blind study and the
      comparison of results obtained by the invasive method (amniocentesis) and the non-invasive
      method.
    
  