
    
      The World Health Organization (WHO) states that poor adherence to long-term medical
      treatments severely compromises their effectiveness, with an expected adherence of 50% in
      developed countries and less in developing countries. This non-compliance to medical
      treatment tends to increase as the global burden of chronic diseases increases, where not
      only the rational use of medicines but also compliance with prescribed treatments becomes
      vitally important. So it is of interest to highlight the importance not only of the clarity
      of the medical prescription at the time of hospital discharge but of compliance with it in
      the out-of-hospital setting.

      The lack of adherence to medical treatment is a difficult problem to solve, and this could
      partially explain the ineffectiveness of the treatments administered by the health system.
      Adherence is greater in the acute phase of the disease2, presenting a marked decrease within
      3 to 6 months of treatment3. In order to avoid this problem, multiple interventions have been
      studied without evidence of significant benefits or clinical impact.

      The "Medication Reminder" application will be used as a digital tool for smartphones, which
      is available for different commercial software platforms, free download. The intervention
      group will have the installation of the aforementioned platform on your smartphone, loading
      the list of your medication, as well as an alarm in the hours proposed for the shot. When the
      warning is presented, the patient will have a warning by which he will have to accept or
      reject the taking of the medication; to reject it, the reminder will remain present for 24hs
      and then it will be automatically deleted. At the end of the day, the patient can access an
      analysis of daily compliance and thus perform a self-monitoring. The control group will
      receive the standard of care, consisted of a written list of medications.

      We will evaluate the adherence to medications at 3 months as primary endpoint.
    
  