
    
      Objectives: The primary objective (objective 1) is to:

        1. explore the natural history of muscle structure and function in Distal Hereditary Motor
           Neuropathy (dHMN) over one year.

           The secondary objectives are:

        2. to ascertain relationships between intramuscular fat fraction (measured by MRI), muscle
           volume, isokinetic muscle strength (measured by dynamometry) and moments/power
           generation (measured by 3D gait analysis) (objective 2).

        3. to explore the effect of bilateral carbon fibre ankle foot orthoses (AFO) on the
           kinetics and kinematics of gait of people with DHMN (measured by 3D gait analysis)
           (objective 3).

        4. to explore the effect of resistance training of the ankle muscles in people with ankle
           muscle strength over grade 4 MRC scale on muscle structure, function, and gait patterns
           (objective 4).

      Type of trial: A prospective cohort study in adult patients with dHMN with a single UK site.

      Trial design and methods: This study (participants with dHMN and control participants) is
      proposed to take place over 3 years in one site in the UK (NHNN). Participants with dHMN aged
      over 18 for potential enrolment in the study will be identified through existing inherited
      neuropathy cohort clinics at NHNN and healthy control participants will be invited. If they
      show interest in participating, they will be given the relevant Patient Information Sheets
      and Informed Consent Forms.

      Objective 1&2: dHMN participants will undergo the following measures: MRI scans of the legs,
      isokinetic strength and power measures of the lower limb using the HUMAC Norm dynamometer,3D
      motion analysis to capture kinetic and kinematic data of complete gait cycles. Clinical
      assessments will be undertaken to measure: gait speed and endurance, joint range of motion,
      foot posture, pain and sensory impairment. For direct comparison of gait deviations, twenty
      age and gender matched health controls will also be recruited to undergo the same measures.
      Scans, dynamometry and clinical measures will be repeated after one year to explore the
      natural history of the disease.

      Objective 3: The dHMN participants recruited for objective 1 will undergo additional gait
      analysis: wearing just shoes (control condition), wearing their own prescribed orthoses
      (where appropriate), and wearing bilateral carbon fibre AFOs. The order of wearing or not
      wearing the AFOs will be randomised to account for learning and/or fatigue effects.

      Objective 4: The participants from objective 1 will be invited to participate in the strength
      training study and will be screened to see if they meet the inclusion criteria. The primary
      criteria will be that at least one of the major muscle groups of the ankle, dorsiflexors or
      plantarflexors, will score over 4/5 on the MRC scale. There might be a need for recruiting
      more participants if less than 10 from objective 1 participants met the inclusion criteria.
      Up to 15 participants will be prescribed a home based, resistance training trial for 16
      weeks, supervised by the PhD candidate through weekly phone calls and monthly monitoring
      through an app, and progression visits. Response to training will be analysed by: MRI scans,
      myometry, and 3D motion analysis.

      Trial duration per participant: 16 months Estimated total trial duration: 36 months Planned
      trial sites: The National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery (NHNN), UCLH NHS Foundation
      Trust.

      Total number of participants planned: 20 participants with dHMN and 20 matching control
      participants will be recruited for objective 1. Participates with dHMN will be invited to
      participate for objective 2 and 3.

      Main inclusion/exclusion criteria: The main disease to be investigated is dHMN. The key
      inclusion criteria are: adult patients aged 18 or above with clinically proven dHMN; patients
      who are able to complete calf and thigh myometry, able to walk for 10 minutes without walking
      aids, and have no contraindication to MRI scanning. For objective 4, at least one of the
      major muscle groups of the ankle, dorsiflexors or plantarflexors, will score over 4/5 on the
      MRC scale. The key exclusion criteria are: patients having undergone lower limbs surgery in
      the year prior to the trial enrolment or planned to have lower limb surgery in the 16 months
      of the study; bilateral arthrodesis; participants having another medical condition which
      precludes them having an MRI scan; patients with a known diagnosis of another neurological
      disease. Control participants must have no known neuromuscular disease, have no
      contraindication to MRI scanning, be able to complete calf and thigh myometry and 3D gait
      analysis.
    
  