
    
      In this open-label pilot study, an initial patient, which presented with IPT and SRN, was
      treated with promising success and five additional patients were then recruited. So this is a
      report on six eyes of the first six patients with this disease who presented in our practice.
      The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted our site permission to enroll these patients.
      While anecortave acetate has not yet been approved by the FDA, it has been used in phase 2/3
      trials for the treatment of AMD. An informed consent was obtained from each patient. IRB
      approval was obtained from Manhattan Eye, Ear, and Throat Hospital.

      Patients received a posterior juxtascleral injection of 15 mg of anecortave acetate delivered
      adjacent to the macula using the specially designed curved cannula by Alcon, Inc. Visual
      acuity (VA) and intraocular pressure (IOP) were measured on each study visit. Fluorescein
      angiography was used to complement the standard clinical biomicroscopic examination of the
      macula at baseline and at 3 months intervals. On the first day post-injection, patients had
      an additional ophthalmic examination including VA testing, biomicroscopy, and IOP
      measurement.

      A 6-month retreatment interval was established for this study based on laboratory data
      demonstrating that anecortave acetate administered as a slow-release depot adjacent to the
      posterior scleral surface provided therapeutic drug levels in the adjacent choroid and retina
      for up to 6 months (9). If patients were clinically unstable or unimproved six months after
      enrollment, they were offered thermal laser treatment or photodynamic therapy (PDT) in
      conjunction with the anecortave acetate injection. Patients who were unstable as early as 3
      months after enrollment were offered the option to be treated with either thermal laser or
      PDT. This did not disqualify them from being eligible for the repeat anecortave acetate
      injection at month 6.
    
  