
    
      1. Study area:

           The implementation of the study project has been started among rural and urban
           communities of Mecha Health & Demographic Surveillance System (MHDSS) Site in Northwest
           Ethiopia. MHDSS site is a field research center established by Bahir Dar University
           (BDU) to conduct field researches & support major graduate level research projects
           principally. The field research center is located at 525 km far away from the capital
           city of Ethiopia, Addis Ababa, towards Northwest. This field research center has been
           selected as study area in light of the following particular rationales:

             -  Relevance of the project to the community in terms of current biomass fuel use,
                climatic diversity & local acceptability of the improved stove intervention

             -  Strategic research importance of the locality to achieve the mission's of BDU to be
                one of the ten premiere research universities in Africa by the year 2025.

             -  Opportunities to be benefited from the existing field research infrastructures of
                MHDSS

             -  Availability of local collaborators with experience of improved stove technology
                transfer

             -  Availability of improved baking stove initiatives already operating in the study
                area

             -  Good field experience of investigators at the study area

        2. Study design:

           Cluster randomized controlled study will be employed to test the effectiveness of
           improved "Injera" baking biomass stove intervention in reducing both household air
           pollution (HAP) & childhood acute respiratory infection (ARI) incidences through
           comparing children living in households (HHs) with different baking stoves over one year
           follow-up period. With this study design, HAP & childhood ARI outcomes will be measured
           before the improved baking stove is installed and again after part of the HHs received
           an improved baking stove. The overall study procedures will involve the following three
           major phases:

             -  Base line data collection using HH interview and air monitoring methods.

             -  Installing improved "Injera" baking biomass stove in the main cooking area of the
                intervention HHs to be used as primary baking stove at least for one year.

             -  Consecutive data collection using the HH interview method every 2 weeks and measure
                the new amounts of indoor particulate matter in the main cooking area using
                standard HAP monitoring device every 3 months for one year.

        3. Sample size:

           For the primary outcome, the sample size was calculated by applying the two-sample
           comparison of proportions formula using STATA with equal participants in both arms
           considering 21% proportion of childhood ARI, detectable difference of 20%, & two-tailed
           alpha of 0.05, power of 80%, intra-cluster correlation coefficient (Ƿ) value of 0.01,
           coefficient of variation of 0.6 for cluster sizes, 55 average number of children within
           each cluster (m') and over sampling of 10%; the required sample size with cluster
           randomization becomes about 2750 within 50 clusters per arm. Similarly, for the
           secondary outcome, the sample size was calculated by considering detectable difference
           of 60% in mean indoor PM2.5 concentration (µg/m3), correlation coefficient (Ƿ) of 0.5
           for indoor PM2.5 measurement variations in biomass using HHs, 2-sided alpha of 0.05,
           power of 80% and 55 average number of children within each cluster (m'), 0.6 coefficient
           of variation for cluster sizes and over sampling of 10%; the required sample size
           becomes about 990 within 18 clusters per arm. Thus, among the HHs included in the
           primary outcome study, only part of the HHs will be included for the secondary outcome
           study.

        4. Sampling method:

           Using cluster sampling technique, clusters/"Gotes" will be selected randomly to
           represent the total population & then all HHs with under 4 years old child with in the
           selected clusters will be included. A cluster is defined as the small village, termed as
           "Gote" for rural or "Ketena" for urban settings in Amharic (both national & local
           language), used as the smallest unit of enumeration area by Ethiopian national census.
           According to the update data report of MHDSS at the end of 2017, each cluster/"Gote"
           includes about 55 average number of children. To set the randomisation list in advance
           based on eligibility criteria, the sampling frame (list of HHs with children less than 4
           years old) is established form the MHDSS update report data. Finally, the selected HHs
           will be identified for data collection using the specific MHDSS house number & the
           youngest child equal or less than 4 years old will be recruited for study from each HH.
           In situations where there are 2 or more under-four children living in the same HH, only
           the youngest child will be included in the study.

        5. Participant recruitment:

           To facilitate the participant enrolment process, community sensitization will be
           conducted through public communications during local gatherings & regular health
           development army (HDA) meetings as well as through home visit by health & agricultural
           extension workers to let people know that childhood ARI & HAP studies will be carried
           out. The actual participants will be recruited at HH level by field health workers
           during baseline survey after ensuring whether the HHs meet the eligibility criteria.
           When HH meets the eligibility criteria, the study will be explained to parent/s of the
           index child & they will be asked whether the HH is willing to participate in the studies
           or not. When both parents agreed to be involved, the field staff will administer a
           written consent form in local language.

        6. Participant allocation:

           An independent epidemiologist was performed the allocation to control & intervention
           arms which will be revealed after all baseline measurements have been completed as well
           as all study HHs recruited & assigned to their respective arm to ensure allocation
           concealment.

        7. Intervention adherence and compliance monitoring strategies:

           To avoid the potential detrimental effects of non-adherence, a variety of strategies
           will be used. In view of that, timely response to trial-related difficulties such as
           rapid maintenance or replacing of defective stoves will be used as strategy to improve
           adherence to the intervention protocol. Regarding trial protocol compliance monitoring,
           visual inspection through unannounced visit of HHs will be conducted to enhance validity
           of data.

        8. Data collection methods:

           For the primary objective, data collection will be carried out by local nurses through
           face-to-face interview with index child mothers/caregivers using questionnaire & through
           direct verification whenever essential & possible. After baseline HH survey, the follow
           up survey will be carried out for one year through HH visits every 2 weeks. Concerning
           the duration, since seasonal factors typically have a major effect on HAP level in
           Ethiopia the duration of the follow-up period will be one year to cover the major
           Ethiopian periods of annual weather changes. Data collection manual containing a
           detailed description of the questions & other administrative issues will be used to
           facilitate data collection process. For the secondary objective, baseline HAP exposure
           (indoor PM2.5 concentration) will be measured in the main cooking area using standard
           HAP monitoring device and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) by trained household air
           monitoring team. In addition, independent variables data will be collected at baseline
           through face-to-face interview with index child mothers/caregivers using structured
           questionnaire. After baseline survey & implementation of improved stove intervention,
           subsequent indoor PM2.5 concentration measurements & other covariates data collection
           will be carried out every 3 months for one year.

        9. Data handling and analysis:

           All original participant files will be stored in a secured manner for a period of at
           least 2 years after completion of the study. Data integrity will be enforced through a
           variety of mechanisms such as double data entry; valid values checks & consistency
           checks against data already stored in the database (i.e., longitudinal checks).
           Considering the underlying design of the study, assumptions regarding the
           inter-relationship between the independent & outcome variables under investigation as
           well as the repeated & dependent nature of the data, Generalized Estimating Equation
           modeling method of data analysis will be applied to determine the effect of improved
           baking stove intervention on both HAP & childhood ARI incidence.

       10. Ethical consideration and trial registration:

           The proposal had been reviewed & approved on May 08/2018 by Institutional Ethical Review
           Board of Bahir BDU. Written informed consent will be obtained from all participants. The
           informed consent process emphasizes that participation in the study is voluntary &
           consent to participation can be withdrawn at any time, without giving a reason as well
           as without affecting their current or future benefits to which the participants are
           entitled. Moreover, to maintain justice control HHs will be offered improved baking
           biomass stove at the end of their participation. Whenever ARI illness is occurred, field
           health workers will refer the child to the nearest health institution for proper
           treatment.

       11. Close-out procedures:

      The trial will be terminated at the planned target of one year after the last participant has
      been randomized or at an earlier or later date if the circumstances necessitate. Regardless
      of the timing & circumstances of the end of the study, close-out will proceed in 2 stages:
      the first stage covers the interim period for analysis & documentation of study results which
      is expected to take about 3 months. The second stage will comprise debriefing of participants
      & dissemination of study results.
    
  