
    
      Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a rare chronic autoimmune disease (1/2000 inhabitants)
      that evolves in periods of recurrent remissions. Sufferers are most often young women of
      childbearing age. SLE affects the life of a couple like family life (financial, emotional,
      relational or sexual conditions of the couple). In addition, the disease and its treatments
      can hinder the possibility of building a family project (pregnancy).

      The purpose of the Psy-LUP study is to study the impact of SLE on the social participation of
      patients, that is to say on their ability to get involved in different areas of daily life.
      These repercussions could be all the more important as lupus disease is active and
      complicated by severe diseases such as kidney disease. We want to study how sick people and
      their loved ones (spouse in particular) think about lupus disease, how it fits into their
      life history, how people have adapted to this disease, and how it affects their lives. could
      have on their social participation, their social support, their life of couple. The Psy-LUP
      study will be carried out in different care services, and by telephone interviews at home,
      with two main axes: (1) a study by questionnaire with patients (n = 100); (2) a qualitative
      study through research interviews with patients (n = 40) and their spouses (n = 20). The
      realization of this project will allow us to evaluate and understand the impact of SLE on the
      life of the couple and its relational and affective components. In addition, the Psy-LUP
      study will describe the representations that sick people and their relatives have of lupus
      disease. All the data collected will make it possible to target interventions with 1)
      patients and their relatives, in terms of therapeutic education, psychosocial support,
      support groups (associations); 2) caregivers caring for people with SLE, so that they can
      integrate the issues of the patient's experience in their care practice and their reflection
      on therapeutic strategies.
    
  