
    
      Management of prosthetic joint infections involves long antibiotic therapy and, in most
      cases, additional revision surgery with worsening of life quality for patients and high costs
      for health system. Prosthetic joint infections occur at a rate of 1-2% but their incidence
      grows up to 15-20% after the first revision surgery. Gram positive cocci, particularly
      staphylococci, are the main pathogens responsible for these infections. Diagnostic workflow
      is rather complicated, since a gold standard assay characterized by high sensitivity and
      specificity has not been recognized. Consequently, the diagnosis is based on fulfillment of a
      series of major and minor criteria derived from biochemical, hematological, microbiological,
      histological analyses combined with clinical and radiological observations. Therefore, it is
      evident that there is an urgent need to find early markers of infection, characterized by
      high sensitivity and specificity able to differentiate between aseptic failure and prosthetic
      joint infections caused by both high and low virulent microorganisms.

      In the recent years, presepsin has been described as a marker for sepsis also able to
      discriminate sepsis severity. Presepsin is a fragment of soluble receptor CD14 which is
      released from monocyte surface during inflammation. The new inflammatory marker TREM-1 links
      the activity of presepsin to other actors of inflammation process like Toll Like Receptors,
      monocytes, inflammatory cytokines like IL-1 and IL-6, the chemokine CCL2. Presepsin activity
      is also related to suPAR an inflammatory marker, we have recently shown to be associated with
      prosthetic joint infections. Another potential marker of infection is osteopontin (OPN), a
      multifunctional protein with pro-inflammatory properties, which correlates with mortality and
      is associated to suPAR in inflammatory response. Similarly, receptor CD163, highly expressed
      by macrophages during inflammation has been proposed as a promising serum marker of
      inflammation. Equally important in inflammatory process is the role played by neutrophils,
      which represent the first line of defense against infection, being able to kill bacteria by
      producing oxygen reactive species (ROS). Recently ROS have been correlated with serum
      Advanced Glycation End Products(AGEs) that are increased by oxidative stress. AGEs are able
      to interact with their receptor RAGE, which exists in its soluble forms in plasma. For this
      reason, RAGE might be used as serum biomarker to diagnose infection and related oxidative
      stress. Despite the amount of scientific papers on the role of the above mentioned molecules,
      a panel combining them for diagnosis of prosthetic joint infections is not yet available.

      Aim of the study will be to evaluate new biological markers of prosthetic joint infection in
      order to improve diagnostic workflow to support and integrate data from microbiological,
      hematological and clinical examination.

      At this purpose, differences in serum concentrations of IL-6, TREM-1, CCL2, MMP-9, OPN,
      IL-1RA, GP-130, C5a, sRAGE, urokinases and presepsin between infected and not infected
      patients will be evaluated by measuring sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative
      predictive values, likelihood ratio for each parameter. Moreover, concentration of each
      biomarker will be correlated with markers routinely used for diagnosis of these infections.

      A total of 130 patients will be enrolled in the study: 65 patients with diagnosis of aseptic
      failure, and 65 diagnosed with infection of prosthetic implant.

      All of them will sign an informed consent before enrollment. An aliquot of serum sent to the
      Laboratory for pre- and post-operative (2 and 7 days after surgery) routine analyses will be
      stored at -20°C.

      Serum concentrations of IL-6, TREM-1, CCL2, MMP-9, OPN, IL-1RA, GP-130, C5a, sRAGE, urokinase
      and presepsin will be determined by means of commercially available ELISA assays.

      Data regarding preoperative Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein
      (CRP), Synovial fluid analysis (if available, both pre and intra operative), and
      microbiological culture (implant and periprosthetic tissues) will be also collected.
    
  