
    
      Hispanic women have the highest estimated lifetime risk of developing diabetes of all
      ethnic/gender groups in the US, and their prevalence rates of overweight and obesity are
      among the highest in the US. Currently, nearly 90% of Hispanic women aged 40-59 are
      overweight or obese. If diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes (T2D) at age 40, Hispanic women are
      projected to lose 12.4 life-years, and 21.5 quality-adjusted life-years.

      Several clinical trials have produced compelling evidence demonstrating the benefits of
      weight-loss interventions for both diabetic and pre-diabetic individuals, but most of the
      successful interventions tested in large clinical trials have been too costly for
      implementation in community settings, and they have not been assessed under real life
      conditions, targeting vulnerable populations.

      This study builds on the investigators' success with a culturally-tailored weight-loss
      intervention designed for Hispanic women. Elements of cultural adaptation will include:
      women-only groups, skill-building tasks around food measurement, focus on traditional dietary
      habits and cultural norms regulating food preparation and consumption, interactive learning
      formats with a minimum of written materials, culturally congruent physical activity, and
      addressing acculturative concerns.

      Follow-up data, including change in weight, waist circumference, and diabetes outcomes, will
      be collected at 6-, 12-, and 18-months post randomization. Additional analyses will include
      the cost of delivering the intervention and assessing the intervention's sustainability. The
      results of this study will inform the development of interventions to prevent diabetes onset
      or manage T2D in this population.

      Description of Measures Used

      Southwest Food Frequency Questionnaire (SWFFQ).

      The Southwestern Food Frequency Questionnaire (SWFFQ) consists of 158 food items and was
      adapted from the Arizona Food Frequency Questionnaire. It provides a culturally appropriate
      means of collecting dietary information for the Southwestern U.S. Hispanic populations
      predominantly of Mexican descent. It is the only Spanish bicultural and bilingual
      questionnaire in widespread use in the country. Examples of food items that are included in
      the questionnaire are nopalitos (cactus leaves), corn and flour tortillas, refried beans,
      machaca, and chorizo. The SWFFQ has been tested for validity and reliability (Taren et al,
      2000). The output provides 87 nutrients in addition to 25 derived variables such as percent
      of calories from fat. VALIDATION PAPER Taren D, Tobar M, Ritenbaugh C, Graver E, Whitacre R,
      Aickin M. Evaluation of the Southwest Food Frequency Questionnaire. Ecology of Food and
      Nutrition 38:515-547, 2000.

      General Practice Physical Activity Questionnaire (GPPAQ)

      The GPPAQ is a validated screening tool for use in primary care that is used to assess adult
      (16 - 74 years) physical activity levels. It provides a simple, 4-level Physical Activity
      Index (PAI) categorizing patients as: Active, Moderately Active, Moderately Inactive, and
      Inactive. SOURCE:
      https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/fi
      le/192453/GPPAQ_-_guidance.pdf

      Client Satisfaction Questionnaire (CSQ-8).

      The CSQ-8 is a well-validated, 8-item Likert-type questionnaire that has been widely used in
      studies of physical and mental health among Spanish-speaking and Hispanic individuals. SOURCE
      http://www.csqscales.com/csq-8.htm

      Barriers to Healthy Eating Questionnaire (BHEQ)

      The BHE is a 22-item questionnaire asking individuals to rate various feelings or situations
      related to following the calorie and fat-restricted diet, eg, feelings of deprivation or cost
      of the recommended eating plan. It has 3 subscales: Emotions (11 items), Daily Mechanics of
      Following a Healthy Eating Plan (8 items), and Social Support (3 items). VALIDATION PAPER
      Impact of Perceived Barriers to Healthy Eating on Diet and Weight in a 24-Month Behavioral
      Weight Loss Trial. Wang, Jing et al. Journal of Nutrition Education and Behavior , Volume 47
      , Issue 5 , 432 - 436.e1

      Subjective Numeracy Scale

      The Subjective Numeracy Scale (SNS) is a self-report measure of perceived ability to perform
      various mathematical tasks and preferences for the use of numerical versus prose information.
      The SNS has been validated against objective numeracy measures and found to predict
      comprehension of risk communications and ability to complete utility elicitations.

      The De Por Vida study asked questions 3 and 4 of the SNS ability subscale which asked
      respondents to assess their numerical ability in different contexts. The scale contains no
      mathematics questions and has no correct or incorrect answers. VALIDATION PAPER Fagerlin, A.,
      Zikmund-Fisher, B.J., Ubel, P.A., Jankovic, A., Derry, H.A., & Smith, D.M. Measuring numeracy
      without a math test: Development of the Subjective Numeracy Scale (SNS). Medical Decision
      Making, 2007: 27: 672-680.

      Screening Questions for Limited Health Literacy

      We asked 3 screening questions to assess limited health literacy validated by Chew et al.
      VALIDATION PAPER Chew LD, Griffin JM, Partin MR, et al. Validation of Screening Questions for
      Limited Health Literacy in a Large VA Outpatient Population. Journal of General Internal
      Medicine. 2008;23(5):561-566. doi:10.1007/s11606-008-0520-5.

      Language-Based Acculturation Scale

      A simple scale for quantifying English use among Mexican Americans was constructed from four
      brief questions which proved to have excellent scaling characteristics by Guttman Scalogram
      Analysis in two independent data sets. Construct validity was established by significant
      associations of the scale with ethnicity, place of birth, generation within the United
      States, and type of neighborhood. Highly significant associations were found between scale
      scores and use of oral contraceptives, parity, "fatalism" regarding health, and attitudes
      toward folk healers. These associations remained significant (though weak) after controlling
      for education and family income. The language scale thus appears to be reliable and valid, to
      be capable of distinguishing meaningful subsets among the Mexican American population, and to
      be applicable to health care investigation. VALIDATION PAPER A Simple Language-based
      Acculturation Scale for Mexican Americans: Validation and Application to Health Care
      Research. Deyo, Richard A.; And Others. American Journal of Public Health, v75 n1 p51-55 Jan
      1985
    
  