
    
      For the purposes of our study we identified all the EV71 pediatric patients at Chang Gung
      Children's Hospital (CGCH) and at the NTUH between 1998 and 2003. These patients were
      clinically confirmed to have hand, foot, and mouth disease (HFMD) of herpangina or febrile
      illness, and a positive laboratory-confirmed EV71 infection. The EV 71 infection was
      confirmed on the basis of a positive viral isolation of EV71 and/or a positive EV71 IgM
      and/or a four-fold rise in EV71 neutralizing antibody serotiters between the acute and the
      convalescent sera.

      This study involved 621 EV71 patients in total, 534 of them at the CGCH and 87 of them at the
      NTUH. Of these, 232 cases (37.4%) had CNS involvement. The clinical severity of the EV71 CNS
      involvement was classified in terms of the increasing severity of the infection: Group 1:
      cases with mild CNS involvement i.e. aseptic meningitis; Group 2: cases with severe CNS
      involvement including encephalitis, polio-like syndrome or encephalomyelitis; and Group 3:
      cases with cardiopulmonary failure after central nervous system involvement. Patients placed
      in Group 1, were those experiencing headaches, irritability and CSF pleocytosis (>5x106
      leukocytes/L) but no altered level of consciousness or focal signs. Patients placed in Group
      2, were encephalitis with an altered level of consciousness plus CSF pleocytosis,
      poliomyelitis-like syndrome with acute limb weakness, and decreased reflex and muscle
      strength, and encephalomyelitis with the occurrence of both encephalitis and
      poliomyelitis-like syndrome. Patients placed in Group 3 were those who had experienced
      cardiopulmonary failure (defined as a decreased ejection fraction of the left ventricle as
      assessed by echocardiography with or without pulmonary edema/hemorrhage, necessitating
      inotropic agent and ventilator support). Patients who experienced cardiopulmonary failure
      after CNS involvement have been found to have had a sudden onset of cardiopulmonary failure
      several hours or several days after the manifestations of their EV71 CNS infections.5,16 Of
      these 232 cases with CNS involvement, 25 (10.8%) patients died of cardiopulmonary failure and
      brainstem encephalitis during acute illness. 19 of these 25 patients died within 7 days of
      the onset of acute illness, while 14 (6.0%) patients died due to a deep coma or aspiration
      pneumonia during the convalescent stage (i.e. more than one month after onset of their
      disease).

      Of the remaining 193 patients with CNS involvement (172 of these at the CGCH and 21 of these
      at the NTUH), 22 refused to be assessed and 29 could not be located. This means that a total
      of 142 (73.6%) patients were enrolled in our study and took the assessment between January
      2003 and December 2005 after informed consent was obtained from their parents (Figure 1). The
      clinical severity and the demography of the 142 patients who were assessed and the 51
      patients who were not assessed (p=0.22 for clinical severity, p=0.33 for their age of onset,
      and p=0.35 for genders) were similar. It is therefore clear that the size of the study
      population involving these 142 patients is representative of the 193 EV71 patients with CNS
      involvement.

      Clinical and neurological outcome and neurodevelopment assessment All the children were
      physically and neurologically examined by a pediatrician or a pediatric neurologist during an
      outpatient visit or during their stay at chronic respiratory centers. Their physical handicap
      or neurological sequelae, the requirement of ventilator support and the need of tube feeding
      were recorded.

      EV71 patients who were younger than 6 years of age during our assessment were tested with the
      Denver Developmental Screening Test (DDST II). The DDST II has four categories: gross motor,
      fine motor, language, and personal-social.17 Each test item was scored as either passed or
      failed. The overall assessment of each child was considered normal when the child passed
      tasks in 25-75% for his/her age, or delayed when the child failed tasks to the left of
      his/her age line.

      Cognitive function assessment The Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Third Edition
      (WISC-III, Wechsler, 1991) profile was individually assessed by a child psychologist for all
      children over four years of age except for 3 of the children who had tracheostomy and could
      not talk. The WISC-III is a widely used measure of general intelligence for children aged
      4-16 years. The WISC-III is composed of 13 subtests to test children's cognitive ability of
      different dimensions, which are grouped into two scores: the performance IQ score and the
      verbal IQ score. The Performance IQ score (7 subtests) includes Picture Completion, Block
      Design, Object Assembly, Picture Arrangement, Coding, Symbol Search and Mazes subtests. The
      Verbal IQ score (6 subtests) includes Information, Comprehension, Arithmetic, Similarities,
      Digit Span and Vocabulary subtests.18 Four factorially derived composite subscales have been
      created: (1) Verbal Comprehension: Information, Similarities, Vocabulary, and Comprehension;
      (2) Perceptual Organization: Picture Completion, Picture Arrangement, Block Design, and
      Object Assembly; (3) Freedom From Distractibility: Arithmetic and Digit span; and (4) Process
      Speed: Coding and Symbol Search. 18 Each of the IQ scores and four composite subscales yield
      standard scores with a mean of 100 and a standard deviation (S.D.) of 15.

      Statistical Analysis Data were analyzed with the SAS Statistical Package (Version 9.1, SAS
      Institute, Cary, North Carolina). Data are expressed as mean ±S.D., median (range) or number
      (percentage). The Chi-square test was used for categorical data, and the student t-test and
      analysis of variance (ANOVA) were used for continuous variables with normal distribution. The
      Mann-Whitney rank sum test or Kruskal-Wallis test was used for continuous variables without a
      normal distribution in the univariate analysis. If a significant difference was found with
      ANOVA, pairwise comparison would be performed with the Scheffe test. Multivariate analysis of
      variance (MANOVA) was used to identify the most significant factors affecting the cognitive
      function (IQ and the four composite subscales).. P values less than 0.05 were considered
      significant.
    
  