
    
      This is a single center, single arm, prospective, phase II study in patients with metastatic
      HCC. A total of 55 patients with HCC and newly diagnosed extrahepatic (lung, bone, lymph
      node, adrenal gland) metastasis will be enrolled.

      On demand conventional TACE will be performed in all the patients after enrollment and can be
      continued until intrahepatic CR, TACE failure or consent withdrawal. Safety will be evaluated
      every 6 ± 2 weeks after initial TACE and closed monitoring at unscheduled visit will be done
      as well. The efficacy of TACE will be evaluated every 6 ± 2 weeks after each session of TACE
      using dynamic CT or MRI. Performance of repeated TACE will be decided based on the findings
      of follow-up CT, patients' liver function and performance status, within 6 ± 2 weeks of the
      previous TACE. Patients with no residual viable tumors after previous TACE who are not
      indicated for further TACE are evaluated with routine examination and imaging studies every 6
      ± 2 weeks. Safety should be evaluated on an ongoing basis and within 3 days of next TACE. All
      eligible patients will be given sorafenib (initially 400mg po bid) on day 3-7 after the first
      or every session of TACE, and sorafenib will be stopped one day before each TACE. Sorafenib
      will be continued until sorafenib failure, consent withdrawal or condition worsening by
      clinical decision. Treatment failure will be judged by the evaluation of intra- or
      extrahepatic lesion separately. TACE failure is defined as when TACE/transarterial
      chemo-lipiodolization (TACL) has no more benefit by clinical assessment which is judged
      clinically by one investigator and/or the patient is not more eligible because of worsening
      of ECOG PS or liver function. Detailed criteria for stopping TACE will be clarified in below.
      Sorafenib failure will be evaluated by modified RECIST applied to the extrahepatic lesion,
      and sorafenib will be stopped when progressive disease (PD) by mRECIST for extrahepatic
      lesion is indicated and clinical benefit of TACE is not expected for intrahepatic lesion. As
      long as TACE is evaluated to be beneficial and planned to be performed by investigator,
      sorafenib could be continued if side effect is tolerable.

      When any of the treatment discontinuation criteria is met, test treatment will be stopped.
      Survival and post-treatment information will be collected at 1-3 months intervals after the
      last study visit until the endpoint of death, or until the subject has become lost to
      follow-up or until study termination by Principal Investigator. Additional palliative
      anti-cancer therapies such as cytotoxic chemotherapy and TACL without gelfoam embolization
      and palliative radiation therapy will be allowed and recorded.
    
  