
    
      Professional musicians are exposed to chronic high volume of continuous and repeated physical
      movements, sometimes in challenging and ergonomically unfavourable anatomical body positions,
      in order to acquire and improve technical playing skills. As a consequence, musicians are
      vulnerable to developing adverse playing-related musculoskeletal disorders (PRMDs) that may
      affect the manner in which and the extent to which music can be practised and performed.

      In order to find out effective solutions for PRMDs and to develop future preventive measures,
      it is fundamental to firstly identify the main risk factors that play a significant role in
      the development of adverse musculoskeletal (MSK) conditions and symptoms.

      The longitudinal cohort study will be conducted through the following three phases:

        1. a baseline cross-sectional survey (i.e. web-based questionnaire) to characterise the
           study population and subgroups, and form the basis for the evaluation of associated
           factors and relationships with the development of PRMDs;

        2. a 6-months follow-up survey, and

        3. a 12-months follow-up survey.

      After the first baseline data collection (Phase 1), the cohort of students will be broken
      down into:

        -  Cohort 1: music students (both pre-college and university-level) who are free of pain
           and PRMDs at baseline data collection

        -  Cohort 2: music students (both pre-college and university-level) who aren't free of pain
           and PRMDs at baseline data collection

      Afterwards, the two cohorts will be followed and invited for reassessment at 6 months (Phase
      2) and 12 months (Phase 3).

      Both the follow-ups will permit longitudinal change in outcome scores to be generated and
      compared (longitudinal comparisons) for strength and progression of association, alongside
      those from absolute outcome scores at several cross-sectional analyses.

      The web-based survey will include questions about any pain, PRMD and/or MSK problem they may
      have due to their musical practice, and different outcome measures (i.e. lifestyle and
      physical activity, practice habits, behaviour toward prevention and health history, level of
      stress, perfectionism, fatigue and disability).

      The outcome measures have been selected according to the relevant findings of previous
      cross-sectional studies and systematic reviews among the performing arts literature.

      Each outcome measure correspond to a suspected factor that may be associated with the
      development of a PRMD.

      To the best of our knowledge, no other longitudinal studies on risk factors for PRMDs have
      been conducted so far. Therefore, the study can be considered as an opportunity to fill the
      gaps of current research on PRMDs and generate new knowledge in educational and employment
      musical contexts.
    
  