
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death worldwide. Most individuals with
      CVD show no evidence of disease for decades as the disease progresses before the first onset
      of symptoms, often a "sudden" heart attack, finally arises. The spatial repolarization
      heterogeneity within the ventricular myocardium had been proposed to represent the function
      of the heart in health and disease. Greater than normal levels of repolarization dispersion
      may allow early diagnosis of CVD. There is a growing interest in the characteristic features
      of ventricular repolarization that leads to lethal ventricular arrhythmia even with the use
      of non-antiarrhythmic drugs. The recovery time dispersion may reflect a repolarization
      heterogeneity leading to lethal ventricular arrhythmia. Although cheap and convenient, the
      traditional 12-leads electrocardiogram (ECG) is frequently normal at rest in such patients.
      The quantification of repolarization heterogeneity with ECG, QT dispersion, has some
      methodological limitations and has been abandoned in daily practice. Many studies have shown
      that body surface potential mapping (BSPM) contains more diagnostic and prognostic
      information than that elicited from a 12-lead ECG. The BSPM and magnetocardiogram (MCG) are
      two new developed recording methods, and provide higher spatial resolution than traditional
      ECG signals but with the disadvantages of high cost and huge volume. It is impossible to be
      used in a portable way. Previously, the investigators had utilized a 64-channel low-TC SQUID
      MCG device to develop and verify 2 parameters, so called smooth index of QTc (SIQTc) and T
      wave propagation (TWP), to accurately detect and localize the myocardial ischemia. Recently
      Nakai, et al. reported that a newly developed 187-ch signal-averaged vector-projected ECG
      (187-ch SAVP-ECG) could evaluate low-amplitude high-frequency potentials and repolarization
      heterogeneity. In this project, the investigators'll try to modify and improve the spatial
      resolution of ECG signals from a Self-built-in multichannel ECG system with a newly developed
      algorithm, and also try to derive the SIQTc and TWP from this system, for early detection of
      CVD. The investigators intend to prove the concept that this newly developed multichannel ECG
      system could efficiently detect or diagnose CVD with acceptable sensitivity and specificity,
      and in a portable way.
    
  