
    
      Tobacco use continues to be the leading cause of preventable death in the US, with the
      majority of deaths due to combustible tobacco use. Electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) may
      represent a nicotine delivery device that addresses cravings and nicotine withdrawal and is
      much less harmful compared to cigarettes, particularly if completely substituted for
      cigarettes. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recently set forth plans that include the
      possibility of regulating the level of nicotine in combustible cigarettes to make them
      non-addictive and disallowing the sale of fully nicotinized cigarettes. While studies have
      shown that lowering the level of nicotine in cigarettes leads to high quit rates and would
      likely have a positive overall public health impact, there are concerns that doing so will
      lead to a black market for purchasing fully nicotinized cigarettes. However, no empirical
      evidence currently exists regarding this possible unintended consequence of the proposed
      regulation and the current project aims to fill this gap. Current smokers and dual cigarette
      and e-cigarette users will complete three in-lab study visits. Following screening and
      practice with all study products, participants will complete standardized 10-puff bouts for
      three e-cigarettes, the VLNCs (Very Low Nicotine Cigarettes), and their usual brand
      cigarette. They will then complete three concurrent choice tasks. The tasks will simulate 1)
      the current market, in which e-cigarettes and fully nicotinized cigarettes are available, 2)
      the potential future market in which e-cigarettes and VLNC (Very Low Nicotine Cigarettes) are
      freely available and nicotinized cigarettes are banned, and 3) the potential future market in
      which only tobacco flavored e-cigarettes and VLNCs (Very Low Nicotine Cigarettes) are freely
      available and nicotinized cigarettes are banned. Understanding, in an environment where VLNCs
      (Very Low Nicotine Cigarettes) are the only cigarettes available, current smokers' and dual
      users' product choices will fill an important gap in the research and inform regulation of
      these products.
    
  