
    
      This is a study to collect information on adverse events (side effects) that occur during
      treatment with abiraterone acetate in patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate
      cancer (CRPC). To participate in this study patients must have failed 1 or 2 chemotherapy
      regimens (1 of which contained a taxane such as docetaxel), reside in an area where
      abiraterone acetate is not yet available through local healthcare providers, and not be
      eligible for enrollment in any other ongoing clinical research study of abiraterone acetate.
      CRPC is progressive form of prostate cancer where the cancer cells become resistant to
      hormonal therapies that are designed to block the release or uptake of testosterone and the
      cancer cells metastasize (ie, spread to other parts of the body). Abiraterone acetate
      (referred to as abiraterone) is a drug currently under development for use in treating men
      with CRPC. Patients will be treated with abiraterone and prednisone daily until progression
      of clinical disease (ie, includes signs of clinical disease progression and/or clinical
      disease progression confirmed by radiographic and prostate-specific antigen [PSA] test
      results). Other reasons for discontinuation of treatment may include adverse events reported,
      initiation of other anticancer therapies, or the patient's inability to comply with dosing
      instructions. Patients will be followed for 30 days after the discontinuation of treatment
      with abiraterone acetate. Patients will take four 250-mg tablets of abiraterone orally at
      least 1 hour before a meal or 2 hours after a meal any time up to 10 pm every day. Patients
      will also take 5 mg of oral prednisone, twice daily. Each treatment cycle consists of 28 days
      and patients will take abiraterone continually on a daily basis until disease progression is
      observed at which time abiraterone will be discontinued and the dose of prednisone reduced if
      clinically indicated.
    
  