
    
      Patients included in this dose-finding study will be enrolled consecutively after consent and
      verification of the selection criteria, with a minimum of 24 hours after completion of
      previous patient follow-up.

      Prior to the administration of morphine, the following exams will be performed: clinical,
      paraclinical and biological parameters.

      NIV will be started and performed in BiPAP pressure mode with facial mask. A Tidal Volume
      (Vt) to the maximum of 6 - 8ml/kg, an expiratory positive airway pressure (EPAP) of 5cm H2O
      and the FiO2 set at 35%. The settings will be adapted according to the SpO2 (88%≤SpO2≤92%)
      and the clinical tolerance.

      Thereafter, the patients included will receive a single open-label injection of morphine (T0)
      at the dose closest to that defined by the model (estimation by Bayesian method) from among
      the following 4 doses: 0.02; 0.04; 0.07 and 0.1mg/kg.

      A double check of the preparation of the dose administered will be carried out by a physician
      and a nurse in an emergency department.

      Each result is aimed to refine the gain function which will be used to estimate the optimal
      dose for the next patient. The dose to be administered to the next patient will be determined
      by the Clinical Investigation Centre based on the data of the previous patient. It will be
      determined using a gain function whose objective is to represent the best compromise between
      efficacy and safety. It assigns a value to the patient representing the benefit: in case of
      toxicity this value will be 0; otherwise it will be equal to the decrease in PaCO2.

      Constant monitoring for up to 4 hours will be done as part of this study to detect the
      occurrence of adverse events. In particular, the following will be monitored: disturbances of
      consciousness, vomiting or secretions requiring airway protection; hemodynamic instability;
      restlessness and/or inability to keep the mask on. Therefore, ongoing monitoring for routine
      patient care may be extended at the discretion of the clinical physician in charge of the
      patient.

      Follow-up of patients will be done in 15 minutes, 1 hour, 4 hours (or NIV stop) and 24 hours.
      Clinical, paraclinical, biological parameters and the occurrence of adverse events will be
      performed in 15 minutes, 1 and 4 hours follow-up. During 24 hours only the occurrence of
      adverse event will be reported.

      The trial shall be concluded when the maximum number of patients is reached (N=24), or when a
      sufficiently accurate estimate of the dose maximizing the benefit-risk balance is obtained
      while remaining within the toxicity limit set at a 30% probability of DLT. The precision of
      this estimate will be measured by the ratio of the upper and lower bounds of the confidence
      interval. If this ratio is less than 5, the precision is considered to be sufficient to stop
      the study.

      Four groups of data will be collected at different times: biological parameter, clinical and
      paraclinical parameters as well adverse event.

      Clinical parameter: demographic variable (gender, age), weight, height, BMI, Richmond
      Agitation- Sedation Scale, Visual analog scale of dyspnea (Borg scale), numerical rating
      scale for pain assessment.

      Paraclinical parameter: Vital parameters: heart rate, respiratory rate, blood pressure,
      ventilatory rate, SpO2, NIV settings, EPAP, IPAP and Tidal Volume.

      Biological parameter: Blood count, arterial blood gas, chemistry panel.

      outcome measure: Optimal dose is defined as the dose associated with the maximum of gain
      function, used to determine the best compromise between efficacy and toxicity.

      It combines:

        1. The probability of dose - limiting toxicity (DTL), defined as the occurrence of one or
           more of the following criteria occurring within 4 hours of morphine administration:

             -  Respiratory Rate ≤ 10/min;

             -  Richmond Agitation-Sedation Scale (RASS) < -2

             -  Vomiting

             -  Naloxone administration.

        2. Efficacy and toxicity defined by:

             -  PaCO2 1 hour after morphine injection, according to the hormetic dose-response
                model ("J-curve": efficacy first increases with the dose, then reach a maximum and
                decreases in case of excessive bradypnea).

      Study design:

      Estimation of enrollment: Up to 24 participants. The calculation of the sample size was
      carried out by simulating several scenarios based on the prior to be used in the study. The
      simulated scenarios are as follows: one with low toxicity (5% at 0.02 mg/kg and 30% at 0.1
      mg/kg), one with high toxicity (10% at 0.02 mg/kg and 40% at 0.04 mg/kg) and one where the
      toxicity is identical to the prior.

      Simulation results showed a number of subjects required up to 24, with a median of 6 to 11,
      according to the scenario. The investigators therefore chose to define a maximum number of
      patients to 24, which is higher than the average of the worst-case scenario and corresponds
      to the maximum number of patients required among the 100 simulations of the worst-case
      scenario. However, it is very likely that the inclusions will be stopped earlier, when the
      accuracy is satisfactory.

      Analysis:

      The method used will be an adaptive Bayesian dose-finding procedure for a binary response
      (DLT), and a continuous response (PaCO2 used as a biomarker of efficacy and toxicity,
      following a hormetic response), using a gain function which objectively represent the
      compromise between efficiency and safety. The investigators will use a function already
      described in the literature .

      No interim analysis planned for this study.
    
  