
    
      This is an open-label (both the physician and the patient know which treatment is being
      provided), multi-center study of up to 16 weeks duration in which 450 patients will be
      randomly assigned (patients are assigned to a specific study group by chance) to one of three
      treatment groups in a 1:1:1 ratio. Patients will receive PROCRIT (epoetin alfa) 80,000 Units
      injected subcutaneously (under the skin) once every three weeks or 120,000 Units injected
      under the skin once every three weeks or ARANESP (darbepoetin alfa) 500 mcg injected under
      the skin once every three weeks for up to 13 weeks. PROCRIT (epoetin alfa) 80,000 Units and
      120,000 Units given once every three weeks are doses and schedules that are not approved for
      use in the United States and are under investigation, while the ARANESP dose and schedule are
      approved for use in the United States. Adult patients with specific types of cancer
      (confirmed non-myeloid malignancy) who are scheduled to receive cyclic chemotherapy for a
      minimum of 12 weeks during the study and who meet all other eligibility criteria will be
      enrolled. This study will be conducted in approximately 80 study sites located in the United
      States.

      The study hypothesis is that a dosing regimen of PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) 80,000 Units or
      120,000 Units given once every three weeks is non-inferior to ARANESP 500 mcg given once
      every three weeks with respect to the mean hemoglobin (Hb) change from baseline to Study Week
      7 in anemic cancer patients receiving chemotherapy. Hemoglobin levels will be monitored
      throughout the study on a weekly basis and before each drug dose is administered. Drug dosing
      will be adjusted (ie, held, reduced, resumed at a lower dose) as needed to maintain
      hemoglobin values within desired ranges.

      The maximum dose of PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) allowed in this study is 120,000 Units every three
      weeks (Q3W) and the maximum dose of ARANESP (darbepoetin) is 500 mcg Q3W.

      Safety evaluations will be conducted throughout the study and will consist of assessment of
      laboratory tests, vital signs, physical examinations. The occurrence and severity of adverse
      events, including thrombovascular events will be evaluated throughout the study.Periodic data
      monitoring of the study by an external Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC) will be
      performed. The main responsibility of the IDMC is to conduct ongoing monitoring of safety and
      to report any irregularities back to the Sponsor along with recommendations regarding
      continuation of the study. Each patient will be assigned to one of three dosing schedules.
      All schedules will be administered by way of subcutaneous (under the skin) injection once
      every three weeks over a period of 13 weeks. The three dosing schedules are as follows:
      PROCRIT (epoetin alfa) 80,000 Units, PROCRIT (epoetin alfa) 120,000 Units or ARANESP
      (darbepoetin alfa) 500 mcg
    
  