
    
      Chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) occurs in up to 80% of patients on active
      therapy and remains a significant barrier to quality of life. CINV can alter electrolytes and
      enteral nutrition which can have a detrimental effect on patient adherence and health
      outcomes. HCT patients are at increased risk for CINV because many of the conditioning
      regimens require multiple days of high-dose chemotherapy that are, in many cases, associated
      with highly-emetogenic potential.

      Thus, most conditioning regimens require a 3-drug regimen for optimal CINV prophylaxis.

      Current Standard of Care Current guidelines support the use of olanzapine in addition to a 3
      drug CINV regimen for highly emetogenic chemotherapy, however some controversy remains as to
      olanzapine's place in therapy with moderately emetogenic chemotherapy. In HCT, current
      practice at UNC utilizes an neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist (NK1 RA), serotonin receptor
      antagonists (5-HT3 RA) and corticosteroid for CINV prophylaxis in conditioning regimens
      including moderate and highly emetogenic chemotherapy in accordance with ASCO and NCCN
      recommendations.

      Olanzapine, an atypical antipsychotic, antagonizes dopamine, serotonin, catecholamines,
      acetylcholine, and histamine receptors which helps prevent acute, breakthrough and delayed
      nausea. Olanzapine has shown benefit when used as prophylaxis in solid tumor patients
      receiving single-day highly emetogenic chemotherapy. The addition of olanzapine to 5HT-3
      antagonist, NK-1 antagonist, and dexamethasone resulted in significantly more complete
      responses (CR) and more patients without CINV when compared to placebo in the acute, delayed
      and overall time periods. Data with olanzapine as CINV prophylaxis is not clear in HCT
      patients, but one retrospective study by Trifilio et. al. illustrates possible benefit in
      HCT. They compared an aprepitant-based regimen (aprepitant, ondansetron, and steroid) to an
      olanzapine-based regimen (olanzapine, ondansetron, and steroid) and found that patients in
      the olanzapine group had significantly less acute and delayed nausea. In addition, the
      olanzapine-based regimen required significantly less PRN rescue medication compared to the
      aprepitant based regimen. These results ultimately provided the foundation for the FOND-O
      study, a prospective trial that added olanzapine as part of CINV prophylaxis in both
      hematologic malignancies and HCT patients. The FOND-O study compared fosaprepitant,
      ondansetron, and dexamethasone (FOND) to fosaprepitant, ondansetron, dexamethasone and
      olanzapine (FOND-O). The inclusion of olanzapine resulted in significantly less delayed and
      overall nausea but did not affect the acute phase. While the FOND-O study was the first to
      look at utilizing olanzapine as part of 4 drug CINV prophylaxis in HCT, there were only 68
      HCT patients included in the study. Only 24 allogeneic transplants and 44 autologous
      transplants were enrolled, and only 34 of these patients actually received olanzapine.

      In addition, the FOND-O study utilized an olanzapine dose of 10 mg on each day of
      chemotherapy continued through chemotherapy day 3. Rationale for Clinical Study The purpose
      of our proposed study is to build upon the FOND-O results by doing a prospective, randomized,
      placebo-controlled study, focused entirely on HCT recipients, and powered to detect
      olanzapine's potential role in CINV prophylaxis in recipients of HCT. Based upon the
      available literature in both solid and hematologic malignancies the benefit outweighs the
      risk of adding olanzapine to standard CINV prophylaxis. The primary endpoint is complete
      response- defined as no emesis and no more than minimal nausea starting with the first dose
      of highly or moderately emetogenic conditioning chemotherapy and continuing 5 days beyond the
      last dose of highly or moderately emetogenic conditioning chemotherapy. Secondary endpoints
      are defined explicitly
    
  