
    
      Postoperative venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a significant health-care problem, resulting in
      significant morbidity, mortality and resource utilization. The true incidence is unknown, and
      may range from 1% to 15%. The latest American College of Chest Physicians (ACCP) guidelines
      on VTE prevention clearly outlines the perioperative thromboprophylaxis regiments for
      specific surgical populations. Specifically for patients undergoing orthopaedic procedures,
      such as total hip replacement, there is strong Grade 1A evidence for the use of extended
      thromboprophylaxis. For other surgical subgroups such as vascular and thoracic surgery, the
      evidence is less clear.

      Therefore at the current time, the clinical practice of VTE prophylaxis in thoracic surgery
      includes administration of unfractionated or low molecular weight heparin starting at the
      perioperative period and finishing at the time of patients' discharge. Prolonged
      thromboprophylaxis in orthopaedic surgery beyond 10 days and up to 35 days has become the
      standard of care and has Grade 1A recommendations from ACCP. This approach has never been
      tested or validated in thoracic surgery, where major lung resection exposes the patient to an
      increased VTE risk not only due to the surgical stress and existence of malignancy, but also
      due to direct in-situ vascular injury secondary to resection of pulmonary arterial branches
      during the lung resection. Hence, there is a clear need to systematically evaluate the
      incidence of VTE after resection of lung malignancies and to evaluate the role of extended
      VTE prophylaxis in preventing DVT and pulmonary embolus (PE) after those major lung
      resections.

      The study will involve patients undergoing sub-lobar resection, lobectomy, bilobectomy or
      pneumonectomy for lung cancer or metastatic lung disease at St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton,
      a regional tertiary thoracic surgery program with more than 350 major lung resections
      performed within the institution annually, as well as the University Health Network's Toronto
      General Hospital. The study will evaluate the incidence of post-operative venous
      thromboembolism (VTE) and will include 150 consecutively recruited patients. Study
      interventions will include Computed Tomography with pulmonary embolus (PE) protocol and
      bilateral extended leg Doppler Ultrasound for the detection of Deep Vein Thrombosis 30 days
      post-surgery.

      In summary, this study is aimed at evaluating, for the first time in a prospective manner,
      the actual incidence of DVT and PE in patients undergoing major lung resections for
      malignancies. The knowledge gained in this study will be used to inform a future
      investigation involving an RCT to compare current post-operative thromboprophylaxis with an
      extended 30-day prophylaxis protocol with the hope of providing an evidence-based practice
      change in VTE prophylaxis care for this high risk population.
    
  