
    
      Many primary care patients struggle with health behaviors that can reduce depressive
      symptoms, such as adhering to prescribed treatments. Bolstering patient self-efficacy can
      improve health behaviors and outcomes, including those related to depression. However,
      current self-efficacy interventions are provided outside of primary care, and so cannot
      harness the power of therapeutic primary care provider (PCP)-patient relationships. Teaching
      PCPs to employ self-efficacy enhancing interviewing techniques (SEE IT) with patients would
      build upon existing therapeutic relationships, greatly increasing the reach of self-efficacy
      enhancement. The randomized controlled trial (RCT) in this proposal will examine whether, as
      compared with an attention control condition, a brief (< 1 hour) office-based intervention
      for practicing PCPs will lead to significantly greater use of SEE IT during unannounced
      follow-up SP encounters (postintervention and 3 months). The interventions will be delivered
      to PCPs during their regular office hours by standardized patient (SP) instructors. All study
      SPs will portray patients with both depression and diabetes, since these conditions commonly
      co-occur and entail a heavy burden of health-enhancing behaviors. Exploratory (due to limited
      statistical power) analyses will explore intervention effects on the following outcomes among
      real patients with co-occurring depression and diabetes: self-efficacy for depression and
      diabetes self-care, actual self-care behaviors (e.g. medication adherence), symptom severity,
      and health status. Further exploratory (due to limited statistical power) analyses will
      explore intervention effects on the following outcomes among real patients with various
      chronic conditions (ie, not limited to depression and diabetes): self-care self-efficacy,
      actual self-care behaviors, symptom severity, and health status. Pre- and post-RCT focus
      groups with stakeholders (PCPs, office staff, patients, and SP instructors) will guide
      refinement of the SEE IT intervention. The proposed research activities will inform the
      design (e.g. sample size) and conduct of a future R01-funded, multi-center, cluster RCT of
      the finalized intervention, adequately powered to examine effects on a range of patient
      outcomes; sustainability of effects on PCP interviewing over time; and generalizability to
      other practice settings and common co-morbid mental health and physical illness clusters. The
      SEE IT intervention begins to address the broader health needs of individuals with depression
      in primary care, and has unique potential to reduce the tremendous burden of mental illness
      related morbidity and mortality.
    
  