
    
      2. INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE

      2.1 Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a
      common preventable and treatable disease, yet without a cure. It is characterized by
      persistent airflow limitation that is usually progressive and associated with an enhanced
      chronic inflammatory response in the airways and the lungs to noxious particles or gases [2].
      COPD is a leading cause of morbidity and is estimated to become the fourth leading cause of
      death worldwide in 2030 [3] and results in an economic and social burden that is both
      substantial and increasing [2]. The diagnosis of COPD is based on the presence of airflow
      limitation (i.e. forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) and forced vital capacity).
      However, the degree of airflow limitation itself does not adequately describe the complexity
      of COPD because significant heterogeneity exists between patients with respect to clinical
      presentation, physiology, imaging, response to therapy, decline in lung function and
      survival. Currently, a clear alternative for describing COPD does not exist but the
      identification of subgroups of COPD, based on clinical factors (phenotypes), eventually
      extended by biomarkers reflecting underlying pathophysiological processes can be attractive.
      This may lead to better insights in the heterogeneity of COPD and the underlying mechanisms.

      2.2 The phenotype of severe early-onset COPD Several reviews have proposed that potential
      phenotypes can be based on clinical manifestations, physiological manifestations, radiologic
      characterization, COPD exacerbations, systemic inflammation and comorbidities [4-6]. Clinical
      manifestations include age, smoking history, sex, ethnicity, body composition, exacerbation
      frequency and dyspnea level. Physiologic manifestations include amongst others lung function,
      decrease in lung function over time (FEV1), lung volumes, hyperinflation, hyperresponsiveness
      exercise capacity and muscle function. Radiologic characterization includes computed
      tomography (CT) scanning of the lung and for example measures of airway wall thickness or
      emphysema scores. Clusters of patients with similar characteristics may constitute a
      phenotype and can be based on expert opinion, or statistical techniques like an unsupervised
      cluster analysis.

      A phenotype of particular clinical relevance is a subset of smokers who will develop severe
      COPD at an early age and with relatively few packyears smoking. In 1998, Silverman et al.
      defined this phenotype by severe airflow obstruction (i.e. Forced Expiratory Volume in 1
      second (FEV1) <40% predicted) and age ≤53 years [1]. This severe early-onset COPD accounts
      for a significant part of the total personal, societal and economic burden attributed to
      COPD. However, despite the clinical relevance of this group of COPD patients, this definition
      of severe early-onset COPD is only based on FEV1 and age. Therefore, this perhaps out-dated
      definition lacks other phenotypical parameters, i.e. smoking history, slope of lung function
      decline, radiologic characterization such as emphysema, and other possible factors
      contributing to this phenotype. This proposed study will evaluate different phenotypes of
      SEO-COPD, linking it with genotypical characterization.

      2.3 The genotype of severe early-onset COPD Although it is widely accepted that smoking is
      the main risk factor for COPD, only 20-30% of smokers will ultimately develop the disease
      [1]. A small subset of smokers will develop severe COPD at an early age and with relatively
      few packyears smoking. The question arises as to why these patients are particularly
      susceptible to the adverse effects of smoking. In this context, the findings of Silverman et
      al. are of particular interest, showing that smoking first- degree relatives of these severe
      early-onset COPD patients had a significantly lower FEV1 than controls of the same age and
      smoking habits, suggesting genetic factors to play a role in COPD development [1]. The latter
      is in line with findings of case-control and twin studies and it is estimated that 40-60% of
      the risk for development of COPD is genetically determined [7,8]. Thus far, little is known
      about the origins and underlying mechanisms that drive the development of severe early-onset
      COPD. With this proposed study, we will explore these mechanism using new possibilities for
      genotyping.

      2.4 New possibilities for genotyping GWAS studies have identified several genetic variants
      associated with susceptibility to develop COPD [9-11]. Although these studies have generated
      important new insights, their biological interpretation has been limited. Variants that were
      identified so far are estimated to explain only a small percentage (approximately 8%) of the
      total genetic risk attributed to COPD [12]. It is important to realize that the genotyping
      platforms used in GWAS studies so far mainly included common SNP's, i.e. those with a minor
      allele frequency (MAF) >5%, whereas rare variants with a MAF <5% have been heavily
      underrepresented. The latter is important, since rare variants are likely to be involved in
      SEO-COPD. One well-known example of a rare genetic variant that is functionally related to
      SEO-COPD is the non- synonymous SNP in the region coding for SERPINA1 causing
      alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency [13,14]. Although important, alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency is
      present in only a small percentage of patients leaving a large proportion of heritability of
      SEO-COPD unexplained. This proposed study will include rare variants, now a feasible approach
      with recent advances in high-throughput whole-genome sequencing technologies [15].

      2.5 Severe early-onset COPD patients referred to the UMCG Many patients with severe COPD are
      being referred to the University Medical Center Groningen (UMCG) every year from the entire
      Netherlands for a consultation on lung transplantation (LTX) or bronchoscopic lung volume
      reduction therapy (BLVRT) (approximately 250 per year) [16,17]. BLVRT is only performed in
      our center in the Netherlands. As part of a previously approved study ("Phenotyping in COPD",
      METc 2014/102), patients with severe COPD who are referred for BLVRT or lung transplantation
      are characterized when they are willing to participate and gave their written informed
      consent. Characterization is performed using lung function (i.e. spirometry, body box),
      clinical (i.e. questionnaires, physical examination, measurement of waist-hip ratio),
      radiologic (HRCT-scan) and systemic parameters (venous blood collection). Moreover, the
      following additional samples are being extracted: bronchial biopsies, bronchial brushes and
      nasal brushes.

      There are two objectives this study adds. The primary objective is to identify the genetic
      and epigenetic mechanisms underlying SEO-COPD by using the bronchial brushes and biopsies
      that are already extracted from the SEO-COPD patients. The secondary objective is to add two
      control groups (i.e. mild-moderate COPD group and healthy non-COPD control group) matched for
      age and smoking habits (all COPD patients referred for BLVRT or lung transplantation are
      ex-smokers), which is currently missing.

      Hopefully, this will eventually elucidate COPD susceptibility and its genetic cause,
      resulting in a more tailored treatment of this COPD subset.

      Primary Objective:

      - To identify the genetic and epigenetic mechanisms underlying SEO-COPD by using bronchial
      brushes and biopsies and assess how these SEO-COPD patients differ from two control groups
      (mild-moderate COPD and non-COPD subjects).

      Secondary Objectives:

      To:

        -  determine which common and rare genetic variants are likely causally related to the
           development and/or excessive progression of the disease.

        -  assess which COPD-associated genes and gene-networks are controlled by miR's
           (micro-RNA's) and DNA methylation sites.
    
  