
    
      1 Objective

      1.1 Primary Objective: To explore the efficacy of Dutasteride in reducing bladder wall
      hypertrophy from baseline to 6 months of treatment in male patients with benign prostatic
      obstruction.

      1.2 Secondary Objective:

        1. To explore the efficacy of Dutasteride in reducing the LUTS symptoms, number of
           micturitions, and number of urgency episodes from baseline to 6 months of treatment

        2. To explore the efficacy of Dutasteride on the urodynamic parameters from baseline to 6
           months of treatment.

        3. To explore the efficacy of Dutasteride on the tolerability, safety, patient perception
           and quality of life from baseline to 6 months of treatment.

      2 Endpoints

      2.1 Primary Endpoint: Percent (numeric) changes in ultrasound-estimated bladder weight (UEBW)
      from baseline to 6 months of treatment

      2.2 Secondary Endpoint:

      Urodynamic parameters: From baseline to 6 months of treatment

      • Percentage and numeric changes of the

        -  Maximum flow rate (mL/s)

        -  Average flow rate (mL/s)

        -  Post-void residual urine volume (mL)

      Micturition diary efficacy parameters: From baseline to 6 months of treatment

        -  Percentage and numeric changes in micturition frequency/24 hours

        -  Percentage and numeric changes in mean volume voided per micturition

        -  Percentage and numeric changes in mean number and severity of urgency per micturition

      Prostate volume parameters:

      • Change in prostate volume by TRUS from baseline to after 6 months of treatment.

      • Change in serum PSA from baseline to after 6 months of treatment.

      Quality of life parameters:

      • Change in Bother Score of IPSS score from baseline to 6 months of treatment

      LUTS Symptom parameters:

      • Change in IPSS score from baseline to 6 months of treatment

      - total score: sum of all 7 questions

        -  storage score: sum of questions 2, 4 and 7

        -  voiding score: sum of questions 1, 3, 5 and 6

      LUTS outcome score (LOS)

      • Change in LOS from baseline to 6 months of treatment

      Patient perceptions:

        -  Patient perception of treatment benefit after 3 and 6 months of treatment

        -  Change in patient perception of urgency from baseline to 3 and 6 month of treatment

      Safety parameters:

      • Incidence and severity of adverse events

      • Incidence and reason of withdrawals

      3. STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS

      Study Design: This is a 6-month prospective Phase IV study to explore the effect on the
      bladder function of Dutasteride in male patients with benign prostatic obstruction.
    
  