
    
      Treatment protocol of nonintubated technique and intubated general anesthesia

      Nonintubated technique: All nonintubated patients will be premedicated with 50 to 100 μg of
      fentanyl intravenously and will be continuously monitored electrocardiographically, along
      with pulse oximetry, respiratory rate, blood pressure, body temperature, and urine output.
      End-tidal carbon dioxide will be continuously monitored by insertion of a detector into one
      nostril. A bispectral index sensor (BIS Quatro, Aspect Medical System, Norwood, MA, USA) will
      be applied to the forehead of each patient to monitor the level of consciousness.
      Additionally, a non-invasive near-infrared cerebral regional oximetry (INVOSTM 5100BINVOS
      5100B Cerebral Oximeter, Somanetics Corporation, Troy, MI, USA) will be applied to monitor
      the regional oxygen saturation of the brains. The patients will be sedated with intravenous
      propofol (Fresol 1%, Fresenius Kabi GmbH, Graz, Austria) using a target-controlled infusion
      method (Injectomat® TIVA Agilia, Fresenius Kabi GmbH, Graz, Austria). The level of sedation
      will be set to achieve a bispectral index value between 40 and 60, and incremental
      intravenous injections of fentanyl 25 μg will be given to maintain a respiratory rate between
      12 and 20 breaths/min. Oxygen will be supplied through a ventilation mask.

      Conventional intubated general anesthesia: All intubated patients will be monitored as for
      nonintubated patients. Anesthesia will be induced by intravenous administration of propofol
      (1 - 2.5 mg/kg), fentanyl (100 μg), and rocuronium (0.6 mg/kg) and will be maintained by
      sevoflurane and rocuronium at the discretion of anesthesiologist and bispectral index
      monitoring. A double-lumen endotracheal tube or endobronchial blocker will be inserted for
      one lung isolation during the procedure and a bronchoscopy will be used to facilitate the
      correct isolation of targeted bronchus at the discretion of anesthesiologist. The dependent
      lung will be ventilated using protective lung strategy with a tidal volume of 6 to 8 mL/kg, a
      respiratory rate of 10 to 16 breaths/min to maintain the arterial carbon dioxide tension at
      35 to 45 mmHg. After the operation, the patients will be extubated in the operating room or
      remain intubated and be sent to the intensive care unit at the discretion of
      anesthesiologist.
    
  