
    
      Vitamins, minerals and CoQ10, exert a number of physiological effects directly relevant to
      energy supply and metabolism. Therefore it is hypothesized that the nutritional interventions
      in this trial will facilitate brain metabolic substrate distribution and utilisation during
      demanding brain activities with a potential benefit on task performance. This pilot,
      double-blind, placebo controlled, 3-arm parallel groups trial will utilise two concomitant
      non-invasive techniques:

        -  Near Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS) and

        -  Indirect Calorimetry (ICa). The NIRS will be utilised to measure the rate of delivery of
           metabolic substrates (via cerebral blood flow i.e. concentrations of total-haemoglobin)
           and oxygen extraction from the blood (concentration of deoxy-haemoglobin) in the frontal
           cortex of the brain during cognitive tasks.

      The ICa calculated from exhaled gas analysis will be utilised to quantify the overall
      'energy' costs of performance of tasks in terms of oxygen uptake, carbon dioxide production,
      energy expenditure, and substrate (fat and carbohydrate) metabolism.

      Cognitive tasks of differing levels of difficulty will be utilised with the hypothesis that
      energy expenditure parameters and blood flow/oxygen extraction will increase with rising task
      demands, and that any treatment related effect will be more evident under conditions of
      increased neural activity. The effects on the above mentioned parameters of two
      multivitamin/multimineral preparations (MMP) will be compared to placebo subsequent to single
      dose administration (acute) and following daily administration over an eight week period
      (chronic). The nutritional interventions are expected to improve nutritional status and
      thereby facilitate energy supply and metabolism and to have positive impact on the study
      parameters. The effects of the nutritional interventions on nutritional status will be
      evaluated by measuring the plasma/serum concentrations of a selected subset of analytes. It
      is hypothesized that the nutritional status at baseline and after eight week supplementation
      period will have an impact on metabolic substrate conversion, oxygen utilisation, cerebral
      blood flow and cognitive performance.
    
  