
    
      Introduction Osteoarthritis (OA) is highly prevalent in older adults and a growing cause of
      disability. The importance of availability of primary treatment of OA is gaining momentum,
      and web-based self-management programs have in recent years become available. Evidence of
      short term effects of such programs are abundant, yet the evaluation of long term effects of
      these programs is scarce.

      Aim To investigate joint pain development over time from participation in a web-based OA
      self-management program for people with hip or knee OA.

      Methods Participants joined the program through advertisements and campaigns on the web.
      Included participants had a radiographic or clinical diagnosis of hip or knee OA (about 95%)
      from a physical therapist or physician. The intervention consisted of a digital, structured
      and individualized treatment program for people with hip or knee OA (Joint Academy®;
      www.jointacademy.com). The program consists of neuromuscular exercises appropriately adjusted
      to each patient in regard to degrees of complexity and difficulty and information in the form
      of text or video lessons (with quizzes on the material after each episode) on subjects
      related to OA, OA symptoms and its management.

      Outcome measures Joint pain in the hip or knee was assessed at baseline, and weeks 12, 24 and
      48 using the Numerical Rating Scale (NRS), a 0-10 scale where 0 is defined as No pain and 10
      is defined as Maximum pain. Minimal clinically important change (MCIC) of pain was defined as
      an improvement of 20%. As a measure of physical function, the 30-second chair stand test
      (30CST) was used and performed by the patient every other week, using an instruction video
      with a coupled visual timer. The patient entered the performed number of repetitions after
      each test. Physical function data was handled similarly to the NRS, with week 24 ±4 adjacent
      weeks and week 48±6 adjacent weeks included for those with available NRS data. All outcomes
      were self-assessed, self-centred, and chosen based on the International Consortium for Health
      Outcomes Measurement Standard Set for Hip & Knee Osteoarthritis (ICHOM).

      Statistical analysis Summary data are described by the mean value, standard deviation and
      number of observations or the number and percent of the categories of interest. The
      group-specific mean treatment effect of duration on pain and repetitions (30CST - physical
      function), as well as differences in pain over time between hip and knee OA with or without
      additional covariates, were estimated and tested using random slopes and intercepts models.
      Pain development over time was plotted for hip and knee OA respectively.

      To describe patients adhering for six months with contrasting pain severity at baseline,
      participants were divided into same-sized tertiles based on reported baseline pain, with
      related descriptive data. Mean pain per time point was calculated and plotted for each group.
      Significance level was set to p<0.05, and p-values and 95% confidence intervals were reported
      when applicable. Statistical calculations were performed in Statistical Package for Social
      Sciences (SPSS Version 25, IBM Corporation, New York, USA) and Stata 15.1 (StataCorp LLC,
      Texas, USA).
    
  