
    
      Recruitment. Participants were recruited according to eligibility criteria, in close
      collaboration with community partners. Specifically, health and mental health care centers,
      as well as community organizations and churches were targeted for recruitment activities.
      Recruitment also consisted of snowball recruitment from participants exposed to the
      intervention.

      General Description of the Intervention. The Parent Management Training-Oregon model
      (GenerationPMTO) intervention is delivered primarily to parents in order to strengthen
      parenting skills in a safe learning environment that empower parents to implement these
      skills at home. The development of the original GenerationPMTO Spanish manual was conducted
      by Dr. Domenech-Rodriguez according to a comprehensive model of cultural adaptation research.

      The intervention consisted of GenerationPMTO and culturally-focused sessions. The
      GenerationPMTO-focused sessions are detailed in the core treatment manual and have been
      translated into Spanish utilizing a rigorous process of translation and consultation with
      Hispanic scholars. Culturally-focused sessions integrated content from three sources. First,
      we informed sessions according to relevant literature focused on biculturalism. We also
      informed the intervention by addressing specific cultural themes that were identified as
      salient in our qualitative studies, which correspond to existing literature on risk and
      protective factors associated with Hispanic youth. Finally, parents were invited to reflect
      on additional cultural values and experiences that they consider relevant to their parenting
      efforts.

      With regard to content of individual sessions, module 1 addressed issues associated with
      immigration, Hispanic culture, and bicultural frameworks. Module 2 addressed issues
      associated with parenting and biculturalism. Modules 3-6 covered the GenerationPMTO core
      components as they apply to adolescent populations. Module 7 consists of an in-person session
      to refine and troubleshoot parenting skills that parents may consider particularly
      challenging. To enhance the cultural relevance of GenerationPMTO components, we will present
      all GenerationPMTO parenting skills according to bicultural frameworks, a strategy highly
      effective the R34 study.

      Modules 8-9 reinforced issues of biculturalism having exposed parents to all PMTO core
      components. A strong focus on biculturalism is particularly relevant as empirical research
      has demonstrated that the promotion of biculturalism constitutes an effective protective
      factor for Hispanic youth in first generation Hispanic families.

      Randomization. The individual family was the unit of computer-derived randomization, with
      PTMO-control balance sought for (a) gender of target youth, and (b) time of recruitment.
      Assessments. Data collection was completed after recruitment (T1) and upon intervention
      completion (T2).

      Intervention Delivery. The intervention was delivered in a major faith-based organization as
      this site was the preferred site selected by Latino/a parents. In addition to the parenting
      intervention, a strong advocacy approach was implemented to address various needs of parents
      (e.g., referral to job training programs or immigration services).

      Analyses. Tests of the primary hypothesis will involve fitting of the more assumption-laden
      subject-specific multivariate response model to Likelihood of Youth Substance Use (LYUS)
      sub-scale values, followed by fitting of the somewhat more conservative Generalized
      Estimating Equations (GEE) marginal model with the advantage of fewer assumptions.Our papers
      will report crude and covariate-adjusted efficacy estimates from both models, allowing
      readers to draw inferences based on either or both approaches. These same models are used to
      test the secondary efficacy hypotheses about program impact on parenting skill levels, youth
      internalizing/externalizing behaviors, and parent stress levels.
    
  