
    
      The epidemic of coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19), a disease caused by the severe acute
      respiratory syndrome-coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) virus, rapidly spread worldwide and was
      declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization on 11 March 2020.

      It is well known that people with diabetes have increased infection risk, especially for
      influenza and pneumonia. Moreover, diabetes was previously reported as a major risk factor
      for mortality in people infected with the H1N1 pandemic influenza and, more recently, with
      the Middle East respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus (MERS-CoV) . Epidemiological studies
      have quickly and consistently pointed out diabetes as one of the major comorbidities
      associated with COVID-19 and affecting its severity.

      The prevalence of diabetes in patients with COVID-19 was first reported to range from 5% to
      20%. Furthermore, the COVID-19-Associated Hospitalisation Surveillance Network (COVID-NET)
      reported a diabetes prevalence of 28.3% in hospitalised patients in the USA.

      More importantly, all studies published so far have reported a two- to threefold higher
      prevalence of diabetes in patients in ICUs compared with those with less severe disease and
      an increased mortality in people with diabetes. A recent meta-analysis further demonstrated
      that diabetes was associated with a more than doubled risk for ICU admission and a more than
      tripled risk for death.

      However, precise data regarding diabetes characteristics in hospitalised people with COVID-19
      are still lacking. Moreover, the relationship between diabetes-related phenotypes and the
      severity of COVID-19 remains unknown. This study aims to identify the clinical and biological
      features and potential interactions of diabetic therapies associated with disease severity
      and mortality risk in people hospitalised for COVID-19. Hospital medical records of
      inpatients, hospitalized between February 23 to March 31 2020, at the Internal Medicine Unit
      dedicated to COVID-19 in the Academic Hospital of Parma, Italy will be analysed.
    
  