
    
      The objective is to compare two methods of cardiac output measurement in children: the new
      non-invasive method called esCCO™ (by Nihon Kohden, Tokyo, Japan) and the established more
      invasive method transesophageal echocardiography (TEE). esCCO™ is a completely non-invasive
      method that could provide a cardiac output measurement in a large range of pediatric patients
      because of an extremely low risk benefit balance.

      Cardiac output monitoring has been technically challenging in pediatric patients. Available
      methods for measuring cardiac output in children are either inaccurate or highly invasive or
      limited to a small number of patients. So far esCCO™ has not been tested in the pediatric
      population but showed promising results when it was tested against the pulmonary artery
      catheter in adult patients undergoing heart surgery in previous Japanese studies.

      Thus the validity of esCCO™ is now tested in pediatric patients scheduled for elective
      cardiac surgery. Transesophageal echocardiography has been chosen as reference method because
      it is performed routinely during pediatric cardiac surgery.

      The algorithm for esCCO™ -measurement is integrated in an approved patient monitor that
      replaces the standard patient monitor during the measurement-period.

      In the study protocol, events like esCCO™ -calibration time, catheter positioning time,
      ventilation settings, volume in- and output and drug administration, patients's data and
      diagnoses are logged. Vital parameters from the patient monitor including the esCCO™-cardiac
      output values are recorded every second in real time on a study laptop mounted on the same
      rack as the patient monitor but electrically separated from the other devices.

      EsCCO™ measurements shall be compared to TEE cardiac output measurements at three given
      times: (1) before surgical intervention, (2) shortly after cardiopulmonary bypass and (3)
      after closure of the thorax.

      A total of 50 patients shall be investigated in the study during a planned study time of
      approximately 6 months. The ethics committee of the University of Heidelberg gave their
      consent to the study (S-108/2012). For statistical analysis, a Bland-Altman-test for
      measurements with multiple values per patient, correlation graphics and a regression equation
      will be performed.
    
  