
    
      Hypothesis: The timing of administration of omeprazole/sodium bicarbonate (Zegerid) will
      impact nocturnal esophageal acid exposure and healing of esophagitis. Specifically, we
      hypothesize that omeprazole/sodium bicarbonate, taken at bedtime, will be superior in healing
      esophagitis compared to omeprazole/sodium bicarbonate taken in the morning.

      Specific Aim: Compare the percent of subjects with moderate/severe esophagitis who achieve
      complete endoscopic resolution after 8 weeks of treatment (morning vs. bedtime).

      Intervention: All subjects received a one-on-one educational session describing the normal
      physiology of the upper gastrointestinal tract, the pathophysiology of hiatal hernia and
      reflux esophagitis, and food stuffs that contribute to reflux, prior to their invitation to
      participate in the trial. Outpatients who underwent a clinically indicated
      esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) as advised by their primary health care provider in an
      open-access endoscopy unit who were diagnosed with Los Angeles grade C or D erosive reflux
      esophagitis were invited to participate.

      Omeprazole/sodium bicarbonate powder for oral suspension 40 mg was supplied in individual
      packets that are emptied into a small cup containing 15-30 ml (1-2 tablespoons) of water, one
      per day, for 8 weeks. They were asked to stir well and drink immediately then refill the cup
      with water and drink. Subjects assigned to morning dosing were instructed to take the
      medication on an empty stomach, immediately upon rising, 20 to 60 minutes prior to chewing a
      solid. Subjects assigned to bedtime dosing were instructed to keep the medication by their
      bedside; taking the medication in a standing or seated upright position immediately before
      turning off the lights with the intention to sleep. The subject was instructed to not use
      other liquids or foods for 20 minutes after taking their study medication for those allocated
      to morning dosing, and until the next morning for those allocated to bedtime dosing.

      Gelusil™ was distributed for use as an "on demand" rescue antacid; the frequency of use was
      recorded with the plan to use Gelusil™ consumption as a potential confounder of
      omeprazole/sodium bicarbonate efficacy. Other antacids, including sodium bicarbonate,
      magnesium hydroxide, calcium carbonate, and sucralfate were prohibited. Subjects taking
      non-omeprazole proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) and/or Histamine Receptor Antagonist (HRAs) were
      advised to discontinue these medications while they participated in this study. No other
      medication was altered for this study.

      After 8 weeks, a follow-up EGD was performed to assess mucosal integrity by an endoscopist
      blinded to the study and subject allocation.
    
  