
    
      Intraoperative fluid management is very important in terms of postoperative organ perfusion
      and complications. While various complications such as acute renal failure, hypotension,
      arrhythmia, anastomotic leakage can be seen due to intraoperative hypovolemia; Hypervolemia
      can cause pulmonary edema, postoperative pneumonia, prolonged mechanical ventilation need,
      delayed wound healing, gastrointestinal system (GIS) edema and decreased intestinal motility.

      Increasing the quality of intraoperative fluid therapy is a situation that may affect the
      morbidity and mortality of patients due to all these reasons.

      Conventional fluid management is widely used in clinical practice. In this method, the fluid
      need of the patient is decided according to pulse, arterial blood pressure, central venous
      pressure, urine output and clinical condition. In the targeted fluid therapy method, besides
      static parameters such as pulse, arterial blood pressure, central venous pressure; Dynamic
      parameters such as Stroke volume variability (SVV), pulse pressure variability (PPV), pleth
      variability index (PVI), continuous hemoglobin (SpHb) are also used noninvasively. Studies
      related to SpHb, which provides noninvasive continuous hemoglobin monitoring in accordance
      with pulse oximetry, show that there is a decrease in blood product transfusion compared to
      cases managed with conventional laboratory follow-up.

      Our primary goal is to compare the control group (conventional fluid management) with the PVI
      group (Pleth Variability Index and SpHb guided targeted fluid management) protocol.

      For this purpose, we aim to compare the amount of crystalloids and blood products, blood
      lactate, serum creatinine and electrolyte levels applied in the intraoperative period as a
      result of both protocols. Our secondary aim will be to compare the length of stay in the
      hospital.

      The study is planned as a single center, prospective, randomized controlled clinical study.
      It was aimed to evaluate fluid therapy during elective total abdominal hysterectomy and
      bilateral salpingooferectomy operation. Before the operation, patients will be divided into 2
      groups randomly. For randomization, the automatic system on the randomization.com website
      will be used. All patients included in the study will be premedicated with 1mg of midazolam
      after monitoring with pulse, non-invasive blood pressure, oxygen saturation. Then, invasive
      arterial cannulation will be applied and continuous blood pressure monitoring will be done.
      In the PVI group, non-invasive PVI and SpHb monitoring will also be performed from the other
      upper extremity without arterial cannulation. After two minutes of preoxygenation, anesthesia
      induction will be started. Anesthesia induction doses used routinely in our clinic include iv
      2 mg / kg propofol, 0.6 mg / kg rocuronium and 2 μg / kg fentanyl. Sevoflurane will be
      administered by inhalation during anesthesia maintenance after tracheal intubation.
      Initially, all patients will be given 250 ml intravenous crystalloid. Then 8-10 ml / kg /
      hour iv fluid maintenance will be started for the control group. If the mean arterial
      pressure (MAP) is <65 mmHg or the decrease in MAP is more than 20%, 250 ml iv colloid will be
      applied. If the decrease in MAP continues despite the colloid bolus or if the MAP is below 65
      mmHg, noradrenaline infusion will be started. Patients in the PVI group will be started on
      maintenance fluid therapy at 2-3 ml / kg / hour. In addition to standard monitoring, if PVI
      is <13% and OAB≥65mmHg in measurements made with PVI, current fluid therapy will continue. If
      PVI is <13% and MAP <65 mmHg, noradrenaline infusion will be started. If PVI is> 13% and
      OAB≥65 mmHg, 250 ml iv colloid bolus will be administered, and iv colloid bolus will be
      continued until the PVI is <13% in the 5-minute follow-ups. If PVI> 13% and MAP <65 mmHg,
      patients should receive 250 ml i.v. colloid infusion will be given, if MAP <65mmHg continues
      in 5 minutes follow-up, 250 ml i.v. Colloid and noradrenaline infusion will be started and
      repeated until the OAB≥65 mmHg and PVI <13%. The decision to transfuse in both groups will be
      taken under the guidance of the European Society of Anesthesia (ESA) perioperative bleeding
      management guidelines. In the control group, hemorrhage will be monitored with laboratory Hb
      values, while SpHb and laboratory Hb values will be evaluated together in the PVI group.

      Patients in the ASA1-2-3 risk group who will undergo elective total abdominal hysterectomy
      and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy under general anesthesia, between the ages of 18-65, will
      be included in this study. The study will be conducted with 80 people.

      In both groups, continuous arterial blood pressure, heart rate, oxygen saturation and
      arterial blood gas, lactate concentration at hourly intervals, hemoglobin, hematocrit, serum
      urea, creatinine, sodium, potassium, chlorine values, hospital stay, hourly intervals,
      intraoperative hourly and postoperatively 24 hours later, The amount of crystalloids and
      blood products used intraoperatively, postoperative volume dependent complications and their
      frequency will be evaluated.

      The study will be conducted by anesthesiologists in the operating rooms located in the
      central campus of our hospital.
    
  