
    
      This study is a pilot, prospective project of the effects of customized adherence enhancement
      (CAE) when added to the medical management (usual care) of outpatients with bipolar disorder
      (BPD) who are patients at University Hospitals of Cleveland Case Medical Center, and who are
      known to be at risk for treatment non-adherence. In the proposed trial, CAE is supported by
      manuals delivered as a series of four modules whose use will be determined based upon an
      individual's identified treatment adherence vulnerabilities. The modules are components of a
      single, customized intervention. Although some participants may receive a different
      combination or number of modules, the participants are neither analyzed separately as a
      subpopulation nor compared as subpopulations. Therefore participants are all part of a
      solitary study arm. The effectiveness of the entire customized intervention system is of
      interest.

      All individuals will continue to receive treatment as usual with their regular provider.
      Those who are enrolled in the study intervention will participate in a series of 4 in-person
      meetings with the study interventionist over a 4-week time period and 1-2 telephone
      follow-ups. These meetings with the interventionist will consist of whatever modules were
      assigned at baseline that are customized to that particular participant's treatment adherence
      vulnerabilities. A total of 3 to 4 assessment meetings with the research assistant will occur
      over a three-month time period.

      Primary objective The aim of this project is to test the use of a modular-based intervention
      in a pilot feasibility, acceptability and preliminary efficacy study of customized adherence
      enhancement (CAE) in a vulnerable population with BPD. We hypothesize that CAE will be: 1)
      feasible to administer within a academic medical center; 2) acceptable to participants with
      BPD; and 3) associated with improvements in treatment adherence.

      Secondary objectives Individuals who receive CAE will have improvements in BPD symptoms,
      global psychopathology, overall treatment attitudes and in functional status.
    
  