
    
      The study population consisted of 4 groups of forty patients selected as follows:

      Group 1 - Healthy Controls:

      Ten healthy control subjects presented with clinically healthy periodontium. Control subjects
      had to meet the following criteria for inclusion: probing depth less than 3mm, no clinical
      attachment loss, no bleeding on probing, with Gingival and Plaque index 0-1.

      Group 2 - Plaque induced gingivitis patients:

      Ten patients who had plaque induced gingivitis characterized by the presence of any of the
      following clinical signs: redness and edema of the gingival tissue, bleeding upon
      provocation, changes in contour and consistency, presence of calculus and/or plaque, with no
      clinical attachment loss nor radiographic evidence of bone loss.

      Group 3 - Chronic periodontitis group:

      Ten chronic moderate to severe periodontitis patients selected according to the criteria
      currently adopted by Armitage 1999. Moderate destruction is generally characterized by
      periodontal probing depths up to 6 mm with clinical attachment loss of up to 4 mm. Advanced
      destruction is generally characterized by periodontal probing depths greater than 6 mm with
      attachment loss greater than 4 mm. Radiographic evidence of bone loss is apparent, Increased
      tooth mobility may be present.

      Group 4 - Aggressive periodontitis group:

      Ten patients suffering generalized aggressive periodontitis, patients were less than 35 years
      of age and had generalized interproximal attachment loss affecting at least 3 permanent teeth
      other than the first molars and incisors with at least one site each with PD and CAL >5 mm,
      Attachment loss occurs in pronounced episodic periods of destruction, and there is familial
      aggregation (subjects were asked if they had at least one other member of the family
      presenting or with a history of periodontal diseases).

      GCF and saliva samples were collected for all patients. Pentraxin-3 levels were evaluated in
      GCF and saliva of all subjects included in this study with ELISA technique.
    
  