
    
      Setting: Twelve faith based organizations will be chosen from an organization known as New
      Testament Church of God Assemblies (a Pentecostal religion) which has 45 churches throughout
      all eleven parishes of Barbados. Twelve FBOs will be purposively selected from the
      organization's list and targeted for inclusion into the study. Criteria for selection
      includes: (1) Each FBO chosen must serve more than 150 persons to ensure that enough will be
      available for screening and inclusion into the program; (2) Leaders from the organizations
      will be asked to complete a brief 12 question survey to assess organizational readiness for
      implementing the program. Of the 12 organizations selected to participate in the study, six
      will be randomized to the intervention and six to usual care.

      Recruitment: Potential participants will be invited to recruitment days where they are
      screened for hypertension. All persons with a previous diagnosis of hypertension or currently
      on anti-hypertensives AND the occurrence of two or more blood pressure readings above 140
      mmHg (systolic) or 90mmHg (diastolic) on the day of recruitment will be deemed eligible.
      Persons not known to have hypertension but who have two or more blood pressure readings above
      140 mmHg (systolic) or 90mmHg (diastolic) on the day of recruitment are also eligible.

      Clinical screening will also be conducted and persons will be included in the study if their
      systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) readings are greater than or
      equal to 140 mmHg or 90 mmHg respectively on two or more readings taken at rest more than 5
      minutes apart on the day of screening. Persons who are well controlled on blood pressure
      lowering drugs will be excluded. To obtain eligible participants, fliers and information on
      the study will be circulated on social media and via telephone. Recruitment days will be
      conducted with strict physical distancing protocols in place which are in keeping with the
      stage of restriction Barbados is experiencing at the time of recruitment. Recruitment will
      not occur during times of day time curfew and will conform to government directives.

      Randomization of the churches will occur after completion of all baseline assessments, and
      the study statistician will randomly assign each church to either intervention or control
      groups based on a 1:1 ratio, using a pre-specified random number generator (Stata statistical
      software version 16). Using a 3-church block, we will assign 2 churches to intervention and 2
      churches to control in each randomization block. Given the nature of the intervention, the
      trial will not be blinded. However, data collectors will be blinded to church randomization
      status until the end of the six-week recruitment period.

      Sample size: Previous studies have found group mean SBP reductions ranging from 4.5 mmHg to
      6.6 mm Hg17. Using the lowest group mean SBP reduction of 4.5 mmHg (SD 10)21 among the
      persons living with uncontrolled hypertension and given a study of 12 clusters we estimated
      that 168 persons in the intervention and 168 in the control group, would provide 80% power to
      detect a difference of 4.5 mmHg. This is assuming an intra-class correlation (ICC) of 0.0517.
      This required sample size of 336 provides us cluster sizes of 28. Given that CDSMP groups are
      typically between 12-16 each, we will recruit 32 per cluster (church) for a total of 192
      persons in intervention and control arms each and a total required sample size of 384.
      Calculations were performed using Stata statistical software version 15.

      Data collection (Described by aim) Aim 1: Adapt the Stanford CDSMP to ensure cultural
      appropriateness to Barbados: A series of stakeholder engagement meetings will be held to
      adapt the original lifestyle workshop series, Stanford CDSMP, so as to ensure it is
      culturally relevant, appropriate, and sensitive to Caribbean and Caribbean-descent
      populations. The Stirman et al model will be used to guide the adaptation process, allowing
      us to systematically look at content, context, and training adaptations. Modifications will
      be made to place an emphasis on medication adherence, hypertension self-management and use of
      the Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet given our focus on hypertension.
      Foods and packaging commonly used in Barbados as well as the Caribbean Food and Nutrition
      Pyramids will be highlighted in the nutrition aspect of the program.

      Stakeholder engagement will include researchers, dieticians, clinicians and lay persons from
      Barbados as well as CDSMP experts to ensure that fidelity to the essential components of the
      program is maintained.

      Aim 2: Determine the clinical effectiveness of CDSMP combined with medication adherence
      tools: The intervention consists of three levels - (1) chronic disease self-management
      workshops, (2) distribution of and teaching on the use of medication pill boxes and (3) use
      of social media (WhatsApp version 2.0) to encourage medication adherence. We combine
      previously tested CDSMP and add medication adherence tools and social media use to develop a
      novel intervention focusing on improving patient self-efficacy to manage and make decisions
      about their illness. The Stanford-based CDSMP minimizes traditional methods of didactic
      knowledge transfer and focuses on enhancing skills through problem solving and brainstorming
      activities. In the workshop series the following will be discussed: blood pressure control,
      finding and affording healthy foods, label reading, physical activity, planning a healthy
      plate, making traditional foods healthy and portion control. These workshops are based on the
      Stanford Chronic Disease Self-Management Curriculum thus researchers will be trained as
      workshop leaders. Controls will receive educational material at baseline and one didactic
      session (on importance of medication adherence to hypertension control) lasting 1 hour
      delivered by a health care professional. Medication adherence: Pill boxes will be distributed
      to all individuals in the intervention group. Post workshop, participants will be sent twice
      weekly reminders to use their high blood pressure medications via the social media tool
      WhatsApp. These will be sent for a period of one month. Assessment of adherence to the
      patient's baseline medication before randomisation will be done by measurement of home
      systolic blood pressure 6 h after directly observed therapy and by returned tablet counts.
      Blood pressure measurements only, will be repeated after the medication adherence segment.

      During an interview at the FBO, data will be collected in the following domains: demographic
      information (age, sex, ethnicity, education, income, address, telephone number); medication
      use; primary and tertiary care visit frequency; behavioral risk factors (tobacco smoking,
      alcohol consumption, physical inactivity, diet), medical history, place of treatment and
      costs incurred. Anthropometric measurements and blood pressure will be completed. Global
      Physical Activity questionnaire will be used as well as a food frequency questionnaire which
      has already been modified for use in Barbados. Questionnaires will also be used to assess
      self-efficacy. Immediately after the final workshop of the intervention, blood pressure,
      weight, physical activity survey and food frequency survey assessments will be repeated. Each
      control site will receive repeat measurements after the workshops are complete at the
      geographically closest intervention site. At each intervention site and control site,
      patients will be contacted six months after the first day of their workshop for repeat of
      weight, blood pressure, dietary habits, physical activity, medication adherence and
      self-efficacy. The mode of survey interviews will be face-to-face ideally. Participants will
      be given an electronic device and assisted with completing the survey if necessary.
      Participants will be given appointments to ensure that directives regarding the number of
      persons in the room can be adhered to. This will decrease the contact with data
      collectors/supporters. If however, directives from the government prevent face-to-face
      interviews, surveys will be done virtually.

      Workshops may have to be modified to be either partially or completely online to accommodate
      physical distancing measures required by COVID-19 directives in place at the time of the
      study.

      Distribution of pill boxes Each participant will be given a pill box and taught how to use
      these The combination of medication adherence reminders, tool box distribution and CDSMP is
      novel Medication adherence reminders (mHealth) Planned use of an open source, web-based
      social media platform (eg. WhatsApp) Others have used one-way tools like Short Message
      Service (SMS) texting and custom-built apps. This method will allow a secondary assessment of
      the impact of social interaction facilitated by WhatsApp

      Aim 3: Understand the barriers and facilitators to implementation and sustainability of CDSMP
      plus medication adherence tools in faith-based organizations: We will focus on evaluating the
      implementation process by measuring fidelity, costs and sustainability. CDSMP trained master
      trainers will attend at least two workshops in each series to measure the extent to which
      workshop leaders successfully carried out the workshops as designed in Aim 1. We will track
      the actual cost of workshop implementation including tools needed for delivery. We will use
      the Program Sustainability Assessment Tool developed by the Center for Population Health
      Sciences, Washington University(Appendix 4) and used by the Center for Disease Control and
      Prevention. Leaders of the FBOs or their designate will undergo a virtual interview where
      this tool will be used. Interviews will be audio recorded.

      Data management, safety and confidentiality: All quantitative data will be collected using
      Computer-Assisted Personal Interviews (CAPI), directly onto a tablet computer. The data
      collection infrastructure will use REDCap (a secure web application for building and managing
      online surveys and databases). While REDCap can be used to collect virtually any type of
      data, it is specifically geared to support online and offline data capture for research
      studies and operations. Quantitative data will be de-identified before being cleared for
      analysis and analyzed data will be aggregated at all times. Data analysis: We will determine
      the mean changes in SBP levels (primary endpoint) for the intervention group versus the
      control and compare differences in outcomes using mixed effects regression models. This model
      will allow for the effect of clustering on the precision of the estimates while allowing also
      for adjustment of covariates. We will adopt the intention-to-treat principle to analyze the
      data collected. Secondary outcomes will be assessed as follows: mean change in weight (kg)
      will be compared between intervention and control groups after adjustment for covariates.
      Changes in dietary behavior will be monitored by the calculation of the DASH diet score.
      Physical activity will be measured by comparing the intervention group median physical
      activity in MET-minutes per week. Self-efficacy scores will be calculated. Both primary and
      secondary outcome measures will be performed pre-implementation, immediately post-workshop
      and 6 months post-workshop. Quantitative assessment of fidelity and sustainability
      assessments will be completed calculating proportion of organizations/workshops which adhere
      to items on each tool. The semi-structured interviews conducted for aim 3 will be audio
      recorded, transcribed verbatim and analyzed using thematic content analysis to allow themes
      on facilitators and barriers of implementation to emerge.
    
  