
    
      Behavioral lifestyle intervention: Participants (N=40) will be randomized to the mHealth+
      group Intervention group (Group A; n=20)and mHealth+ individual intervention group (Group B;
      n=20) group using a randomization table. (1) The mHealth+ group Intervention group (Group A)
      will receive a modified Look AHEAD behavior lifestyle intervention with smartphone-based
      self-monitoring of diet and physical activity. This comprises ten group sessions for
      lifestyle intervention in 6-months. The group will receive three weekly classes in the first
      month and then bi-weekly classes for month 2-3, and three monthly session in month four,
      five, and six. The frequency and layout of these classes will allow participants to master
      new skills gradually, then eventually wean off, and adopt the modified lifestyle as the part
      of their daily lives. (2) The mHealth+ individual intervention group (Group B) will receive
      an abbreviated behavior lifestyle intervention with smartphone-based self-monitoring of diet
      and physical activity in one face-to-face individual session at the beginning of the study.
      In addition, participants will receive self-study materials, from Look Ahead modules, and a
      monthly follow-up phone calls for the duration of the study (6-months). The goal for these
      follow up phone calls are to assess understanding of the modules, to promote continued
      engagement with the study material, and to provide clarification on materials as needed.
      Participants in the mHealth+ group Intervention group (Group A) and mHealth+ individual
      intervention group (Group B will receive instruction on how to download an app to help them
      record their diet and physical activity at the beginning of the study.

      Fitbit offers a simple, easy-to-use tool for tracking food and physical activity. It helps
      set daily calorie budget, and set and work towards goals for nutrient intake, weight loss,
      exercise, and more. https://www.fitbit.com/inspire 04.12.20: Due to SARS-CoV2 (COVID-19) and
      social distancing order, the study team are adding hemoglobin Hba1c home test.
    
  