
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Trientine is designed to remove excess copper in the body, which may cause cancer cells to
      stop growing.

      Carboplatin is designed to block the growth of cancer cells by stopping cell division, which
      may cause the cells to die.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of carboplatin based on when you joined this study. Up to 3 dose levels of the
      carboplatin will be tested.

      Three (3) to 6 participants will be enrolled at each dose level of carboplatin. The first
      group of participants will receive the lowest dose level of carboplatin . Each new group will
      receive a higher dose of the carboplatin than the group before it, if no intolerable side
      effects were seen. This will continue until the highest tolerable dose of the study drug
      combination is found.

      The dose level of trientine will be based on your blood levels of copper. These levels may
      vary from person to person.

      Expansion Groups:

      Once the highest tolerable dose of the study drug combination is found, there will be two
      expansion groups, one group of 28 extra participants (Group A) and one group of 14 extra
      participants (Group B). Group A will receive the study combination at the highest tolerable
      dose. Group B will receive extra doses of trientine before starting Day 1 of Cycle 1.

      Pharmacokinetic (PK) Groups:

      In additional the the Expansion Groups, once the highest tolerable dose of the study drug
      combination is found, there will also be 2 PK groups. PK testing measures the amount of study
      drug in the body at different time points. There will be 6 participants in each group. These
      groups will also receive the study combination at the highest tolerable dose. There will be
      extra blood draws for both groups and the drug administration schedule will be different from
      the groups described above.

      For all participants, your dose of the study drugs may be lowered if you have any intolerable
      side effects. You will not receive a higher dose than the dose level that you are first
      assigned.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Dose Escalation and Expansion Groups:

      On Day 1 of each 28-day cycle, you will receive carboplatin by vein over 2 hours.

      Starting on Day 1 of Cycle 1, you will begin taking trientine by mouth several times each
      day. If you are in Expansion Group B, you will receive extra doses of trientine within the 14
      days before Day 1 of Cycle 1. Your study doctor will tell you when to take trientine and
      whether it should be taken with or without food. You will also be told how many pills to
      take.

      PK Groups:

      Both groups will take the study drugs as described above.

      However, if you are in PK Group A, instead of on Day 1 of Cycle 1, you will start taking
      trientine daily beginning on Day 2 of Cycle 1.

      If you are in PK Group B, on Day 21 of Cycle 1 and Day 1 of Cycle 2 you will not eat for 2
      hours before and 2 hours after you take trientine.

      Study Visits:

      Within 7 days before the first dose of study drug:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  You will be asked how well you are able to perform the normal activities of daily living
           (performance status).

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 1 1/2 tablespoons) will be drawn to measure the levels of ceruloplasmin
           (copper-carrying protein) copper, and iron in your blood.

        -  Women who are able to become pregnant must have a negative blood (about 1 teaspoon)
           pregnancy test.

        -  If your doctor thinks it is needed, you may have an electrocardiogram (ECG) and/or an
           echocardiogram (ECHO) to check your heart function. An ECG is a test that measures the
           electrical activity of the heart

      Every week until the doctor decides your are taking the correct dose of trientine:

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn to measure the levels of ceruloplasmin in your
           blood.

      Every week during Cycle 1, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Once each cycle:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If your study doctor thinks it is needed, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn to
           measure levels of copper and iron in your blood.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may be having.

      At the end of every 2 cycles (Cycles 2, 4, 6, and so on):

        -  You will have a CT, MRI, PET scan, and/or x-ray to check the status of the disease.

        -  If the study doctor thinks it is needed, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to
           measure tumor markers.

      PK Groups:

      If you are in PK Group A, blood (about 1 teaspoon each time) will be drawn:

        -  On Day 1 of Cycle 1, blood will be drawn 7 times over the 6 hours after you receive
           carboplatin.

        -  On Day 2 of Cycle 1, blood will be drawn 1 time.

        -  On Day 1 of Cycle 2, blood will be drawn 7 times over the 6 hours after you receive
           carboplatin.

        -  On Day 2 of Cycle 2, blood will be drawn 1 time.

      If you are in PK Group B, blood (about 1 teaspoon each time) will be drawn:

        -  On Day 21 of Cycle 1, blood will be drawn 7 times over the 6 hours after your dose of
           trientine.

        -  On Day 22 of Cycle 1, will be drawn 1 time.

        -  On Day 1 of Cycle 2, will be drawn 7 times over the 6 hours after you receive
           carboplatin.

        -  On Day 2 of Cycle 2, blood will be drawn 1 time.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest. You will be taken off study early if the disease gets worse or you experience
      intolerable side effects.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the end-of-study visit.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      Within 30 days after your last dose of study drugs, you will have an end-of-study visit. At
      this visit, the following tests and procedures performed:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may be experiencing.

        -  If the study doctor thinks it is needed, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to
           measure tumor markers.

        -  If the study doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a chest x-ray, CT, MRI, and/or
           PET scan to check the status of the disease.

      This is an investigational study. Trientine is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of Wilson's disease. Trientine is not FDA approved for the treatment of
      advanced cancer. Carboplatin is FDA approved and commercially available for the treatment of
      ovarian cancer. The combination of trientine and carboplatin to treat advanced cancer is
      investigational.

      Up to 72 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  