
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if alpelisib in combination with nab-paclitaxel in the neoadjuvant setting
      will improve rates of pathologic response (pathological complete response [pCR/RCB-0] or
      minimal residual disease [RCB-I]) from 5% to 20% in patients with chemotherapy insensitive
      triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) with PIK3CA alterations (including PTEN loss). (Cohort
      1) II. To determine if alpelisib in combination with nab-paclitaxel in the neoadjuvant
      setting will improve rates of pathologic response (pCR/RCB-0 or RCB-I) from 5% to 20% in
      patients with chemotherapy insensitive TNBC with PTEN alterations. (Cohort 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the radiographic response rate for alpelisib in combination with nab-paclitaxel
      as measured by ultrasound and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (partial response +
      complete clinical response) in chemotherapy insensitive TNBC with PIK3CA (Cohort-1) or PTEN
      (Cohort-2) alterations.

      II. Determine toxicity of alpelisib in combination with nab-paclitaxel given in the
      neoadjuvant setting following anthracycline based therapy.

      III. Determine progression free survival (PFS) at 3 years for patients treated with alpelisib
      in combination with nab-paclitaxel given in the neoadjuvant setting in chemotherapy
      insensitive TNBC with PIK3CA (Cohort-1) or PTEN (Cohort-2) alterations.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess biomarkers of response and resistance to alpelisib and nab-paclitaxel
      combination.

      II. To assess the role of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) allele fraction in
      predicting response to alpelisib and nab-paclitaxel in early stage TNBC.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive alpelisib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21, and nab-paclitaxel
      intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 21 days for
      4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may then
      undergo surgery to remove the tumor.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, and then
      periodically until up to 3 years after surgery.
    
  