
    
      Patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome could develop muscle weakness associated
      with impairment of physical function defined as intensive care unit acquired weakness. Early
      rehabilitation is recommended to prevent complications including muscle weakness and joint
      contractures, enhance weaning from mechanical ventilation, improve outcome, quality of life.

      COVID-19 is an acute infection with a high risk of enormous cytokine storm exacerbating the
      clinical condition in acute respiratory distress syndrome and is thought to further increase
      the risk of muscle weakness.

      Study participants were recruited among patients hospitalized in the intensive care unit at
      Koc University Hospital. Standard care for these patients consisted of respiratory support,
      intravenous fluid therapy, medical treatment including anticoagulation and sedation,
      nutrition, change of position every 4 hours, and if needed, hemodynamic support. The
      non-rehabilitation group patients discharged before April 14, 2020, were provided with this
      standard care. The rehabilitation group patients that discharged after April 14, 2020, were
      provided rehabilitation in addition to usual standard care. The rehabilitation program
      consisted of a passive range of motion exercises for each joint of the extremities for 15
      minutes/day, 6 days/week, and neuromuscular electrical stimulation to bilateral quadriceps
      and tibialis anterior muscles for 52 minutes/day, 6 days/week. The physiatrists evaluated the
      patients. Exercises and electrical stimulation were applied daily by physiotherapists. The
      physiatrist and anesthesiologist discussed the clinical status of the patients daily and the
      physiatrist modified the rehabilitation program, if needed. Patients were enrolled in the
      rehabilitation program if there is hemodynamical stability.

      Information regarding demographic and clinical features, medications used, duration of
      mechanical ventilation, length of stay in the intensive care unit and hospital, and mortality
      were obtained from the digital patient records in both groups.

      Following discharge, patients were evaluated for range of joint motion, manual muscle
      strength test, hand grip strength and Short form-36.
    
  