
    
      Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome-Coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the novel pathogen
      responsible for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) first discovered in Wuhan, China [1].
      Since its emergence in late December 2019, many pathophysiological mechanisms have been
      proposed with multiple pathways that involve various organ systems [2, 3]. Although
      considered at its emergence as a respiratory infection with manifestations ranging from lower
      respiratory tract infection to pneumonia and advancing to acute respiratory disease syndrome
      (ARDS) in its final stages, recent evidence has highlighted how disseminated the virus can be
      affecting almost every organ be it the heart, kidneys, or blood vessels . Recent trends in
      research have focused on elucidating the cardiovascular dysfunction in COVID-19 patients
      especially following studies showing that cardiovascular risk factors are among the most
      common presenting comorbidities and that cardiovascular complications of SARS-CoV-2 are among
      the most lethal [4-11] . Initial research revealed that the virus makes use of the
      angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE-2) receptor, a widely expressed receptor found in
      multiple cells lining the lung, heart, gastrointestinal tract, kidneys and endothelial cells
      to infiltrate host cells. Another prominent mechanism of infection is immune system
      dysregulation manifesting as a cytokine storm and inflammatory response over-activation [12,
      13].

      Attempts at laying out a comprehensive or unifying pathogenesis of a COVID-19 infection have
      singled out endothelial dysfunction as a core pathway [14]. The endothelium is a monolayer of
      squamous endothelial cells lining the inner surface of arteries, veins and microvasculature.
      The endothelium hence plays a major role in homeostasis with interactive roles in blood
      pressure regulation, anti-coagulation and immune protection. Moreover, it is relevant to note
      that the most common comorbidities that present with COVID-19 such as hypertension, diabetes,
      obesity and old age are all underlined by pre-existing endothelial damage or dysfunction. As
      such, endothelial dysfunction and oxidative stress and their relation to the manifestation
      and progression of COVID-19 infections has gained significant traction in recent publications
      [15]. This breakthrough exposes several causes of endothelial dysfunction which include
      direct lining attack, hypoxia, cytokine storm and suppressed endothelial nitric oxide
      synthase (eNOS) with concomitant nitric oxide deficiency [15]. Several studies have
      emphasized the role of Nitric Oxide (NO) signaling as a major regulator of vascular tone with
      its antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and antithrombotic activity. For example, augmenting the
      production of NO and its bioavailability by Nicorandil has been proposed as a potential
      treatment in patients with COVID 19. Nicorandil is a vasodilatory agent composed of
      N-[2-hydroxyethyl]-Nicotinamide Nitrate) used among patients with acute heart failure
      emergencies. However, it has never been tested in patients with cardiovascular complications
      resulting from COVID 19 [16]. Moreover, statins are cardio-protective in nature with recent
      reports showing that they can be beneficial in COVID-19 [17]. An important mechanism via
      which Statins may improve endothelial function include increasing the production of NO and
      subsequent vasodilation effect, along with its established major anti-inflammatory and
      anti-oxidant properties [17]. Vitamin B complex will be used because of the role it plays in
      cell functioning, energy metabolism, and proper immune function. In addition of its
      assistance in proper activation of the immune response, reducing pro-inflammatory cytokine
      levels, improving respiratory function, maintaining endothelial integrity, preventing
      hypercoagulability and reducing the length of stay in hospital. [18-19-20] Furthermore, eNOS
      overexpression leads to an increase in NO formation only when the BH4 synthase
      GTP-cyclohydrolase 1 (GCH-1) is also up-regulated. So, Folic Acid and L-arginine will be
      given to supplement our patients with BH4 (Tetrahydrobiopterin) [21]. We hypothesize that its
      administration along with the other previously mentioned agents would improve endothelial
      function in patients suffering from COVID 19 via a cumulative increase in the bioavailability
      of NO, and thus improving patients' outcomes
    
  