
    
      The force on the shoulder joint is high in handicapped people that are using wheelchairs. The
      prevalence of chronic shoulder pain for wheelchair-users is as high as 50-80%. Especially
      paraplegia developed in adult years is predisposed for shoulder pain. The reason is in the
      short adaption time of the tissue. Dysbalance musculature at the shoulder joint conveys
      chronic pain. The risk of chronic shoulder pain is rising for wheelchair-users, caused by the
      lack of recovery-time. After exercising wheelchair users depend on their shoulders in order
      to manage their daily living. The request of this study is to identify the determinants of
      shoulder pathologies. Precocious findings in pathologic changes of MRI scans, muscular
      dysbalance, clinical tests and/or ultrasound-scans lead to certain conclusions. The results
      should be used to get long-term disorder free situations for sportive wheelchair users.

      Scientific background: International publications show relatively uniform results. Paraplegic
      people and non disabled high performance athletes in overhead sports show cumulative
      pathologic findings in MRI scans. There is only a minor correlation between MRI findings and
      clinical symptoms. It is not known how heavy the impact of MRI findings to develop a long
      term disorder of the shoulder of wheelchair users is. Isokinetic power measurement is a
      adequate examination of paraplegic people to evaluate the function of the shoulder.

      Findings in non disabled high performance athletes: 40% of the asymptomatic high performance
      athletes in overhead sports show pathologies of their rotator cuff in the dominant arm in MRI
      (0% in the non dominant arm) (Connor et al. 2003). 10 asymptomatic College Baseball player
      went through clinical and MRI examination (Halbrecht et al. 1999). It showed pathologic
      findings the rotator cuff of the dominant side in 7 out of 10 cases. The findings in MRI
      correlated neither to symptoms nor to the level of instability.

      30 asymptomatic athletes out of 52 long distance kayakers were examined with shoulder MRI
      (Hagemann et al. 2004). 13 asymptomatic kayaker showed pathologic findings in MRI. The
      authors concluded, that objective MRI findings and subjective discomfort is not highly
      correlated.

      30 high performance handball players showed low correlation between MRI findings and clinical
      symptoms (Jost et al. 2005). 93% did have pathologic MRI findings, but only 37% were
      symptomatic.

      These studies eliminate, that the clinical symptoms and the subjective impressions, which
      come up in the career of athletes are not well diagnosed by MRI. Statements about long term
      effects of rotator cuff tears can not be made. Kelly et al. provided evidence of rotator cuff
      tears in MRI of 12 non sportive people. 6 of them were symptomatic, 6 were not symptomatic.
      The subjects that were symptomatic showed lower activation of M. suprascapularis and higher
      activation of M. trapezius, M. supraspinatus and infraspinatus in EMG diagnosis. In spite of
      comparable MRI results asymptomatic subjects showed different patterns of innervation of the
      rotator cuff, than symptomatic subjects. This could lead to a development of muscular
      dysbalance or longterm defects in the asymptomatic patient. 14 Baseball players, who had no
      shoulder injury at their shoulder, got MRI scans (Miniaci et al. 2002). 22 of the 28 examined
      shoulders showed pathologic findings at the labrum. 10 of these athletes were asymptomatic.
      This is another example of the considerable difference in the felt discomfort and the MRI
      findings. This statement is not focusing on long term disorders.

      MRI examinations in paraplegics: Escobedo et al. did a study in which they examined 26
      symptomatic paraplegics with MRI scans on their shoulders. The MRI findings were compared
      with 17 non disabled subjects, who had symptomatic shoulders as well (Escobedo et al. 1997).
      73% of the symptomatic paraplegics (59% of the non disabled) showed rotator cuff tears or
      following disorders in the MRI scan. 38% of the injured were multiple disorders.

      Boninger et al. compared the force input on the wheelchair with MRI findings in 14
      paraplegics, who were in average 33 years old. The subjects were asymptomatic and without
      previous shoulder injuries (Boninger et al. 2003). In intervals of 2 years MRI scans were
      made. The subjects participated in the study in average 10 years after injury of the spine.
    
  