
    
      Sleep disturbances are common among chronic pain patients, with reports typically ranging
      from 50-70% of patients reporting sleep difficulties. It is well documented that, alongside a
      high comorbidity with chronic pain, chronic insomnia also has high comorbidity with, and is a
      risk factor for, developing an anxiety disorders. Research has shown that Cognitive
      Behavioral Therapies (CBT) are efficacious in treating patient with comorbid insomnia and
      chronic pain (e.g., improvements in sleep parameters, normal sleep efficiency, reductions in
      pain severity. CBT addresses a number of factors involved in the maintenance of patient sleep
      and health issues, and a key piece of CBT for insomnia and pain is the reduction of worrisome
      thoughts, or anxiety related to sleep and pain issues. A common evidence-based strategy used
      for reducing anxiety and worry is the practice of relaxation. The aim of this study is to
      investigate the benefits of replacing treatment as usual (TAU) relaxation practices, with
      Virtual Reality (VR) mediation environments within CBT treatment.

      Virtual Reality Meditation for Anxiety

      There are few studies in the literature demonstrating a relationship between Virtual Reality
      (VR) - a computer generated environment that presents the user with a realistic
      three-dimensional space - and reductions in anxious symptomology. However, the results of
      those studies are very encouraging. In a case study, Tarrant and Cope treated 4 firefighters
      who had anxiety and anxiety-based disorders with a Positivity VR Experience. 3 of 4 treated
      patients exhibited increased left gamma symmetry, associated with approach behavior and
      increased mood, and 3 of 4 patients showed increases in State-Cheerfulness and Positive
      Affect. Tarrant and colleagues also conducted a pilot study, where they treated 14 patients
      who had moderate or higher levels of generalized anxiety with a 5-minute Mindfulness in
      Nature experience. Patients in the VR meditation group showed both global and regional
      decreases in Beta activity (i.e., decrease in frequencies associated with qualitatively
      anxious states and decreased self-reported State Anxiety. Overall, these results seem
      promising, as they provide preliminary evidence supporting that VR interventions may be a
      useful and effective tool for the treatment of elevated anxiety symptoms.

      In summary, this clinical trial will examine the effects of VR meditation environments on
      patients with pain- and insomnia-related anxiety. The proposed study design will yield
      important information about the efficacy of VR meditation practices. The purpose of this
      study is to examine the benefits of using VR meditation with patients with chronic pain and
      chronic sleep disturbance so that clinicians can more effectively treat core causes to
      symptoms and reduce counterproductive therapies.

      Ultimately, this research targets two important public health concerns, namely insomnia and
      chronic pain. Insomnia in the context of chronic pain has been relatively understudied. Thus,
      the results of the present study will provide unique insights into sleep and chronic pain and
      will advance knowledge in the fields of both sleep and pain. Although the results of this
      study will be specific to chronic pain patients, they will have broader implications for
      other medical populations likely to suffer from chronic pain and insomnia (i.e., cancer
      patients, older adults). The information gained has the potential to make a significant
      contribution to behavioral healthcare practices for a wide variety of disorders, not just
      insomnia and pain. Thus, this research has implications not only for future sleep and pain
      research but also for other types of treatment-related research.

      2. Objectives

        1. To examine the clinical and health characteristics, including sleep, pain, fatigue,
           cognitive abilities, and cardiovascular health in patients with chronic pain.

        2. To examine changes in the primary clinical outcomes, including chronic pain, complaints
           of poor sleep, and fatigue.

        3. To examine changes in the secondary clinical outcomes, including mood, daytime
           functioning, cognitive functioning, and cardiovascular health.

        4. To examine the mechanistic variables, including arousal (heart rate variability, HRV)
           and CS (thermal response).
    
  