
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a chronic viral infection associated with a heterogeneous
           group of lymphoproliferative disorders (LPD) and non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL).

        -  The shared pathobiology of EBV-positive LPDs and NHLs includes a defect in host
           mechanisms of immune tolerance and immunosurveillance.

        -  Programmed death-1 (PD-1) is a surface protein present on T cells, B cells, and
           macrophages that serves a co-inhibitory role to negatively regulate immune responses

        -  PD-1 and its ligands, PD-L1 and PD-L2, are overexpressed in EBV-positive
           lymphoproliferative disorders and are markers of aggressive behavior.

        -  Blockade of the PD-1 pathway induces T-cell responses against tumor antigens in a
           variety of cancers, including Hodgkin lymphoma, that lead to clinical remissions.

        -  Nivolumab is a fully human IgG4 monoclonal anti-PD-1 receptor antibody with clinical
           activity in both indolent and lymphomas.

      OBJECTIVE:

      -To determine the best overall response rate of nivolumab in subjects with EBV-positive LPD
      and EBV-positive NHL

      ELIGIBLITY:

        -  Subjects must have a confirmed diagnosis of an EBV-positive B-cell LPD or an EBV-
           positive NHL confirmed by Laboratory of Pathology, NCI

           --NOTE: LPD subjects may be previously untreated or relapsed from prior therapy;
           patients with EBV-positive B-cell NHL subjects must have relapsed from previous
           treatment with an anthracycline and rituximab-based regimen or be considered not
           eligible for the same

        -  Adequate bone marrow function (unless disease-related) defined as:

             -  Absolute neutrophil count greater than or equal to 750/mcL

             -  Hemoglobin greater than 9g/dL (transfusion permitted)

             -  Platelet count greater than or equal to 50,000/mcL (transfusion not permitted)

        -  Age greater than or equal to 12 years

      <TAB>

      DESIGN:

        -  Phase II study of subjects with EBV-positive LPD and EBV-positive NHL, both relapsed and
           untreated.

        -  Subjects will be treated with nivolumab 480 mg IV every 4 weeks for up to 2 years if
           responding disease with clinical improvement and no unacceptable toxicity.

        -  All responding subjects (CR, PR, or SD with clinical benefit) who subsequently relapse
           or progress within 1 year after discontinuation of study drug are eligible for
           re-treatment.

        -  An optimal two-stage phase II trial design will be used to rule out a best overall
           response rate of 20%. If fewer than 3 of the first 17 subjects respond, the study would
           accrue no more subjects.

        -  Subjects withboth EBV-positive LPD EBV-positive NHL will be enrolled on this protocol
           for a total of 37 evaluable subjects. In order to allow for inevaluable subjects and
           screen failures, the accrual ceiling will be set at 40 subjects..
    
  