
    
      Step 1:

      Initially, data of the drugs contained in Beers and STOPP criteria will be reviewed. The
      availability of medicines in the Brazilian market will be analyzed through the website of the
      National Health Surveillance Agency (ANVISA). Subsequently, drug data will be placed in a
      questionnaire to be sent to national experts in order to establish a consensus on the
      information presented. The questionnaire assessment will happen in two rounds. The first
      round consists of sending propositions based on information contained in the Beers criteria,
      STOPP 2012 and 2006 in order to allow each participant to issue an opinion on each of the
      propositions by assigning a value according to their agreement to the statement. Therefore,
      the Likert scale with established score of 1 to 5 (completely disagree - strongly agree) will
      be used. For the second round, the scores will be analyzed and the propositions in which
      there is no consensus will again be sent along with the comments of each specialist. In these
      cases, each specialist may review or maintain their position. It is worth noting that during
      the application of questionnaires rounds experts do not have access to the identification of
      their peers. In the second round, Statements with average scores above 4.0 will be considered
      consensus. The final information will be used for the mobile device application development.

      Experts will be selected for convenience. Twelve professionals with experience in geriatrics
      will be invited via email to participate as experts in the validation of the Beers Criteria
      and STOPP. This call will include a summary of the project and general information about the
      Delphi Technique. After acceptance, they will receive a Term of Informed Consent Form (ICF)
      and an Authorization to Release Name as Specialist / Senior, which must be signed and
      returned.

      The application will be developed for the Android platform, which is based on the Java
      programming language.

      Step 2:

      Study design:

      Clinical trial, randomized, single-blind, parallel-group. They will be invited to participate
      in this stage 30 physicians working in primary care of a municipality from Bahia. Upon
      acceptance to participate in the study and signing of the Informed Consent form (IC), the
      proportion of PIMs' prescription by these professionals for a minimum period of two months
      will be analyzed.

      After, physicians will be randomized and included in one of two study groups:

      Intervention: 15 doctors will receive the tablet with the application installed and will be
      trained to use it as well as to access the Evidence Based Health Portal of the Ministry of
      Health.

      Control Group: 15 doctors will receive the tablet without the application and will also be
      trained to access the Evidence Based Health Portal.

      After the intervention, the data will be examined again by sampling the proportion of PIM
      prescriptions by these professionals.

      Hypothesis:

      The author will evaluate the hypothesis that the frequency of PIM orders will be lower in the
      intervention group, compared to the control group.

      Reference population: The number of participating physicians was determined by convenience.
      Currently the city has twenty health units (primary care) with internet access. The
      investigator chose to select two doctors from each unit to ensure the confidentiality of the
      professionals randomized into the intervention or control group.

      Randomization: The random sequence to assign the study groups will be determined by the
      principal investigator based on a randomization table, constructed by the randomization
      method interchangeable blocks. A sequence of numbers will be generated and stored in sealed
      envelopes, individually arranged and marked with serial numbers for each participating
      physician. The envelope with the lowest number will be opened by the researcher for the
      inclusion of a new doctor in the study.

      Prescription sampling:

      In order to calculate the sample of prescriptions that will be verified before and after the
      intervention the following factors will be considered: expected proportion of PIM
      prescription before intervention 35%, expected difference between the intervention and
      control groups after the intervention: 30%. 5% significance level and 80% power of the test.
      Two-tailed hypothesis test and loss of 20% of prescriptions. The number of prescriptions per
      doctor should also take into consideration the proportion of elderly patients attended (in
      the previous three months) per doctor. A sensitivity analysis will be performed to compare
      the professional groups that meet different proportions of elderly in order to isolate the
      bias of demand. Patient prescriptions will be randomly selected.

      Inclusion criteria:

      Doctors who meet elderly people in basic health units, family health units or primary care
      polyclinics.

      Exclusion criteria:

      Doctors with residency in medicine-geriatrics or specialization recognized by the Brazilian
      Society of Geriatrics.

      Dependent variables:

      Number of orders with at least one PIM prescribed, frequency of PIMs prescribed, types of
      PIMs prescribed.

      Primary outcome - Frequency of PIMs prescribed.

      Independent variables:

      Age; gender; training time; medical specialty.

      Study Procedures:

      In order to evaluate the PIM prescription frequency before the intervention, the
      prescriptions' duplicate originals stored in pharmacies of health facilities or patient
      records will be used. In occasions where this information is not available, home visits will
      be carried out to check the first copy of the prescription in the user's possession. In these
      situations, the user must sign a consent form. The visits will be carried out preferably in
      the company of a community health agent.

      After the allocation of doctors, each group separately will receive training on access to the
      Evidence Based Health Portal of the Ministry of Health. For this, the investigators will use
      one of the computer labs on Universidade Federal da Bahia - Anísio Teixeira campus. In case
      of professionals' low compliance, the training will be held in the health clinics, in the day
      of the health teams meeting. Then, for doctors in the intervention group, there will be
      training to access the application as well as lectures related to PIMs.

      After receiving the tablets, each doctor will be visited by a project team member at least
      twice a week during the 2 months of intervention. During these visits the struggles regarding
      the access to the Evidence Based Health Portal will be checked. It will be checked if doctors
      consult the application during the service or at other times, even outside working hours. The
      number of hits will be monitored also through a feature available in the application itself,
      for this purpose. Those who do not access the application at least once a week will be
      considered as a loss in the data analysis.

      After the intervention period, a new sample of prescriptions for later analysis will be
      collected.

      Data processing and statistical analysis:

      The data will be posted and reviewed in a database built in SPSS® for Windows version 23.0,
      in order to make up the necessary statistical analysis. Statistical analysis will be composed
      by descriptive analysis of simple frequency and chi-square test to evaluate the difference
      between proportions of PIM prescriptions in both groups before and after the intervention.
      The statistical significance level is p <0.05 with 95% confidence interval.
    
  