
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine if CMV-MVA multi-peptide CMV-modified vaccinia Ankara vaccine (Triplex)
      reduces the frequency of clinically significant CMV reactivation in CMV positive (+)
      haploidentical hematopoietic cell transplantation (haploHCT) adult recipients from when
      letermovir (Prevymis) prophylaxis is stopped at day (d)100 until d180 post HCT.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of Triplex in vaccinated, haploHCT recipients by
      assessing the following: non-relapse mortality (NRM) at d180 post-HCT, severe (grade 3-4)
      acute graft versus host disease (GVHD), and grade 3-4 adverse events (AEs) (Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events [CTCAE] 5.0) probably or definitely related to the
      vaccination within 2 weeks from each vaccination at d180 post-HCT.

      II. To characterize CMV related events in recipients of Triplex compared to placebo, by
      assessing time-to viremia (number of days from d100 to the date of >= 625 IU/mL), duration of
      viremia, recurrence of viremia, incidence of late CMV viremia/disease (>= 625 IU/mL, > 200
      and =< 365 days post-HCT), use of antiviral drugs (triggered by clinically significant
      viremia), cumulative number of CMV specific antiviral treatment days.

      III. To evaluate the impact of Triplex on transplant related outcomes up to d365 post-HCT by
      assessing the incidence of acute GVHD (aGVHD), chronic GVHD (cGVHD), relapse, non-relapse
      mortality, all-cause mortality, infections.

      IV. To determine if Triplex increases levels, function and kinetics of CMV-specific T cell
      immunity in vaccinated compared to placebo treated, CMV seropositive HCT-recipients.

      V. To determine whether vaccination induces adaptive natural killer (NK) cell population
      changes, and increase in the highly cytotoxic memory NKG2C+ NK cells.

      VI. To compare GVHD biomarkers between the vaccine and placebo groups up to d365 post-HCT.

      VII. To determine if immunity to 3 CMV antigens contained in the Triplex vaccine correlates
      with protection against CMV events, and if T-cell increases reflect vaccine response and
      exceed placebo immune response levels up to d365 post-HCT.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive letermovir per standard of care (SOC) on days 7-100 and multi-peptide
      CMV-modified vaccinia Ankara vaccine intramuscularly (IM) on days 100 and 128 post-HCT.

      ARM II: Patients receive letermovir per SOC on days 7-100 and placebo IM on days 100 and 128
      post-HCT.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up to 365 days post-HCT and then
      for an additional 2 years post-HCT.
    
  