
    
      The prevalence of childhood and adolescent obesity has reached an all-time high. There is a
      pressing need to better understand the behavioral mechanisms that control appetite and eating
      in children and to identify children who are most susceptible to overeating in the current
      obesogenic food environment. Obesogenic environments offer convenient access to large
      portions of palatable, energy-dense foods. The portion size of foods has been identified as
      an important determinant of energy intake in adults and children. While portion size effects
      have been found in heterogenous groups of healthy individuals, some evidence points to
      possible individual differences in the magnitude of children's responsiveness to large food
      portions. For example, data from a previous laboratory study suggest that overweight and
      obese children may be particularly vulnerable to overeating when presented with large food
      portions. Further, the magnitude of a portion size effect on intake may also depend on how
      reinforcing (or rewarding) children find food to be. It is possible that the relative
      reinforcing value of food may interact with environmental cues, such as the portion size of
      food, to affect children's energy intake when large portions of palatable, energy-dense foods
      are available. The primary aim of this study is to compare the effects of increasing the
      portion size of all foods and a beverage served at a meal on energy intake in normal-weight
      and obese children. A second aim is to test if children who find food very reinforcing
      relative to an appealing nonfood alternative will show a significantly greater increase in
      energy intake in response to increasing portion sizes than will children who find food less
      reinforcing. The findings from this study are expected to extend previous findings to test
      how environmental factors, such as food portion size, may interact with individual
      differences in weight status or food reinforcement to affect energy intake in children.
    
  