
    
      Patients undergoing a split skin graft harvest will be selected from theatre lists and will
      be given complete information regarding the nature of trial, possible complications, risks
      and advantages by sending them a Patient Information Sheet at least a week prior to the
      procedure when they are send an appointment. On the day of procedure, either the Chief
      Investigator or one of the other two Investigators will see the patient in the Theatre
      Arrivals Area and have a full discussion on the details of the trial and will answer all
      their questions. Patients willing to take part and are within the inclusion criteria and does
      not have any of the exclusion criteria will be randomised to either the study group or the
      control group after obtaining informed consent.

      The trial group will have the TENS to the area planned for injection for 30 minutes before
      injection of the local anaesthetic (a combination of 0.25% levobupivacaine and 1% lignocaine
      with 1/200,000 adrenaline). The control group will have EMLA applied on the site planned for
      local anaesthetic injection and after 1 hour , will be removed and immediately injected with
      the same anaesthetic solution (this is already a procedure practised by some of the
      surgeons).

      Pain perception will be evaluated using two Numeric Pain Rating Scales in the study and
      control groups- one to assess the pain of needle penetration and the second to assess the
      pain of local infiltration. The Numeric pain scale is filled in by the doctor as indicated by
      the patient. Pulse rate and Blood Pressure monitoring will be carried out as an objective
      measurement of response to pain (these are routinely recorded when patient is in the theater
      for a procedure). Patient involvement in the study ends at this point.

      Analysis of the outcome will be done at the end of the trial period.
    
  