
    
      In recent decades, the incidence of breast cancer has increased significantly among young
      women. Between 1980 and 2012, there was an increase of 59% and 53% in the 30-39 age group and
      the 40-49 age group, respectively. However, both diagnostic and therapeutic advances made it
      possible to significantly reduce mortality, at the cost of potentially deleterious
      chemotherapeutic treatments for reproductive function. These treatments may therefore be the
      cause of a chronic pathology "infertility" that may negatively impact the quality of life of
      young breast cancer survivors.

      Since 2004, in France, the preservation of fertility (PF) is part of the different laws of
      bioethics. The latest cancer plans have highlighted the importance of quality of life in
      patients cured of cancer. For young women, this often involves the possibility of accessing
      maternity, using their own gametes. Thus, access to an onco fertility consultation should be
      systematically proposed, ideally before the initiation of any cancer treatment.

      While the importance of oncofertility consultations is now recognized, they raise a certain
      number of ethical questions, particularly as to the nature of the information to be
      transmitted, whether it is generalizable or not, and how it is delivered and supported.

      Very little data on the value of decision support tools in PF for women with breast cancer
      are available, while the concept of "shared medical decision" is becoming increasingly
      important in the doctor-patient relationship.

      The only available studies have shown that these tools can reduce the level of decisional
      conflict and regret over fertility-related treatment options, and improve knowledge about
      fertility and satisfaction among young women.

      This study aims to compare two modalities of delivery of information to breast cancer
      patients (not yet under treatment): standard oral information during the prevention of
      fertility (PF) consultation vs. an online decision support tool, consulted prior to the PF
      consultation, during which the standard oral information is provided.
    
  