
    
      Systemic hypertension is defined as a systolic blood pressure that is ≥ 140 mm hg and / or a
      diastolic blood pressure that is ≥ 90 mm hg a modifiable and it is known to be a serious risk
      factor for cardiovascular disease. Exercise is widely recommended as a lifestyle modification
      for hypertensive patients because of its beneficial effect on lowering blood pressure (BP).
      Similarly, calorie restriction is also documented to lower systemic hypertension.

      Interestingly, both exercise and calorie-restriction are associated with increased
      circulating levels of ketone bodies such as β-hydroxybutyrate (βHB). β-Hydroxybutyrate (βHB;
      3-hydroxybutyric acid) is a "ketone body" which is produced the liver, mainly from the
      oxidation of fatty acids, and is exported to peripheral tissues for use as an energy source.
      It is transported to extrahepatic tissues, and traditionally recognized as a vital
      alternative source of energy during starvation. However, recent evidences indicate that apart
      from serving as energy fuel, ketone bodies such as βHB block nucleotide-binding domain,
      leucine-rich-containing family, pyrin domain-containing-3 (Nlrp3)-inflammasome-mediated
      inflammatory diseases, and thereby play a prominent role in maintaining physiological
      homeostasis parameter such as blood pressure.

      Among environmental factors, excessive salt intake is the most common and important risk
      factor for hypertension, in which patient with salt-sensitive hypertension demonstrated an
      increased risk of cardiovascular disease. There is substantial evidence suggesting that blood
      pressure's (BP) response to dietary salt intake vary considerably among individuals which is
      a phenomenon described as salt sensitivity of blood pressure.

      Another reference demonstrated a lower circulating level of the ketone body,
      beta-hydroxybutyrate (βHB), in high salt-fed hypertensive rats. Despite the high salt intake,
      the specific rescue of (βHB) levels by nutritional supplementation of its precursor,
      1,3-butanediol, attenuates hypertension and protects kidney function by inhibiting the renal
      Nlrp3 inflammasome in rats.

      Existing Knowledge and Literature Review: PubMed search builder was used to construct the
      following search entry: hypertension AND β-Hydroxybutyrate. The initial search yielded 39
      titles. Studies (RCTs or systemic reviews) relevant to the research question were isolated
      manually by reading the abstracts. However, due to the novelty of the idea, the investigators
      were not able to identify any related literature except of "Chakraborty, Saroj" study. which
      was a non-human research.

      Research impact: The current evidence regarding the effect of β-Hydroxybutyrate
      supplementation on the reduction of salt-sensitive hypertension was only proven on a
      non-human level. The research will address this gap in knowledge by looking for any
      relationship between the levels of (βHB) and salt-sensitive hypertensive in human subjects,
      which may change the current understanding of the treatment of salt-sensitive.
    
  