
    
      Localized articular cartilage defects are a common and challenging problem, particularly in
      young patients. These defects cause significant disability and, as participation in sports
      activity grows, are increasing in overall number annually. A recent systematic review
      evaluating the overall full-thickness focal chondral defects in athletes revealed the
      prevalence to be 36%, with 22% of the athletes being symptomatic. As the prevalence of these
      injuries increases, they pose increasingly significant challenges to the clinicians who treat
      them.

      Normal joint cartilage is a firm, elastic tissue that covers the ends of bones to protect
      them and allow smooth, pain-free movement over each other. Joint cartilage is described,
      macroscopically and microscopically, as articular or "hyaline" cartilage. Hyaline cartilage
      is often described as a "glass-like" structural tissue because of its shiny appearance and
      translucency. The tissue structure is a hydrated matrix consisting of proteoglycans and at
      least 90% (dry weight) Type II collagen fibers. The collagen fibers contribute to the overall
      tensile strength and the proteoglycans provide the stiffness and tissue resiliency. Cartilage
      cells, or chondrocytes, produce dense matrix, which effectively incarcerate the cells
      themselves. In the event of injury, the motility of these cells is restricted due to their
      inclusion deep inside the matrix, and the avascularity of the cartilage itself. This lack of
      a vascular network prevents the infiltration of inflammatory cells and bioactive molecules
      following damage. Thus, once damaged, adult articular cartilage will not effectively heal or
      regenerate.

      Treatment techniques of osteochondral lesions are relatively new and frequently changing and
      evolving. The treatment algorithms for these injuries are complex and often involve multiple
      procedures, including non-surgical interventions with pharmacological agents such as oral
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), injectable corticosteroids, and activity
      modification including rehabilitation and support braces that may provide incomplete or
      temporary relief. Lesion characteristics such as grade and thickness may also impact
      treatment options and recovery. Arthroscopic debridement and lavage is effective as a
      first-line surgical approach for subjects with low physical demands. This procedure
      eliminates debris and decreases inflammation in the joints, but the symptomatic relief is
      usually transient and the lesion is not repaired. Treatments providing long-term results may
      be achieved through a variety of surgical options.

      There are many surgical treatments options currently available and each have limitations.
      Marrow stimulation techniques include microfracture, drilling, and abrasion arthroplasty. The
      Microfracture technique has been described to address lesions up to 1 cm2 while other authors
      cite more specific applications depending on lesion size, patient age and physical demands.
      While microfracture is considered a reparative treatment, the procedure can produce less than
      optimal results because of the inferior nature of fibrocartilaginous tissue formed. Unlike
      the Type II collagen normally found in articular cartilage, fibrocartilage consists
      predominately of Type I collagen. Because it lacks the long-term wear characteristics of
      normal hyaline cartilage, fibrocartilage can degrade with time.

      ACI is a two-staged procedure developed to treat cartilage defects in the knee. For ACI, a
      primary arthroscopic procedure is performed to assess the defect and a small amount (200mg to
      400 mg) of healthy, autologous cartilage is harvested. The tissue is then expanded using a
      cell-culture process over a period of several weeks. The expanded cells are then implanted
      into the area of the defect during a second surgical procedure. Studies have demonstrated
      through histology and quantitative measurements that ACI produces a "hyaline-like cartilage"
      with a collagen type II content of between 35 percent and 55 percent. Literature indicates
      that hyaline cartilage may have greater biomechanical strength and integrity than the
      fibrocartilaginous tissue generated in lesions treated with microfracture. There are several
      disadvantages using ACI, however, such as the need for two surgeries. It has increased
      surgical time due to and it is associated with substantial cost to account for ex vivo cell
      expansion. Potential postoperative complications related to the periosteal patch include cell
      leakage, hypertrophy and/or delamination, and unequal chondrocyte distribution within the
      lesion.

      Osteochondral grafting, the direct transplantation of an osteochondral autograft or
      allograft, is the only technique available on the market that transplants intact hyaline
      cartilage. Fresh osteochondral allografts use active chondrocytes while avoiding donor site
      morbidity. The grafts are avascular and aneural, meaning they are immunopriveleged and
      suitable for transplantation. Autograft plugs are typically used to treat small defects (up
      to 2.5 cm in diameter) due to donor site size limitation. Osteochondral allografts can be
      harvested up to 35 mm in diameter or an entire compartment can be resurfaced using a shell
      technique.Clinical outcome of osteochondral autografts has been documented in various studies
      as good to excellent, particularly in subjects with isolated femoral lesions. A major benefit
      of osteochondral allografts is their ability to provide the surgeon with the capability to
      treat much larger defects. A major drawback of many of the aforementioned treatment options
      (microfracture, ACI, osteochondral autograft) is their inability to treat such large lesions.
      Additionally, fresh OCA longevity after implantation has been documented to be as long as 25
      years, indicating that this procedure can provide long term relief to patients.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the functional and clinical outcomes of patients
      receiving femoral condyle osteochondral allografts, to evaluate potential predisposing
      factors to failure of such grafts, and to compare the overall outcomes of the grafts to the
      current standard of care for smaller lesions, microfracture. Our hypothesis is that patients
      treated with these allografts will demonstrate significant functional improvement as measured
      by validated outcome scoring measures and their function will be at least equal to that of
      microfracture outcomes.
    
  