
    
      This prospective study included 66 patients who underwent third molar extraction under local
      anesthesia in the Oral and Maxillofacial Department, Faculty of Dentistry, Ankara University,
      Turkey, between September and November 2018. The research protocol was approved by the
      ethical committee of the institute (No: 36290600/69), Ankara University, Turkey.

      Spielberger State Anxiety Inventory (STAI-S), Dental Fear Scale (DFS), Modified Dental
      Anxiety Scale (MDAS), and Visual Analog Scale (VAS) are commonly used questionnaires for
      dental anxiety. The latter asked only about age and sex. They were used together before and
      immediately after surgery to obtain better results in this study.

      After examining the panoramic radiographs, patients who underwent extraction were included in
      Classes 1 and II, Positions A and B according to Pell-Gregory 16 classification, and
      mesioangular and vertical positions according to the Winter 17 classification.

      Each patient was examined by the researcher. The patients were informed about the procedure,
      and written informed consent was obtained from the patient's preoperative assessment clinic.
      If a patient had additional questions, they were included as part of the investigation.

      The patients were divided into three groups:

      Group 1: Patients who were given only basic information verbally Group 2: Patients with
      detailed written information about preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative periods
      Group 3: Patients with previous experience and knowledge about third molar extraction
      Previous experience was determined before giving the questionnaires. The patients were
      randomly assigned to group 1 or 2 using an online random allocation software
      (www.randomization.com). Information was provided on how to complete questionnaires. STAI-S,
      MDAS, DFS, and VAS were applied to all patients 15 min before the surgery in the waiting
      room. The demographic data section (age and sex) in the form was filled out by the
      researcher.

      The surgery was carried out under local anesthesia, with no pharmaceutical premedication or
      sedation. The surgical procedures were performed by a single experienced surgeon in the oral
      surgery clinic. After the surgery was completed, the patients were taken to the waiting room,
      and prescribed medications were given. STAI-S, MDAS, DFS, and VAS were reapplied after the
      surgery.
    
  