
    
      Recent strategies have focused on improving the efficacy of gemcitabine either by improving
      the method of delivery, or by combining gemcitabine with other non-cross resistant agents. A
      sequence of Phase III combination studies of gemcitabine in combination (with oxaliplatin,
      and with the targeted therapies bevacizumab and cetuximab) have been negative, though based
      on strikingly positive Phase II data generated in cancer centers. Several studies suggest
      that taxanes are active in pancreatic cancer, but a randomized trial of gemcitabine with
      taxanes has not been preformed, probably on the basis that the differences in Phase II were
      insufficiently persuasive. The development of a novel taxane conjugate with albumin,
      abraxane, with established activity in breast cancer, prompted a Phase II trial of
      gemcitabine/abraxane by Von Hoff (6). Phase I/II data were highly promising, with response
      rates of the order of 40%, with tolerable toxicity, and a one-year survival of about 48%. A
      phase III trial of gemcitabine versus gemcitabine/abraxane is in progress, and based on these
      promising data has served as the control chemotherapy for previous SU2C trials. The
      development of a more intensive, but toxic regimen (FOLFIRINOX) in no way diminishes the
      enthusiasm for this chemotherapy backbone, given the activity in Phase II trials that appears
      comparable (7). Given the promise of this regimen, and the possibility of making a
      substantial improvement in outcome with additional targeted interventions, we propose to
      continue to use this regimen in the current study.

      Of particular interest in extending these studies to pancreatic cancer is the finding that
      autophagy inhibition is particularly deleterious to cell lines bearing a mutant Kras protein.
      Additional studies as part of the SU2C pancreatic cancer project reveal that an autophagy
      program is activated in the presence of mutant Kras, and thus prompts the testing of this
      strategy in a setting in which Kras is commonly (about 85%) mutated (SU2C, unpublished data).
    
  