
    
      Depression is a serious condition affecting millions of people each year. In fact, it is
      estimated that approximately one in every four women will be treated for a mood disorder,
      such as depression, at some point in her life. As effective treatment options continue to
      develop, many women diagnosed with depression are able to resume normal lives and may choose
      to become pregnant. Also, some women become depressed when pregnant. Interpersonal
      psychotherapy involves treating psychological difficulties by analyzing problems, talking
      about possible solutions, and learning more helpful ways of thinking and acting. Brief
      interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT-B) is a well-tested psychotherapy for depression that has
      been shortened and modified. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of
      IPT-B to reduce depressive symptoms in women during pregnancy and to prevent the continuation
      or recurrence of their depression postpartum.

      Participants in this open-label study will be randomly assigned to receive either IPT-B or a
      facilitated referral for treatment as usual (F-TAU) at an outpatient clinic or community
      mental health center. Participants assigned to IPT-B will be scheduled to attend eight
      treatment sessions along with their prenatal clinic visits within a 16-week period. Each
      treatment session will begin with a brief 1-minute evaluation to assess participants' level
      of depression and will end with a brief evaluation of the session. Participants will attend
      follow-up sessions every 2 weeks until 3 months postpartum and then monthly until 6 months
      postpartum. These sessions will include evaluation of participants' level of depression,
      identification of any difficulties or problems that participants may be experiencing, and
      review of how to manage these problems using skills learned during treatment. Participants
      assigned to receive F-TAU will be provided with verbal and written information regarding
      their depressive symptoms. They will also receive a referral for treatment at a behavioral
      health clinic. Participants receiving F-TAU will be assessed via telephone at Weeks 6 and 12.
      All participants will be assessed via telephone at Months 2 and 6 postpartum to measure their
      level of depression.
    
  