
    
      Pharmaceutical companies with LRRK2 kinase inhibitor programs are close to Phase 1 clinical
      testing. Phase II proof-of-concept clinical trials will need to be conducted in LRRK2
      manifesting mutation carriers. This is currently a challenging task given the limited
      availability of this cohort.

      While the LRRK2 G2019S mutation is the most common mutation present in Caucasians and certain
      ethic groups, the G2385R variant has been identified as a risk factor for sporadic PD in the
      Asian population (Chinese Han, Japanese and Korean). In fact, in these populations, the
      occurrence of this mutation is thought to be higher than (up to 4% of PD patients) the
      occurrence of the G2019S mutation in the Caucasian population. In contrast to G2019S, this
      variant has not been fully characterized. For example, there has been controversy regarding
      its kinase activity with some reporting higher and others lower activity. A systematic
      biochemical characterization of the G2385R is necessary to determine if this cohort may be
      useful in LRRK2 kinase inhibitor trials.

      Although there were significant studies on the clinical characterization of LRRK2 risk
      variant carriers with or without PD, little is known which factor is more specific in
      predicting the conversion to PD and which biomarker can be used to measure the disease
      progression. Identifying these clinical phenotype and biomarkers will be critical for
      studying pharmaceuticals effective for PD.

      Several lines of evidence point to a role of LRRK2 in the immune system. Particularly high
      LRRK2 expression has been discovered in macrophagic and monocytic cells, but not T-cells,
      leading to speculation of a functional role for LRRK2 in the innate immune system. LRRK2 is
      also expressed in toll-like receptor 4 (TLR-4)-activated microglia, brain-resident macrophage
      cells that have been implicated in the pathology of PD brain, and LRRK2 modulates
      proinflammatory responses in these cells via several immune signaling pathways. Moreover,
      enhanced neuroinflammation may contribute to neurodegeneration in PD patients carrying LRRK2
      mutations. Further, recent genome-wide association studies highlight LRRK2 in the
      modification of susceptibility to the chronic autoimmune Crohn's disease and Mycobacterium
      leprae infection, raising the possibility that LRRK2 may contribute to PD through immunogenic
      mechanisms. Although neuroinflammation as a primary trigger or secondary process linked to PD
      remains unclear, the link between LRRK2 and the immune system provides an intriguing
      possibility for a potential pathogenic mechanism as well as aid in the identification of
      potential markers of LRRK2-related immune function that could inform therapeutic development
      and/or act as potential pharmacodynamic measures of LRRK2 activity.

      This study will take advantage of the larger cohorts of LRRK2 G2385R variant carriers with or
      without PD established by the Chinese Parkinson Study Group in China.
    
  