
    
      Background of the study:

      Amblyopia (prevalence approx. 3.4%) develops in early childhood when the child's eyes have
      severe refractive error, when they squint, or both. It can effectively be treated with
      glasses and patching the better eye, but treatment should start before age 6 to be effective.
      Therefore, visual acuity should be measured in all children aged 4-5 to detect amblyopia
      early enough. In an effort to prevent the development of amblyopia all together, in some
      countries devices are being used to measure refractive error in toddlers and, when refractive
      error is severe, fit them glasses before amblyopia develops. In Flanders, the measurement of
      refractive error in 1- and 2.5-year-olds began in 2012, in addition to regular vision
      screening with measurement of the visual acuity at the age of 3, 4 and 5. Between 2012 and
      2017 the percentage of 4-year-old glasses wearing children had risen from 4.7% to 6.4%, but
      it was unknown how many cases of amblyopia had been prevented from developing. A prospective
      comparison seems warranted between this new method and the current national vision screening
      program in the Netherlands.

      Objective of the study:

      To investigate whether treating children with high refractive errors at age one with glasses
      prevents the development of amblyopia.

      Study design:

      We will perform an interventional prevention study comparing the effect of prescribing
      glasses to children with high refractive error at age 1 (intervention) versus no prescription
      of glasses (control) on the prevalence of amblyopia at age 4. 12-18-months-old children will
      be recruited by the study physician after visiting the children's healthcare centers (CHCs)
      at 11 or 14 months. Refractive error will be determined by retinoscopy in cycloplegia in all
      children. Children with refractive error exceeding the AAPOS 2003 criteria (Donahue et al.
      2003) are considered to have high refractive error in this study. We anticipate that 8% of
      all children will have high refractive error according to these criteria. These children will
      be randomized to the intervention group or the control group, and will be followed up until
      final examination at age 4 with visual acuity serving as primary outcome. In case amblyopia
      or strabismus develops during the course of the study, children will be referred for
      immediate treatment, and visual acuity at the moment of referral will be used as primary
      outcome. In all children in the intervention group compliance with wearing spectacles will be
      measured electronically. At age 4 pre-literacy skills will be measured in the intervention
      group and the control group.

      The majority of children, approximately 92%, will have mild or no refractive error at age
      one. After the first examination, these children will continue regular vision screening at
      the CHCs. They will have their visual acuity measured at the age of 4 as part of standard
      vision screening in the Netherlands at the CHCs, which will serve as secondary outcome. If
      there is uncertainty about the visual outcome at the CHC, the child will receive a
      supplementary examination. Children with amblyopia or strabismus at the age of one will be
      excluded from this study and referred for immediate treatment. Due to ethical considerations,
      children with severe refractive error at the age of one, i.e. exceeding the AAPOS 2003
      criteria twofold, will also be excluded from this study and referred for immediate treatment
      with glasses. Due the nature and design of the study, blinding of the researchers on site and
      of participants will not be possible.

      Study population:

      For this study we will recruit an estimated 2000-4000 healthy children aged 12-18 months
      after visiting one of the participating CHCs, located in different regions of the
      Netherlands: Utrecht, Harderwijk/Ermelo/Putten, Tiel/Geldermalsen/Culemborg,Roermond/Venlo
      and Eindhoven. It is estimated that approximately 8% of all included children will have high
      refractive error.

      Intervention (if applicable):

      Children assigned to the intervention group will be examined by the study orthoptist one to
      three times yearly until final examination, and will be fitted with glasses, based on
      accurate determinations of refractive error by retinoscopy in cycloplegia. Children with high
      refractive error assigned to the control group will be examined by the study orthoptist one
      to three times yearly until final examination, but will not be fitted with glasses.

      Primary study parameters/outcome of the study:

      The occurrence of amblyopia at the final examination, stratified according to visual acuity
      of the amblyopic eye in the intervention group and in the control group. The final
      examination will take place at the age of 4, unless children have been referred to an
      orthoptist and/or ophthalmologist before, for example when amblyopia or strabismus are
      suspected before the age of 4.

      Secondary study parameters/outcome of the study:

        -  Prevalence of amblyopia at age 1;

        -  Type and severity of refractive error at age 1;

        -  Occurrence of amblyopia at the final examination, stratified according to visual acuity
           of the amblyopic eye in the children without high refractive error at age 1;

        -  Pre-literacy skills in the intervention and control group at age 4;

        -  Occurrence of strabismus, determined at the final examination in all groups.

      Other outcome measures:

        -  Electronically measured compliance with spectacles wearing;

        -  The evolution of refractive error between age 1 and 4;

        -  Gender;

        -  Family history for ocular disease;

        -  Ethnicity;

        -  Parental level of education, social economic status and language skill.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      The expected burden and risks associated with participation can be considered minimal. In
      order to measure refractive error accurately, retinoscopy will be done by study orthoptists
      after the instillation of cycloplegic eye drops, as happens daily in clinical practice of
      orthoptists and pediatric ophthalmologists. We will install 1 eyedrop of cyclopentolate 1% in
      each eye, which we will repeat after 10 minutes. Cyclopentolate can cause sleepiness in rare
      cases: children are difficult to awaken for several minutes, but can be awoken thereafter,
      which is without sequelae without exception.
    
  