
    
      Aging in place is now recognized as a goal of most older adults. While medically driven
      interventions such as home health care assist older adults to age in place, these occur not
      as true preventive measures but as reactions to losses in function or health. The search for
      preventive methods to mitigate decline and unwanted moves from home and community is
      important. One such method, Preventive Home Visits (PHVs), has been utilized in parts of
      Europe for approximately two decades. The PHV model is based on infrequent but regular visits
      to an older adult's home by a trained practitioner (typically an occupational therapist or
      nurse). The visit is designed to assess the older person's situation and provide information
      and advice to optimize function and well-being. Evidence about PHV efficacy is mixed but
      generally supportive, and there is a distinct need to create and examine a preventive
      non-medical intervention model in the USA. A successfully developed and implemented approach
      could enhance lives and save costs. We plan to implement an intervention informed by a
      framework based on a synthesis of the World Health Organization function and disability model
      and the Occupational Therapy Practice Framework. We aim to implement and evaluate this PHV
      intervention in Orange County, North Carolina to assess the feasibility and effects of
      preventive home visits with older adults. We will use an experimental, repeated measures
      design in which approximately 120 older (75+ years) community-dwelling adults who are at-risk
      for functional decline are randomly assigned to experimental and comparison groups. The
      experimental group will receive the PHV intervention four times across a 12 month period. The
      comparison group will receive a minimal intervention of two informational phone calls and
      printed materials about local services during the same period. An occupational therapist with
      the requisite training and experience in home-based evaluation and intervention will conduct
      the experimental intervention. We will independently administer a set of standardized scales
      to both groups immediately pre-intervention, and again at regular intervals after each
      intervention. These outcome measures will cover the primary dimensions on which we
      hypothesize PHVs will have a positive influence: functional ability, participation,
      self-efficacy, life satisfaction, and self-reported health. Secondary outcomes include
      hospitalization and institutionalization. Analyses will compare the differences in outcomes
      for the two groups as well as assess several dimensions of intervention feasibility. These
      data will be the basis for a subsequent, enhanced intervention and study.
    
  