
    
      The development of surgical site infections (SSI) in clean-contaminated surgery is regarded
      as being preventable. Known to be effective in the prevention of surgical site infection are
      the adequate sterilization of the surgical instruments, asepsis during operation, antibiotic
      prophylaxis where indicated, and certainly the preparation of the skin at the incision site,
      since the patient's skin is the principal source of bacterial contamination of the wound.
      Products generally used for preoperative preparation of the skin are iodophores
      (povidone-iodine), and products containing alcohol and/or chlorhexidine.

      To date, in the literature there are quite a number of case studies, but only few randomized
      controlled trials (RCTs) that compare different methods of preparation of the skin at the
      site of surgery. Only recently a major study comparing between 2 modes of skin preparation
      before surgery has been performed and published, and at least 2 systematic reviews of various
      methods can be found. At present, the use of chlorhexidine in alcohol is seen to be more
      effective than povidone-iodine in the prevention of surgical site infection, but the data
      derived from the available studies are not sufficient to definitely support a change in the
      daily practice, and quantitative evaluation of pharmaco-economics implications are still
      missing.

      This study aims to investigate the efficacy in prevention of surgical site infection in clean
      surgery, using two different standardized methods of skin preparation: povidone-iodine 10%
      aqueous solution from 1.5 liter bulk bottle, versus tinted 2% chlorhexidine in 70% isopropyl
      alcohol in a single-dose applicator. To reduce the variables involved, a single-center study
      will enroll a homogeneous population, undergoing breast cancer surgery.

      The patients included in this study will be randomized according to the week in which they
      will receive surgical treatment. The investigators expect this approach to be easier to
      manage within this study. The randomly assigned treatment will be weekly communicated to the
      chief nurse of the operating theatre who will supply the proper disinfectant without any
      other role in the study.

      All patients will be scheduled for at least one follow up visit after about 2 weeks after
      surgery. All patients have access to more follow up visits, if needed, and will be asked to
      report all kind of wound complications.

      The wound assessment will be made by persons not aware of the treatment arm the patient was
      assigned to, and a defined protocol assessment, based on Centers for Disease Control and
      prevention (CDC) definitions, which provides the following classification:

        1. absence of infection;

        2. superficial wound infection;

        3. deep wound infection. The final follow-up visit during which the patient will be
           evaluated will be conducted at 30 days (for patients without insertion of prosthesis /
           expander) and at 180 days (for patients with the insertion of implants / expander).
    
  