
    
      Objective

      The objective of this study is to ascertain individuals with a clinical diagnosis of a
      movement disorder or dementia, their affected and unaffected family members, and unrelated,
      healthy individuals (to provide control samples); to characterize their phenotypes; and to
      identify and further characterize genetic contributions to etiology by collecting blood
      samples, and/or saliva samples on these individuals for DNA and induced Pluripotent stem
      (iPs) cell line preparation.

      Study population

      Up to 10,000 persons with a diagnosis of a movement disorder or dementia, 1,000 asymptomatic
      persons who are family members/related to individuals with a diagnosis of movement disorder
      or dementia, and 1,000 unrelated, healthy control individuals.

      Design

      This study usually requires one outpatient visit to the NIH Clinical Center. Participant
      visits may also take place when they are an inpatient at the NIH Clinical Center. Those who
      are unable to travel to NIH may have study procedures performed at a site near their

      home, such as hospital facilities, private physician offices, nursing homes, assisted living
      facilities, local community centers, or participant homes. Participants will undergo medical
      record review, a physical examination and biospecimen collection including

      blood draw and/or saliva collection at the enrollment visit.

      Additional visits may be scheduled to collect additional phenotype information or to collect
      additional biospecimens.

      Outcome measures

      The primary outcome measure of this study is the identification of pathogenic genetic
      variants that are causative for the movement disorder or dementia that the patient has been
      diagnosed with. These disease-causing variants are often inherited.

      The secondary outcome measure of this study is the identification of genetic variants that
      alter susceptibility/risk for the movement disorder or dementia that the patient has been
      diagnosed with. These genetic risk factors are associated with disease that can be apparently
      sporadic in nature.
    
  