
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety of ultraviolet-B light therapy and allogeneic peripheral blood stem
           cell transplantation in patients with hematologic malignancies by demonstrating 100-day
           mortality no greater than 15% and 1-year mortality no greater than 40%.

        -  Determine the frequency of treatment-related toxicity leading to death and frequency of
           disease relapse resulting in death in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence and severity of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease in
           patients treated with this regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the rates of donor allogeneic hematologic engraftment in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the rate and quality of immune reconstitution in the peripheral blood and the
           composition of immune cells in the skin before and after transplantation in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the event-free and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Preparative regimen: Patients receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -8 to -4
           and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -3 to -2. Patients also receive
           anti-thymocyte globulin IV over 4 hours on days -2 to -1. Patients undergo ultraviolet-B
           (UVB) light therapy every other day between days -10 and -2 for a total of 3 days.

        -  Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplantation: Patients undergo PBSC
           transplantation on day 0.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis: Patients receive oral cyclosporine on days -1 to
           100 and methylprednisolone (oral or IV) on days 5-15.

        -  Posttransplantation UVB light therapy: Following PBSC transplantation, patients undergo
           UVB light therapy twice weekly on week 1 (at least 1 day apart) and three times weekly
           on weeks 2-4.

      Donor lymphocyte infusion is performed per institutional guidelines for patients in whom
      emerging donor chimerism post allogeneic PBSC transplantation is not progressing
      (consistently below 50% during first 3 months), for whom donor chimerism is receding (to
      below 25%) despite cessation of cyclosporine, or who relapse within 24 months after
      allografting.

      Patients are followed at least monthly for 3 months and then at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 23-36 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  