
    
      A. Hypothesis In teenagers and adults with poorly controlled asthma offered treatment
      according to BTS-SIGN guideline, the use of mobile phone-based lung function and symptom
      monitoring with patient feedback will improve the asthma control achieved and patient
      self-efficacy at six-months compared to usual paper-based monitoring strategies.

      B. Background Despite effective treatments, studies continue to demonstrate that asthma is
      poorly controlled,1,2 though marked variation in the control achieved in UK general practices
      suggests that improvement is possible for the vast majority of patients.3 Psychosocial
      factors such as denial of illness, low outcome expectations 4,5 and hectic lifestyles,
      exacerbated by limited knowledge, poor self-recognition of symptoms and discordant attitudes,
      influence patients' ability to engage in self-management with resultant poor concordance with
      monitoring and treatment.6,7 Interventions involving biofeedback can address these barriers
      by objectively demonstrating symptom severity and the impact of medication compliance.8 A
      Cochrane review demonstrates that self-management education linked with structured care
      improves asthma outcomes.9 Despite self-management education,6 in real life, compliance with
      traditional diary monitoring can be as low as 6%,10 and results are often fabricated.11
      Electronic recording may improve compliance,12 with over two-thirds of potential readings
      recorded over a 72-week trial.13 Increasingly pervasive throughout society, mobile phone
      technology provides a convenient, portable communications medium. Mobile phone-based
      monitoring with supporting biofeedback, appears able to engage patients in their management,
      resulting in high levels of adherence and patient acceptability,13,14 with many patients
      welcoming the innovative care.15,16,17,18 Integrated within a structured care protocol, this
      has the potential to address the barriers of poor adherence and low expectations and thereby
      to improve patient outcomes.

      Monitoring is, in itself, an intervention which alters behaviour. The theoretical model
      developed by Glasziou et al. describes the complementary and evolving roles of periodic
      professional reviews and on-going patient self-monitoring.19 The monitoring of asthma with
      lung function and/or symptoms is cited as a well-defined exemplar of this concept. Our recent
      qualitative study suggests that people with asthma perceive a role for mobile technology in
      aiding transition from clinician-supported phases while control is gained, to effective
      self-management during maintenance phases.20 This approach resonates with two key health
      service policies: the drive for technological solutions to healthcare problems;21 and the
      importance of expert patients and self-management of long-term conditions.22,23 Our proposed
      trial tests the hypothesis that through engaging the patient in self-monitoring with timely
      biofeedback, mobile phone technology can improve the asthma control achieved at six months
      compared to usual paper-based monitoring.

      Our multi-disciplinary team has extensive experience of tele-care, delivery of primary care
      respiratory services, patient self-management, and research within general practice settings.
      Building on extensive background work,3,13-15,17,18,20 we offer expertise in respiratory and
      health services research, and social science and are ideally placed to undertake this trial.

      Description of the mobile phone-based monitoring system (see figure) The system software (T+
      asthma, Oxford, UK) can be loaded onto any web-enabled mobile phone. It permits recording of
      symptoms, medication usage and lung function. Measurements are made with a Piko meter (a
      prescribable electronic meter which records both (FEV1) and peak expiratory flow (PEF)). We
      have opted to record FEV1 because it is a component of the ACQ,24 and the correlation between
      Piko and spirometry FEV1 is excellent (r=0.98).25,26 Data transmitted to a remote server are
      analysed and the latest reading returned to the mobile phone, compared with the preceding
      week's recordings and a prompt for using 'preventer' medication. In addition, the patient and
      their clinician can access the record via a password-protected website.C. Design of the
      research A six month single-blinded randomised controlled trial

      Practice recruitment Six/eight practices (total list 72,000 patients) will be recruited from
      the Leicester area (local to the practice of a lead co-applicant). Eligible practices will
      have an asthma-trained nurse able to commit to the additional clinical workload.

      Participant recruitment Practices will use the Minimal Asthma Assessment Tool (MAAT), which
      interrogates routinely collected data on their computer database, using patterns of
      medication usage, symptom control and biometric data to identify patients (12 years and over)
      with poorly controlled asthma.3 Potential eligibility will be confirmed by inspection of
      manual/computer records checking (and documenting) exclusion criteria: other significant lung
      disease, under specialist care for severe/difficult asthma, unable to communicate in English
      or use a mobile phone and at the request of the GP for other significant social/clinical
      problems. The practice will invite all potentially eligible patients by post to participate.

      Confirmation of eligibility and baseline assessment Potential participants will attend a
      screening assessment (normally in their practice) at which eligibility will be confirmed,
      their current asthma control assessed using the ACQ,24 and suitability of their mobile phone
      established. All patients with poorly controlled asthma (defined as ACQ>1.5 27) will be
      entered in the trial and a baseline assessment undertaken.(see summary table)

      Randomisation Patients will be allocated, using centralised randomisation stratified by
      practice, to mobile phone or paper-based monitoring. The University of Aberdeen's Health
      Services Research Unit will provide a 24hr telephone randomisation service.

      Intervention group: Mobile phone based monitoring Patients in the intervention group will be
      issued with a Piko meter and the T+ software loaded onto their mobile phone. They will be
      asked to monitor symptoms, medication usage and FEV1 twice a day and submit the readings. The
      web-record will be available to patient and asthma nurse to aid assessment of control during
      routine reviews, and to the patients' GP in the event of unscheduled asthma consultations.

      Control group: paper-based monitoring Patients in the control group will be issued with a
      Piko meter, and asked to keep a paper diary, recording symptoms, medication usage and FEV1
      readings twice a day.

      Clinical care and self-management education in both groups Structured care will be provided
      by the practices' asthma nurse(s), trained in all aspects of the trial.

      Clinical care in both groups will be in accordance with the step-wise approach of the
      BTS-SIGN Guideline.28 Patients will be reviewed monthly until control is achieved as judged
      by the nurse on the basis of clinical monitoring.

      All patients will receive a one-to-one standardised asthma education session, including
      information on asthma, asthma treatment, inhaler technique, monitoring and when to seek
      urgent assistance.
    
  