
    
      Data Collection:

      Preoperative symptoms and signs, medical records, imaging data, preoperative functional
      scores (Glasgow score, ADL score, jnphgsr score) were collected.

      Data Security Monitoring:

        1. Follow-up after surgery according to the study scheme, and comprehensive collection of
           safety data, for key patient researchers should focus on, in order to comprehensively
           and early detection of all kinds of adverse events.

        2. All adverse events are well documented, properly handled and tracked until they are
           properly resolved or stable, and serious and unexpected events are reported to the
           ethics committee, competent authorities, applicants and pharmaceutical supervisory and
           administrative departments in a timely manner as required;

        3. Major investigators regularly conduct cumulative reviews of all adverse events and, if
           necessary, hold researcher meetings to assess the risks and benefits of the study;

      Data Preservation:

      The experimental data is stored in Access database and stored locally after entering
      electronic data. This clinical trial uses the subject's Research Medical Record as the
      original data source. Researchers need to record the subject's data in the Case Report Form
      according to the Research Medical Record. The sponsors will verify the integrity, accuracy
      and authenticity of the data in Case Report Form.After completing the enrollment, complete
      Case Report Form is required and the first Case Report Form copy is withdrawn by the
      sponsor.At the end of the study, the original data, informed consent and remaining Case
      Report Form data will be kept at the various research centers as required.The retention
      period was 10 years after the end of the clinical trial.

      Statistical analysis was performed by double-sided test, with P < 0.05 being statistically
      significant except for those specified in particular; measurements were described by means,
      medians, standard deviations, maximum and minimum values; counts or ranks were expressed by
      frequency and frequency.

      Statistical Processing:

      Homogeneity between groups was compared by t test, chi-square test or rank sum test.

      Efficacy evaluation: Continuous corrected chi-2 test was used to compare the intracranial
      infection rates within 365 days after surgery. The unilateral 95% confidence interval of
      difference between the two groups was calculated. If the lower limit of the confidence
      interval was greater than -10%, the superiority was established, that is, the experimental
      group was superior to the control group.

      Sample Size and Research Plan:

      Statistical analysis uses Statistical Product and Service Solutions(SPSS) 26.0 software, the
      analysis process is all programmed.

      The trial was designed for superiority and inferiority according to "Chow, S.C., Shao, J.,
      and Wang, H. 2008. Sample Size Calculations in Clinical Research, Second Edition. Chapman
      &amp; Hall/CRC. Boca Raton,Florida. "The main efficacy indicators were the intracranial
      infection rate in one year after operation. The estimated infection rate was 2.8% in the
      experimental group and 9.5% [18] in the control group. The other relevant parameters were set
      as follows: Class I error alpha=0.05 (unilateral), test efficiency 1-beta=0.8, and the number
      of cases in the experimental group and the control group was designed as 1:1.Comparing sample
      size calculation formulas based on two sample rates:

      To calculate the sample size, 156 cases in the experimental group and 156 cases in the
      control group were obtained. Considering the dropout rate of no more than 15%, 180 cases in
      the experimental group and 180 cases in the control group were planned to be enrolled. The
      total number of cases in the two groups was 360.This study requires at least 360 patients to
      have sufficient test intensity to avoid false negative. In the design of the study, 600
      patients were initially recruited, of whom 200 were from our center and 400 were from other
      centers.
    
  