
    
      1. Time interval of the study: from 2014-11-1 to 2016-10-31 2. Participants and sample size:

        1. Participants: Patients having chronic MPS over neck were randomized allocated to
           experimental group or control group. Participants in both groups are evaluated before
           and after the interventions (week 0 and week 2 respectively), and 12 week after the
           intervention (week 14). Both participants and evaluators don't know the allocation.

        2. Sample size: thirty-six participants. The investigators plan to recruit 18 participants
           in each year.

      III. Intervention:

      Participants in experimental group receive ILIB (He-Ne laser, wavelength 632.8nm) with output
      power 0.3mW for 60minutes and following transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation (TENS) and
      stretching exercise every day except weekend for 2 weeks. Participants in control group
      receive sham therapies with the same protocol but no laser energy output

      IV.Outcome Measures:

      1.Primary outcome: Pain as measured by using a 10-cm long visual analogue scale (0 indicates
      no pain while 10 indicates worst pain) at rest and at movement.

      2.Secondary outcomes:

        1. .Pressure pain threshold (PPT) as measured by a pressure algometer, Force Dial FDK 20
           with a scale ranging from 0 to 10 kg (Wagner Instruments, Greenwich, USA). The
           participant is in sitting position and relaxes, and the most painful TrPs in the taut
           band is measured. The investigators follow the procedures of measurement described by
           Fischer. The PPT is defined as the minimal pressure that results in the sensation change
           from pressure to pain. The investigators perform 3 repetitive measurements at an
           interval of 20 seconds, and the mean values will be analyzed.

        2. .Shear wave velocity (SWV): SWV is undertaken by a physiatrist specialized in
           musculoskeletal US using a US system with 4-9 MHz multifrequency linear transducer
           (S2000; Siemens Healthcare, Erlangen, Germany). The posture of participant is the same
           with which when testing PPT. The investigators minimize probe pressure on muscles to
           avoid affect muscle stiffness. SWV of bilateral upper trapezius (TPZ), levator scapulae
           (LS), sternocleidomastoid (SCM) and the most painful TrP in taut band are measured
           longitudinally while their B-mode image qualities are optimal. When measuring TPZ, the
           probe was located at the midpoint of occipital protuberance and acromion and the ROI was
           placed inside the muscle belly. The SWV of LS is measured at the midpoint of
           superior-medial border of scapulae and the C1 transverse process. For the measurement of
           SCM, the probe is positioned at the midpoint of sternum and mastoid process. The most
           painful TrP in taut band is recognized by the participants and then marked and recorded
           its position related to bony landmarks with a measuring tape. SWV of each muscle is
           measured 10 times, and the median of the 10 valid measurements will be analyzed.

        3. .Real-time sonoelastography (RTS): RTS is accessed by the aforementioned physiatrist by
           using the US system. RTS is depicted on the right side of the screen, while the
           longitudinal 2D image on the most painful TrP in taut band is displayed on the left
           side. The compression force applied is adjusted according to a quality factor set on the
           machine, which is displayed on the screen. A quality factor ≧ 60 indicates optimal
           compression force. The investigator stores the representative image with a quality
           factor ≧ 60, and determines the RTS score. Later, the stored images are analyzed with
           ImageJ software (National Institutes of Health,Bethesda, USA). The area of taut band on
           image is selected, and color histograms are made and the means of the blue pixel and the
           red pixel are recorded. The color pixels range from 0 to 255. Intrarater and interrater
           reliability tests for RTS and SWV are undertaken in the first 10 participants.

        4. . World Health Organization Quality of Life Questionnaire Short Form (WHOQOL - BREF)
           Taiwan Version: WHOQOL - BREF Taiwan Version consists of 4 domains (physical health,
           psychological, social relationship, and environment) and a total 28 items. Each item has
           a five-point Likert-type response scale, and four types of scale descriptors (capacity,
           frequency, intensity and evaluation) are used.37 Individual domain score and total QOL
           score can be calculated through straightforward summative scaling. A higher score
           indicates a better QOL. This questionnaire was proved to be reliable and valid for many
           diseases.

      V. Analysis and Statistics: Reliability of RTS and SWV are tested by using intraclass
      correlation coefficients. Within-group and between-group comparisons are made by using a
      repeated-measure ANOVA. Correlation coefficients among outcomes are calculated.
    
  