
    
      To date, no standard local treatment exists for patients with an intraprostatic recurrence
      after radiotherapy. A number of treatments options exist including: radical prostatectomy,
      brachytherapy, High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), cryotherapy, and stereotactic
      radiotherapy. These treatments are associated with a variety of genitourinary and
      gastrointestinal toxicities and complications. In recent years, stereotactic radiotherapy has
      been used to treat localized prostate cancer in the primary setting but also as a salvage
      treatment after failure of radiotherapy. The initial results of these studies are promising,
      with respect to survival and tolerance, but further studies are required to confirm these
      initial results.

      The objective of STEREO-RE-PRO is to prospectively evaluate salvage SBRT for intraprostatic
      recurrent prostate cancer after primary external radiotherapy. This study will select
      patients for whom there is no standard local treatment.

      After inclusion and non-inclusion criteria have been verified and the patient has consented,
      the site will register the screening and organize the baseline visit with the placement of
      fiducial markers within two months before the planned start of SBRT.

      Once the fiducial placement has been performed and all eligibility criteria fully reviewed,
      the site will register the patient's participation so that the bio-statistician allocates the
      dose of SBRT. The dose will be allocated upon a model-based estimates provided by the
      statistical team and confirmed by the trial steering committee. Five or six fractions, at a
      level of 5 or 6 Gy per session (either 5 x 6 Gy, 6 x 6 Gy, or 5 x 5 Gy), will be delivered
      over a maximum of 12 days to provide a total dose of 25 to 36 Gy. During the treatment phase
      of the study, no study specific visits are scheduled and the patients will be followed as per
      standard of care.

      A follow-up visit is planned at 6, 10, 18 weeks from the start of SBRT for safety evaluation.
      Subsequent follow-up visits are planned at 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 30, and 36 months after the
      start of radiotherapy. Thereafter, yearly follow-up visits at 48, 60, and 72 months after
      starting SBRT will be planned after the initial 3-year follow-up period. M72 visit
      corresponds to the end of study visit.
    
  