
    
      The invesigators propose to deliver a structured multidisciplinary family-centered
      intervention over a 3-day weekend. The intervention will be based at a regional camp. The
      proposed camp encounters aim to provide:

        -  An opportunity for intensive education beyond that achievable in a single class, and
           without the unfavorable impacts of multiple weekday classes on family and work time.

        -  Varied educational modalities including didactic sessions, practical demonstrations and
           role playing.

        -  Close observation of each child throughout the day and night by experienced diabetes
           counselors and medical staff to identify and help correct maladaptive family behaviors.

        -  A safe environment where parents can participate in group therapy sessions without child
           care worries.

        -  An opportunity for age-appropriate child-centered educational and therapeutic
           activities.

        -  An opportunity for families to form mutually-supportive friendships.

        -  Fun weekends away where the parents have help caring for their diabetic children.

      The investigators will conduct this pilot study, which will enroll 18 preschool children age
      3-5.5 years, with the goal of obtaining preliminary results for 15 subjects.

      The primary outcome, to be determined approximately one month before and 3 months after the
      camp session, is improvement in Hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c).

      Exploratory Hypotheses:

      Compared with pretreatment baseline, subjects attending a 3-day session at a family diabetes
      camp will improve:

        -  HbA1c 3 months after the first camp session

        -  Behavioral/QoL assessments, including the parents of young children version of the
           hypoglycemia fear survey (HFS-P-YC), the Behavioral Pediatrics Feeding Assessment Scale
           (BPFAS), and the general and diabetes modules of the PedsQL.
    
  