
    
      Postoperative residual curarization (PORC)" a residual duration of action of muscle relaxants
      beyond the end of the operation" in postoperative patients is a succession of the presence of
      blocked nicotinic receptors. Even in observationally asymptomatic patients, 60-70% of these
      receptors can be still blocked. PORC can cause delayed recovery, hypoxia, metabolic
      derangement and rarely death. Cholinesterase inhibitors are traditionally used for reversal
      of neuromuscular blockade (NMB). Among these agents neostigmine is the most potent and
      selective one. Cholinesterase inhibitors have multisystemic side effects. Since these agents
      are not selective to nicotinic receptors and also stimulate the muscarinic system, there can
      be quite a few serious adverse effects as follows: Bradycardia, QT lengthening,
      bronchoconstriction, hypersalivation and increased motility. To avoid these effects,
      concomitant anticholinergic agents, such as atropine or glycopyrolate, are administered to
      the patient. The incidence of PORC is still high with the prevalence of a train-of-four (TOF)
      ratio of less than 0.9 found in the postoperative recovery unit. Recent studies have been
      able to link even low levels of residual paralysis (TOF ratio <0.9) with significant
      impairment of pharyngeal muscle function, hypoxic ventilatory drive and decreased respiratory
      function in the immediate postoperative period.

      Despite the knowledge of such side effects, and despite the introduction of various new
      neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) such as rocuronium or mivacurium over the last 15 years,
      no significant reduction in the incidence of residual neuromuscular blockade has so far been
      observable.

      Today, sugammadex is an alternative to the decurarization procedure, which was traditionally
      executed with cholinesterase inhibitors. Sugammadex a γ-cyclodextrin with a high affinity to
      rocuronium and other aminosteroidal NMBA that allows the rapid and complete reversal of
      especially rocuronium-induced neuromuscular blockade, has raised hopes to overcome the
      problem of residual neuromuscular blockade. Sugammadex is proved to be a safe and superior
      agent in NMB reversal compared to neostigmine in adults.

      PORC and the muscarinic side effects are not anticipated when using sugammadex,.

      Also, due to its pharmacodynamic profile, sugammadex, in combination with rocuronium, have
      the potential to displace succinylcholine as the "gold standard" muscle relaxant for rapid
      sequence induction.

      The rudimentary neuromuscular junction, the variability of fibrin fibers, the differences in
      drug distribution and body volume in children change their neuromuscular conduction. These
      factors can cause prolonged recovery and increased risk of PORC. However, there is few
      studies in the literature concerning sugammadex administration in pediatric patients.
    
  