
    
      Continuous Spike and Wave during Sleep (CSWS) is a rare neurological disease with an
      incidence of 0.2 - 0.5% of childhood epilepsy. It is often accompanied by comprehensive
      damage to brain function and associated neurodevelopmental problems. It is an epileptic
      syndrome which seriously affects the cognitive function of children. While it can be treated
      with drugs, other modalities are being sought, especially, in cases that are resistant to
      standard treatment. One such approach that is being tested is repetitive magnetic stimulation
      (rTMS). Noninvasive magnet stimulation of the cerebral cortex is an important and useful
      technique in neuroscience research, as well as in diagnostic and therapeutic clinical
      investigations. Over the last three decades the magnetic stimulation procedure is being
      carried out using a device called transcranial magnetic stimulator (TMS), which uses a large
      hand-held electromagnetic coil passing high amplitude current to induce her rapid changing
      magnetic field at a single cortical site. TMS has found clinical application several
      neurological and psychiatric conditions such as stroke, major depression, migraine, movement
      disorders and Tourette syndrome. One limitation of conventional TMS, besides the bulkiness of
      the device and large amount of current involved, is that it allows stimulation at only one
      cortical site at a time.Dr. Santosh Helekar of Houston Methodist Research Institute (HMRI)
      and Dr. Henning Voss of Weill-Cornell Medical College (WCMC) have developed a compact
      portable and wearable multisite transcranial magnetic stimulation device called Transcranial
      Rotating Permanent Magnet Stimulator (TRPMS) that can deliver stimuli at multiple cortical
      sites simultaneously or sequentially. It uses rapidly rotating small high-strength permanent
      magnets to induce currents in the brain. As opposed to conventional TMS, the TRPMS device is
      also ideally suited to conduct double blinded placebo controlled studies because undetectable
      demagnetized magnets can be intermixed with actual magnet to allow rapid rotation of either
      type of magnets to be activated and one in the same device in a randomized protocol. Under a
      previously approved HMRI study protocol this new device has been shown to induce motor-evoked
      potentials (MEPs) in the thenar muscles by highly focused stimulation of the cortical
      representation in the precentral gyrus.

      In the present study, the investigators would like to conduct a test to see the therapeutic
      effectiveness of focused TRPMS stimulation of the epileptogenic region found on scalp
      electroencephalogram (EEG) in patients with focal CSWS. The specific aim of the study are:

        1. To look at the immediate benefit obtained by CSWS patients subjected to 10 minutes of
           one-time TRPMS-ECA (epileptogenic cortical area) stimulation; evaluated as a reduction
           in Spike-Wave Index (SWI) on EEG during sleep.

        2. To look at duration of sustainability (hours) of change in SWI achieved post
           stimulation.

        3. To look at the tolerability of patients in using TRPMS.
    
  