
    
      Introduction : Treatment of Rhino-Sinusal Mucormycosis remains a challenge because of the
      severity of the disease with high mortality rates. Mainly involving diabetic and
      immunodeficient patients, first clinical presentation is a common infection of the sinuses
      which can extend towards deep spaces of the face, orbits, the skull base and the brain. The
      mortality rates range from 20 to 50%, up to 80% in case of cerebral extension. through
      Transnasal Endoscopic Surgery extended to the Skull Base.

      Hypothesis : We hypothesize that infected tissues are devascularized and because of that
      antifungal therapies can hardly reach areas of infected tissues. Radical endoscopic
      transnasal surgery associated with medical treatment with liposomal amphotericine B may
      increase the local control of the disease and the survival rate. Clinical evaluation of the
      extent of the disease within the first 7 days following initial surgery may represent a
      prognosis factor.

      Methods :

      First national mutlicentric and multidisciplinary cohort on Rhino-Sinusal Mucormycosis
      Radiological staging for evaluation of the extent of the disease using CT scan, MRI and PET
      Scan at initial stage before surgery Radical surgery and/or endoscopic transnasal surgery
      extended towards the skull base associated with liposomal amphotericine B medical treatment.

      At day 7 new radiological evaluation and second surgical look to adapt surgical resection of
      infected tissues, perform biopsies to search for mycormycosis, biofilms and dosage of the
      concentration of liposomal amphotericin B inside tissues. New radiological and surgical looks
      in case of absence of local control obtained on the second look and further.

      Study of the response rate by an endoscopic & scan follow-up (with biopsies for
      anatomopathological et mycological studies) at 1 month, 3 months, 6 months & one year. PET
      scan initially & at 3 months.

      Number of subjects included : Phase II type trial (exclusion of a zero hypothesis of survival
      rate <50% ), N= 23 patients

      Total length of the study 4 years Inclusion period time : 3 years Time of participation per
      patient : 1 year Number of center and/or participating departments: 24 Mean number of
      patients included per year and per center : 0 to 3 patients
    
  