
    
      Following surgery, kidney transplant patients must take medications in order to prevent
      rejection of their transplanted organ. These medications can be very effective. Called
      immunosuppressive drugs, they work by reducing the activity of the immune system. Because of
      this, however, they can also have serious side effects, including increased risks of serious
      infections and certain types of cancer.

      The ITN Registry of Tolerant Kidney Transplant Recipients recently identified a rare group of
      people whose immune system has accepted their transplant without continued use of
      immunosuppressive drugs. Researchers have found that these patients have a unique pattern of
      cells and genes expressed in their blood compared to other transplant patients.

      The ARTIST study will ask the questions "Are there other transplant patients who show this
      pattern?" and "If so, how often?"

      The goal is to find out if there are other transplant patients who are taking
      immunosuppression who also show this pattern of genes. If there are others, then this pattern
      may one day be useful in identifying transplant patients who could reduce the dose of
      immunosuppression they need without fear of rejection.

      Researchers are seeking adults who have received a kidney transplant within the past 1 to 5
      years. Participants will be asked to attend 3 short appointments with study doctors over a
      period of 2 years. At these visits, doctors will request demographic and clinical
      information, relevant medical histories and blood and urine samples. Participants will be
      compensated for their time.

      It is important to note that this is an observational study only. Other than receiving
      consultations and advice from the transplant team, there is no direct medical benefit to
      participating. However, by participating, patients may play an active part in helping doctors
      learn to control kidney transplant rejection more effectively, with fewer drugs.
    
  