
    
      Objectives：

        1. To assess the percentage of febrile neutropenia and suspected fungal-related febrile
           episodes in patients receiving chemotherapy

        2. To explore the percentage/distribution of infectious origins of febrile neutropenia

        3. To explore the percentage/distribution of infectious pathogens of febrile neutropenia

        4. To explore clinical outcomes of different infectious origins/pathogens in febrile
           neutropenia episodes

        5. To have a clear view of therapeutic actions in the management of hematological patients
           with febrile neutropenia and suspected fungal-related febrile episodes

      Study Design：

        -  This is a single institute, prospective, non-interventional registry for monitoring
           events of febrile neutropenia in hematological patients

        -  Patients with newly diagnosed malignant hematological diseases will be enrolled into
           this registry

      Study Procedures： Data collection will include patients' basic information, underlying
      disease, baseline blood chemistry and blood cell counts, antifungal prophylaxis, C/T
      regimens, neutrophils and other blood cells, fever diagnosis and infectious sites work-up,
      clinical response, microbiology (including bacteria and fungus culture), renal and liver
      function, clinical diagnosis, work-up and intensive procedures and results, antifungal and
      antibacterial agents (including dosage, duration, and route), other drugs used (including
      antivirals, antineoplastics, corticosteroids, immunomodulators), clinical significant changes

      Sample Size Calculation and Statistical Analysis： Approximately 100 febrile neutropenia
      episodes in 500 chemotherapy cycles will be collected. This is an observational and
      exploratory study without hypothesis tests. Study subjects will be collected and monitored
      under normal clinical practice, and the sample size will be limited due to the hospital scale
      and disease characteristic (the sample size calculation is inapplicable here). All
      evaluations will be shown by exploratory and descriptive data analysis. The number of cases
      for each investigative definition, the corresponding percentage and the 95% confidence
      interval will be described.
    
  