
    
      This trial has been informed by self-determination theory. The theory states that individuals
      who choose their own activities report increased internal reasons/motivations, as opposed to
      external reasons (to satisfy another person's suggestions) for the behavior. Internal
      motivation for performing a behavior are linked with increased pleasure with the behavior and
      improved adherence.

      The primary outcome is improvement in CRF from baseline to 12-months post-intervention. The
      secondary outcomes are changes in exercise adherence from baseline to 6- and 12-month
      post-intervention. Tertiary outcomes include self-reported changes in in-task affective
      responses during the exercise intervention, as well as baseline to 6- and 12-month
      post-intervention changes in exercise-related motivation and enjoyment in free-living,
      unsupervised exercise. A total of 201 low active adults (18 to 70 years) with prediabetes
      will be randomized to a 3-week supervised intervention involving behavioral counseling and
      one of three exercise conditions, either: 1) imposed high-intensity interval training
      (Imposed-HIIT; n=67/group); 2) imposed moderate-intensity continuous training (Imposed-MICT),
      or 3) choice between MICT or HIIT (CHOICE). It is hypothesized that the CHOICE condition will
      have higher improvements in CRF (primary outcome) from baseline to 12-month
      post-intervention, and exercise adherence (secondary outcome) from baseline to 6- and
      12-months post-intervention, compared to individuals in the IM-MICT or IM-HIIT. For the
      tertiary outcomes, the CHOICE condition will show greater in-task affective responses during
      the exercise intervention. We further except greater changes in exercise-related motivation
      and enjoyment for the CHOICE condition from baseline to 6- and 12-months post-intervention
      compared to IM-HIIT and IM-MICT conditions. This proposed trial would provide theory- and
      evidence-based information whether providing choice for engaging in HIIT or MICT is
      associated with improvements in CRF, exercise adherence, and exercise enjoyment.
    
  