
    
      ALS, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, is a rare and fatal disease causing gradual loss of motor
      neurons and thus loss of function in all skeletal muscle, eventually also in the breathing
      muscles, leading to respiratory failure and ultimately death. There is no causal treatment.
      The treatment provided aims to improve life quality as long as possible. Non-invasive
      ventilation (NIV) compensates for respiratory failure as breathing deteriorates.

      ALS patients with bulbar innervated muscle dysfunction (mouth, tongue, jaw, throat, larynx)
      have poor compliance to the use of NIV. It is not completely understood why bulbar ALS
      patients fails NIV, although the upper airways have been a suggested cause also of this
      treatment failure. The investigators in the Norwegian study group has previously examined
      laryngeal response patterns (using transnasal fiberoptic laryngoscopy ) during mechanically
      assisted cough in ALS. The studies revealed that Transnasal fiberoptic laryngoscopy was
      safely performed with ongoing mechanically assisted cough, and it appeared a feasible tool to
      visualize the laryngeal responses to mechanical cough therapy.

      The further hypothesis is that the use of transnasal fiberoptic laryngoscopy during ongoing
      NIV titration could improve the compliance of NIV treatment in ALS.

      Since ALS is a relatively rare disease and it is difficult to perform large clinical studies,
      a project group has been established and agreed to a common protocol of a population-based
      multicenter-study including two hospitals, in Bergen in Norway and Vila Real in Portugal.

      Aims of the study are:

      To investigate the feasibility of video-recorded Transnasal fiberoptic laryngoscopic
      evaluation of the upper airways applied during NIV titration, and to describe the upper
      airway responses to NIV treatment in patients with ALS.

      To explore whether the endoscopic view of the upper airways will influence the titration of
      NIV settings in ALS patients.

      To explore whether NIV titration with endoscopic evaluation will influence NIV compliance and
      ventilation effectiveness in ALS patients.
    
  