
    
      From June 2008 to December 2008 consecutive patients undergo pars plana vitrectomy for
      diabetic fibrovascular proliferation were included in the study.

      All cases have fibrovascular proliferation with vitreo-retinal adhesions in 3 or more sites
      but not extending beyond equator in more than one quadrant. Complete removal of the visible
      posterior preretinal membrane was done during surgery in every case. All cases included in
      the study had attached retina postoperatively. Cases with rhegmatogenous detachment, silicone
      oil infusion, or post-operative moderate to dense cataract were not included. Surgical
      indications included progressive fibrovascular proliferation (FVP), and traction retinal
      detachment. Postoperative standard 6 mm 6-line OCT (Stratus OCTTM optical coherence
      tomography, Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc., Dublin, CA) study centered on the macula and fundus
      photography were carried out between 7 months to 15 months after surgery. All cases were
      enrolled from the Department of Ophthalmology, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei,
      Taiwan.

      Data on patients' age, gender, systemic diseases, study eye, types and duration of diabetes
      mellitus, intraoperative diagnosis, and additional surgical procedures such as cryotherapy,
      scleral buckling [segmental sponge or 360º encircling buckle (Gore-Tex®,
      polytetrafluoroethylene, W. L. Gore & Associates, Inc., Flagstaff, AZ)], or internal gas
      (C3F8 or SF6) are recorded. Further data about OCT findings, best-corrected visual acuity at
      the time of OCT images, and the duration of post-operative follow-up also are compiled.
      Different morphological appearances of the macula detected by OCT are categorized. These
      changes are compared between the two surgical subgroups. Correlations of the morphological
      changes with postoperative visual outcome are conducted.

      For the purpose of OCT categorization, measured thickness of more than 300um in the central
      foveal area and more than 400um in the surrounding macular area in at least 3 examination
      lines with or without intraretinal cystic spaces or epiretinal membrane is defined as
      increase of macular thickness. Visible cystic spaces in and immediate adjacent to the fovea
      is categorized as foveal cysts. The presence of clear optical empty space between pigment
      epithelium and neurosensory retina are defined foveal detachment.

      Statistical analysis In the first step of the statistical analyses, Chi-square test (or
      Fisher exact test, if n<5) and Kruskal-Wallis test, followed by the Mann-Whitney U test were
      used to analyze each variant individually for univariate analysis. In the second step,
      multivariate regression models were used for elucidating the independent influence of each
      morphological change on postoperative visual outcome. Levels of statistical significance were
      set at P<0.05.
    
  