
    
      Research Supporting Study Objectives. Tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable death
      in the U.S. Over 443,000 deaths per year are attributable to smoking, with the leading causes
      of smoking-attributable death being cancer, cardiovascular diseases, and respiratory disease.
      Although the prevalence of smoking has declined to 20.6% among U.S. adults, 31.1% of those
      living in poverty are currently smoking. Numerous studies have shown that low SES and
      financial strain are associated with a reduced likelihood of smoking cessation. As such, lung
      cancer incidence is far greater among those with low education and who are living in poverty,
      relative to their higher SES counterparts. Although individuals of low SES are just as likely
      to attempt smoking cessation, they are less likely to succeed. As such, smoking cessation
      interventions for low SES populations have had limited success (e.g., biologically confirmed
      7-day point prevalence abstinence rates of 7-13% at 6-month follow-up. Innovative smoking
      cessation interventions are needed to help reduce the rate of smoking in socioeconomically
      disadvantaged populations of smokers.

      Ecological Momentary Assessment and Smoking Cessation Treatments. To date, most studies that
      have examined smoking and smoking cessation in socioeconomically disadvantaged smokers have
      used focus groups or traditional lab/clinic based assessment methodology. In the latter
      scenario, study participants arrive at a lab or clinic for their baseline visit and are asked
      to answer questions about their "average" or "recent" (e.g., over the past 2 weeks) mood,
      level of stress, and smoking urges. Participants return to the lab/clinic for follow-up
      visits and are asked to report thoughts, feelings, and activities that occurred weeks or even
      months earlier (e.g., "How stressed were you when you smoked your first cigarette after your
      quit date?"). This type of assessment methodology may result in biased and/or inaccurate
      estimates due to recall biases and errors in memory and only offers a gross understanding of
      how cessation symptoms effect smoking lapses and relapse. A more nuanced picture of these
      symptoms may offer important insights that may be used to create or improve cessation
      interventions for socioeconomically disadvantaged smokers, who face unique and substantial
      challenges in quitting smoking.

      Ecological momentary assessment (EMA), in which handheld devices (e.g., smart phones) are
      used to capture moment to moment experience, is currently the most accurate way to measure
      phenomena in real time in natural settings. EMAs are often used to assess individuals at
      multiple time points throughout a day. Thus, momentary changes in key variables can be
      tracked and potentially used to initiate novel interventions. EMA research may facilitate a
      better understanding of the mechanisms involved in successful cessation attempts, those
      affecting smoking lapses, and those implicated in the transition from lapse to relapse.
      Although multiple studies have identified momentary predictors of smoking relapse to our
      knowledge, no studies have used a participant's responses to EMAs to automatically prompt
      tailored smoking cessation interventions. Using smart phones to detect high relapse risk
      situations and automatically deliver tailored smoking cessation treatments may help
      socioeconomically disadvantaged smokers quit.
    
  