
    
      The prevalence of symptomatic heart failure in general population is up to 2% and the
      prevalence increases rapidly with age. Half of the patients with symptomatic heart failure
      will die within 4 years of diagnosis.The purpose of this study is to examine the effect of
      bone marrow-derived stem cell transplantation in left ventricular ejection fraction.

      Consecutive patients with systolic heart failure (n=60), with ischemic coronary heart
      disease, scheduled to by-pass-operation (CABG) will be collected from cardiovascular
      laboratory and outpatient clinic of Helsinki University Central Hospital. Patients should
      have heart failure with ejection fraction between 15 to 45%. Randomly patients are selected
      to receive a stem cell transplantation with best possible heart failure medication, or
      without cell transplantation. In this study, 30 patients are receiving bone marrow
      transplantation, and 30 patients are serving as a control population. All patients will
      receive CABG.The study will be carried out with randomized, double blind techniques for one
      year. Randomization (in blocks) will be based on a table of random numbers.Bone marrow and
      patients own serum will be blinded by using colored syringe, so that the doctor transfusing
      the sample, will not be able to know the nature of the sample. From all patients, a right
      atrial biopsy will be collected for assessment of autologous cardiac stem cells. Also sample
      of pericardial fluid will be collected for measures of growth factors.

      Comparisons: Preoperatively, patients will be imagined by cardiac ultrasound, cardiac MRI,
      cardiac PET and SPECT. Serum pro-BNB samples will be collected. Postoperatively at 3 months
      and 6 months pro-BNB and cardiac ultrasound will be evaluated. At one year cardiac
      ultrasound, cardiac MRI, cardiac PET and SPECT will be reassessed.

      Heart failure and coronary artery disease treatments beside the transplantation will be
      optimized according to the judgment of the doctors of the outpatients clinic. Primary
      endpoint of the study is the change of ejection fraction in MRI images.
    
  