
    
      We retrospectively reviewed the clinical, radiological and biological data of 28 consecutive
      patients with a diagnosis of CAA-ri between 2004 and 2016, in 6 different neurological
      centers from Occitanie in the south of France (Montpellier, Toulouse, Nimes, Narbonne,
      Bezier, Perpignan). Inclusion criteria were the following: 1) pathological diagnosis assessed
      by both CNS Aß vascular deposition and transmural of perivascular inflammation or 2) a
      probable or possible CAA-ri according to the recently criteria proposed by Auriel et al.
      (Auriel, JAMA 2016). CAA diagnosis before onset was done retrospectively according to Boston
      Criteria (Knudsen, Neurology, 2001) (Smith, Cardiovascular disease and stroke, 2003).

        1. Clinical data For each patient, the following demographic and clinical data were
           systematically recorded: age, gender, neurological medical history, independence,
           neurological symptoms, initial evolution at discharge, treatment type and duration and
           follow-up data. Onset of the disease was defined as acute (<48h), sub acute (>48h and
           <4weeks) or chronic (>4weeks) depending on the time elapsed between the manifestation of
           the first symptoms and time of referral to the treating center. Response to treatment
           was assessed according to the treating neurologist global opinion. Relapse was defined
           as a recurrence of symptoms and new/enlarging lesions on cerebral MRI. Disability at the
           end of follow-up was defined using the modified Rankin scale (mRS) through a review of
           the last medical record by two neurologists (SC, XA). Outcome was dichotomized into good
           outcome (mRS 0 to 2) and poor outcome (3 to 6).

        2. Laboratory data Laboratory data included ApoE genotype in n=20 patients and
           cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis (n=25 patients). In addition to the standard test,
           CSF analysis included Alzheimer's disease (AD) biomarkers study: results were compared
           with series of patients with AD, CAA and control patients (Charamidou, JAD 2016)
           (Renard, JAD, 2016). Cerebral biopsy was performed in 6 patients.

        3. Neuroimaging data MRI examinations were performed either at 1.5 or 3 Tesla for all the
           patients upon routine clinical care. Sequences included T1-weighted pre and post
           contrast, T2, Flair, diffusion, T2-Gradient Echo sequencing (T2-GRE). SWI was performed
           in only 5 patients and was thus not included in the analysis. Imagings of all patients
           were reviewed by two neurologists (SC, XA) and a neuroradiologist (NM). On the first MRI
           performed at diagnosis, confluent T2/FLAIR white matter hyperintensity (WMH) Figure 1A,
           size was characterized using a qualitative score as follow: small (<50% of one lobe),
           medium (>50% of one lobe and less than an entire lobe) and large (the volume of
           confluent WMH uni or multifocal exceeding one lobe), and mass effect was classified as
           mild (sulcal effacement), moderate (mass effect on the lateral ventricle) or severe
           (subfalcine herniation).

           The presence and number of lobar intracerebral macrohemorrhage (ICH), cerebral
           microbleeds (CMBs) and cortical superficial siderosis (cSS) were evaluated on T2-GRE.
           The distribution and severity of cSS was classified as focal (restricted to ≤3 sulci) or
           disseminated (≥4 sulci) (Roongpiboonsopit, Neurology, 2016).

           Localization and number of Dwi-positive cerebral infarcts as well as the presence of
           contrast enhancement were noticed. Almost all the patients (96%) had at least one
           follow-up MRI enabling analysis of the evolution of the main lesion, occurrence of
           infarcts, ICH, the raise CMBs' number and the contrast enhancement Figure 1.

           This series comprises only routinely collected clinical, biological and radiological
           data and was judged not to require formal ethical committee approval.

        4. Statistical analysis Data were summarized for continuous variables as mean ±SD (Max,
           Min) and number (%) for categorical variables. Statistical comparisons were performed by
           Fisher exact test for categorical variables and non-parametric Wilcoxon rank sum test
           for continuous variables. Comparison of continuous variables between groups was
           performed using non-parametric. Survival was estimated with the Kaplan-Meier method. The
           relationship between categorical parameters and outcome measures was assessed by
           non-parametric log-rank test. Finally we use an ANOVA test to compare biomarkers between
           CAA-ri, Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and controls. For all analyses, a two-tailed p-value
           <0.05 was used as the criterion for statistical significance. Statistical analyses were
           performed using R version 3.0.1 (The R Foundation for Statistical Computing). To test
           the association between MCB's number and clinical outcome we categorized the number of
           microbleeds in 3 categories: 0 to 99 CMB, 100 to 199 and more than 200 per patient.
    
  