
    
      Pancreatic cancer continues to be a very lethal disease. It was estimated that in 2016,
      53,070 Americans would be diagnosed with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA), and 41,780
      would die from the disease. This makes pancreatic cancer the third leading cause of death
      from cancer in the US.

      PDA is the twelfth most common cancer in the world with 338,000 new cases diagnosed in 2012.
      It is estimated that worldwide there will be > 300,000 deaths from pancreatic cancer.
      Furthermore unfortunately PDA is projected to be the second leading cause of death from
      cancer in the US by 2030.

      Detection of pancreatic cancer has notoriously been very late in the disease and therefore
      the 5-year survival rate is only 8%, which is actually a slight improvement over the last few
      years. Right now the only potential cure for pancreatic cancer is surgical resection (if the
      disease is caught early). However only about 20% of PDA patients are eligible for potentially
      curable resection and unfortunately most (> 80%) have recurrence of their cancer within 2
      years of resection, and those recurrences are almost universally fatal.

      Recently it has been shown that there are regimens that actually improve survival for
      patients with advanced stage IV PDA. Conroy and colleagues have developed the Folfirinox
      regimen, which in a large randomized trial improved survival over gemcitabine as a single
      agent. Von Hoff and colleagues developed the nanoparticle albumin (nab) associated paclitaxel
      plus gemcitabine regimen which improved survival over single agent gemcitabine. Even more
      recently Jameson and colleagues have presented a combined regimen of nab-paclitaxel +
      gemcitabine + cisplatin in a small 24 patient phase Ib/II trial which showed a response rate
      of 71% with 2 patients having complete response, a 1-year survival of 65% and a median
      survival of 16+ months.

      While there have been multiple investigators and investigations into the use of ascorbic acid
      for patients with cancer (see ClinTrials.gov), its use has generally not been found to be of
      help for patients particularly when given orally - e.g. 10 grams daily.
    
  