
    
      The investigators are proposing a prospective, monocentric trial to assess the use of fusion
      imaging in peripheral endovascular revascularisation. The main aim of this research is to
      prove that using fusion imaging guidance during peripheral endovascular revascularisation
      improve the patient and staff safety in the theatre, through a reduction of radiation
      exposure.

      Peripheral artery occlusive disease (PAOD) is a worldwide well known disease, with
      atherosclerosis as a leading cause. One third of patients with PAOD are symptomatic,
      typically presenting with claudication, and in a very much less proportion with critical limb
      ischemia. These last patients are high risk for major limb amputation without
      revascularisation. Once symptomatic PAOD diagnosed, a CT-scan is required to assess the
      anatomy and if indicated an endovascular revascularisation of the lower limbs arteries is
      performed. This minimally invasive procedure allows the improvement of the hemodynamic flow
      into the lower limb, by positioning one or several stents inside the diseased arteries
      through a femoral or an humeral access under live X-rays (fluoroscopy) guidance.

      X-rays are good at showing bones and radio-opaque endovascular tools, but they do not show
      soft tissues like the arteries, and they produce flat (2D) images that superimpose all the 3D
      anatomical features. In order to see the arteries, physicians have to inject iodinated
      contrast during high quality imaging recording, which can be toxic for the kidneys, and
      increases the amount of radiation used. Consequently, the drawbacks of this mini-invasive
      procedure are the X-rays radiation exposure for both patients and medical staff, and the need
      of iodinated contrast injection that can lead to lifelong kidney problems. Reducing both in
      order to decrease their respective toxicities must be a priority for the endovascular
      therapist. Several studies including guidelines recall basic safety standards for protection
      against X-rays and iodinated contrast exposure.

      One way to reduce both radiation and contrast use is to improve clinicians' perception of
      intraoperative 3D vascular anatomy. Advanced imaging techniques allow overlay of a 3D version
      of the aorta from a pre-operative CT scan (a 3D vascular mask) onto the live X-ray image
      creating a '3D roadmap' - a virtual reality that helps guide surgery. It has been proven that
      using fusion imaging guidance during aortic endovascular repair reduce both contrast and
      radiation dose, especially if the registration protocol is contrast and almost radiation
      free. The investigators have recently completed research showing that they are able to use an
      advanced imaging application to dramatically reduce our radiation dose for complex aneurysms.

      Traditionally, this advanced imaging application is currently available only in modern
      expensive hybrid theatres, and not used in everyday practice during peripheral endovascular
      revascularisation procedures. However new technologies are about to supply similar imaging to
      any interventional equipment, which will change the way endovascular procedures are performed
      worldwide. That's why using fusion imaging guidance routinely as a standard of care may be
      part of good practice to improve patient and staff safety. However, to our knowledge, the
      impact of using fusion on radiation dose and contrast use has not been validated for
      peripheral endovascular procedures.

      This trial will examine the clinical benefits of using fusion imaging guidance during
      peripheral endovascular revascularisation procedures based on the radiation exposure, as
      compared with procedures without imaging guidance. The design of the study is to compare a
      prospective single centre cohort of 88 consecutive patients scheduled for an endovascular
      peripheral procedure and randomised either as using the imaging guidance overlay, or to a
      control cohort of patients whose procedure will be performed without imaging guidance
      (standard of care).

      This study is a Low risk and constraints study, because it's a standard care procedure with
      no additional risks.
    
  