
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the safety of three different stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) radiation arms
      in combination with pembrolizumab for melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) brain
      metastasis (BM) patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate intracranial outcomes - control of the treated lesion in the brain with SRS+
      pembrolizumab (i.e. local control), development of additional sites of disease in the brain
      that were not initially treated with SRS (i.e. anywhere intra-cranial failure), intra-cranial
      progression free survival (local control of the area that received SRS and anywhere
      intra-cranial failure), extra-cranial disease response (overall progression free survival),
      rate of leptomeningeal dissemination, and overall survival.

      II. To determine the overall response rate and overall survival of combination SRS and
      pembrolizumab compared to SRS alone (historical control).

      III. To determine the overall response rate and overall survival of combination SRS and
      pembrolizumab compared to pembrolizumab alone (historical control).

      IV. To evaluate treatment response at un-irradiated and extra-cranial sites (i.e. the
      abscopal effect) with all three arms.

      V. To compare differences in potential immune biomarkers, pretreatment, during treatment, and
      post treatment.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM A (SRS 6 Gy, CLOSED): Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes
      on day 1. Courses repeat every 3 weeks (Q3W) for at least 2 years in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo 5 SRS fractions between days 2-15 of
      course 1.

      ARM B (SRS 9 Gy): Patients receive pembrolizumab IV as in Arm A. Patients undergo 3 SRS
      fractions between days 2-15 of course 1.

      ARM C (SRS 18-21 Gy): Patients receive pembrolizumab IV as in Arm A. Patients undergo 1 SRS
      fraction between days 2-3 of course 1.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 12 weeks
      for up to 1 year.
    
  