
    
      Stress has a negative effect on many aspects of health. Older adults may be particularly
      sensitive to adverse effects of stress because of lower physiologic reserves and coexistence
      of other health problems. Since mind-body interventions may be most effective in conditions
      associated with psychological stress, this research will evaluate the effectiveness of a
      mind-body intervention in seniors who have a significant stress: being the primary caregiver
      for a person with dementia (PWD) secondary to Alzheimer's disease. The well-being of this
      large and growing group of Americans is a significant public health issue. We plan to study a
      Mindfulness Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT) program for caregivers of a PWD in a randomized
      3-arm intervention trial. There are two comparison groups: an education group and a
      pragmatic, respite only group. The two active interventions, MBCT and education, also include
      identical respite care for the PWD to allow the caregiver to attend the classes. Each
      intervention will last 6 weeks, and consist of one 50 minute class and/or or 2-3 hours of
      respite per week along. Homework for the two groups in the classes will consist of home
      meditation practice for the MBCT group and development of an action plan and reading for the
      education group. Outcome measures will be assessed at 8 weeks and at 20 weeks (immediately
      and 12 weeks after the intervention class has been completed). Our primary outcome measure
      will be a self-rated measure of caregiver stress. There are a number of secondary outcome
      measures representing biomarkers of stress including: salivary cortisols measured over the
      day to include the awakening response and trough levels; inflammatory markers; and
      electrophysiologic markers. Other secondary outcome measures include self-efficacy,
      health-related quality of life, mood, and cognitive function. We will use several measures to
      predict response to MBCT and education in an aptitude by treatment interaction analysis.
      These measures include the personality trait absorption, emotion-based versus problem-based
      coping, and expectancy of improvement from each intervention. We will also use the 24-hour
      acquisition device to evaluate the ability of subjects randomized to MBCT to induce
      physiologic changes during self-reported mindfulness meditation and relate the magnitude of
      these changes to improvements in outcome measures.
    
  