
    
      Severe but also moderate toxicities after curative-intent radiotherapy (RT), such as a poor
      cosmetic outcome following breast cancer can have a negative impact on quality of life and a
      marked effect on subsequent psychological outcome. Nevertheless, current practice standards
      commonly prescribe radiation dose and volume without regard to individual radiosensitivity.

      In that context, a normal tissue radiosensitivity test that includes a rapid (72 h)
      radiosensitivity assay based on flow cytometric assessment of radiation-induced CD8
      T-lymphocyte apoptosis (RILA) and other significant clinical parameters (multifactorial
      nomogram) was developed. The NovaGray Breast® test combines both a biological analysis
      (radio-induced lymphocyte apoptosis) and a predictive analysis, including external parameters
      related to the patient and her treatment. A negative predictive value (>90%) was found in
      case of high RILA taken alone and a sensitivity of 80% to detect the toxicity with an initial
      AUC of 0.61. In addition, including significant clinical parameters, the AUC was increased to
      0.69. Moreover, a prognosis model with RILA alone to predict the probability to develop a
      toxicity and performance of the model was increased with the inclusion of significant
      clinical parameters (C-Harell 0.61 >> 0.69).

      The NovaGray Breast® test is now validated after two prospective trials, one French (PHRC)
      and one European (Requite FP7). RILA and other factors have been confirmed to be independent
      factors that increase significantly the appearance of severe breast fibrosis. All these data
      have been merged into a nomogram allowing a predictive tool for daily clinical practice and
      then to customize radiotherapy techniques and indications.

      In the meantime, several treatment modifications have been suggested to reduce late effects
      after breast radiotherapy:

      Omission of radiotherapy has been suggested when luminal A tumor subtype is combined with
      clinical and pathologic factors defining a subgroup of patients with a low risk of
      ipsilateral breast recurrence. In this group, the benefits of radiotherapy are small [6]. In
      addition, low risk of recurrence was confirmed in randomized trials in a highly selected
      population. However, omitting radiotherapy and using intrinsic subtyping and clinical factors
      is a substantial change in care and could be driven by the risk of toxicity.

      Reduction of the breast irradiated volume is also a possibility that has been tested and
      published using IORT, brachytherapy or external beam radiotherapy. The first two techniques
      are reserved for trained and expert centres but showed encouraging results with low toxicity
      rates and recurrences. The recent experience of external partial breast irradiation (EPBI)
      with twice daily fractions regimen showed an increase risk of late side-effects leading to
      use hypofractionated EPBI (hEPBI) once daily, 5 days a week. This regimen could only be used
      in case of selecting patients with NovaGray Breast®test without individual risk of late
      effects.

      Hypofractionation has been adapted to breast cancer radiotherapy. Overall, all recent
      clinical trials showed only few late effects when hypofractionation was delivered to the
      whole breast (WB). Nevertheless, It has been shown in the TRANS-FAST trial a significant
      decrease of grade ≥2 bf+ for increasing values of RILA in the same extent than observed with
      conventional fractional schedules. These results reinforce the need of patients' selection
      using the NovaGray Breast® test.
    
  