
    
      Training of the examiner:

      Participating investigators(Resident and supervisor) will be trained and calibrated on the
      development of the trial, case selection, measurement techniques, sample collection, data
      compilation sheets and their precise role in the study. In order to evaluate the
      intra-examiner reliability, five subjects not involved in the study will be evaluated twice
      by each investigator for the measurements at the interval of one week.

      Methodology:

      On the first visit after clinical examination, the specially designed baseline study proforma
      will be filled-in. The bleeding sites, probing depth and the gingival index score will be
      calculated.

      Group A subjects will be instructed to apply a standard 0.2 % Chlorhexidine gel (clinica gel)
      on the marginal gingiva for the next 14 days, twice a day for 30 minutes, after morning and
      evening tooth brushing.

      Group B subjects will be instructed to apply 0.8 % Metronidazole gel (anaerobic gel) twice
      daily for 30 minutes after morning and evening tooth brushing for two weeks.

      Group C subjects will be instructed to apply 0.2 % Chlorhexidine gel (clinica gel) on the
      marginal gingiva after morning tooth brushing for 30 minutes and 0.8 % metronidazole gel
      (anaerobic gel) after evening tooth brushing for 30 minutes for two weeks. Subjects in these
      groups will receive the detailed and precise instruction and demonstrations on the diurnal
      alternate application of the two gels.

      The application of the topical gels will be halted after 2 weeks and second clinical
      examination will be carried out for bleeding sites, probing depth and the gingival index
      score. Scaling & polishing of teeth in all three groups and oral hygiene instructions will be
      reinforced. Subjects will be recalled at 4 week for evaluation of gingival and oral hygiene
      indices. The reading will be recorded in the study proforma.

      Randomization, blinding and treatment allocation:

      Subjects will be assigned to one of the three study groups using a computer generated
      randomization list. The recruitment of the patients will be performed by one investigator.
      All the measurements at the baseline and follow ups will be performed by the second
      investigator. Patient, the operator (until the gel will be handed over by the dental
      assistant), the investigator who is taking the measurement and the statistician will be
      blinded about the intervention groups. This will be ensured by giving codes to the
      intervention groups only known to the principal investigator who is not involved in the
      measurement and interaction with the patient.
    
  