
    
      This is a single-center randomized, single-blinded, controlled clinical trial testing
      superiority of LR compared to NS in patients receiving IV fluid before discharge.

      The study site is the University of Iowa Emergency Department (annual patient volume is
      60,000 patients/year).

      The study population will include adult ED patients presenting with chief complaints
      associated with volume depletion. Figure 1 outlines the enrollment flowchart for the study
      with inclusion and exclusion criteria. Research assistants (RAs) are available in the ED from
      9am - 10pm every day, and an automated paging system will alert the team when patients
      qualify, as the study team has done previously. All participants will receive 2 liters of
      blinded IV fluid as part of the study. The intervention group will receive lactated ringer's,
      and the control group will receive normal saline (0.9% sodium chloride). Nursing staff will
      establish the peripheral IV access, and subjects will be blinded to group.

      The primary outcome, Quality of Recovery-40, will be analyzed using a t-test (if parametric)
      or Mann Whitney U Test (non-parametric) in an intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis. Normality
      will be assessed with a Kolmogorov-Smirnov (K-S) and visualization of data. Due to the nature
      of time-critical emergency department research, an additional analysis will be done by
      treatment received and compared to the primary ITT analysis as a sensitivity analysis.
      Secondary outcomes will be reported as a relative risk with 95%CI in an ITT analysis. A
      safety analysis of secondary outcomes will be performed by treatment received (see page 37).
      Baseline characteristics will be reported with summary statistics as appropriate (mean, SD,
      median, IQR) and differences in characteristics will be conducted using a t-test and
      chi-square test, as appropriate. The following variables will also be assessed: actual fluid
      administered(mL), pre-intervention QoR-40 score, and time from intervention to primary
      outcome. If differences in these characteristics exist between the control and intervention
      groups, multivariate linear regression and multivariate logistic regression (primary and
      secondary outcomes, respectively) will be used.
    
  