
    
      Gout is the most common form of inflammatory arthritis affecting adults (1), with a disease
      frequency that continues to increase dramatically (2). Gout is associated with substantial
      morbidity and mortality which are concentrated in older men and magnified in patients with
      chronic kidney disease (CKD) (3-6), demographics common to the Veterans Affairs (VA) Health
      System. Effective gout therapies are readily available and are centered primarily on the use
      of approved urate lowering therapy (ULT). Despite having excellent ULT options available to
      patients (7), gout is extremely poorly managed especially in patients with CKD (8-10).

      The two most widely used ULTs in clinical practice, allopurinol and febuxostat, have recently
      been endorsed as the two acceptable first-line treatment strategies in chronic gout (7).
      Although both agents appear to be efficacious and generally well-tolerated, allopurinol and
      febuxostat have significantly different costs and have never been compared to each other at
      appropriate doses. Randomized controlled trials completed to date comparing allopurinol with
      febuxostat in gout have used 'fixed' and, in many cases, insufficient doses of allopurinol
      (11-13), an approach that is contrary to current guideline recommendations (7). Furthermore,
      these studies have included only very small proportions of gout patients with CKD even though
      CKD is present in approximately 1 of every 2 gout sufferers (14).

      To test the hypothesis that allopurinol is non-inferior to febuxostat in the treatment of
      gout, the investigators propose a randomized open-label non-inferiority trial, which for the
      first time compares allopurinol with febuxostat using appropriately titrated doses and a
      "treat-to-target" approach. Further, the investigators will assess the comparative
      effectiveness of these agents in a significant number of gout patients with co-morbid CKD.

      The investigators plan to enroll 950 participants with a diagnosis of gout, including
      participants with stage 3 CKD, who are hyperuricemic defined as a serum uric acid
      concentration (sUA) above 6.8 mg/dl. Participants will be recruited from 18 Veteran Affairs
      and 5 Rheumatology and Arthritis Investigational Network (RAIN) sites. The total duration of
      the trial will be 4 years. Recruitment will occur over 24 months. Participants will be
      followed for 72 weeks. This will include a 24 week Dose Titration Phase (Phase 1) followed by
      a 24 week Maintenance and Optimization Phase (Phase 2) and then a 24 week Steady State Flare
      Observation Phase (Phase 3). The investigators will use a "treat-to-target" approach with
      specified titration of ULT dosing to obtain goal sUA. Maximal daily drug doses will be 800
      mg/day for allopurinol or 120 mg/day for febuxostat.

      The primary outcome will be the proportion of participants who have at least one gout flare
      in the allopurinol group compared to the febuxostat group during Phase 3. This primary
      outcome was endorsed by the patient and VA provider groups that were surveyed (see below).
      All participants will be followed during Phase 3 regardless of the achievement of sUA goal.
      The primary hypothesis will test the non-inferiority of allopurinol with regards to
      proportions of flares. The investigators anticipate that approximately 15 to 20% of patients
      will flare during Phase 3.
    
  