
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Test culturally and linguistically appropriate English and Spanish language versions of
           a motivational and instructional video and low literacy written nutrition materials that
           focus on improving eating habits, particularly decreasing fat consumption and increasing
           fruit and vegetable intake in non-Hispanic and Hispanic low-income participants, to
           determine which intervention components are most effective in decreasing fat intake and
           increasing fruit and vegetable intake.

        -  Determine if participants who receive tailored nutrition information in several mailings
           (MT) decrease their fat consumption and increase their fruit and vegetable intake more
           than participants who receive such information in one mailing (ST).

        -  Determine if participants who receive tailored nutrition information in several
           sequential "interactively retailored" mailings (MTI) decrease their fat consumption and
           increase their fruit and vegetable intake more than MT participants.

        -  Compare dietary change achieved from the above tailored educational approaches with a
           comparison group that receives nontailored written nutritional materials (NT).

        -  Compare the differential costs of the above tailored educational approaches.

        -  Study the results of the randomized trial in terms of specific eating behaviors, stage
           of change, self-efficacy, decisional balance, and barriers to making dietary changes.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled study.

      Participants complete a baseline interview. A subset of participants completes a second
      interview at baseline. Participants are then randomized to 1 of 4 education arms.

        -  Arm I (non-tailored written nutrition materials): Participants receive non-tailored
           written nutrition information in 1 installment.

        -  Arm II (tailored nutrition information): Participants receive tailored written nutrition
           information in 1 installment. Participants also receive a motivational and instructional
           video.

        -  Arm III (tailored nutrition information in multiple mailings): Participants receive
           tailored written nutrition information in 4 smaller installments over 12 weeks.
           Participants also receive a motivational and instructional video.

        -  Arm IV (multiple sequential "interactively tailored" mailings): Participants receive
           tailored written nutrition information and a motivational and instructional video as in
           arm III. Participants may mail in follow-up assessments in order to retailor the
           information they receive in later installments.

      After completion of study intervention, patients are followed at 4 and 7 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,000 participants will be accrued for this study.
    
  