
    
      This is a single blinded, prospective randomized controlled trial of patients who elect for
      surgical treatment of keloids at the Center for Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at
      Our Lady of the Lake Regional Medical Center (OLOLRMC), a tertiary referral center affiliated
      with the Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center (LSUHSC) teaching system. Power
      analysis estimated approximately 134 patients total (67 per group) for 80% power to detect a
      difference at the 5% confidence level. This is based off of a prior group's study comparing
      primary intralesional injection with TAC vs TAC+5FU (no surgery). That study showed 39.2%
      recurrence with TAC vs 17.5% with TAC+5FU.

      The patients enrolled in the study will be randomized to one of two arms: surgical
      excision+TAC or surgical excision+TAC+5FU. Randomization will be performed using a permuted
      block randomization algorithm (Ex. AABBABABABBABBAA, where A=TAC only group and B=TAC +5FU).
      All patients will undergo surgical excision of the keloid, either under general anesthesia in
      the operating room or local anesthesia in the clinic setting depending on patient age and
      preference. The goal of excision will be complete extra-lesional excision with primary
      closure. It will be noted if a patient requires intra-lesional excision or additional
      reconstructive techniques such as advancement flap, skin grafting, or allografting (i.e.
      Integra). Monofilament sutures will be used preferentially to prevent local inflammatory
      reaction which can precipitate keloid formation. In group 1 (surgical excision+TAC), all
      patients will be treated with adjuvant intralesional TAC 40mg/mL 7-10 days post-op and then
      every 4 weeks for a total of 3 injections. The triamcinolone vial will be obtained from
      pharmacy and drawn up by the physician prior to injection. In group 2 (surgical
      excision+TAC+5FU), all patients will be treated with adjuvant intralesional TAC and 5FU at a
      dose of 0.1mg TAC for every 0.9mg 5FU 7-10 days post-op then every 4 weeks for a total of 3
      injections. The mixture of TAC+5FU will be prepared by the pharmacy and delivered to the
      physician prior to injection. The goal volume of injection for both arms of the study will be
      0.1cc per cm2 of scar excised, though any deviations from this and the rationale will be
      noted.

      Assessments will be performed at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after completion of treatment. At
      each time point, a member of the study team and patient will complete their respective
      portion of the Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Scale (POSAS) which has been proven as a
      reliable and valid method of assessing keloid scars (5). The observer portion of the survey
      to be completed by the study team assesses vascularity, pigmentation, thickness, pliability,
      and surface area of the lesion. The patient portion of the survey focuses on the overall
      cosmetic and functional sequela including pain, itching, color, stiffness, thickness, and
      irregularity. Patients will also be asked about any side effects experienced. Each portion of
      the POSAS will be blinded from the study team member and the participant until both have
      completed the survey at each visit, so that one set of answers will not bias the other. If a
      patient demonstrates signs of recurrence or return of symptoms, there will be the option for
      additional injections within the patient's originally designated study arm. However, if early
      analysis demonstrates the alternative study arm to have superior efficacy, there will be the
      option to continue injections with the alternative study arm injection.

      Data collection will include demographic data such as age, gender, race, and Fitzpatrick skin
      type, as well as location of the keloid, etiology (trauma, post-surgical, etc.), and prior
      treatments if any. The size and thickness of each lesion, secondary defect size following
      adjacent tissue transfer, and amount of adjuvant medication injected during each adjuvant
      injection will be collected. Data analysis will include overall efficacy as well as
      stratification by variables such as the location of the lesion, size of the lesion, and prior
      treatment.
    
  