
    
      People with diabetes who undergo heart surgery have a greater risk of experiencing a stroke
      and developing cognitive functioning problems than people without diabetes who undergo heart
      surgery. There may be a connection between disturbances in glucose metabolism, endothelial
      dysfunction, and poor neurological outcomes after heart surgery. People with diabetes who
      receive more intensive blood glucose management during and after heart surgery may have
      better neurological outcomes than people who control their blood glucose levels in a standard
      way. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of using a traditional method
      of controlling blood glucose levels versus a tailored, more intensive method of glucose
      control on neurological outcomes in people with diabetes who are undergoing heart surgery.
      Researchers will also examine genetic factors that may be associated with insulin resistance
      and inflammation.

      This study will enroll people undergoing heart surgery. On the day before surgery,
      participants will undergo a blood collection and neuropsychological testing. They will then
      be randomly assigned to either a traditional method of blood glucose control or an intensive,
      tailored method of blood glucose control. Participants following the traditional method of
      blood glucose control may receive insulin several times a day, based on the results of
      glucose monitoring. Participants following the intensive, tailored method of blood glucose
      control will undergo hourly measurements of their glucose levels and receive insulin
      adjustments as needed to maintain a glucose level of 100-140 mg/dL. During surgery, all
      participants will undergo an ultrasound of their neck to monitor blood vessel activity.
      Additional blood samples will be collected during surgery, 6 hours after surgery, 24 hours
      after surgery, and upon hospital discharge or 5 days after surgery.

      One week after surgery or just before leaving the hospital, participants will undergo a
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) procedure and neuropsychological testing. Before leaving the
      hospital, participants will take part in a diabetes education session and nutrition
      counseling. Three to 6 weeks and 6 months after surgery, participants will undergo repeat
      neuropsychological testing. Once a month for 6 months, participants who received the
      intensive, tailored method of blood glucose control will attend study visits at which time
      study researchers will monitor their diabetes.
    
  