
    
      NEAS is led by Dr. Carlos Pardo-Villamizar at Johns Hopkins University (JHU) and Drs. Beatriz
      Parra and Lyda Osorio at Universidad del Valle (UV) in Colombia. They have established a
      collaborative network with physicians, neurologists and experts in microbiology and
      epidemiology in that country. NEAS is actively recruiting patients in seven university-based
      hospitals in five Colombian cities. The protocol of the study has been approved in each of
      the participating centers.

      NEAS prospective case-control study aims to define the association between the exposure to
      arbovirus (Zika, Dengue and Chikungunya) and the development of a neurological syndrome in
      patients from Colombia, a country with endemic transmission of arbovirus. The cases are
      defined as individuals that present with new onset of a neurological syndrome of unknown
      etiology, including but not limited to encephalitis, myelitis, meningitis,
      polyneuropathy/Guillain-Barre syndrome and cranial nerve involvement. There are two
      age-matched control groups: 1) household controls and 2) controls with a febrile syndrome of
      unknown etiology that do not present neurological involvement. The estimated sample size in
      the study is 50 participants in each group (cases and controls 1 and 2). The time to collect
      the complete sample size is between 12-24 months, and depends on the local incidence of
      cases.

      Each center has a coordinator team that includes a neurologist, a physician - neurology or
      internal medicine resident -, and a research coordinator. The team is constantly screening
      the patients admitted to the center. The patients that fulfill the criteria for cases or
      controls are approached by the research coordinator who is in charge to inform the
      participant about the study and complete the informed consent. Then, the medical team perform
      the neurological evaluation, including the history and the physical exam according to the
      NEAS forms. Samples of blood and urine are collected in all participants. If a lumbar
      puncture is done as part of the standard of care, spinal fluid is also collected. Based on
      resources availability, the participants are followed every week for a 4-week period and in
      each visit a clinical assessment and sample collection are completed.

      Demographic and clinical information, laboratory and imaging results are stored in a secured
      web-based database in the platform REDcap,based at JHU. Each center has a unique combination
      of a username and a password to enter the database and include the information of each
      participant in real time. Each center has access to the included information by the same
      center and no by other centers. Standardized forms (NEAS forms) were created by the study
      team that include relevant information necessary to achieved the aims of this study and
      guarantee the data consistency. Laboratory testing and imaging results are obtained from the
      medical records. A permanent monitoring of the data base is done by the teams at JHU and UV.

      After the samples are collected they are shipped to the study core laboratory located at UV
      (Dr. Beatriz Parra). Each center has been trained in the correct handling, processing, and
      shipping of the samples. Once the samples are in the core laboratory, they are aliquoted and
      stored. Blood, urine and spinal fluid are tested by Real Time/Reverse Transcriptase (RT)-
      Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) for the presence of viral RNA (Ribonucleic Acid) of Zika
      virus and Dengue virus. Serum and spinal fluid are tested by ELISA for the detection of
      anti-flavivirus IgM and IgG. The results are shared with the local study team and with the
      medical team taking care of the participant. In addition, aliquots of samples are sent to JHU
      for additional immunological and virological assessments (Dr. Carlos Pardo-Vllamizar).

      Standard Operative Procedures (SOP) have been created for patient recruitment and consent,
      REDcap data entering, and biosamples process and shipment. The statistical analysis will be
      done by epidemiologists at UV (Dr. Lyda Osorio) and it will include frequency measures and
      central tendency measures of the variables. The measure of the strength of association will
      be done using Odds ratio and confidence intervals.

      DATA DICTIONARY

      The variables are divided in three categories: demographic, clinical and laboratory. The most
      relevant variables collected in the study are described below.

      Demographic variables:

        -  Case: Case definition

        -  Type of control: Control definition

        -  Fulfillment of the inclusion criteria: Fulfillment of the inclusion criteria established
           by the protocol

        -  Gender: Sexual phenotype of the participant supported by the medical records or ID

        -  Age: Participant's age according to the medical records or ID

        -  Race: Phenotype reported by the participant

        -  City of residence: Place where has mainly been in the last 3 months

        -  City of report: Place where the participant is recruited to the study

      Clinical variables:

        -  General symptoms: Clinical manifestations consistent with decrease in the normal health
           shape of the participant

        -  Onset of general symptoms: Date of the onset of general symptoms

        -  Neurological symptoms: Clinical manifestations reflecting an abnormal functioning of the
           nervous system

        -  Temporal profile: Time (in days) between the onset of general symptoms and neurological
           symptoms

        -  Visit to endemic regions: History of have visited during the last 4 weeks regions with
           current local transmission of Zika, Dengue and/or Chikungunya virus

        -  Past medical history: History of a disease diagnosed by the doctor or reported in the
           medical records during the past year

        -  Family history: Diseases suffered by first or second consanguinity degree relatives
           diagnosed by the doctor or reported in the medical records

        -  Recent vaccination: History of vaccination during the past 4 weeks before the onset of
           the neurological symptoms

        -  Recent infectious disease: History of an infectious disease during the past 4 weeks
           before the onset of the neurological symptoms

        -  Recent surgical procedure: History of a major surgical procedure during the past 4 weeks
           before the onset of the neurological symptoms

        -  Date of physical exam: Date when physical exam was completed by the study team

        -  Mental status: Range of own/outer consciousness

        -  Orientation: Awareness of time, place and person

        -  Dysarthria: Word articulation dysfunction secondary to a motor pathways damage

        -  Attention deficit: Inability to selectively concentrate in an specific portion of the
           information

        -  Cranial nerves abnormalities: Compromise of one/more of the cranial nerves detected on
           the physical exam

        -  Muscle strength: Amount of strength done by a muscle against resistance

        -  Deep tendon reflexes: Extension secondary to a deep tendon stimulus

        -  Sensory deficit: Absence or abnormality in the sensory function

        -  Romberg sign: Clinical sign suggesting sensory ataxia, secondary to dorsal columns
           abnormalities

        -  Ataxia: Abnormal muscle coordination during voluntary movements

        -  Muscle tone: Muscle resistance against passive movement

        -  Urinary retention: Inability to complete bladder emptiness

        -  Low rectal muscle tone: Decrease in the strength of the rectal sphincter

        -  Abnormal movements: No voluntary movements, without purpose, secondary to a neurological
           dysfunction

        -  Respiratory failure: Inability to perform an efficient gas exchange or to maintain
           normal levels of oxygen and/or carbon dioxide

        -  Autonomic dysfunction: Abnormalities in the autonomic nervous system

        -  Electromyography: Electrophysiological study of the muscle activity

        -  Electroencephalogram: Electrophysiological study of the brain conduction

        -  Brain MRI: Imaging study of the brain

        -  Spinal cord MRI: Imaging study of the spinal cord

        -  Rankin score: Functional scale for patients with neurological disorders

        -  ASIA scale: Severity of spinal cord lesion

      Laboratory variables:

        -  Blood analysis: Include white blood cells count, platelets, hemoglobin, hematocrit and
           liver function enzymes.

        -  Spinal fluid analysis: Includes leukocytes, glucose, proteins, red blood cells,
           oligoclonal bands, cultures, herpes virus PCR.

        -  Virological analysis: Includes detection or absence of detection of IgM and IgG by
           ELISA, and the RNA by RT-PCR for Zika virus, Dengue virus and Chikungunya virus.
    
  