
    
      Objectives To evaluate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of THP delivered by peers
      (the Thinking Healthy Program - Peer delivered in Rawalpindi, Pakistan; THPP-P) over the
      duration of 6 months. Peers will be healthy mothers who live in the same community as
      potential trial participants (TPs).

      Study design and outcomes Single-blind stratified cluster randomized controlled trial in
      Rawalpindi, Pakistan (rural area) involving 40 clusters (560 women). TPs will not be blinded
      to treatment allocation. TPs include all pregnant women in their third trimester of pregnancy
      who are identified through the list of their local community health worker (Lady Health
      Worker or LHW). Those who are eligible will be invited to participate in screening for
      depression; mothers who consent will be screened for depression with a locally validated
      version of the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9). TPs who screen positive (PHQ-9 score ≥
      10) receive enhanced usual care (EUC) or THPP+EUC. The primary outcome measures will be
      remission (i.e. recovery from depression) and reduction in depressive symptoms, both assessed
      by the PHQ-9 at 6 months post child birth. Secondary outcomes are depressive symptoms and
      remission at 3 months (PHQ-9), maternal disability at 3 and 6 months post child birth
      (measured with the WHO-DAS), improved maternal support (measured with MSPSS) at 3 and 6
      months post child birth, breastfeeding rates and infant weight and height of children at 3
      and 6 months. Outcomes will be analysed on an intention to treat basis.

      Interventions EUC will comprise communicating the results to the mother's LHW and medical
      officer (MO) at the Basic Health Unit (BHU) of her area, providing the MO with the WHO mhGAP
      guidelines for the treatment of depression, and providing guidance on referral of depressed
      mothers to mental health services. TPs who are in the THPP group will receive, in addition,
      14 sessions of THPP starting from their recruitment in the third trimester until up to 5
      months after child birth. Sessions will be delivered by peers on an individual and group
      basis at a location of convenience to the TPs (usually at their own homes).

      Implications THPP has the potential to advance knowledge of the extent to which task-shifting
      of the delivery of evidence-based psychological treatments can be extended to peers in the
      community. If effectiveness is observed, this approach offers a potential opportunity to
      access a vast untapped human resource for maternal mental health care and addresses a major
      barrier in global mental health - the lack of skilled and motivated human resources in the
      formal health sector - offering a new avenue for the scaling up of evidence-based
      psychological treatments in low resourced settings.
    
  