
    
      Background

      Kidney transplantation is the treatment of choice for patients with end-stage-renal-disease
      (ESRD). Successful renal transplantation improves quality of life and reduces mortality in
      eligible patients when compared to hemodialysis. In 2007, 44 kidney transplantations per
      million residents were performed in Austria. The number of patients with a renal transplant
      has continuously risen in the last ten years. 398 kidney transplantations were performed in
      Austria in 2007, of which only 61 were of living donors. This underlines the special role of
      cadaveric kidney transplantation in Austria.

      Several studies have demonstrated that adequate intraoperative fluid administration is
      associated with earlier onset of graft function and improved graft survival in renal
      transplant recipients. However, which kind of solution should be chosen for the perioperative
      fluid management of renal transplant recipients remains to be clarified. A non-governmental
      US survey has shown that normal saline is the most commonly used fluid for renal
      transplantation. The most common cited reason for the administration of normal saline was the
      lack of potassium in the solution. Balanced salt type fluids were used in only less than 10%
      of kidney transplantations.

      To our knowledge only three studies compared the effects of lactated ringer's solution versus
      normal saline in kidney transplantation. Taken together, the application of lactated ringer's
      solution led to less occurrence of metabolic acidosis, electrolyte derangements and in one
      study, the appearance of hyperkalemia was eliminated by the use of lactated ringer's instead
      of normal saline. However, it was also shown that the administration of lactated ringer's
      during kidney transplantation led to a significant rise in lactate levels compared to those
      treated with normal salin. Despite the knowledge that lactated ringer's can at least
      potentially lead to a rise in lactate levels, no studies using acetate based balanced salt
      type fluids have been performed so far in cadaveric renal transplantation. We therefore
      propose a prospective study in which patients undergoing cadaveric kidney transplantation
      will be randomized to receive either a solely acetate buffered balanced salt type fluid or a
      normal saline for infusion therapy.

      Clinical considerations

      Postoperative hyperkalemia is a common problem in patients receiving cadaveric renal
      transplantation, especially when primary graft function does not occur. Due to the acidifying
      effect of isotonic saline infusion via the generation of hyperchloremic acidosis and/or
      dilutional acidosis, a rise in serum potassium is only boosted. However, today isotonic
      saline is the most commonly used infusion solution for the perioperative period in renal
      transplantation.

      The use of a balanced infusion solution, containing a metabolizable anion, such as acetate,
      could result in less metabolic acidosis and therefore a decreased need for post-transplant
      dialysis. Moreover, since balanced infusion solutions have a by far lower chloride content
      than isotonic saline, the adverse effects of a rise in serum chloride on renal perfusion
      could be avoided. This could ultimately result in improved graft function.

      Preliminary studies

      O'Malley et al. compared the effects of lactated Ringer's to isotonic saline in 51 renal
      transplant patients. 48 patients received living donor transplantation and 3 received
      cadaveric renal transplantation. 26 patients received isotonic saline and 25 lactated
      Ringer's. 19% of patients receiving isotonic saline reached postassium concentrations >
      6mmol/L and required treatment versus 0% in the lactated Ringer's group. 31% of patients in
      the isotonic saline group versus 0% in the lactated Ringer's group required treatment for
      metabolic acidosis. No effect on primary graft function could be shown.

      Hadimioglu et al. randomized patients undergoing living-related kidney transplantation to
      three groups receiving either isotonic saline, lactated Ringer's or Plasmalyte (a balanced
      infusion solution using acetate and gluconate). No effects on potassium levels could be shown
      in this study. Patients receiving isotonic saline showed significant decreases in pH, base
      excess and a significant rises in serum chloride. In the lactated Ringer's group lactate
      levels increased significantly. The study showed no differences in the need for postoperative
      dialysis.

      Khajavi et al. randomized patients undergoing kidney transplantation to either normal saline
      or lactated Ringer's. The authors noticed a higher incidence of hyperkalemia and acidosis in
      the isotonic saline group while 2 patients in the lactated Ringer's group lost their kidneys
      due to vascular graft thrombosis.
    
  