
    
      Diabetes is a metabolic disorder in which pancreatic insulin producing B-cells (located in
      cell clusters called the islets of Langerhans) no longer produce sufficient insulin to
      maintain an individual's blood sugar concentration within the normal range. Insufficient
      B-cell function can be caused by an autoimmune killing of the B-cells in type 1 diabetes
      mellitus (T1DM), or by poorly understood mechanisms in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
      Regardless of the underlying cause, the development of new diabetes treatments is limited by
      our current inability to objectively measure B-cell mass.

      We propose testing a previously used clinical radioligand, dihydrotetrabenazine (DTBZ), as a
      Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging agent for its ability to non-invasively measure
      B-cell mass in humans. We will study 30 patients, 10 with T1DM, 10 with normal glucose
      homeostasis, and 5 with a history of T1DM, but successfully restored glucose homeostasis
      following whole pancreas transplantation. Prior to the PET scans, each patient will undergo
      metabolic testing to characterize their glucose homeostasis and insulin producing capacity.
      The pancreas will be initially identified in each patient with high-resolution magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI). Then, using anatomical landmarks identified by the MRI, the subject
      will undergo DTBZ-PET imaging. We predict that the radioactivity signal in the pancreas from
      the DTBZ-PET images will be significantly different between control subjects and T1DM
      subjects. Further, we predict that the DTBZ-PET images obtained in individuals with
      functioning pancreas allografts (and such patients have two pancreases- their native pancreas
      and their pancreas allografts) will reveal signal intensities from the two glands that
      correlates closely with each gland's insulin producing capacity. Should these studies suggest
      DTBZ has merit as a beta cell imaging agent, we will expand the study to include patients
      with T2DM.
    
  