
    
      The investigators sought to determine the feasibility of integrating the Diabetes To Go
      inpatient DSSE program sustainably into ongoing hospital nursing unit processes for diabetes
      patient education and discharge planning. If successful, preliminary data generated will be
      used to develop a randomized controlled trial which will further assess program outcomes,
      including clinical and economic measures and potential for widespread dissemination.

      The objectives of the R34 Diabetes To Go Inpatient proposal were to refine the Diabetes To Go
      program content based on user feedback and experience, as well as to design and develop
      processes to enhance the feasibility of integrated implementation within usual nursing unit
      workflow within one hospital belonging to a regional health system. A mixed-methods approach
      is used to leverage implementation science frameworks and human factors principles to make
      DSSE and discharge support more accessible, interactive and engaging for patients. The
      long-term goal of this research is to optimize scalable and sustainable solutions for DSSE
      delivery and for DM-related discharge support. This personalized approach leverages e-health
      technologies to pursue the following Specific Aims:

      Aim 1: To refine and optimize the Diabetes To Go program content and implementation
      processes.

      This will be achieved by applying user-centered interface design principles, content
      development in partnership with patients and providers, detailed process mapping for program
      integration into existing processes and workflow, and integrating mobile and e-health
      technology to support care transitions. The Practical, Robust, Implementation and
      Sustainability Model will guide implementation planning and evaluation.

      Hypothesis 1. Diabetes To Go: will be optimized for patient and provider usability and
      integration into nursing unit workflow; will enhance patient self-care knowledge and skills;
      and will support the discharge transition process.

      Aim 2: To conduct iterative rapid-cycle usability testing of the enhanced Diabetes To Go
      program content and processes and establish a Diabetes To Go program toolkit for widespread
      implementation.

      This will be achieved by a series of intervention-evaluation cycles of field testing,
      refinement, retesting of the Diabetes To Go program and evaluation through: direct
      observation; patient, provider and system leadership stakeholder interviews and focus groups;
      and evaluation of changes in early patient outcomes.

      Hypothesis 2. The Diabetes To Go program will be perceived favorably by stakeholders yielding
      a high-quality toolkit for implementation and delivery of the program for further evaluation
      and testing.

      Preliminary data gathered during this study will be used to design an R18 pragmatic trial in
      response to PAR 15-157 which will examine outcomes of implementation of the Diabetes To Go
      program when delivered on hospital nursing units to adult patients with diabetes across
      multiple hospitals in a regional health system. The model has the potential to cause a
      paradigm shift in sustainable and generalizable approaches for delivery of patient-centered
      education and medication adherence and discharge transition support in the hospital.
    
  