
    
      Frailty and multimorbidity is one of the biggest challenges of todays health care due to the
      demographic development with more and more elderly surviving many diseases that was mortal
      just a few decades ago. Health care in Sweden is one of the best in the world, yet many frail
      older people do not receive appropriate health care. Several reports have described a
      fragmented care with lack of good quality due to lack of a holistic view on the patient and
      her situation. At the same time the care given is costly and ineffective with a lack of
      continuity. Additionally, there are a lack of hospital beds in Sweden due to the ageing
      population and a cut down of beds in the last decades.

      There is though a method, Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (CGA), where studies have shown
      many benefits for older patients including less need of hospital beds, better functional
      outcomes and a better chance of living at home after an Acute Hospital Discharge, but this
      method is not much used in Sweden.

      The aim of this study is to show that CGA in an Out-patient Care Setting save hospital beds
      without decreasing the quality of care measured by sustained functional capacity. Other
      parameters to be evaluated are mortality, degree of frailty, health economy, quality of life,
      and cognition.

      Survey of the field Frailty has become a central concept in elderly research in recent years.
      A common definition is a state of decreased reserve resistance to stressors as a result of
      cumulative decline across multiple physiological systems, causing vulnerability to different
      outcomes, such as falls, hospitalization, institutionalization and mortality. The prevalence
      of frailty increases with age and frail older people are at risk of further deterioration if
      their needs are not acknowledged. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has given
      priority to the development and use of targeted needs assessment for the frail older people.
      Assessments that are both comprehensive and person-centred are required to achieve
      satisfactory and appropriate care to older people with complex needs.

      Frailty is a dynamic condition, conceptualized as a continuum from not frail, to pre-frail,
      and frail. Those who are considered as pre-frail are more likely than non-frail to develop
      full frailty if no specific interventions are implemented. Appropriate nutrition and exercise
      are suggested as first-line treatments for frailty but other treatments should be considered
      depending on the individual causes of frailty. The goal is to identify needs and provide
      support to help older people to be as independent in their daily living as possible.

      Previous research has found that interventions including CGA results in functional benefits
      for frail older patients including a better chance of living at home after an acute hospital
      care-period. CGA involves a multidimensional team approach assessing medical, functional,
      psychosocial and environmental needs . Several studies have implied less need of hospital
      beds because of fewer readmissions when care is given according to CGA. As there are a
      substantial lack of hospital beds in Sweden, which results in patients placed in corridors,
      hazardous discharges and problems with the working environment, it would be important to find
      an intervention that could both save hospital beds and give a better care for these patients.

      As frailty can be addressed by care based on CGA it is important to detect frailty, but also
      to avoid the use of a complex CGA when not needed. A recent review have shown that frail
      elderly benefits more of CGA than a more mixed population of elderly. There is unfortunately
      no easy and overall accepted instrument to detect frailty. In research the criteria developed
      by Fried have been most frequently used - but is resource-demanding and seldom used outside
      academic research. Another more easy accessible method have been developed by Rockwood and
      have been chosen from the The International Consortium for Health Outcomes Measurement
      (ICHOM) as the preferred instrument to detect and measure frailty. The instrument is not well
      known in clinical practise in Sweden, why it could be interesting to test whether it
      applicable in Swedish Health Care.

      There have been only very few studies on CGA in Out-patient Care - but one recent randomized
      controlled study conducted in Sweden 2011-2013 showed a nearly 30% reduction of need of days
      in hospital and a similar reduction of mortality three years after randomization. The
      investigators would therefore perform a similar study in a slightly different population
      based on experience from the former Swedish study in order to see whether the results are
      reproducible in another health care setting in Sweden.

      Methods This project is a single-centre trial with the base in Helsingborg Hospital.

      Participants who meet the inclusion criteria are identified by a special register in the ER
      able to detect when a patient has visited the ER several times within a specified period. The
      register is managed by an administrator without any coupling to the research project. The ER
      administrator will every month send a list of possible participants to a research nurse. She
      will control the list for exclusion-criteria (living in nursing home or outside the nearest
      municipalities to Helsingborg Hospital).

      All remaining possible participants will receive a letter of invitation explaining the
      purpose of the study and the study protocol. Within seven days from the sending of the letter
      the subjects are contacted by telephone for verbal informed consent and booking an
      appointment at their home for further information, written consent and baseline assessment by
      a study nurse. If an old person due to cognitive decline is unable to answer the study
      questions or give informed consent, a proxy is contacted. Those accepting to participate will
      be randomized by computer-generated numbers into two study arms: intervention or control
      group. This information will be kept as a randomisation master list with the powered number
      of participants (450) by a research administrator. When written informed consent has been
      given and the baseline assessment done, the visiting study nurse will contact the
      administrator who will give the patient a randomisation number consecutively according to the
      master list. A letter will be sent within a week to inform the patient about to which group
      he or she has been allocated.

      The intervention: After baseline assessment the intervention group receive an
      interdisciplinary assessment based on CGA, tailored to each participant for 24 months. The
      first visit is either at the hospital or in the patient's home, depending on the
      participant's condition and ability to travel. The multidisciplinary teams consisting of
      physician, nurse, pharmacist, physiotherapist and occupational therapist with access to more
      competences if needed. The team works according to CGA, and has the primary and continuing
      responsibility for the patient during the study period of 24 months. The CGA is
      person-centered and unique for each patient, but is based on the core elements such as
      socio-demographic background, social network, health and medical history, medications,
      functional status, cognitive status, nutritional status, somatic status and psychosocial
      status including depression, providing a comprehensive assessment tailored for each person.
      Structured questionnaires and validated measures will be used.

      The team will be able to give a proactive care based on the CGA in collaboration with the
      primary care and the municipality. The relatives will be involved when possible. The
      intensity of follow-up depends on the participants' needs.

      Usual care (control group) Participants allocated to the control group receive health care
      from their general practitioner, the community services and in- and outpatient hospital care.

      Both the intervention and control group have access to the primary care centers, the hospital
      and the ambulatories on equal conditions.

      Follow ups of outcome measures will be performed in the older person's home at 12 and 24
      months after inclusion.

      Sample size A power calculation has been made, based on the primary outcome variable, number
      of days in hospital. Based on a former similar study in a slightly younger population there
      will be an assumed difference between the intervention group and the control group of 4,1
      days in hospital in 24 months (11,1 days in the intervention group and 15,2 in the control
      group) with standard deviation of 15 days in both groups. To be able to detect a difference
      between the intervention and the control groups with a two-sided test and with a significance
      level of α=0.05 and 80% power, at least 211 participants in each group will be needed. There
      will be almost no loss to follow-up of of this outcome based on previous research of this
      patient-group and intervention, so a total of 450 persons will be included.

      Statistical analysis:

      Both descriptive and analytic statistics will be used, in order to compare groups and for
      analyses of changes over time. Non-parametric statistics will be used when ordinal data are
      analysed. Otherwise, parametric statistics will be used. Besides descriptive statistics, the
      chi2 and Fisher's 2-tailed exact test will be used to test differences in the proportions
      between the groups, and odds ratio (OR) will be used to compare outcomes between groups. A
      value of p < 0.05 (2-sided) will be considered significant. The analysis will be made on the
      basis of the intention-to-treat principle. Given the old age of the participants, a
      relatively high drop-out rate will be inevitable, and missing data will not be at random.
      Simply analyzing complete cases is not relevant and might lead to bias. Therefore, the
      approach of data imputation will be the replacement of missing values with a value based on
      the median change of deterioration between baseline and follow-up of all who participated at
      follow-up. The reasons for this imputation method is 1) the study sample (frail older people)
      is expected to deteriorate over time as a natural course of the aging process and 2) reasons
      for not fulfilling the follow-ups are often deteriorated health. Worst-case change will be
      applied for those who have died before follow-up.

      An interim-analysis will be made on the primary outcome and mortality after one year of an
      independent researcher.

      Time schedule The planning of the study will be completed during early autumn 2016.
      Recruitment of clinical team-members are ongoing and in October 2016 the Out-Patient Care
      Team will start to work based on CGA to be ready to include patients.

      November 2016 - December 17 Inclusion-period. A preliminary study has revealed 50 - 60
      eligible patients per months in Helsingborg. With an attrition rate of 30-40% there will be
      around 35 patients to be randomized a month. To reach the empowered number and with lower
      inclusion rate during summer and vacations it will take 12-14 months to include all
      participants and the study period for each participant will be 2 years.

      January 17 - March 19 Follow up of outcome measures. August 19 All data collection completed.
      Quality assurance of data will be done by the project assistant and the project leader.

      August 19 - December 19: Analysis and article writing (researchers), as well as presentation
      at conferences (for professionals as well as researcher; local, national and international,
      done by professionals and researchers).
    
  