
    
      The purpose of this study is to design prospective experiments before and after the test. The
      purpose is to explore whether short-term interactive video games can improve the motivation,
      interpersonal interaction, and physical and mental health of patients with mental illness in
      community rehabilitation homes. Samples of mentally ill patients from community
      rehabilitation homes (full-day rehabilitation institutions) in the northern region were
      collected using a structured questionnaire for the recipients, as follows:

        1. Collect basic information through a structured questionnaire, which includes basic
           information, disease status, life style and other related information.

        2. Three data collections were performed, namely the baseline period (T0) and the
           pre-program (T1) two weeks later. Three weeks of intervention activities were provided
           twice a week, followed by a post-test ( post-program, T2).

        3. After a total of six times mentioned above, each 60 minutes of interactive video game
           intervention, the patient completed the activity feedback form, reflecting the feelings
           and feedback of participating in the activity.

      Primary Outcome Measure:

      The changes of quality of life (WHOQOL-BREF: WHO Quality of Life: Brief form) After
      Short-term Interactive Video Games the changes of quality of life. This is a 28-items quality
      of life measurement to assess patient's quality of life.

      [Time Frame: 5 Weeks]

      Secondary Outcome Measures:

      Body Mass Index Measuring height and weight [Time Frame: 5 Weeks]

      Waist-hip ratio Measuring the ratio of waist to hip [Time Frame: 5 Weeks]

      10-m walking time at comfortable Measuring the 10-m walking time at comfortable [Time Frame:
      5 Weeks]

      10-m walking time at maximum Measuring the 10-m walking time at maximum [Time Frame: 5 Weeks]

      Get Up and Go test Measuring the Get Up and Go test [Time Frame: 5 Weeks]

      5 times sit-to-stand test Measuring the 5 times sit-to-stand test [Time Frame: 5 Weeks]

      Hierarchy of the Care Required This is a 18-item questionnaire to assess the patient's ADL
      and IADL as well as daily function.

      [Time Frame: 5 Weeks]

      CHQ-12 (Chinese Health Questionnaire) This is a 12-item scale to assess the patient's life
      stress indicating anxiety and depression symptoms.

      [Time Frame: 5 Weeks]

      Short FES-I (Chinese version of the Falls Efficacy Scale ) This is a 7-item scale to assess
      patient's vulnerability to fall. [Time Frame: 5 Weeks]
    
  