
    
      Primary Objectives

      I. To compare tibial motor nerve ultrasound cross-sectional area between oxaliplatin-induced
      peripheral neuropathy patients and historical data among healthy adults.

      Secondary Objective

      I. To compare sural sensory nerve ultrasound cross-sectional area between oxaliplatin-induced
      peripheral neuropathy patients and historical data among healthy adults.

      II. To determine if the above changes in nerve cross-sectional area correlate with nerve
      conduction study changes in the same oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients.

      III. To determine if the above changes in nerve cross-sectional area correlate with changes
      on a self-reported neuropathy scale (QLQ-CIPN20) in the same oxaliplatin-induced peripheral
      neuropathy patients.

      IV. To determine if the above changes in nerve cross-sectional area correlate with
      intraepidermal nerve fiber density changes on skin biopsy in the same oxaliplatin-induced
      peripheral neuropathy patients.

      Exploratory Objectives I. To assess activated mast cells in skin biopsies in
      oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients in relation to severity of symptoms and
      above findings.

      II. To assess serum inflammatory markers in oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy
      patients in relation to severity of symptoms and above findings.

      III. Exploratory Cohort (Oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy, OIPN) Objectives

      IV. To compare tibial motor nerve ultrasound cross-sectional area between oxaliplatin-induced
      peripheral neuropathy patients and historical data among healthy adults and OIPN patients

      V. To compare sural sensory nerve ultrasound cross-sectional area between oxaliplatin-induced
      peripheral neuropathy patients and historical data among healthy adults and
      oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients

      VI. To determine if the above changes in nerve cross-sectional area correlate with nerve
      conduction study changes in the same oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients

      VII. To determine if the above changes in nerve cross-sectional area correlate with changes
      on a self-reported neuropathy scale (QLQ-CIPN20) in the same oxaliplatin-induced peripheral
      neuropathy patients

      VIII. To determine if the above changes in nerve cross-sectional area correlate with
      intraepidermal nerve fiber density changes on skin biopsy in the same oxaliplatin-induced
      peripheral neuropathy patients
    
  