
    
      The study will be conducted in 18-40 years old female volunteers who are undergoing planned,
      elective, non-cancer surgical procedure as outpatients, and who are identified to have either
      history or significant risk of PONV. The latter will be calculated by the questionnaire we
      currently use during our routine preoperative anesthesia evaluation (see in detail below in
      the Study design section).

      Patients who meet the study enrollment criteria will be identified on the surgical schedule
      the day before the planned intervention. The recruitment will occur during the preoperative
      admission process.

      These patients will be randomly assigned to either the study group or to the control group.
      The study group will watch videos of preparation and cooking of their favorite foods while
      waiting for their surgery. Patients in the control group will watch videos that are not food
      related.

      The anesthesia team in the OR and the PACU team who manages the patient's postoperative
      recovery will be blinded to which group the patient is enrolled to. The intraoperative
      antiemetics will be provided by the study team as outlined in the Study design section below.

      The anesthesia protocol will be standardized. All patient who are enrolled in the study will
      require general anesthesia with endotracheal intubation. After intravenous induction, muscle
      relaxation with rocuronium and intubation of the trachea anesthesia will be maintained with
      sevoflurane and opioid boluses for analgesia as deemed necessary by the anesthesia team.
      Antiemetics (as described below) will be administered 30 minutes prior to planned emergence,
      residual muscle relaxant will be reversed with sugammadex.

      The patients will be taken to the recovery room. Beyond their routine vital sign and pain
      score monitoring and observation the occurrence and degree of nausea and vomiting, as well as
      the time to discharge to home or unplanned admission due to therapy resistant vomiting will
      be recorded.
    
  