
    
      Tamoxifen, the first-line drug for preventing breast cancer relapse, is typically prescribed
      for a 5-year follow-up period after diagnosis and primary treatment of estrogen
      receptor-positive breast cancer. Recent studies show that tamoxifen is only a pro-drug, while
      its major active metabolite, endoxifen, is formed in vitro by the liver enzyme CYP2D6.
      Preliminary observations from the US and Italy have suggested that tamoxifen is less
      efficacious for cancer relapse prevention in patients with deficient CYP2D6 activities. The
      FDA is currently reviewing the new data and is likely to modify the tamoxifen label
      accordingly. It was suggested that an aromatase inhibitor drug such as letrozole might be
      more beneficial for these patients.

      The proposed study would retrospectively test CYP2D6 genotypes in 200 - 300 estrogen receptor
      (ER) positive breast cancer patients who are treated with tamoxifen post-operatively. Blood
      collected with informed consent would be used for examining the patients CYP2D6 genotype, and
      identifying those who are CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (CYP2D6*4/*4 genotype), and for
      measurement of endoxifen blood level in those women who are on the drug.

      AmpliChipTM CYP450 is a microarray chip which contains millions of tiny DNA molecules,
      providing comprehensive coverage of gene variations that play a role in the metabolism of
      approximately 25% of all prescription drugs. The AmpliChipTM CYP450 test is intended to be an
      aid for physicians in individualizing treatment doses for patients receiving therapeutics
      metabolized through these enzymes.

      The clinical data collected would examine if these individuals, as well as those treated with
      CYP2D6 inhibiting drugs such as paroxetine and fluoxetine, have higher cancer relapse rates.

      The study, combined with similar findings from other countries, and possibly integrated later
      on with an international network study, would be imperative for modifying treatment
      recommendations for breast cancer therapy. Specifically, if the US and Italian findings are
      confirmed, it might be advisable to switch the 5-year follow-up treatment for breast cancer
      patients with ER positive primary tumors who are CYP2D6 poor metabolizers from tamoxifen to
      an aromatase inhibitor drug such as letrozole.
    
  