
    
      Gastroesophageal variceal bleeding is a major complication of cirrhosis and has high rate of
      rebleeding and mortality. In these 20 to 30 years, medical advances have significantly
      improved the prognosis of variceal bleeding. Nevertheless, the mortality of gastroesophageal
      variceal bleeding is still nearly 20 to 30%.

      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common malignancy in Asian, and is also the
      special group in portal hypertension. Studies in Italy, more than 50% of patients diagnosed
      with HCC are concomitant with esophageal varices. HCC and portal thrombosis caused by HCC
      itself are all independent risk factors of gastroesophageal bleeding. Once the bleeding,
      rebleeding rate is up to 50% even if early use of vasoconstrictor agents and endoscopic
      therapy, which is generally 2 times in patients with cirrhosis.

      According to 2010 Baveno V recommendations, non-selective beta-blockers (NSBB) or endoscopic
      variceal ligation (EVL) are first choice for primary prevention of first variceal bleeding in
      cirrhotic patients. However, risk factors of variceal bleeding caused by HCC or cirrhosis are
      different, and portal hypertension is particularly high in patients with HCC and may be
      combined with portal vein thrombosis. NSBB sufficient to decreased portal hypertension to
      prevent variceal bleeding is not clear. In Hepatology 2010, Lebrec claimed that NSBB used for
      cirrhotic patients with refractory ascites had poor prognosis, the main cause of death were
      the progression of HCC and sepsis, although the impact of NSBB for HCC patients are not
      entirely clear, but this issue remind clinicians to careful use of NSBB in these patients.
      Since NSBB possible adverse effects, the use of EVL to prevent bleeding in patents with HCC
      is superior to NSBB? These need further study to clarify. So we designed this study to
      evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of using EVL or NSBB to prevent first bleeding in
      patients with HCC concomitant with esophageal varices.
    
  