
    
      Purpose: Sedative-hypnotic and analgesic agents (termed "anesthetics") are routinely used
      during medical procedures to prevent or ease suffering, suppressing the conscious experience
      of pain and its encoding into memory. While overt awareness under general anesthesia is a
      rare clinical event, implicit memory may still form. Further, at sub-hypnotic anesthetic
      doses, animals show enhanced fear conditioning and humans may have enhanced amygdala
      activity. This motivates the investigator's study, as poorly-contextualized aversive memories
      are theorized to initiate anxiety-spectrum disorders, which may explain the high incidence of
      post-traumatic stress disorder after anesthetic awareness.

      Objective: How anesthetics facilitate or inhibit poorly-contextualized aversive memories is
      incompletely understood, with little mechanistic work done in human subjects. Thus, there is
      a critical need to understand how anesthetics modulate the memory and threat response systems
      during painful stimulation. The overall scientific objective is to determine the
      memory-modulating effects of propofol, dexmedetomidine, and fentanyl in the context of
      periodic painful stimulation.

      Aim 1: Determine how behavioral and physiologic measures of memory are modulated by pain and
      the individual effects of three pharmacologically distinct drugs: propofol, dexmedetomidine,
      and fentanyl. Hypotheses: Based on previous results, 1a) explicit memory will be
      significantly reduced by propofol and dexmedetomidine, but only modestly by fentanyl.
      Consistent with my preliminary data, 1b) priming effects will be seen for pain-paired words
      under all drugs. Electrodermal activity changes still occur with opioids and propofol, thus
      1c) pain-related physiologic responses will persist with these two drugs but be blunted by
      the anti-adrenergic effect of dexmedetomidine.

      Aim 2: Determine the brain structures differentially engaged in memory encoding under pain
      and drug conditions. Task-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) activity for
      behavioral measures of explicit or implicit memory will be determined, comparing pain-paired
      vs non-pain items across drug and no-drug datasets. Functional connectivity (FC) MRI (fcMRI)
      will be compared between task and drug conditions. The entire brain will be explored, but
      predictions for key structures follow. Hypotheses: 2a) Hippocampal activity, will be blunted
      by propofol and dexmedetomidine, while fentanyl will have minimal effect. 2b) Amygdala
      activity, responsible for physiologic responses, will parallel the predictions in 1c across
      drug and pain conditions. 2c) Insula activity will be greater for pain-paired items, and this
      will be attenuated by fentanyl > dexmedetomidine > propofol, corresponding to their
      anticipated analgesic effect. 2d) Pain has been shown to affect fcMRI during a cognitive
      task, and thus FC between the key regions in 2a-c will be reduced by all three drugs, in
      characteristic patterns.
    
  