
    
      INTRODUCTION Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is characterized by progressive and
      hardly reversible obstruction of the airways, which basically affects the small airways
      (chronic obstructive bronchiolitis), variably associated with destruction of the pulmonary
      parenchyma (emphysema). 10% of people over the age of 45 years have COPD . COPD is expected
      to be the third leading cause of mortality in the world by 2020. The leading cause of COPD in
      Western countries is chronic tobacco smoke contact with the airways, with massive entry of
      many toxic substances and reactive oxygen species (ROS) to the body that induce oxidative
      stress (OS). OS in COPD is both exogenous (ROS inhaled) and endogenous (ROS induced by
      tobacco toxics and by the own disease). Some researchers consider that OS in COPD is closely
      related to a peculiar type of accelerated cellular senescence associated with a chronic
      inflammatory process which not only affects to the respiratory system, but also many other
      parts of the body (skeletal muscle, cardiovascular system, global metabolism, immunological
      system, etc.).

      Mitochondrial dysfunction plays a central, but not exclusive, role in oxidative stress,
      cellular senescence and chronic inflammation. Therefore, a better understanding of the
      mitochondrial dysfunction underlying COPD would make possible to better understand the
      physiopathology and to identify new possible therapeutic targets. The mitochondrial
      alterations of COPD at the bronchopulmonary, muscular and immunological areas are widely
      documented both morphologically and pathophysiologically. Mitochondrial dysfunction may be
      primary (congenital) or secondary (acquired, as in the case of tobacco smoking). It is a
      broad concept including impaired cellular energy production, excessive generation of ROS or
      of some metabolites from the Krebs cycle in the mitochondria, and loss of quality control of
      essential mitochondrial components that finally lead to abnormal output of intramitochondrial
      molecules (mtDNA, ATP, cytochrome c, Romo1 etc.) to the cytosol and extracellular fluids.
      Some of these molecules behave like DAMPs (damage associated molecular patterns) and induce
      an activation of innate immunity, and thus inflammation. Blood levels of Cytochrome C and
      Romo1 have been proposed as markers of oxidative stress. The main function of the
      mitochondria is the generation of ATP, the basic energy- carrying molecule for the
      maintenance of the living cell. The generation of ATP is produced from other energy
      precursors in the mitochondria through the oxidative phosphorylation system coupled to the
      electron transport chain (OXPHOS/ETC). These organelles also play a fundamental role in 1)
      the generation of specific metabolites of carbohydrates, lipids and proteins, which are
      essential for multiple cellular functions, 2) the synthesis of hemes and steroid hormones, 3)
      the management of the &quot;clusters&quot; of Fe and S, 4) cellular homeostasis of
      intracellular calcium, 5) immune response, both innate and acquired, and 6) the regulation of
      some types of apoptosis.

      Cells react continuously to the environmental changes to which they are exposed. In
      situations of cellular stress (e.g. caloric deprivation, lack of specific nutrients, changes
      in temperature, etc.) cell nucleus reacts by sending signals to the mitochondria so that they
      modify their function to adapt to the change (anterograde signaling from the nucleus to the
      mitochondria: for example physical exercise consumes ATP in the muscle cell, which activates
      the AMPK, which activates the nuclear transcription cofactor PGC-1alpha, which in turn
      activates OXPOS/ETC and mitochondrial biogenesis). On the other hand, when there is a
      stressful situation in the mitochondria themselves (e.g. excessive production of oxygen free
      radicals, unfolded intramitochondrial proteins, etc) signals are sent to the nucleus for it
      to modify the production of proteins intended to prevent/correct mitochondrial damage,
      including chaperones, antioxidants or proteolytic enzymes proteolytic (autonomic or
      intracellular retrograde signalling).

      Mitochondria have recently been shown to be capable of directly or indirectly generate
      peptides that not only influence the own cell that produces them, but they have at distance
      effects(non-autonomous or extracellular retrograde signalling). These substances, discovered
      by Dillin´s group are called mitoquines and send signals from tissues with stressed
      mitochondria to the whole body, being hormones that prepare the whole organism to respond to
      the cellular stress it´s going to be subjected to.

      Mitoquines are released when there is any kind of mitochondrial stress (congenital or
      acquired mutations in the mtDNA, disorders of the OXPHOS/ETC that generate oxidative stress,
      mitochondrial toxins, etc.). In mammals mitochondrial stress is generally associated with the
      so-called integrated cellular response to the stress (ICRS)&quot;. One of the most important
      mechanisms of ICRS is the UPR (Unfolded protein response), in which mitochondria participate
      in a coordinated way with the endoplasmic reticulum system, and the cell nucleus.

      There are at least two different types of mitoquines: 1) primary mitoquines, encoded in
      mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and 2) secondary mytokines, encoded in the nucleus DNA (nDNA),
      whose secretion is regulated through activation signals from the stressed mitochondria to the
      nDNA (e.g. ATF4, etc). Humanin (HN), MOTS-c (Mitochondrial ORF of the Twelve S-c), and six
      peptides similar to humanin (SHLPs 1-6) are considered primary mitoquines, although the
      number may be higher. Until recently, it was thought that mitochondrial DNA encoded only 37
      genes (13 peptides found exclusively into the mitochondria, all of them sub-units of the ETC,
      22 transfer RNAs -tRNA-, and 2 ribosomal RNAs -rRNA-) RNAs. We now know that 16s and 12s rRNA
      contain sORFs (&quot;short open reading frames&quot;) that translate secretory peptides from
      20-30 aa. It is not known what intimate mechanisms regulate the synthesis and release of
      these mitoquines, although it is possible that they are related to a mitochondrial ribosomal
      activation. Regarding secondary mitoquines (those encoded in nuclear DNA) under the
      activation of ATF4 we know fibroblastic growth factor 21 (FGF21), growth and development
      factor 15 (MIC1/GDF15), follistatin and intermedin-adrenomedullin2. These mitoquines also
      respond to other stimuli, independent of the mitochondria.

      Humanin is a peptide of 21 or 24 aa, with multiple cytoprotective functions against
      mitochondrial damage (increases the synthesis of antioxidants and chaperones for 4 unfolded
      proteins). It is anti-inflammatory (lowers the inflammatory cytokines and raises the
      anti-inflammatory cytokines) and antiapoptotic (blocks apoptotic factors such as Bak and
      IGFBP3), through at least 2 membrane receptors and several interactions with other
      intracellular and extracellular proteins, in many tissues (nervous system, liver, heart,
      vascular wall, skeletal muscle, retinal pigment epithelium, gonads etc). It also has
      beneficial metabolic effects (decreases insulin resistance at the central level, protects the
      pancreatic beta cell from oxidative stress and has negative feedback with IGF1). Recently it
      has been proven that people with high levels of this hormone have less cognitive impairment
      with age and are also very longevous.

      MOTS-c is another small peptide of 16 aa, encoded mtDNA, but synthesized exclusively in the
      cytosolic ribosomes, that also has beneficial antioxidant and metabolic effects, as it
      decreases insulin resistance and prevents obesity. On the other hand, it increases resistance
      against some infections increases and decreases bone resorption, so it may have
      antiosteoporotic effects. Both hormones are measurable in the blood by ELISA, although there
      are certain discrepancies in their plasma levels depending on the test used.

      FGF21 is a well-characterized hormone that stimulates ketogenesis and beta oxidation of fatty
      acids. Its secretion is regulated by fasting and activation of receptors PPAR-α, but it is
      also known that it rises in any situation of mitochondrial stress that activates
      mitochondria- to-nucleus signals. The MIC1/GDF15 is another circulating hormone that reduces
      hunger, activating a specific receptor level (GFRAL) found in the postrema area and the
      nucleus of the solitary tract. Elevated levels of GDF15 have been found in cancer cachexia
      and in many other situations, among them COPD . It is also released when the
      mitochondrial-to-nucleus signals are activated. In COPD, of all the mitoquines reviewed here,
      there is only information regarding GDF15 blood levels, but there are no data in the
      literature regarding the levels of the other mitoquines. As COPD progresses, mitoquines blood
      levels are likely to increase progressively, expressing further deterioration of
      mitochondrial function, although their levels could increase only up to a certain level, and
      then decrease when mitochondrial damage is unbearable, thus constituting a kind of
      mitohormetic response. HYPOTHESIS Mitoquines, expressed in the context of mitochondrial
      dysfunction, are altered in COPD patients and are associated with worst clinical outcomes.
      Furthermore, mitoquines can be used as prognostic factors and potential therapeutic targets
      in COPD. OBJECTIVES

        1. - To describe mitoquines levels in a control group, a group of stable COPD outpatients
           and a group of exacerbated COPD patients.

        2. - To describe differences in semitones levels in different groups of COPD patients
           (different levels of obstruction, patients with high risk of exacerbation vs. no risk of
           exacerbation, patients with CAT score&lt;10 vs rest of patients, patients with low
           Fat-Free- Mass index (FFMI) vs. rest of the patients).

        3. -To evaluate the correlation between semitones and different clinical outcomes such as
           FFMI, distance walked in 6 minute walking test, FEV1, CAT score.

        4. - To evaluate if mitoquines can be used to predict future risk of exacerbation and
           hospital admission.

      METHODS

      Study population

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria:

      Stable COPD patients: will be selected from Pneumology outpatient clinics from Hospital

      Universitario Marqués de Valdecilla. Patients with COPD must meet the following criteria:

      40 years or older with baseline post-bronchodilator forced expiratory volume in 1 s
      [FEV1]/forced vital capacity [FVC] ≤0.70.

      Exacerbated COPD patients: Will be selected from patients admitted at Hospital Universitario
      Marqués de Valdecilla with the diagnosis of COPD exacerbation.

      Control group: will be obtained from patients without COPD or any other acute or chronic
      respiratory condition and and patients relatives.

      Accepting an alpha risk of 0.05 and a beta risk of 0.2 in two-sided test 30 subjects are
      necessary in the first group and 90 in the second to find as statistically significant
      proportion difference expected to be of 0.45 in group 1 and 0.1 in group 2. Anticipating a
      drop-out rate of 5%. The ARCSINUS approximation. This calculation has been performed
      according to previously published studies performed by our group. We calculate a simple size
      of 120 patients with COPD, 30 patients with COPD exacerbation, and 30 controls.

      Target enrollment/sample size 180 Anticipated rate of enrollment 25 patients each month
      Estimated study start date: Samples collected in Biobank from 01.12.2019 Samples sent to
      biochemistry lab 01.03.2020 Estimated study completion date: (end of follow up) 05.04.2021
      Study Design and methods Observational prospective study. Patients will be recruited from
      COPD outpatient clinics, Smoking cessation outpatient clinics and from patients hospitalized
      due to COPD exacerbation. All patients will be given written informed consent to participate.
      This study was already approved by the Ethics Committee of Cantabria (CEIC).

      Participants

        1. Stable COPD (40 years or older with baseline post-bronchodilator forced expiratory
           volume in 1 s [FEV1]/forced vital capacity [FVC] ≤0.70) will be recruited during their
           regular follow-up.

        2. Control group: age- and sex-matched volunteers without previous diagnosis of COPD or
           other respiratory conditions, and with post-bronchodilator forced expiratory volume in 1
           s [FEV1]/forced vital capacity [FVC] &gt;0.70.

        3. Exacerbated COPD patients: Patients with previous diagnosis of COPD (40 years or older
           with baseline post-bronchodilator forced expiratory volume in 1 s [FEV1]/forced vital
           capacity [FVC] ≤0.70) admitted to hospital pulmonology Ward due to COPD exacerbation.

      Charlson Comorbidity Index will be recorded from all participants in the study. Patients with
      acute exacerbations 1 month prior to the study, patients included in pulmonary rehabilitation
      during the study or 6 months before the inclusion period, with other potential causes of
      sarcopenia (malignant diseases, heart failure, hyperthyroidism or other chronic devastating
      diseases) and patients with known chronic kidney diseases or recent acute kidney injury will
      be excluded from the study. Blood samples and all other measurements will be made the same
      day patients accept to enter the study.

      Clinical Characteristics

      At the enrollment in the study, COPD patients will be divided into different categorical
      groups: (1) non symptomatic patients (COPD Assessment Test [CAT] score &lt; 10) versus
      symptomatic patients (CAT score ≥10), (2) non dyspneic patients (modified Medical Research
      Council dyspnea score [mMRC] &lt; 2) versus dyspneic patients (mMRC ≥2), high risk of
      exacerbation patients (those with 2 or more exacerbations requiring treatment with
      antibiotics or systemic steroids or at least one hospital admission in the previous year)
      versus low risk of exacerbation patients, and (4) former smokers versus active smokers. After
      entering the study, blood samples will be obtained, and patients will be followed up for 1
      year (one visit after 6 months and one visit after 12 months) and exacerbations and hospital
      admissions will be recorded prospectively. During the follow-up period, all clinical
      investigators in the study will be blinded to the mitoquines results. Along this period,
      patients with possible pulmonary exacerbations will be instructed to go freely to the
      Emergency Department of the Hospital and that team of doctors will freely decide to
      hospitalize them or not, according to their own clinical criteria.

      According to the mitoquines levels patients will be divided into two groups: one composed of
      those within the highest quartile of the mitoquines and the other group will include patients
      in the other three quartiles of the levels of mitoquines.

      Measurements Basal Dyspnoea will be recorded using mMRC dyspnoea scale. CAT score will be
      recorded by self-administered questionnaire. Previous exacerbations will be recorded from
      clinical records from patients included in the study. Spirometry will be measured according
      to the American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society (ATS/ERS) in all subjects.

      Body composition will be estimated by a bioelectrical impedance device (OMROM BF511, Omrom,
      Japan), and the FFMI will be calculated as the ratio of the FFM to the height in meters
      squared. The 6-min walking test will be performed according to the protocol of the American
      Thoracic Society: patients were asked to walk as far as they can in 6 min in a 30-m straight
      corridor without any interruption. At the end of the test, the distance walked by the
      patients and dyspnea will be recorded. Humanin and MOTS-c will be measured by ELISA
      (Mybiosource), FGF21 y GDF15. Will be measured by ELISA (Quantikine). If possible Romo1 will
      be measured also by ELISA. The study will be divided in 3 visits: VISIT 1: Blood sample
      collection and clinical characteristics. VISIT 2: 6 months after visit 1: Exacerbations and
      hospital admissions (number and date) after visit 1. VISIT 3: 12 months after visit 1:
      Exacerbations and hospital admissions (number and date) after visit 2.

      Study endpoints Primary endpoint: Mitoquines can be used to estimate hospital admission risk
      in COPD patients.

      Secondary endpoints:

        1. -Mitoquines can be used to estimate COPD exacerbation risk in COPD patients.

        2. - Mitoquines are altered in COPD patients.

        3. - Mitoquines are altered in COPD exacerbations.

        4. - Mitoquines correlate with different COPD variables (FEV1, FFMI..).

      Statistical plan or data analysis Data will be presented as mean ± SD for normally
      distributed data or median (interquartile range) for nonparametric data. Differences between
      groups will be analyzed using unpaired t tests for parametric data or Mann-Whitney tests for
      nonparametric data.

      Correlations between data sets were examined using the Pearson (r) correlation coefficient
      for parametric data or the Spearman rank (rs) correlation coefficient for nonparametric data.
      Normal distribution will be tested using a Kolmogorov-Smirnov test.

      Kaplan-Meier estimates will be used to calculate the proportion of participants who have an
      event over time. Univariate and multivariate analysis using the Cox proportional risk
      analysis will be performed using SPSS Software version 25.00 for PC to analyze the
      development of the first events according to basal levels of mitoquines, and to identify risk
      factors associated with exacerbations and hospitalization. Differences will be considered
      significant if p values were less than 0.05. All reported p values will be two-sided.

      Limitations and ethical considerations This is a single-centre study thus, it must be
      replicated in multicentric studies, using a higher number of patients coming from different
      countries. Although expensive and complicated, some techniques such as muscle biopsy,
      ergometry, muscle mass quantified using CT or shuttle test could be performed in order to
      have a better overview of muscle mass and function in these patients.

      No potential harm for patients is expected from this study. This study was approved by
      Cantabria ethics committee (Code: :2018.276). Although the study is funded by the company
      GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) it is an independent study and the investigators do not receive any
      financial compensation.
    
  