
    
      The overarching goal is to evaluate the effectiveness, cost effectiveness, and sustainability
      of statewide immunization systems (IISs) to conduct reminder/recall (R/R) to improve human
      papillomarvirus (HPV) vaccination rates among adolescents ages 11-14.

      Each year, 6.2 million persons are newly infected with HPV and 26,000 new HPV-related
      cervical, genital, and oropharyngeal cancers are diagnosed, resulting in >$4 billion in
      annual medical costs. Despite U.S. guidelines for vaccinating all adolescents starting at age
      11 with the HPV vaccine, in 2012 only 53% of 13-17 year old females had >1 dose and 35% had 3
      doses; 21% of teen males had a vaccination.

      The most effective strategy for improving vaccination rates is patient reminder/recall (R/R).
      Recent literature from Melissa Stockwell found that utilization of a new R/R modality, i.e.
      text messaging, positively impacted influenza vaccination rates among the adolescents
      enrolled in the study. Although R/R is already considered a "best practice" for improving
      vaccination rates, very few practices use reminder/recall for any vaccinations because of
      costs and lack of personnel time; and even fewer use reminder/recall for HPV vaccine.

      Furthermore, since the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) modified the
      schedule for the HPV series for adolescents' age 11-14 years, those who receive dose #1
      between ages of 11 and 14 years are now eligible for their second and final dose 6-12 months
      after their initial dose. This change in dosing schedule could influence HPV vaccine visit
      scheduling procedures within Family Practice and/or Pediatric Clinics, and would therefore
      effect timing and frequency of any R/R strategies currently in place. Therefore, the UCLA
      (overseeing the work to be done in NY) and University of Colorado at Denver research teams
      unite to understand how the use of centralized R/R to disseminate reminders, via text
      messages and autodialer calls, to patients eligible for the 2-dose HPV vaccine could impact
      vaccination rates among adolescents ages 11-14. This will be the first head-to-head RCT
      comparing text message vs. autodialer reminders to standard of care control

      The aim of the study is as follows:

      To assess the impact and cost-effectiveness of autodialer IIS R/R versus text message based
      IIS R/R versus standard-of-care control (no reminder recall) in increasing initiation and
      completion of the 2-dose HPV vaccine series among adolescents 11-14 years of age. The
      investigators will use a within-practice randomized control trial, randomizing patients
      within 150 practices to the aforementioned intervention arms.

      Hypothesis 1: All centralized IIS R/R modalities will be more effective than usual care

      Hypothesis 2: Text messaging will be more cost-effective than other modalities

      Upon completion of the study, the investigators will have a feasible, sustainable,
      cost-effective model for HPV vaccination reminders that could be scaled up on the national
      level to help prevent HPV-related cancers. Additionally, this research will be adding
      significant new knowledge to the field as no such studies exist examining the impact of
      educational text message R/R on HPV vaccination rates among adolescents eligible for the
      2-dose series.
    
  