
    
      Objectives The objective of this investigator-initiated study is to continue and extend this
      research by applying our optimized DCE imaging protocol (using the standard FDA approved DCE
      sequence) and our novel image post-processing to obtain new information about the BBB
      integrity in aging.

      Study Procedure Overview: Subjects will be recruited either from patient's at LLUMC with an
      existing order for a MRI study of the head with contrast, or from an exisiting cohort at LLU
      that participated in a previous study.

      Health controls will be asked if they would like to participate in the study in order to
      evaluate if the optimized DCE sequence can provide useful information about various CNS
      diseases.

      Imaging: Following consent, subjects will be imaged at LLUMC using the 3T MRI scanner
      (Siemens Medical Solutions, Malvern, PA) after MRI safety screening questionnaire is
      complete. Subjects will be asked to lie on or be positioned on their backs in the MRI
      scanner. The coil will be placed around their head and the subject will be provided with
      headphones and/or earplugs during the scan. Imaging will consist of the diagnostic MR
      protocol requested by the ordering physician and the addition of the standard FDA approved
      DCE sequence.

      Data Collection and Analysis The collected DCE data may be processed using standard FDA
      approved DCE software (which the department already owns and uses clinically), used for
      clinical decision making purposes, and added to the patients record. The data will also be
      processed using specialized research software, this processing will not be used for
      diagnostic or clinical decision making purposes, and will not be added to the patients
      record. Ktrans values will be measured using region of interest analysis from the processed
      DCE data to determine if there are differences between the pathology of interest and healthy
      controls.
    
  