
    
      Currently, axillary surgery for breast cancer is considered as staging procedure that does
      not seem to influence breast cancer mortality, since the risk of developing metastasis
      depends mainly on the biological behaviour of the primary (seed-and-soil model). Based on
      this, the postsurgical therapy should be considered on the basis of biologic tumor
      characteristics rather than nodal involvement.

      The goal of the present study is to show that early-stage breast cancer patients with reduced
      extent of axillary surgery are not inferior regarding disease-free survival outcome compared
      with the standard arm. All patients will be first randomized to either no axillary surgical
      intervention or axillary sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB). Patients with SLNB and pN+(sn)
      status will be secondly randomized to either SLNB alone or completion axillary lymph node
      dissection (ALND) in cases with less than four involved nodes (1-3 macrometastases). Patients
      with four or more metastatic sentinel lymph nodes should undergo completion ALND.

      Postoperative systemic treatment should be based on local multidisciplinary tumor board
      recommendation according to the current German AGO and S3 guidelines. For women who are
      treated with breast-conserving surgery, the most common site of local recurrence is the
      conserved ipsilateral breast itself. Thus, whole-breast radiation therapy after
      breast-conserving surgery is mandatory and should be performed according to the current
      guidelines (S3, AGO, DEGRO).

      During follow-up, patients will be assessed for disease recurrence according to standard
      clinical practice. History and physical examination will be performed every 6 months for the
      first 36 months and yearly thereafter. Annual mammography and sonography will be required;
      other testing will be based on symptoms and investigator preference. The total number of
      patients to be randomized into the trial will be approximately 7,095. An event-driven final
      efficacy analysis will be performed per-protocol for two primary objectives.
    
  