
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a common, chronic, disabling systemic autoimmune disease in
      which inflammation of the joint lining (synovium) occurs when the body's tissues are attacked
      by the immune system. The joint inflammation begins in the synovium and slowly destroys the
      cartilage, narrowing the joint and eventually damaging the bone. A large amount of
      inflammatory mediators or rheumatoid factors are synthesised in the joint which accelerate
      proliferation and differentiation of immune cells further to amplify the autoimmune reaction.
      A widely accepted model has emerged in which the presence of inflammation in established RA
      is driven by interactions between T cells, macrophages, and fibroblasts in an abnormal
      microenvironment.

      Rheumatoid arthritis has an annual incidence of approximately 0.2 per 1000 in males and 0.4
      per 1000 in females. In general, higher rates have been reported in the USA than in European
      populations. The incidence of RA increases with age until the mid 70s. A prevalence of 0.5-1%
      is reported in diverse populations world-wide.

      Treatments for RA focus on relieving pain, reducing inflammation, slowing or stopping joint
      damage, and improving patients' well being and ability to function. Current therapies include
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) which target the clinical features of the
      disease to alleviate the pain and swelling that accompany RA, disease-modifying
      anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) which target the actual cause of the disease and biological
      agents which are genetically engineered to target and modify the autoimmune response.
      Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are effective in managing the symptoms of RA, but are
      limiting as they cannot suppress progression of the disease. First line treatment on
      confirmation of RA is the use of DMARDs, supported by pain relief medication.

      Biologic agents (TNF antagonists, anti B-cell agents and anti-interleukins) have proven
      effective in RA symptoms management. TNF antagonists have become an important therapeutic
      option in the treatment of advanced RA.
    
  