
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind study to compare an oral formulation of risperidone with
      placebo when taken daily over 24 weeks by children and adolescents with conduct and other
      disruptive behavior disorders. Patients who do not respond to treatment after an initial
      6-week open-label phase, or do not show continued response after 12 weeks, must leave the
      trial and will not enter into the 24-week double-blind phase. The principal measure of
      efficacy is the time to symptom relapse. Relapse is assessed by changes in following
      measures: the Conduct Problem subscale of the Nisonger Child Behavior Rating Form (N-CBRF), a
      measure of symptoms of conduct and other disruptive behavior disorders and Clinical Global
      Impression-Severity of Illness (CGI-Severity), and a measure of overall severity of illness.
      Efficacy assessment also includes Clinical Global Impression-Change (CGI-C), an assessment of
      improvement, and Visual Analogue Scale for the most troublesome symptom (VAS-MS), which is a
      scale ranging from not troublesome to extremely troublesome, and Children's Global Assessment
      Scale (C-GAS), which is an assessment of overall functioning. Safety evaluations include
      incidence of adverse events, physical examinations, laboratory tests (biochemistry,
      hematology, and urinalysis), and electrocardiograms (ECGs). The study hypothesis is that
      daily treatment with an oral formulation of risperidone, compared with placebo, will result
      in a clinically significant difference in time to relapse, and is well tolerated by children
      and adolescents with conduct and other disruptive behavior disorders. Oral risperidone
      solution (1milligram[mg]/milliliter [ml]), daily for 36 weeks. Patients weighing at least 50
      kilograms start at 0.5 ml/day and may increase up to.1.5 ml/day. Patients under 50kg start at
      0.25ml/day and may increase to 0.75ml/day (maximum).
    
  