
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a leading cause of death in Argentina where death rates have
      continued to rise along with risk factors for CVD. Challenges to control in low- and middle
      income countries (LMIC) include low awareness, shortages of trained health care workers,
      overcrowded primary care centers (PCCs), and overall lack of resources in health care
      systems. Determining ways to increase screening in community settings and efficient referral
      to PCCs is a significant priority in reducing the CVD burden in Argentina. Previous work
      funded by the NIH shows that effective low-cost screening tools are available, CHWs can be
      trained to use a validated, simple non-lab based screening tool in communities to identify
      those at high CVD risk, and use of a mobile phone application for this tool reduced both the
      cost of training and screening time for CHWs. What has not been shown is whether persons at
      high risk for CVD can be appropriately referred for proper evaluation, treatment, and
      effective management of CVD at the PCCs. The Ministry of Health in Argentina has instituted
      an incentive system through the REDES Program that has the goal of increasing the number of
      uninsured who are at high risk for CVD are screened, identified, referred, and provided with
      appropriate care and treatment with essential diagnostics and medicines. The investigators
      propose to develop a mHealth tool that integrates the cell phone application for the risk
      screening tool to be wirelessly and directly connected with the electronic scheduling systems
      at PCCs. This will allow CHWs to access the appointment scheduling system at the government
      clinics, allowing them to make appointments for the identified high-risk individuals at the
      time of screening to increase the number of referral and follow-up visits that these
      individuals attend. This integrated scheduling system will allow for text messaging to be
      used to remind patients of their appointments and to schedule followup care. Finally, the
      system will be integrated with the electronic record system at the PCC so that ongoing
      monitoring and evaluation of the program can be implemented. The investigators propose a
      pragmatic cluster randomized trial in which individual PCCs will be randomized to either to
      use of the integrated mHealth tool, or usual screening procedures using existing paper based
      screening. The objectives will be to determine if use of the mHealth tool increases the
      number of high-risk persons who show up for the referral visits, if it increases the rate of
      subsequent follow-up care visits for the referred persons, and the cost-effectiveness of the
      intervention.
    
  