
    
      The Central Hypothesis is that telepalliative care has the potential to improve the quality
      of care delivered to pediatric palliative care patients in a rural state by connecting local
      care providers with palliative care interdisciplinary subspecialists at an academic health
      center to facilitate improved symptom burden which translates into enhanced quality of life
      for the pediatric patient and family members, increased confidence and comfort of local
      providers, and ultimately the creation of a unified and cross-setting shared care model.

      Aim 1. To investigate the symptom burden for pediatric patients and the quality of life
      impact for pediatric patients and their families through an interdisciplinary pediatric
      telepalliative consultation service partnered with local hospice providers with an interface
      at a minimum of every 15 day intervals.

      Aim 2. To evaluate the self-efficacy, knowledge, and self-perceived adequacy of local hospice
      providers in caring for pediatric patients before and after interdisciplinary pediatric
      telepalliative consultation service partnership with these local hospice providers.

      Aim 3. To explore the acceptability of teleconferencing services as a form of pediatric
      palliative care mentorship for local hospice teams caring for children and adolescents.

      Expected Outcomes Based on geography and shortage of pediatric palliative subspecialists in
      Nebraska, the current model of hospice services is one in which pediatric patients are
      managed by local adult-based hospice teams after discharge from the pediatric hospital (34
      such in the past 16 months). Sixty percent of academic pediatricians in Nebraska who served
      as primary providers for consecutive pediatric home discharge patients self-reported feeling
      "very deficient" to "deficient" when asked about competence after supporting terminal
      patients and families in care at home (n=12).1 The knowledge gap and discomfort in managing
      children with complex symptom burden is magnified further for family practice or internal
      medicine teams serving in hospice roles for children in rural communities. Through a new
      telepalliative technology platform, this study fosters collaboration and communication to
      improve the quality of care for pediatric patients receiving hospice care in rural states.
      This model implements human interaction through technology to challenge the existing paradigm
      of silo-based care of pediatric palliative care patients. With roll-out of this intervention,
      we anticipate increase in pediatric hospice utilization (decreased in-hospital deaths). If
      feasible this model could transform the pediatric hospice care delivery in the state of
      Nebraska with expanded opportunity for application in settings with similar subspecialty
      provider shortages.
    
  