
    
      The human ankle is a complex mechanism that does not behave like a simple hinge. Instead,
      rotations in all three axes are allowed and some are coupled together. In particular, the
      axis of rotation of the talo-crural joint during ankle flexion is inclined downwards and
      laterally relative to horizontal, and the rotation ranges from 10 to 26 degrees among
      individuals. This rotation couples plantar- and dorsi-flexion motion with external and
      internal rotation of the shank relative to the foot, respectively. This feature of the
      natural limb has not been replicated in prosthetic feet and ankles.

      Lower limb amputees take thousands of steps on their prosthesis each day and none feature
      coupled motion between the transverse- and sagittal-planes. The absence of this natural
      coupling may be related to the high incidence of residual limb soft tissue injuries, the need
      for compensatory gait, and overall dissatisfaction with their prostheses.

      Transverse rotation adapters, consisting of simple torsional springs, are available for
      prescription. These devices can increase transverse-plane rotations and decrease
      transverse-plane torques, but their use is not widespread and if excessively compliant, may
      reduce gait stability. Cost, weight, prosthesis build height, and the inability for the user
      to adjust the stiffness may all play a role in their lack of adoption, but it may also be
      that the transverse-plane rotation is not coupled with the sagittal-plane. With these
      devices, motion only occurs in the transverse-plane when a transverse-plane torque is
      applied.

      This research has one specific aim: to identify the optimal coupling ratio between
      transverse- and sagittal-plane motions using a novel, torsionally adaptive prosthesis for
      individuals with lower limb amputation. The investigators will fit a sample population of
      unilateral transtibial amputees with the motor-driven and computer controlled torsionally
      adaptive prosthesis.

      Participants will walk in a straight line and in both directions around a circle with the
      torsionally adaptive prosthesis set at different coupling ratios (blinded and random order).

      The general hypotheses for this study are: (H1) a coupling ratio exists between 0 (no
      coupling) to 1:2 (one degree of transverse-plane motion for every two degrees of
      sagittal-plane motion) that minimizes transverse-plane socket torque and (H2) an amputee
      preferred coupling ratio will exist within this range.

      This research will discover how best to couple transverse- and sagittal-plane motion in the
      prostheses of lower limb amputees.
    
  