
    
      The biggest limiting factor of en bloc resection is the size of the bladder tumour. Resection
      of the bladder tumour is technically feasible, but the retrieval of specimen in one piece is
      restricted by the narrow size of the urethra. However, the greatest advantage of en bloc
      resection is to ensure complete local resection rather than the theoretical benefit of
      avoiding tumour re-implantation. Therefore, the concept of modified en bloc resection for
      large bladder tumours of ≥3cm has evolved. It is a hybrid technique involving piecemeal
      resection of the exophytic part of the bladder tumour, followed by en bloc resection of the
      tumour base. By resecting the exophytic part of the bladder tumour, the size of main tumour
      bulk can be reduced. By performing en bloc resection of the tumour base, the advantage of
      ensuring complete tumour resection beneath the submucosal plane can be preserved, and the
      tumour base specimen remains intact for histological assessment of the resection margins.
      Modified en bloc resection is a promising surgical technique which can potentially ensure
      complete tumour resection, reduce the need of second-look transurethral resection, and
      improve the oncological control of non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer in long run. It may
      also ensure proper staging of muscle-invasive bladder cancer at the first surgery, thus
      avoiding the need of second-look transurethral resection in under-staged patients.

      In this study, we shall evaluate the efficacy of modified en bloc resection for patients with
      bladder tumours of ≥3cm. All patients will have MRI before modified en bloc resection. All
      patients with non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer will be offered second-look transurethral
      resection in 2-6 weeks' time. All patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer but not
      distant metastasis will be offered radical cystectomy, pelvic lymphadenectomy and urinary
      diversion; for those who refuse or who are considered unfit for radical surgery, second-look
      transurethral resection will be offered. All patients will have a second MRI before the
      second surgery. The modified en bloc resection specimen results will be compared with the
      final pathology results in the second surgery. The presence of any residual or upstaging of
      disease will be determined. The results of the two sets of MRI will also be compared with the
      final pathology results. The accuracy of MRI in the evaluation of bladder cancer will be
      determined.
    
  