
    
      A prospective randomized control trial will be conducted in Parkland Memorial Hospital (PMH)
      neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) Dallas, Texas. Consent will not be obtained since:
      placement of plastic and/or stockinet head covering on the neonate is part of routine
      resuscitation care at PMH and by Neonatal Resuscitation Program (NRP) minimal risk to the
      preterm neonate is involved, post-delivery consent will be of little value since intervention
      only last ~24minutes, and obtaining informed consent from a mother who has labor pains or is
      on pain medication may be difficult.

      Randomization of the neonates will be carried out in the delivery room by opening a sealed,
      opaque envelope just prior to birth. Qualified preterm newborns will be stratified into 2 OB
      EGA groups: (≤28weeks obstetrical(OB)estimated gestational age (EGA) and 29-32weeks OB EGA.
      In each stratified group, the newborns will be further randomized to control arm (stockinet
      head covering) or the intervention arm (plastic-lined head covering). Each arm of the study
      will have a sample size of 65, allowing for 130 infants in each OB EGA stratified group and
      for a sample size total of 260. Treatment versus control will be assigned by blocks of 8 by
      using a random permutation table. The assignment will be sealed in an opaque envelope by a
      non-participant person of the research.

      The PMH high-risk resuscitation (RESUS) team attends all deliveries of infants ≤32 weeks OB
      EGA. The RESUS team is comprised of a resuscitation nurse, a respiratory therapist, and a
      practitioner. Neonatology fellow and/or attending may also attend these deliveries.

      The use of warming aids by the RESUS team is standardized in the following manner:
      Randomization envelope will be opened. All infants will be taken from the obstetrician by the
      practitioner to an Ohio radiant warmer that has been pre-warmed to 100% capacity prior to the
      delivery of the infant. A food-grade storage (polyethylene) bag (will be referred as
      "poncho") will be used on all infants with the EGA of 32 weeks or less OB EGA to decrease
      evaporative and convective heat loss. The poncho will be placed by cutting a hole at the
      closed end of the bag for the purposes of inserting the head through it. The infants will not
      be dried except for the face as recommended by NRP. All infants that are ≤28weeks OB EGA will
      have a transwarmer mattress gel pad activated and placed on the radiant warmer during
      resuscitation and during transport as per PMH NICU and NRP standard practice. The appropriate
      head covering will then be placed to the level of the forehead on the infant as per
      randomization assignment. If access to the infant's umbilical cord is needed, a hole will be
      cut at the appropriate location. All infants will be transported in a dedicated isolette for
      resuscitation that has been prewarmed to 38ºC. The warming aids will be in place until the
      infant's arrival in the NICU.

      The RESUS team will gather the following data in the delivery room: environmental temperature
      of the delivery room, rectal temperature immediately after delivery, annotation of warming
      aids implemented. The RESUS team also cares for the infant in the first 4 hours of life.
      Initial vital signs (heart rate, respiratory rate, and blood pressure), temperature, need of
      ventilation, need of intervention will be recorded by the RESUS team. After 4 hours the care
      will be assumed by the primary NICU team as per our standard practice.

      Once the admission rectal temperature is taken, the head coverings will be removed and the
      infant will no longer be actively enrolled in the research. The rest of the data will be
      gathered through the Neonatal Resuscitation Database and Parkland NICU Morbidity and
      Mortality Database.

      The rationale of this study is that no randomized control trial has been done to demonstrate
      the effectiveness of placement of plastic-lined head covering versus stockinet head covering.
      It would seem logical that if measures are taken to decrease heat loss from the head, these
      measures would improve temperature stability and avoid hypothermia in the premature neonate.
    
  