
    
      This protocol is designed to acquire a better understanding of the underlying cognitive
      mechanisms involved, and the roles of the prefrontal cortex and normal aging, on various
      aspects of discourse processing. For Phase 1 of the investigations, two investigations will
      be conducted: Study 1 will compare the performance of patients with prefrontal cortical
      damage with age-matched healthy controls; Study 2 will compare the performance of young
      healthy subjects with older healthy subjects in various aspects of on-line discourse
      processing. The primary focus of our investigations will be on the cognitive mechanism of
      suppression, which allows selection of appropriate meanings when information is ambiguous. A
      secondary focus will be on the cognitive processes involved in comprehending explicit and
      implicit information in stories and appreciating their thematic aspects. In addition, we are
      interested in learning how individuals comprehend visual (pictorial) versus propositional
      (textual) representations of relational language concepts (e.g., more/less, front/back). From
      a cognitive neuroscience perspective, our interests are in investigating the roles of both
      the prefrontal cortex (i.e., prefrontal lateral and orbitomedial areas of either hemisphere)
      and the normal aging process in these aspects of discourse processing. We predict that: (1)
      patients with frontal lobe lesions will have difficulty in suppressing mental activation of
      inappropriate meanings of ambiguous text at various points during ongoing processing; (2)
      aging reduces the efficiency of suppressing contextually inappropriate meanings of ambiguous
      text; (3) prefrontal cortex damage will have deleterious effects on processing implied
      information in stories and appreciating their thematic aspects, and (4) prefrontal cortex
      damage will impair visual rather than propositional representations of relational language
      concepts. Phase 2 of the investigations is designed to extend study into other aspects of
      text processing as well as expands to the study and analysis of discourse production. Our
      specific intents are to (1) investigate the processing and use of context when encountering
      garden path phenomena in text; (2) understand the nature of breakdowns in discourse
      production during story tell/retell using sequential pictorial stimuli that probe for
      temporal sequencing of events, cohesive ties, cause/effect relationships, anaphoric
      reference, inference, and gist; (3) understand what role the prefrontal cortex plays in its
      ability to formulate a coherent representation in narrative text inferencing tasks.

      Our findings will be of value in contributing to knowledge about the neural representation of
      the cognitive mechanisms underlying various aspects of discourse processes; advancing
      clinical measurements that can pinpoint breakdowns in these processes as they occur in real
      time, and understanding the effects of normal aging on discourse processes.
    
  