
    
      Study Objectives:

      This is a randomized controlled study whose objective is to determine whether PEMF
      stimulation as an adjunct therapy has a clinically significant effect on the morbidity
      associated with tibial shaft fractures.

      It is a two-armed study. The active treatment arm involves participants with acute tibial
      shaft fractures who have been randomized to receive a PEMF stimulation device to be worn over
      the fracture site for 10 hours per day during the first twelve weeks after injury. The
      control arm involves participants with acute tibial shaft fractures who have been randomized
      to receive a placebo device to be worn over the fracture site for 10 hours per day during the
      first twelve weeks after injury.

      Primary Aim:

        -  To determine whether the use of a PEMF stimulation device as adjunct therapy for acute
           tibial shaft fractures reduces the surgical revision rate in the 12 months after injury.

      Revision surgery for the purposes of this study is defined as any surgery on the injured leg
      (between the knee joint and ankle joint) more than 14 days after the accident, except
      operations designed to provide initial skin coverage or skin closure, or the removal of an
      external fixateur as an isolated procedure. Revision surgery will be classified as minor or
      major. Minor revision will be defined as dynamisation of an intramedullary nail through the
      percutaneous removal of a static locking screw. Major revision surgery will include all other
      revision surgery as defined above. Major revision surgery will be sub-classified as
      procedures involving either bone grafting, and/or revision of fixation, and/or for the
      treatment of established infection, or amputation, and the rates will be compared across
      treatment and placebo arms.

      Secondary Aims:

        -  To determine whether the use of a PEMF stimulation device as adjunct therapy for acute
           tibial shaft fractures increases the radiological and clinical union rates at 12, 26 and
           52 weeks after injury. A fracture will be deemed to have radiologically united at these
           times if by independent observation, two orthopaedic consultants agree that three bony
           cortices are bridged by bony callus on an anteroposterior and lateral plain X-ray at
           these times. If the two reviewers disagree, a third opinion will be sought which will be
           final. A fracture will be deemed to have clinically united if it is deemed stable under
           clinical examination by the treating orthopaedic surgeon at these times.

        -  To determine whether the use of a PEMF stimulation device as adjunct therapy for acute
           tibial shaft fractures increases the patients' general health score, as measured by the
           SF-36 general health survey; and function of the injured limb, as measured by the Lower
           Extremity Functional Scale at 12, 26 and 52 weeks after injury.

      Primary Hypothesis:

        -  That there will be significantly lower rates of surgical revision within 12 months of
           injury in those participants who received active PEMF stimulation for the first 12 weeks
           after injury.

      Secondary Hypotheses:

        -  That there will be increased union rates at 12, 26 and 52 weeks after fracture among
           participants who received active stimulation.

        -  That the average score on a general health survey and region specific health survey will
           be higher among participants who received active stimulation.

      Research Plan

      Study Population:

      All adults (18 years and over) with diaphyseal fractures of the tibia who present to a
      recruiting hospital during the study period will be eligible to enrol into the study. The AO
      classification 42 will be used to define tibial shaft fractures. Any fracture that extends
      into the articular surface will be excluded. From an analysis of previous Liverpool patients
      and the literature, the investigators expect that this population will be 75% - 85% male with
      an average age of 30-35 years old. There will be no upper limit to ages. If a participant has
      sustained bilateral tibial shaft fractures, each will be enrolled separately, left before
      right.

      Eligible patients will be approached by a senior member of their treating team, either
      registrar or consultant, and given an information sheet to read and have the opportunity to
      have any questions answered. They will then be asked to sign a consent form if they would
      like to participate in the study. Interpreters will be used during this process for
      non-english speaking patients.

      There will be a 14-day window period post injury in which the device must be applied for the
      patient to enter the study. If there is any reason why the device cannot be applied by this
      time, the patient will be excluded from the study. The most commonly encountered reason the
      investigators expect for this will be a patient who remains in an Intensive Care Unit over 14
      days, where electrically sensitive equipment is being used for patient care.

      Patients with pacemakers or defibrillators will be excluded, as PEMF stimulation may affect
      some types of these devices. Patients with pathological fractures due to malignant tumours
      will be excluded. Pregnant patients will be excluded, as the device is yet to be studied in
      pregnancy. Patients without the cognitive ability to consent are excluded.

      The recruiting hospitals are Liverpool Hospital, St. George Hospital, Westmead Hospital,
      Nepean Hospital and Wollongong Hospital. Approval has been granted for the study to commence
      through each hospital's Human Research Ethics Committee. Recruitment of patients will
      commence on Monday August 14, 2005, at each of these hospitals. Recruitment will end after
      the target of 340 participants has been enrolled into the study.

      Baseline Measures:

      Participants will be asked to complete a brief questionnaire on enrolment to determine
      potential risk factors for non-union. These data will be that of age, smoking, general
      medical conditions and medications used. The participants' current occupation will also be
      sought as this may effect the time taken for return to work.

      The treating doctor will be asked to complete a questionnaire on other risk factors. This
      will include details of the mechanism of injury, whether the injury was open or closed (and
      the Gustillo grade of an open injury), other injuries the participant has sustained, and the
      treatment received for their injuries, as well as the patients' insurance status. The
      definitive treatment for the tibia fracture will be classified as either external fixation
      with casts (plater of paris or fibreglass), intramedullary nailing, internal fixation with
      plates and screws, or external fixation.

      Copies of the initial X-rays will be collected. The fractures will be classified into the
      nine fracture patterns as defined under the AO classification system by a panel of three
      orthopaedic consultants experienced in trauma.

      Randomisation Process:

      After the consent form has been signed and the baseline data collected, the participants will
      be assigned to either active or inactive arms by the NH&MRC Clinical Trials Centre (CTC)
      located at Sydney University. Devices will come from a pool of seventy devices, which have
      been supplied by BiometÒ Australia and are commercially known as the EBI Bone Healing
      System®. Thirty-five of these devices will be active and thirty-five inactive, and they will
      be randomly numbered from 1 to 70 by the CTC. The CTC will have the code for active and
      inactive devices and will conduct the randomisation process using the statistical technique
      of minimisation, a dynamic allocation process designed to balance known risk factors across
      treatment arms. The two factors that will be minimised for are the recruiting hospital and
      whether the injury was closed or open. A device will then be randomly assigned from the
      available pool of either active or inactive devices, and this assigned device will then be
      fitted to the patient. The researchers, company representatives, surgeons and patients will
      all remain blinded to active/inactive arms until all the data have been collected and
      analysed.

      Interventions:

      Enrolment in the study will not affect any other aspect of the participants' care. All
      participants will undergo the normal surgical intervention and follow up for their tibial
      shaft fracture and any other injuries as recommended by their treating surgeons.

      After a participant has been assigned with a device number, sales representatives of BiometÒ
      Australia will fit them with it within three working days, in either the hospital ward or the
      participant's home. Participants will receive instructions on how to use the device, and be
      required to wear the device for ten hours per day for a period of twelve weeks. The devices
      are manufactured to record the amount of time in which they have been used and thereby
      measure compliance. Non-compliance will be defined as average use of less than six hours per
      day. Participants will also be asked at twelve weeks about their average use of the device.

      After twelve weeks the research team or company representatives will collect the devices,
      replace the straps, clean and check them before they re-enter the pool of devices for
      assignment.

      Data Collection:

      Data will be collected at 12, 26, and 52 weeks from both participants and their treating
      surgeons. Participants will receive a survey in the mail, and then be contacted over the
      phone to attain their answers. On each occasion they will be asked whether they have had any
      further procedures on their leg, and if so at which hospital and by whom. At three months
      they will also be asked about their average use of the device, whether they are seeing their
      surgeon in private rooms or a hospital clinic and of their insurance status. That is, are
      they being treated under medicare, private health insurance, workers compensation, or third
      party insurance. They will be asked if they have managed to return to work, and to complete
      the Lower Extremity Functional Score as well as the Short Form-36 (a general health survey).
      The phone questionnaire is expected to take 15-30 minutes each time.

      Their surgeons will also be contacted at 12, 26 and 52 weeks to determine if there has been
      any further surgery or other complications, and to gain their opinion on fracture union.
      Copies of their routine pre-operative and twelve week X-rays will be collected for review.
      Preoperative X-rays will be classified according to the AO classification system into the 9
      sub classifications of tibial shaft fractures by a panel of three orthopaedic surgeons. Two
      orthopaedic surgeons experienced in trauma, who will remain blinded to the treatment arm of
      the patients, will assess the twelve-week X-rays to determine if union has occurred. Fracture
      union rates at twelve weeks will be quantified. Fracture union will be defined as mature
      callus bridging in three of four cortices over the fracture site on two radiographic views.
      If there is disagreement amongst the two surgeons, the X-rays shall be reviewed by a third
      surgeon whose opinion shall be final. For fractures that have failed to unite at twelve
      weeks, their surgeons will be contacted to determine union rate at six months and their plain
      X-rays will be collected and reviewed. If they have undergone any surgery, their medical
      records and operation reports will be examined to determine the reason for the surgery and
      the exact operation undergone. This is to ascertain surgical revision rate and union rate at
      12, 26 and 52 weeks post injury.

      Potential Significance:

      If shown to be effective, this device may become a common adjunct to the management of tibia
      fractures and significantly decrease the rate of revision surgery and increase the rate of
      union seen with these fractures. It may also be considered for use in other long bone
      fractures.
    
  