
    
      The primary objective of this clinical trial is to:

      1) To conduct a randomized 2x2 factorial clinical trial of 1) empiric immediate initiation of
      anti-TB therapy plus standard care vs diagnosis dependent anti-TB therapy plus standard care,
      2) sepsis-specific anti-TB therapy plus standard care vs conventional WHO weight-based
      anti-TB therapy plus standard care for patients presenting with sepsis in Uganda and
      Tanzania.

      1a) To determine if empiric immediate initiation of anti-TB therapy plus standard care
      improves 28 day mortality compared to diagnosis dependent anti-TB therapy plus standard care.

      1b) To determine if sepsis-specific dose anti-TB therapy plus standard care improves 28 day
      mortality compared to conventional WHO weight-based anti-TB therapy plus standard care.

      The secondary objectives include:

        1. To determine if empiric immediate initiation of anti-TB therapy plus standard care
           improves in-hospital mortality compared to diagnosis dependent anti-TB therapy plus
           standard care.

        2. To determine if sepsis-specific dose anti-TB therapy plus standard care improves
           in-hospital mortality compared to conventional WHO weight-based anti-TB therapy plus
           standard care.

        3. To determine if empiric immediate initiation of anti-TB therapy plus standard care
           improves 6 month mortality compared to diagnosis dependent anti-TB therapy plus standard
           care.

        4. To determine if sepsis-specific dose anti-TB therapy plus standard care improves 6 month
           mortality compared to conventional WHO weight-based anti-TB therapy plus standard care.

        5. To determine the safety of increased dose sepsis-specific anti-TB therapy for patients
           with sepsis

        6. To determine if early achievement of target serum drug concentrations of isoniazid and
           rifampin, measured at day-2 of TB treatment, associates with more rapid clinical
           improvement among patients with confirmed TB.

      Participants will be men or women aged ≥18 years living with HIV in Tanzania or Uganda who
      are admitted to one of the study hospitals with sepsis, defined by a clinical concern for
      infection, a modified quick sepsis-related organ failure assessment (qSOFA) score ≥2 (Glasgow
      Coma Scale score <15, a respiratory rate ≥22, or a systolic blood pressure ≤90 mmHg or a mean
      arterial pressure of ≤65 mmHg). This is a multi-site trial at Kilimanjaro region hospitals in
      Tanzania (Kibong'oto Infectious Diseases Hospital and Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre)
      and Mbarara Regional Referral Hospital in Mbarara, Uganda. At both regional study sites,
      clinical trial infrastructure has been developed over multiple TB and non-TB related
      interventional studies supported by the NIH and other funders including EDCTP, WHO, MRC, and
      BMGF with associated regulatory standards. Furthermore, both regional hospital systems have
      large recruitment populations serving mid-sized cities where patients receive local care and
      as referral hospitals for those from more peripheral settings. The study population will be
      enrolled from the Emergency or inpatient wards. Admission numbers of eligible patients
      presenting with sepsis at each site allow for a conservative estimates of 100 patients per
      country per year to be well within attainment.

      After enrollment, patients will be randomized to 1) empiric immediate initiation of anti-TB
      therapy plus standard care vs diagnosis dependent anti-TB therapy plus standard care and 2)
      conventional WHO recommended weight-based dose anti-TB therapy with rifampin, isoniazid,
      pyrazinamide, and ethambutol plus pyridoxine, plus standard therapy; or sepsis-specific dose
      anti-TB therapy with rifampin (~30mg/kg), isoniazid (~7.5mg/kg), pyrazinamide, and ethambutol
      plus pyridoxine, plus standard care.

      Each individual participant will complete all participant follow-up at 6 months from
      enrollment.
    
  