
    
      Adequate conditions for endotracheal intubation and mask ventilation require appropriate
      positioning of head and neck. The sniffing position had been described as the most
      appropriate head position for endotracheal intubation. Sniffing position is achieved through
      two main components: flexion of the neck by 35° (achieved by head elevation) and extension of
      the head by 15° 2 to have the sternum at the same level of external auditory meatus 34.
      Sniffing position has the advantage of alignment of the three axes: oral, pharyngeal, and
      laryngeal axes for reaching the optimal laryngeal visualization.

      In obese patients, it is recommended to put the patient in the ramped position (back-up
      position with the tragus of the ear is at the level of the suprasternal notch) in addition to
      the sniffing head-and-neck position.

      In addition to difficult laryngeal visualization, another problem commonly confronts
      anesthetists during intubation of obese such as: 1- Impedance to complete mouth opening due
      to fatty face and neck. 2- Impedance of laryngoscopy by large breasts in females. This
      problem commonly hinders the intubation process and might lead to serious hypoxia. Most of
      the positions described in literature were concerned with facilitating laryngeal
      visualization. No position to the best of our knowledge was applied to aid the introduction
      of the laryngoscope.

      The investigators hypothesized that using a special pillow to achieve a modified ramped
      position (by slight extension of the neck) at the beginning of the laryngoscopy would enhance
      mouth opening and bring the breasts away from the laryngoscope. After successful introduction
      of the laryngoscope in the oral cavity, the head could be manually elevated (if required) to
      achieve sniffing position.

      The aim of this work is to investigate the feasibility of using the aforementioned modified
      ramped position for intubation of obese females in comparison to the traditional ramped
      position.
    
  