
    
      The Nice Guidelines for Varicose Veins, published by the NHS in 2013, questioned the clinical
      benefit of stockings after endovenous ablation, and if there is benefit, how long the
      stockings should be worn for.

      Three randomised controlled trials have addressed these issues:

      Bakker and colleagues randomised 69 patients into two groups- stockings were worn for either
      two or seven days after laser ablation. The group who wore stockings for seven days had
      better pain and quality of life scores.

      Elderman and colleagues randomised 111 patients who had laser ablation into two groups- a
      group who wore no stockings, or a group who wore stockings for two weeks. The group who wore
      stockings for two weeks had less pain and required less analgesia.

      Krasznai and colleagues randomised 101 patients into two groups- stockings were worn for
      either 4 hours or 72 hours after radiofrequency ablation only; there was no significant
      difference in post-op pain among groups.

      None of these trials included patients who had phlebectomies at the same time.

      This study hopes to answer the question 'How long is it necessary to wear compression
      stockings for after endovenous ablation (either laser or radiofrequency) plus concomitant
      phlebectomies?'

      110 consecutive patients will be randomised into 'stockings for 2 weeks' (trial group) or
      'stockings for 4 weeks' (usual treatment group). Randomisation will be facilitated by online
      random number generation (https://www.random.org/). Patients with odd numbers will be
      allocated into the trial group; those randomly assigned even numbers will be allocated into
      the usual treatment group.

      Pre-operatively, all patients will be asked to fill out a visual analog pain score (VAS), the
      Aberdeen Varicose Veins questionnaire and the RAND 36-Item Health Survey. Patients will be
      evaluated in terms of CAEP staging and the Venous Clinical Severity Score (VCSS) by the
      supervising nurse or physician.

      Endovenous laser therapy (EVLT) plus phlebectomies or radiofrequency ablation (RFA) plus
      phlebectomies will be performed in the standard manner.

      The trial group will wear the stockings for 24 hours a day for the first 4 days, and then
      during the day only for the next 10 days. The usual treatment group will wear the stockings
      for 24 hours a day for a week, and then during the day only for the next 3 weeks.

      Post-operatively at home, patients will be asked to keep a diary of pain and analgesia use.
      They will also document bruising at 7 days on a diagram and on a visual analog scale.

      At their 4 week clinic review, again the VCSS will completed and patients will be asked to
      fill out a visual analog pain and bruising score, a bruising diagram, the Aberdeen Varicose
      Veins questionnaire and the RAND 36-Item Health Survey.

      Primary outcome measures are post-operative pain scores on the visual analog scale and
      post-operative bruising scores on the visual analog scale.

      Secondary outcome measures are changes in veins-related quality of life measured on the
      Aberdeen Varicose Veins Questionnaire and changes in overall quality of life based on the
      RAND 36-Item Health Survey.
    
  