
    
      The overall objective of this study is to examine the impact of employing early
      rehabilitation by implementing a randomized controlled trial at Prisma Health Midlands on
      women diagnosed with stage I-III breast cancer who will receive a mastectomy.

      The following outcomes will be collected at 3-time points (baseline, 3 months and 6 months
      post-surgery)

        -  Objective measures: Upper extremity active range of motion, upper extremity, strength,
           physical function, and arm volume

        -  Patient reported (questionnaire) measures: Upper extremity function, functional
           mobility, balance, health-related quality f life, pain, fatigue, falls and distress.

      The patient reported measures will also be collected electronically 24 hours after each of
      the 3 assessments (baseline, 3 months and 6 months post-surgery)

      Each of the 3 study visits will last ~60 minutes.

      If you are randomized into the intervention group, you will receive ~10 treatment visits with
      a licensed physical therapist. Scheduling will be at your convenience and based on what the
      physical therapist recommends. Those in the intervention group will receive individualized
      physical therapy treatments based on impairments identified. Treatment may include but is not
      limited to the following: passive, assisted and active ROM, manual therapy, soft tissue
      massage, myofascial release, therapeutic activities and exercise and patient education.
      Treatment duration and frequency will be specific to each patient, providing personalized
      care. Physical therapy intervention will occur 1-2x/week for 3-6 weeks beginning ~4 weeks
      after surgery (x̄=10 visits). Each visit will last ~60 minutes in duration.

      The usual care groups will be instructed to continue with their typical daily activities.

      All study participants will receive a handout containing education and home exercise
      instruction which is considered routine care.

      Participants will receive a $25 gift card gift card for each completed in person assessment
      (baseline, 3 and 6 months post surgery) for a total of $75.
    
  