
    
      Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is a sensitive and specific biomarker of prostate tissue.
      Monitoring of PSA after local treatment for prostate cancer can assist in identifying
      patients who have only increased PSA (biochemical recurrence [BCR]) despite no symptoms,
      signs, or evidence of radiographic metastatic disease. This subpopulation of patients are
      referred to as having "biochemical failure." Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is a standard
      treatment option, but is only effective for 16-24 months and has a number of side effects
      that impact quality of life. These side effects may include fatigue, hot flushing, loss of
      sex drive, brain fog, decreased bone mineral density, loss of muscle mass, mild anemia,
      diabetes, heart disease, metabolic syndromes and risk of fractures. An alternative to
      continuous ADT is intermittent administration, where patients are given "breaks" from ADT to
      let their testosterone levels return to baseline. There are a number of potential benefits to
      intermittent hormone therapy (IHT): (1) longer time to the development of resistance, owing
      to the removal of constant pressure causing faster mutation of resistant cells; (2) improved
      patient quality of life owing to recovery from adverse effects, particularly sexual function;
      and (3) substantial cost savings owing to less time spent receiving medication. Leuprolide is
      the name of the ADT / IHT drug.

      Apalutamide is an investigational antitumor drug, taken by mouth. It is a synthetic compound
      rationally designed to bind the androgen receptor (with higher affinity than enzalutamide or
      bicalutamide), prevent both nuclear translocation and DNA binding, and induce apoptosis. It
      has greater antitumor activity at a lower dose, achieves steady-state levels at a lower dose,
      and accumulates more into tumor tissue without building up in the brain, which both increases
      effectiveness and decreases the risk of seizure.

      Apalutamide's mechanism of action gives it the potential to extend the time to PSA increase
      during intermittent ADT, delaying the necessity for continuous ADT. Investigators will assess
      the potential applications of intermittent ADT plus Apalutamide for participants with BCR.
      This study will elucidate the potential of this regimen to reduce the burden of adverse
      events of continuous ADT and delay the development of hormone resistance.

      This is a randomized crossover study intended to determine the interval of ADT administration
      achievable with supportive Apalutamide treatment. Investigators will assess the significance
      of time to PSA recurrence, time to next leuprolide injection, time to testosterone recovery,
      duration of testosterone recovery, time to biochemical recurrence, percentage of men
      developing biochemical recurrence, number of detectable CTCs, and quality of life measures.

      Treatment will be 66 participants in 2:1 randomized crossover - 45 IHT + apalutamide:21 IHT
      only until second leuprolide injection, then IHT + apalutamide

      Apalutamide + IHT Participants will be treated with 240 mg (4 60 mg tablets) oral Apalutamide
      daily plus 22.5 mg 3-month depot intramuscular leuprolide intermittently.

      IHT Participants will receive 22.5 mg 3-month depot intramuscular leuprolide until PSA
      progression, when they will receive 240 mg oral Apalutamide daily plus 22.5 mg 3-month depot
      intramuscular leuprolide intermittently.

      Participants remain on study until continuous ADT is required to maintain castrate PSA levels
      (i.e., leuprolide is needed every 3 months to maintain PSA <1 ng/dL).
    
  