
    
      2-arm, parallel, pragmatic, multi-centre, open-label randomized controlled trial to determine
      the effect of therapeutic anticoagulation, with low molecular weight heparin or
      unfractionated heparin (high dose nomogram), compared to standard care in hospitalized
      patients with COVID-19 and an elevated D-dimer on the composite outcome of intensive care
      unit (ICU) admission, non-invasive positive pressure ventilation, invasive mechanical
      ventilation or death at 28 days. Eligible participants will be randomized to one of two
      treatment regimens, receiving either therapeutic anticoagulation or standard care until
      discharged from hospital, death or day 28.

      The primary composite outcome of ICU admission, non-invasive positive pressure ventilation,
      invasive mechanical ventilation, or all-cause death up to 28 days.

      Key secondary outcomes between study arms up to day 28 include:

        1. All-cause death

        2. Composite outcome of ICU admission or all-cause death

        3. Composite outcome of mechanical ventilation or all-cause death

        4. Major bleeding as defined by the ISTH Scientific and Standardization Committee
           (ISTH-SSC) recommendation

        5. Number of participants who received red blood cell transfusion (≥1 unit)

        6. Number of participants with transfusion of platelets, frozen plasma, prothrombin complex
           concentrate, cryoprecipitate and/or fibrinogen concentrate

        7. Renal replacement therapy;

        8. Number of hospital-free days alive

        9. Number of ICU-free days alive

       10. Number of ventilator-free days alive

       11. Number of organ support-free days alive

       12. Number of participants with venous thromboembolism

       13. Number of participants with arterial thromboembolism

       14. Number of participants with heparin induced thrombocytopenia

       15. Changes in D-dimer up to day 3

      The treatment arm is therapeutic anticoagulation with low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) or
      unfractionated heparin (UFH, high dose nomogram). The choice of LMWH versus UFH will be at
      the clinician's discretion. LMWH options include: Tinzaparin, Enoxaparin, or Dalteparin. UFH
      will be administered using a weight-based nomogram with titration according to the
      center-specific protocol. Therapeutic anticoagulation will be administered until discharged
      from hospital, 28 days or death. If the patient is admitted to the ICU or requiring
      ventilatory support, we recommend continuation of the allocated treatment as long as the
      treating physician is in agreement. The standard care arm is the administration of LMWH, UFH
      or fondaparinux at thromboprophylactic doses in the absence of contraindication.

      No study specific bloodwork will be ordered aside from a single D-dimer test (if not
      collected through standard of care) up to and including day 3 after randomization for all
      participants in both study arms. In those on the active treatment arm who are receiving UFH,
      the aPTT or UFH anti-Xa will be drawn according to local institutional UFH nomogram protocol
      guidance. All laboratory results will be collected from standard of care from admission to
      hospital discharge, death or 28 days, where available. An optional biobanking component will
      collect blood at baseline and 2 follow up time points.

      This study will immediately impact the clinical care of patients with severe COVID-19
      internationally, whether the findings are positive or negative, as COVID-19 coagulopathy is a
      highly prevalent complication of severe COVID-19 and may precede the respiratory
      manifestations that characterize it.
    
  