
    
      Population of study & disease condition Chronic heart Failure patients with reduced ejection
      fraction, (LVEF <40%) associated with moderate impairment of renal functions, (eGFR by
      Cockroft-Gold equation 60-40 ml/min/m2).

      Patients will be randomized to receive either Enalapril (2.5 up to 20mg ) or Telmisartan (20
      up to 80mg) for RAAS inhibition, as part of their heart failure therapy.

      Objectives:

      - Compare efficacy, safety and tolerability of Telmisartan versus Enalapril in HFrEF patients
      with impaired renal function.

      • Methodology in details: HFrEF patients with moderate renal impairment as defined per
      protocol and after accepting participation to the study, will be randomly allocated into 2
      equal groups using closed envelopes randomization system based on web-based randomization
      tables. Group 1 will receive Enalapril (between 2.5 to 20mg daily) as tolerated. Group 2 will
      receive Telmisartan (between 10 to 80mg daily) as tolerated. Both groups will receive other
      guidelines directed medical therapy for HFrEF. Patients will be monitored for :-

        -  Improvement of NYHA class.

        -  Six-minutes walk test at baseline at 2, 6 and 12 months.

        -  Trends of changes in NT-BNP values from baseline and every 6 months.

        -  Changes in left ventricular dimensions and ejection fraction assessed by
           echocardiography at baseline, at 6 and 12 months.

        -  Rates of worsening kidney functions assessed by changes in serum creatinine and in eGFR
           from baseline.

        -  Rates of improvement in albuminuria and serum albumin assessed by urinary
           Albumin/Creatinine ratio and serum albumin levels respectively, at baseline at 2, 6 and
           12 months.

        -  Rates of discontinuation of / intolerance to the used agent for RAAS inhibition
           (enalapril/telmisartan)

        -  Rates of rehospitalization for decompensated heart failure.

        -  Rates of rehospitalization for any reason.

        -  Cardiac death.

        -  All-cause death.
    
  