
    
      Hypothesis

      It is hypothesized that low dose spinal anesthesia can provide equivalent anesthesia for
      cesarean section as higher conventional dose spinal anesthesia, with less hypotension, faster
      recovery and enhanced maternal satisfaction.

      Patient Population

      Adult females having elective, repeat cesarean sections who have given informed consent.

      Exclusion Criteria

        -  Contraindications to dural puncture

        -  BMI >40

        -  Elective C/S presenting in labour or with rupture of membranes

        -  Placenta previa or accrete

      Methodology

      Patients will be screened in the antenatal clinic at Women's Hospital, Health Sciences Centre
      (HSC), Winnipeg during one of their regularly scheduled visits. If patients are scheduled at
      another antenatal clinic in the city, we will ask the obstetrician to briefly mention the
      study to potential study patients, and if they are interested give them the consent form to
      take home and read. We will then phone patients, obtain verbal consent and discuss any
      questions they may have. On the morning of their procedure we will obtain written consent,
      and answer any additional questions they may have. Alternatively, patients will be approached
      by their obstetrician in clinic, and if interested will be given the option to go to the
      Pre-Anesthesia Clinic at HSC where a member of our study team will discuss the study with
      them and obtain written consent.

      Potential patients will be provided with information regarding the study and consent will be
      obtained prior to their enrollment in the study. Forty patients will be randomized into two
      groups: 1. Conventional dose spinal anesthesia 2. Low dose spinal anesthesia. Randomization
      will occur via sealed envelope prior to their scheduled cesarean section. The patient will be
      blinded to the randomization.

      All women will have standard monitors. In addition, a radial arterial line will be inserted
      for continuous blood pressure measurement and cardiac output measurements using the FloTrac
      sensor and Vigileo monitor(cardiac output monitor using arterial waveform analysis, Edwards
      Life Sciences). All women will receive a preload of 500ml of Ringers Lactate solution
      intravenously.

      The conventional dose control group will receive a spinal anesthetic consisting of hyperbaric
      bupivacaine 1.2cc (9mg) with fentanyl 15mg and preservative free morphine 150mcg. The patient
      will be in the sitting position for the dural puncture and then positioned supine, in the
      left lateral tilt position after the anesthetic solution has been given. Once block height
      has been established the patient will be placed in 20-30 degrees trendelenberg for the
      cesarean section.

      The low-dose spinal group will receive a spinal anesthetic consisting of hyperbaric
      bupivacaine 4.5mg with fentanyl 15mg and preservative free morphine 150mcg. The patient will
      be positioned on her side, right side down and head down 20-30 degrees for the dural puncture
      and then positioned supine in the left lateral tilt position after the anesthetic solution
      has been given. The OR table will be kept in 20-30 degrees head down for the cesarean
      section.

      Blood pressure will be monitored continuously. Cardiac output measurement will be done
      immediately prior to administering the spinal and immediately after positioning in a left
      lateral tilt position and then every five minutes until the end of the operation.

      All women will be instructed in the use of a patient controlled analgesia (PCA) remifentanil
      infusion which they can use during the cesarean section if they experience any discomfort. If
      this is not adequate, 60-70% nitrous oxide will be attempted. If adequate pain control cannot
      be established and the cesarean section is not near completion, conversion to a general
      anesthetic will be the next step. All women will receive rectal naproxen at the conclusion of
      the surgery unless there is a contraindication or bleeding is a concern. All women will
      receive prophylactic ondansetron intraoperatively unless there is a contraindication.

      Decreases in mean blood pressure greater than 20% from baseline or less than 90 mm Hg will be
      defined as hypotension and will be treated with incremental doses of phenylephrine (50-100mcg
      IV) or ephedrine (5mg) if maternal heart rate is less than 60 bpm. A 500cc lactated ringers
      bolus will be co-administered with initiation of the spinal anesthetic. Further fluids will
      be administered with a goal of approximately 1-1.5 liters intraoperatively. Each patient will
      in addition receive 20 units Oxytocin in 500cc saline. Additional fluid or uterotonics will
      be given as necessary for bleeding or hypotension and will be taken into account at the end.

      Levels of sensory and motor blockade will be recorded just prior to skin prep, following
      arrival in recovery room and then every 30 minutes thereafter. Sensory block will be
      monitored by dermatome level at which there is a loss of sensation to ice. Motor blockade
      will be checked using the modified Bromage score (0 = no impairment, 1 = unable to raise
      extended legs but able to move knees and ankles, 2 = unable to raise extended legs or to flex
      knees but able to move feet, 3 = unable to flex ankles, knees or hips).

      Maternal satisfaction will be assessed as self reported pain scores, nausea/vomiting,
      shivering, ability to interact with baby in the OR.

      Outcome measures will include the following

        1. Hemodynamics (BP, heart rate (HR), Cardiac Index)

        2. Time to completion of spinal anesthetic (from skin puncture to positioning in the left
           lateral tilt position)

        3. Surgical time (skin incision to skin closure)

        4. Total remifentanil administration during the procedure

        5. Total phenylephrine administration during the procedure

        6. Administration of any other sedatives/anti-emetics

        7. Fetal cord blood gases (arterial and venous) and Apgar scores

        8. Maternal satisfaction scores

        9. Bilateral sensory block levels Bromage scores on arrival to PACU and every 30 minutes
           until the patient is discharge ready

       10. Time to being discharge ready from PACU

       11. Complications (difficult spinal, PDPH)

      Outcome 1 to 6 will be recorded intraoperatively (average time 90 to 120 minutes). Outcomes 6
      to 10 will be recorded in the post anesthesia care unit (PACU)(average stay 4 to 6 hours).
      Outcome 11 will be recorded for the duration of the patient's hospital stay.

      Patients will be followed for the duration of their hospital stay (estimated three days).

      Statistical Analysis

      Statistical analysis will be done by the Biostatistical Consulting Unit of the University of
      Manitoba. It will consist of analysis of variance for repeated measures for continuous
      variables, student's T-test and Chi square analysis for non-parametric variables. P<0.05 will
      be considered statistically significant.

      We propose to study 20 patients in each group.
    
  