
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the objective response rate (ORR) of olaparib plus cediranib and olaparib plus
      ceralasertib (AZD6738) combinations in patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer
      with germline BRCA (breast cancer susceptibility gene) mutations who have been previously
      treated with PARP inhibitors.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and tolerability of olaparib in combination with cediranib and in
      combination with AZD6738 in patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer with germline
      BRCA mutations.

      II. To assess duration of response (DOR) to treatment. III. To assess best response. IV. To
      estimate progression free survival (PFS).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate BRCA1 expression at baseline and on progression. II. To evaluate hypoxia
      markers at baseline and on progression. III. To evaluate levels of angiogenesis/ inflammatory
      markers including VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) at baseline and on progression.

      IV. To evaluate novel markers of resistance and response to PARP inhibitor in baseline and
      upon progression of disease in tumor tissue that are identified by the investigator's basic
      science collaborator's ongoing studies in vitro and in vivo.

      V. To evaluate circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) at baseline and on progression.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and cediranib PO once daily
      (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive olaparib PO BID on days 1-28 and ceralasertib PO QD on days 1-7.
      Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.
    
  