
    
      In the United States, more people die from CAD than any other disease, with African
      Americans, particularly women and young men, being more affected by CAD than European
      Americans. One cause of CAD is atherosclerosis, a condition in which deposits of fat,
      cholesterol, and other substances build up along the inner walls of arteries. Coronary artery
      calcification occurs as a result of atherosclerosis and is characterized by calcium build up
      in the arteries. Non-invasive imaging, including computed tomography (CT) scans, of coronary
      artery calcification is an effective way to assess CAD risk. The Genetic Epidemiology Network
      of Arteriopathy (GENOA) study, which is part of the Family Blood Pressure Program (FBPP), is
      a study that examined siblings with high blood pressure during two exams conducted between
      1995 and 2004. The purpose of this new GENOA study, which will enroll past GENOA
      participants, is to identify genetic factors that may lead to the development of coronary
      artery calcification in African Americans. Conducting genetic studies in the African American
      population will result in greater understanding of the mechanisms of atherosclerosis, and may
      lead to improved strategies for the early identification of people at risk for CAD and the
      development of new treatments for CAD.

      This study will enroll people who have participated in the second GENOA exam and who live in
      Jackson, Mississippi. Participants will attend one study visit at the University of
      Mississippi Medical Center. During the study visit, participants will be interviewed by study
      staff about their medical and family health history; health behaviors; physical activity
      levels; and use of tobacco, alcohol, and medications. They will complete a walking activity
      and tasks to assess memory, thinking speed, and accuracy. Participants will also complete a
      questionnaire about their mood, a physical examination, a CT scan of the heart, and a blood
      collection. A portion of blood will be stored for future research studies.
    
  