
    
      Purpose and Design

      The Cancer Loyalty Card Study (CLOCS) is addressing whether or not data already collected by
      high street retailers can detect significant changes in purchase behaviours of ovarian cancer
      patients prior to their diagnosis. The investigators aim to conduct a case-control study of
      ovarian cancer patients matched with women who do not have ovarian cancer. The study aims to
      recruit at least 500 recently diagnosed ovarian cancer patients and at least 500 healthy
      women as controls and collate up to 7 years of prior purchase data.

      Recruitment

      Loyalty card holders will be invited to join the study by email and post from the high street
      retailers and can choose to sign up via the CLOCS website or via post by returning the
      consent form to the study team through the mail. There will also be a press release about the
      study inviting loyalty card holders to visit the CLOCS website for more information and join
      the study. Women, 18 years or older, who have a loyalty card at the participating high street
      retailers are eligible to join. Women with ovarian cancer and who own at least one of the
      participating high street retailer's loyalty cards will be recruited in a clinic by a member
      of their healthcare team where the study is open. Any woman considering joining the study can
      contact the research team using the contact details on the information sheet.

      Consent

      Ovarian cancer patients will be given the information sheet and consent form in the clinic by
      a member of their healthcare team. They can take as much time as they need to read through
      the information sheet. If they choose to participate, they can complete the consent form
      whenever is convenient for them and return it to the CLOCS team in the free post envelope
      provided to them in the clinic.

      Women without ovarian cancer will be presented with the information sheet and consent form in
      an email or letter in the mail from their high street retailer if they hold a loyalty card
      with them and return them to the CLOCS team in a free post envelope. They can also find the
      information sheet and consent form on the CLOCS website and consent online.

      Methods

      Consenting participants will complete a brief questionnaire about ovarian cancer risk
      factors, which will also be returned to the CLOCS team through the mail or on the website
      (healthy volunteers only). Participants with ovarian cancer will also have a clinical form
      for a member of their clinical team to complete in the clinic. This will be sent to the CLOCS
      team along with their consent and risk factor questionnaire in the free post envelope. Two
      ovarian cancer patients have reviewed all questionnaires and CLOCS documents and expressed
      their approval. Women without ovarian cancer from the general UK population have also
      reviewed the risk factor questionnaire and expressed their approval saying the questionnaire
      is 'easy to understand' and 'straightforward'.

      If participants consent to be re-contacted by the CLOCS team for future studies or for
      loyalty card detail clarification,they will provide either a contact email or phone number.
      There is no further action needed from participants once they complete their consent form and
      questionnaire (and clarify loyalty card details if necessary)
    
  