
    
      Background:

      A phencyclidine derivative developed by Parke-Davis represented an attempt to mimic
      phencyclidine anesthesia without inducing the severe psychomimetic reactions of its parent
      compound. Initial reports were promising and received great enthusiasm. At high doses, the
      drug was found to provide profound analgesia whilst preserving airway reflexes. It induced
      reliable amnesia, yet could be delivered as a simple injection. It was claimed at the time
      that this anesthetic heralded a new phase in the history of anesthesia. Today, over 40 years
      since the anesthetic was introduced at Michigan, there has been a resurgence of interest in
      this old drug. A growing number of investigators are studying the effects of anesthesia on
      human subjects. There is currently tremendous interest in anesthesia as an opioid sparing
      agent, a model for schizophrenia, an antidepressant, and as an N-Methyl D-Aspartate (NMDA)
      antagonist in complex regional pain syndromes.

      Functional connectivity is a measure of low-frequency oscillations (<0.08 Hz) that are
      inherent to brain tissue at rest. These oscillations are measured on fMRI, and appear to be
      synchronized between related areas of the brain. Although research in this area is still in
      its infancy, studies of the motor, auditory, visual, and sensorimotor systems, have shown
      that functionally related areas of the brain produce correlated low-frequency oscillations.
      This fascinating finding raises the possibility of a new approach to studying brain function
      as well as a potential tool for the diagnosis of disease. Recent fMRI studies of the
      precentral gyrus have demonstrated the ability of functional connectivity studies to
      differentiate healthy volunteers from patients with multiple sclerosis. Additional research
      is ongoing to determine whether functional connectivity will prove useful in the diagnosis of
      early Alzheimer's disease.

      Recent research in functional connectivity has identified regions in the brain active at
      rest. These regions are often referred to at the "Default-mode network" (DMN). Activity in
      the DMN is increased in the brain at rest and decreased when a subject concentrates on a
      mental task. The first fMRI study examining functional connectivity in chronic pain patients
      was published in a recent issue of the Journal of Neuroscience. In this study abnormal
      patterns of functional connectivity were seen in chronic pain patients. Specifically, a
      dysfunction in down-regulating the DMN was seen. The chronic pain patients did not deactivate
      the medial prefrontal cortex, amygdala, or posterior cingulate cortex to the same degree as
      healthy controls.

      The only fMRI study examining functional connectivity in major depression was published in
      September of 2007. This study also noted a dysfunction in the DMN. Depressed subjects were
      found to have increased network functional connectivity in the subgenual cingulate cortex,
      thalamus, orbitofrontal cortex, and the precuneus. Notably, the subgenual cingulate cortex is
      the location of a recent clinical trial suggesting that deep brain stimulation to this region
      may ameliorate symptoms of patients with severe refractory depression.

      Interest in anesthesia for the treatment of chronic pain and depression has grown in recent
      years. Although there have been no randomized trials of low-dose anesthesia in chronic pain
      patients, the evidence currently available indicates it is most effective in the treatment of
      allodynia, hyperalgesia, and hyperpathia. For depression, there has been one randomized,
      placebo-controlled, double blinded crossover study. In the depression trial, robust and rapid
      antidepressant effects were found to result from a single intravenous dose of anesthesia and
      last for at least a week.

      Objective:

      To examine functional connectivity in the human brain both at rest and after anesthetic
      sedation using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).

      Specific Aims/Hypotheses:

        1. Measure the degree of functional connectivity in three study groups (healthy volunteers,
           chronic back pain, and refractory depression).

        2. Analyze for differences in baseline functional connectivity.

        3. Measure changes in functional connectivity after IV low-dose anesthetic sedation.

        4. Document study group differences in anesthetic response.

        5. Measure for any correlation between fMRI changes and therapeutic effects.

      Study Protocol:

      Participation in this study includes four main visits and an optional follow-up visit. The
      first visit is a baseline interview session to assess participant eligibility using a
      structured interview. The second visit is an initial fMRI scan at the fMRI center. The third
      visit is the anesthetic infusion at the hospital; management of any adverse events during the
      infusion will be monitored by the Post Anesthesia Care Unit ( PACU) personnel. The fourth
      visit is a follow-up fMRI scan at the fMRI center. There is an optional one week follow-up
      visit at the fMRI center for a final fMRI scan.

      fMRI Statistical Analysis: The imaging experiments and analysis of subject-specific data will
      lead to maps corresponding to separate measures: resting state functional connectivity maps,
      and measures of cerebral blood flow (CBF). Final inferences will be made at the voxel level
      and for anatomically specific regions-of-interest (ROIs). The voxel-based analysis will be
      performed through the generation of summary images referred to as statistical parametric maps
      (SPMs) representing before-infusion vs. after-infusion, and, as data in the two patient
      groups become available, two-way ANOVA results of ketamine infusion state and patient
      diagnosis (chronic pain or refractory depression). The ROI-based analysis will be driven by
      the a priori selected fronto-limbic regions of interest generated in the self-reflection
      task, and by the anatomical nodes in the default mode network given in the literature.
    
  