
    
      Sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) is the standard approach for axillary staging in patients
      with breast cancer worldwide. The evident trend of breast cancer treatment is going towards
      minimizing axillary surgery, even in presence of involvement of the sentinel lymph node
      (SLN). In fact, it is well known that removal of lymph nodes is performed with staging
      purposes and to improve regional control but not with curative intent. Recent data from a
      prospective randomized trial which compared axillary dissection vs. no further axillary
      surgery in presence of positive SLN did not show any difference in term of overall and
      disease-free survival. Moreover, to date the impact of the prognostic information of axillary
      lymph node status in the decision-making process is less important than in the past as the
      adjuvant treatment is more and more tailored on the biological features of the disease rather
      than on the risk of recurrence.

      This is a prospective randomized controlled trial in which patients with small breast cancer
      (T<2 cm), with a negative preoperative assessment of the axilla (ultra-sound with FNAC in
      presence of doubtful findings) will be randomized into two treatment arms:

        -  SLNB ± axillary dissection

        -  No axillary surgical staging In the arm 1, no axillary dissection will be performed in
           case of either negative SLN or in presence of isolated tumour cells or micrometastases.
           SLNB will be completed by axillary dissection in presence of macrometastases diagnosed
           in the SLN.

      The aims of this prospective randomized study are:

      to verify whether, in presence of a negative preoperative axillary assessment, SLN can be
      spared to verify whether, in presence of a negative preoperative axillary assessment, the
      decision on adjuvant medical treatment can be taken according only to the biology of the
      tumour without the prognostic information achieved by SLNB on the nodal status to verify
      whether, in presence of a negative preoperative axillary assessment, the patients' quality of
      life can be improved by a less invasive surgical procedure.

      Endpoints

      The primary endpoint of the study is distant-disease free survival. This endpoint, a proxi of
      overall survival, will allow to have reliable results in a shorter period of time compared to
      overall survival.

      Secondary endpoints will be the cumulative incidence of distant recurrences, the cumulative
      incidence of axillary recurrences, the disease free survival (DFS) and the overall survival
      (OS). Other secondary endpoints are quality of life and evaluation of type of adjuvant
      treatment administered.

      Sample size calculation and statistical considerations

      We will consider women who will undergo SLNB as the reference group, and we will test for
      non-inferiority the group of women not undergoing any treatment in the axilla. For the
      purpose of sample size calculation, the 5-year DDFS in the reference group is assumed to be
      96.5%. Overall, 1560 women (780 per arm) will be enrolled to decide whether the group without
      treatment of the axilla is no worse than the reference group, given a margin delta of
      non-inferiority of 2.5% (maximum tolerable 5-years DDFS = 94%). Statistical power and
      one-sided type I error are set to 80% and 5%, respectively. After 3 years from the start of
      accrual an interim safety analysis will be performed.

      Standard survival analyses and survival analyses with competing events will be performed.
      Multivariable Cox regression models will be applied to adjust the risk estimates of interest
      for other variables. The Chi-square test for trend, Chi-square test and the Fisher exact test
      will be used to evaluate differences in percentages between the two treatment groups, as
      appropriate. The T-tests will be used to evaluate differences in means for continuous
      variables.
    
  