
    
      The primary objective of the study is to test the feasibility of establishing the first
      IVF-conceived pregnancy antenatal clinic specifically to collect longitudinal data relating
      to the growth of the baby in the womb, how the mother's heart and blood vessels adapt to the
      increased workload of pregnancy, and how the mother's emotional health (particularly stress
      and anxiety) varies throughout pregnancy.

      The feasibility of the study protocol will be assessed using stop/go (or progression)
      criteria, to help determine whether future, larger scale studies of the same should be
      commenced. The information gathered to answer the primary and secondary outcomes of the
      study's primary objective will be essential for understanding, and overcoming, potential
      barriers to recruitment to future cohort studies within the clinic. It will enable the
      researchers to plan future studies with sufficient sample size to answer the specified
      question, realistic recruitment targets and timescales to achieve this, and using
      investigations that are shown to be acceptable to the majority of individuals in the target
      population. The secondary objective of the study is to gather preliminary data relating to
      the effects of fresh and frozen embryo transfer IVF on fetal, maternal and placental health.

      The study is based on the design of several successful pregnancy cohort studies (such as the
      Tommy's Project), which run through five translational research clinics in St. Mary's
      Hospital, Manchester University Hospitals National Health Service (NHS) Foundation Trust:
      VELOCITY clinic, Lupus in Pregnancy service, Manchester Placenta Clinic, Rainbow clinic and
      Manchester Antenatal Vascular Service. The SMART clinic replicates the model of care offered
      through these existing clinics, offering the same levels of specialised, continuity of care
      to individuals who have conceived by IVF. These successful recruitment and retention within
      these studies gives confidence in the acceptability of the study.

      The study design is a cohort study. This is where individual participants can be divided into
      groups by specified characteristics, in this case whether or not they had conceived by IVF or
      not (or sub-categorised by individual factors within the IVF treatment process, such as
      whether the embryo was transferred fresh or after a period of cryopreservation). No active
      intervention (medicine or procedure) will be administered during the study. However, it is
      known that health outcomes of individuals participating in research may be influenced by the
      experience of participating in the study itself. For this reason the investigators will also
      recruit "control" participants (those who have conceived without IVF, either spontaneously or
      with medication to aid the release of eggs, known as ovulation induction). By comparing the
      two groups, this will enable the research to isolate the specific effects of the
      IVF-conception, from the effects of being highly monitored in a research study. The
      investigators intend to recruit a minimum of 120 individuals across a period of three years,
      with approximately 4 individuals who have conceived by IVF to every 1 individual who has
      conceived without IVF.

      Appointments in the SMART clinic will be arranged roughly 4-6 weekly (at approximately 9, 17,
      23, 28, 33, 37 and 41 weeks). At each appointment the patient will be reviewed by a doctor
      and midwife from a small team of clinicians who will provide continuity of care. Routine
      scheduled antenatal care will be performed, along with additional measurements of fetal and
      placental growth and cardiovascular function, questionnaires relating to environmental
      exposures, modifiable risks, and emotional health, and samples of maternal blood, urine,
      saliva and hair. More frequent appointments will be scheduled according to local hospital
      guidance if complications of pregnancy are suspected or confirmed, this may mean that
      clinical measurements and ultrasound examinations are performed more frequently than at the
      planned study visits. Questionnaires and biological samples will only be
      administered/obtained at the (study visit closest to) stated gestational intervals.
      Participants will be made aware of which measurements are part of standard antenatal care and
      which investigations are for research; research measurements will be analysed blinded to
      participant identity/pregnancy outcome after conclusion of the pregnancy and will not
      contribute to their care during or after the pregnancy. Participants can decline particular
      investigations entirely or on occasion without detriment to their overall care. Where
      necessary, according to the individual needs of the participant, antenatal care will be
      shared with community midwives and other antenatal services where additional appointments are
      required outside the stated schedule.

      At birth, the placenta and fetal blood contained within it after clamping of the umbilical
      cord, will be collected. Placental tissue may be used immediately after birth in experiments
      to study how it functions, or small amounts may be processed and stored (according to local
      standard operating procedures) for later assessment of its structure and functional
      footprint. Should histopathological examination of the placenta be indicated for clinical
      reasons (<5% of all pregnancies), the remaining placental tissue will be made available for
      this purpose according to standard local protocols for combined research and
      histopathological placental examination; otherwise unused placental tissue will be disposed
      sensitively according to local National Health Service procedures. Prior to discharge from
      the hospital, and preferably within 3 days of birth, the baby will be measured (using a tape
      measure) once for head, abdominal and thigh circumference, and length. Their skinfold
      thickness (to measure fat depth) over the shoulder blade and under the upper arm will be
      measured using purpose-built callipers. The baby will be kept warm and comfortable
      throughout, and the examination paused or stopped should the baby show distress, need feeding
      or changing or any medical intervention be required.
    
  