
    
      The primary endpoint will be the reduction of HbA1c and secondary endpoints will be multiple
      associated parameters as listed below. A group of 50 subjects with medically documented T2DM
      and BMI of 26-35 will undergo standard laparoscopic RYGB. Prior to surgery, the subjects will
      undergo the standard pre-operative work up required for conventional bariatric surgery. This
      includes full history and physical exam, medical/cardiac clearances as needed, nutrition
      consultation and a gastrointestinal consultation for upper endoscopy. After thorough
      explanation an approved informed consent will be signed. Baseline parameters, as listed
      below, will be measured for each subject to identify possible complications of diabetes prior
      to the surgical intervention..

      After surgery perioperative complications will be monitored and required modifications of
      diabetes management advised. Followed up measurements at 1, 3, 6, 12, and 24 months is
      consistent with standard clinical practice guidelines. Data analysis will be ongoing to
      observe the effects of the surgical intervention on glucose homeostasis.

        -  Baseline parameters

        -  History and Physical Exam

        -  Weight/BMI/ body composition with the Tanita 310.

        -  Waist Circumference

        -  Blood Pressure

        -  CBC

        -  HbA1c

        -  Fasting glucose

        -  Vitamin B6, B12, Folate,and Iron status

        -  Lipid Profile -total cholesterol, HDL, LDL, triglyceride

        -  Fasting Insulin and C-peptide

        -  Stimulated C-peptide

        -  EKG

        -  Retinal exam

        -  Urinalysis (assess for proteinuria and microalbuminuria)

        -  Comprehensive foot exam

        -  Medications and dosage

        -  Quality of Life Score (SF-36)

        -  Carotid ultrasound (intima-media thickness)

      Follow-up:

      4 Weeks:

        -  Physical Examination, wound check, Body weight, BMI,

        -  Glucose Diary (pre and postprandial glucose levels as required)

        -  Insulin and C-peptide

        -  Lipid profile

        -  Medication use

           3 Months, 6 months,

      Same as above plus:

        -  HbA1c

        -  Vitamin levels and iron status

        -  Retinal exam

        -  Annually the baseline measurements will be repeated
    
  