
    
      The accelerated muscle wasting associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a source of
      morbidity and an increased incidence of bone fracture secondary to falls. However, sarcopenia
      secondary to CKD is not routinely screened or assessed in this patient population. This
      protocol, "Quantitative Ultrasound Assessment of Lean and Intramuscular Adipose Tissue in
      Veterans Project" (i.e., QUALITY VETS) is a VA Center for Innovation (VACI) funded pilot
      study with the purpose of using a clinically viable sarcopenia screening approach for
      Veterans with CKD who are currently receiving care at the Renal Service.

      The investigative team will screen and assess diminished muscle mass, quality, and
      performance in Veterans with CKD (Stage 3 and 4), and also examine the relationship between
      the muscle characteristics and estimated fall risk within the sample. Key outcome measures
      will be obtained within the domains of muscle performance (peak grip strength), functional
      status (Short Physical Performance Battery), estimates of tissue/body composition (diagnostic
      ultrasound and DXA), and fall risk (Timed Up-and-Go test). Secondary measures will include
      questionnaires regarding of fall avoidance, physical activity, depression, and quality of
      life (QoL).

      The general analysis approach will be to characterize the proportion of participants with:
      sarcopenia based on the European Working Group on Sarcopenia in Older People (EWGSOP)
      algorithm, low muscle quality based on preliminary echogenicity cut off values and criterion
      strength values, and an elevated risk of falling based on the Timed Up-and-Go age-dependent
      cut off values. Investigators will determine the magnitude of association between the
      skeletal muscle outcomes and fall risk within the participant sample. Hazard ratios will be
      used to estimate the impact of the sarcopenia classification and echogenicity values on the
      positive classification of fall risk.

      The optimal treatment of Veterans with CKD who have an elevated risk of falls may be enhanced
      by the timely identification of accelerated muscle changes. The QUALITY-VETS Project will
      help to determine appropriate screening and assessment strategies that could be implemented
      in subsequent longitudinal studies involving exercise interventions and fall prevention
      training.
    
  