
    
      Background:

      In Physiotherapy there is a growing interest of authors to clarify the relationship between
      the visual system and the neck. Aspects such as deficiencies in eye movement during cervical
      rotation are common disorders in patients who have suffered whiplash trauma or have dizzy
      syndromes. On the other hand, deep muscle disorders of the neck are related to the decrease
      in cervical-ocular reflex. Furthermore, some disorders in eye movements in patients with
      idiopathic neck pain have been identified.

      Consequently, a pragmatic approach to multimodal intervention has been recommended to address
      changes in sensorimotor control at the cervical level. For this purpose, head-neck
      sensitization exercises (joint position sense training with head relocation), oculo-motor
      exercises (ie, eye stability, eye-neck coordination) or balance training have been proposed.
      These programs lead to a sensorimotor control, reducing pain and disability in the neck.
      However, it is not known if this approach to treatment is a significant improvement when
      compared to the implementation of other physiotherapy procedures, so it is unknown if the
      application of training oculocervical proprioception is more advisable than other modalities
      of physiotherapy treatment for the improvement of CNP symptoms.

      Material and method:

      This research is an analytical, longitudinal, prospective, experimental, evaluator blinded
      study. It is controlled with two parallel groups, randomized clinical trial.

      The sample consisted of patients recruited in a Physiotherapy consultation in Cadiz (Spain).
      These assessments were made before and after the start of program and to the end of
      intervention (8 months).

      Patients were randomized to control or experimental group. All patients are given a Combined
      Physiotherapy Protocol, no apply an Eye-Cervical Re-education Program in subjects in the
      first group and performing an Eye-Cervical Re-education Program in the second. This program
      was carried out by the physiotherapist. Subjects received a total of ten sessions on
      alternate days.
    
  