
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Identify an antitumor effect of allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell
      transplantation (PBSCT) in patients with metastatic melanoma.

      II. Evaluate the safety and toxicity of a nonmyeloablative, low intensity, preparative
      regimen followed by an HLA-matched allogeneic PBSCT in these patients.

      III. Monitor engraftment by measuring donor-recipient chimerism in lymphoid and myeloid
      lineages in these patients.

      IV. Investigate the relationship between donor-host chimerism and the incidence of acute and
      chronic graft-versus-host disease in this patient population.

      V. Investigate the effect of lymphocyte infusions on donor-host chimerism in this patient
      population.

      VI. Determine disease-free survival, overall survival, and mortality from the procedure or
      tumor progression in this patient population.

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of a conditioning regimen. Patients receive
      1 of 3 dose levels of chemotherapy prior to peripheral blood progenitor cell (PBPC)
      transplantation. Patients at dose level 1 receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -7
      and -6 and fludarabine IV over 30 minutes daily on days -5 to -1. Patients at dose level 2
      receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -7 and -6, fludarabine IV over 30 minutes
      daily on days -5 to -1, and antithymocyte globulin daily on days -5 to -2. Patients at dose
      level 3 receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour daily on days -8 to -6, fludarabine IV over
      30 minutes daily on days -5 to -1, and antithymocyte globulin daily on days -5 to -2.

      Patients undergo mobilized CD34+ PBPC transplantation on day 0. PBPC transplantation may be
      repeated on days 1 and 2 if deemed necessary.

      Patients with progressive disease on days 15-30, day 60, or day 100, without
      graft-versus-host disease, receive infusion(s) of donor lymphocytes. Further donor lymphocyte
      infusions after day 100 may be given at the discretion of the attending physician.

      Patients are followed every 2 months for 6 months, every 3 months for the next 2 years, and
      then every 6 months until year 5 posttransplantation.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL:

      A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  