
    
      The main objective of this study is to investigate the effect of the workplace intervention
      in the new Norwegian national concept HealthAtWork (HelseIArbeid) through a pragmatic
      cluster-randomized study.

      The interdisciplinary HealthAtWork intervention consists of three information sessions over
      the course of one year, with work place processes in between. In the meetings, structured
      health information about musculoskeletal- and mental disorders is given and put in the
      context of working and the specific workplace. This includes possibilities to work despite
      health impairment, work inclusion measures, and discussion on how these could have an
      influence on the individual, group, management and organizational level. The process involves
      the workplaces' entire staff (employers and employees). It is an active process and
      workplaces are stimulated and expected to continue to work with these topics both between
      sessions and after the last meeting. The interdisciplinary intervention is carried out in a
      collaboration of qualified personnel from The Norwegian labour and welfare service (NAV) and
      qualified health personnel from the hospital department of rehabilitation medicine.

      The main hypothesis is that this interdisciplinary health and welfare intervention at the
      workplace reduces sick leave and improves mastering of common health problems more
      efficiently than a conventional welfare intervention. Conventional workplace measures are
      given by personnel of NAV workplace service without specialist healthcare involvement,
      focusing mainly on work inclusion and psychosocial work environment. There are several types
      of interventions available and they will be customized to the workplace. This means that the
      control intervention is not standardized and will be varying according to the workplaces'
      demands.

      Participating workplaces are recruited through NAV's conventional contact with workplaces
      based on an analysis of the workplaces' needs. In the workplaces or workplace units that are
      interested in participating in the project, the following will be distributed to all staff-
      including leaders- through the employers' email-list: Information about the project, the
      informed consent-form and a link to the first electronic questionnaire (Q1). The electronic
      questionnaire portal is open to answers for two weeks after the initial email. After this
      time period, the workplaces are randomized to either HealthAtWork or control intervention. A
      one year intervention period follows as described above. The questionnaire is repeated 12
      months (Q2) and 24 months (Q3) after randomization. Q1-3 include the same questions regarding
      health complaints, health mastering, health related quality of life, and work environment.

      Work participation will be assessed at the unit level by data from the employers' sickness
      absence registers that include both self- and physician-certified sickness absence.
      Physician-certified sickness absence at the individual level will be gathered from the
      National register of sickness absence over a four year period from 2 years before
      randomization to 2 years after. Individual sickness absence will also be assessed by
      self-report from the questionnaires, considering the last three months prior to the
      questionnaire.

      Data on healthcare utilization at the individual level will be obtained as self-reported data
      from the questionnaires, as well as objective data from the national register of control and
      health service refunds (KUHR database) and the Norwegian Patient Register (NPR). These
      registers include registrations of visits to general practitioners, emergency clinics,
      physiotherapists, radiologic- laboratory- and psychology/psychiatry and other specialised
      healthcare services. The study will use the registers' data on number of consultations and
      costs related to these.

      All stakeholders involved in the interventions (workplaces/workplace units, specialist
      healthcare service and NAV) will keep records of the time used on the interventions
      (attendance, preparation, implementation, supplementary work, others). Costs related to the
      different interventions will be assessed from these reports.

      Other outcome measures are based on self-reported questionnaire data including health-related
      quality of life, self-rated health, psychosocial work environment, subjective health
      complaints, health anxiety, social support and job satisfaction, described in more detail in
      the outcome section.

      Health-economics analyses will be performed on these data in order to determine the
      cost-effectiveness in terms of sick leave, use of health services and coping with common
      health problems indicated by an increased health-related quality of life.

      This project has a second part not registered here, gathering qualitative data about the
      HealtAtWork intervention. This will investigate how the intervention works, what the
      participants´ impression of the intervention is and how the intervention can best be
      implemented, considering its planned future nationwide application.

      CHANGE IN 2020: Due to the global pandemic, the study was completely halted for a period of 6
      months from mid-March through September 2020. Activity was slowly regained after that. Due to
      this, there were delays in both collection of informed-consent forms and allocation of
      workplace units. Consequently, the time-frame for possibility to answer questionnaires was
      expanded. For units included before March 12th 2020, questionnaire Q2 and Q3 will be delayed
      by 9 months in order to assure that intervention activities could be carried out. We will
      take this into consideration in the final statistical analysis.
    
  