
    
      Von Hippel-Lindau Syndrome (VHL) is an autosomal dominant heritable disorder in which
      multiple benign and malignant neoplasms and cysts of specific histopathologies develop in the
      kidney, adrenal gland, pancreas, brain, spinal cord, eye, inner ear, epididymis, and broad
      ligament. Retinal angioma may be one of the earliest manifestations of VHL disease and may
      lead to a significant decrease in visual acuity of the affected individual. These tumors
      rarely regress spontaneously. The main cause of vision loss is retinal edema, specifically
      macular edema secondary to enlargement of peripheral retinal angiomas or angiomas found on or
      around the optic disk. Treatment of retinal angiomas depends on the location and size of the
      lesions but typically consists of photocoagulation or cryotherapy. However, there is no
      proven effective therapy for the treatment of VHL ocular lesions on or surrounding the optic
      nerve or lesions in the peripheral retina too large to respond to the traditional therapies.
      The genetic mutation found in VHL disease up-regulates the production of vascular endothelial
      growth factor (VEGF). Immunochemical studies of the VHL ocular lesions, as well as others
      found elsewhere in the body show marked increase in VEGF. This open-label study will pilot
      the use of an anti-VEGF therapy, ranibizumab (rhuFab V2) in 5 participants to investigate the
      potential efficacy as a treatment for retinal angiomas associated with VHL. Participants will
      receive 7 intravitreal injections of study drug over a 6 month period, with the option of up
      to seven additional injections at the same dose and schedule during follow-up for a maximum
      period of 1 year after the initiation of treatment. The primary outcome will be a change in
      the best corrected visual acuity of 15 letters or more eight weeks after a participant
      receives the final study injection. The secondary outcomes will be a reduction in retinal
      thickening and leakage eight weeks after the participants receives the final study injection,
      and adverse events including local and systemic toxicities.
    
  