
    
      Dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) with aspirin and a P2Y12 receptor inhibitor, more frequently
      clopidogrel, represents the standard of care for the long-term secondary prevention of
      atherothrombotic events in patients with myocardial infarction (MI) or peripheral arterial
      disease (PAD). However, rates of ischemic recurrences remain high, in part due to the fact
      that other platelet signaling pathways, such as thrombin-induced platelet aggregation,
      continue to be activated. Vorapaxar is a novel, orally active, competitive and slowly
      reversible protease-activated receptor (PAR)-1 inhibitor, which exerts potent inhibition of
      thrombin-mediated platelet aggregation. It is approved for clinical use by the Food and Drug
      Administration for the reduction of thrombotic cardiovascular events in patients with a
      history of MI or with peripheral arterial disease. Patients with DM are known to be at
      increased risk of recurrent atherothrombotic events, which translates into worse outcomes,
      despite the use of standard of care therapy. This is in part due to the hyperreactive
      platelet phenotype, which characterizes DM patients, and to inadequate response to oral
      antiplatelet agents, including clopidogrel. Importantly, in DM patients with prior MI
      included in the TRA 2P trial, vorapaxar reduced the primary composite end point at 3 years by
      27% and led to a greater absolute risk reduction compared with those without DM. Therefore,
      vorapaxar is an attractive treatment option for DM patients with a prior MI. However, to date
      the PD effects of vorapaxar in DM patients and how these may differentiate from non-DM
      patients has not been explored. Further, current trends in clinical practice are seeing many
      patients discontinue aspirin and maintain clopidogrel. Hence, the role of vorapaxar as part
      of a dual antithrombotic treatment regimen combined with clopidogrel (and stopping aspirin)
      represents another important area of clinical interest, in order to maximize ischemic
      protection while reducing the risk of bleeding. The proposed prospective, parallel-design
      study conducted in patients post-MI or with PAD with and without DM will aim the assess the
      pharmacodynamic effects of vorapaxar in addition to standard DAPT with aspirin and
      clopidogrel as well as in combination with clopidogrel only following aspirin withdrawal.
      Pharmacodynamic assessments will be performed at multiple time point, with different assays
      exploring multiple pathways of platelet aggregation.
    
  