
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the safety and toxicity associated with the administration of ipilimumab in terms
      of dose limiting toxicities (DLT), and maximally-tolerated dose (MTD) in a cohort of patients
      with high risk myelodysplastic syndrome who failed hypomethylating therapy, and patients with
      acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who underwent induction therapy but are not planned for further
      intensive chemotherapy. (Dose-escalation) II. Determine the optimal dose of ipilimumab for
      the dose-expansion phase of the trial. (Dose-escalation) III. Better define immunologic
      profiles associated with ipilimumab use in terms of regulatory T-cells (T-regs) dynamic
      changes in 2 separate cohorts of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and AML patients at the
      optimal dose level. (Dose-expansion) IV. Obtain preliminary efficacy data of ipilimumab in
      terms of complete response (CR), partial response (PR), and hematological improvement (HI) in
      both cohorts. (Dose-expansion)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Define immunologic profiles associated with ipilimumab use in terms of T-regs dynamic
      changes at different dose levels. (Dose-escalation) II. Define toxicity profiles of
      ipilimumab at the optimal dose in both patient cohorts. (Dose-expansion) III. Obtain
      preliminary data on potential correlations between noted ipilimumab-induced immunologic
      changes and observed toxicity and clinical responses. (Dose-expansion)

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      INDUCTION: Patients receive ipilimumab intravenously (IV) on day 1. Treatment repeats every
      21 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE: Beginning 12 weeks after last dose of induction ipilimumab, patients receive
      ipilimumab IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 12 weeks for up to 4 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at least monthly for 6 months.
    
  