
    
      Background Inflammatory bowel disease patients report increased levels of anxiety and
      depressive symptoms which are associated with poorer health-related quality of life (QoL). In
      addition, they commonly experience disturbed self- and body-image thus being vulnerable to
      interpersonal difficulties and sexual dysfunction. There are several studies reporting that
      the presence of co-morbid depression is more strongly associated with increased financial
      cost and hospitalization rates, worse treatment compliance and major QoL deficits compared to
      disease activity. For this reason, the current ECCO-EFCCA patient guidelines strongly
      recommend regular psychiatric evaluation as a necessary part of patients' standard follow-up
      and put particular emphasis on treating anxiety and depressive symptoms with the use of
      appropriate pharmacological or psychosocial interventions. However, relevant literature is
      relatively sparse, lacking wide-scale randomized trials focusing on the efficacy of
      antidepressants and psychotherapy not only on alleviating patients' psychological distress
      but also on improving IBD clinical and laboratory severity indices. More specifically, a
      recent systematic review identified only one randomized clinical trial on the effect of
      antidepressants in IBD patients. In a similar vein, there is a limited number of randomized
      clinical trials focusing on the effect of brief psychotherapeutic interventions on patients'
      psychological burden, QoL and disease progression.

      The importance of different immunoregulatory pathways mediated by several immunological cells
      subtypes and cytokines in the regulation of IBD has been demonstrated the last years.
      Cytokines have been directly implicated in the pathogenesis of IBD in genetic and
      immunological studies, and they establish a crucial role in controlling intestinal
      inflammation and the associated clinical symptoms of IBD. Despite the fundamental role of
      cytokines in controlling mucosal inflammation in IBD, to our knowledge, inflammation indices
      have never been evaluated as study end-points in investigations focusing on the role of
      psychotherapy on patients' QoL.

      Research hypotheses Our primary research hypothesis is that brief psychotherapeutic
      intervention will reduce IBD patients' gastrointestinal symptoms and psychological distress
      and improve their sexual functioning and QoL. A secondary hypothesis is that the observed
      improvement in psychosocial functioning will be accompanied by alterations in inflammation
      and disease activity indices.

      Research aim In this context, the aim of the current prospective randomized controlled study
      will be the measurement of the effects of brief group cognitive behavioral psychotherapy on
      gastrointestinal symptom severity, psychological distress, sexual functioning, QoL and
      inflammation and disease activity indices in IBD patients. An additional aim will be the
      detection of psychological and biomedical parameters which are associated with these effects.
    
  