
    
      The long-term survival rate of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) has been significantly prolonged
      due to the improvement of chemotherapeutic protocols and hemopoietic stem cell
      transplantation. However, about 20%-40% of the patients with refractory AML fail to achieve
      complete remission (CR) and approximately 50% of the CR patients will relapse eventually. 1-3
      The refractoried and relapsed AML patients have very poor prognosis, therefore refractoriness
      and relapse are the major challenges for the chemotherapy of AML.

      Chemoresistance is one of the major obstacle for the success of AML treatment.4 One of the
      main mediators for AML chemoresistance is the multi-drug resistance-1(MDR1) gene and MDR1
      protein, also known as permeability-glycoprotein or P-gp.5,6,7 Studies on leukemic blast
      cells demonstrated the association of MDR1 expression with a lower intracellular retention of
      cytostatic drugs leading to cancer cell resistance to several commonly used anti-cancer drugs
      in chemotherapy. Several subsequent studies indicated the influence of MDR1 expression levels
      in the treatment response and survival of leukemia patients, the frequency of resistance to
      the chemotherapy increased with increasing MDR1 expression.8,9,10 Previous methods for
      determination of MDR1 expression have included demonstration of P-glycoprotein by flow
      cytometry and/or immunohistochemistry, and molecular polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based
      assays for RNA expression. However, these assays have either proven difficult to standardize
      or tedious to perform and they are mainly focused on qualitative or semi-quantitative assays.
      11,12 A real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR will increase the sensitivity and also
      maintain the high specificity. The false positivity caused by pollution of amplification
      production can also be decreased by hermetization operation. RQ- PCR is a novel methodology
      which enables sensitive and quantitative measurement of gene expression. 12We have
      established RQ-PCR method for determination expression of MDR1 gene. We have performed a
      pilot study with a small cohort of AML patients to determine the relationship of MDR1
      expression and CR rate of AML patients. The data shows MDR1 expression has been found in most
      cases of AML. However, the MDR1 expression levels vary widely from case to case. This result
      indicated that RQ-PCR method would provide an accurate quantitative measurement for detection
      of MDR1 expression level in different AML cases who were both positive by qualitative RT-PCR
      method. 13,14 The pilot results indicated that the complete response rate to induction
      therapy was compromised by the expression of high levels of MDR1. 15

      Minimal residual disease (MRD) is the major cause of leukemia relapse. It has been reported
      that the treatment intensity in human leukemia can be assessed by the expression status of
      MRD gene. However, more than 50% of acute leukemia, especially in AMLs, lack known genetic
      lesions or clonegenic markers suitable for MRD monitoring. WT1 gene is located on chromosome
      11p13 coding for a zinc-finger transcription factor, has been identified in most AML
      patients. It has been reported that detection of WT1 levels can effectively monitor the MRD
      expression status in AML.16,17 Therefore, WT1 expression can be used to monitor the MRD and
      evaluation the remission quality in AML patients. By detecting WT1 levels we can evaluate the
      efficacy of different induction therapies.

      By employing multiple fluorescence quantitative PCR, several target genes can be
      simultaneously and quantitatively amplified. Therefore multiple fluorescence quantitative PCR
      is more suitable for clinical application. This technology will not only provide higher
      accuracy, specificity and reproducibility but also simplify procedure and reduce measurement
      cost. The recombinant plasmids of MDR1 and WT1 gene have been constructed and the methodology
      of multiple fluorescence quantitative PCR has also been developed in our group .14

      High MDR1 gene expression is a common feature of AML resistance to conventional
      chemotherapeutic regimen.18,19 One of the strategies that overcome MDR is to increase the
      pharmacal liposolubility and elevate the intracellular drug concentration, so as to
      counteract drug efflux pumped by P-glycoprotein. Idarubicin (IDA), a new anthracycline, has
      more strengthened liposolubility and can easily permeate the cell membrane in comparison with
      traditional marcellomycin. Also, the in vivo metabolite of IDA (4-IDA) has the same
      antineoplastic activity as IDA and a longer half-life in vivo. It can also permeate blood
      brain barrier. As a result, IDA has a stronger antileukemia activity than other marcellomycin
      and can partially overcome P-glycoprotein-mediated drug resistance.20, 21 In our recently
      pilot study, we have detected the expression of MDR1 in pre-treated bone marrow samples from
      160 de novo AML patients and the median value of MDR1/GAPDH ratio in the de novo AML cases
      was 0.016（0-81.865）. The median value of MDR1 gene expression was taken as the cut-off point
      of high or low MDR1 gene expression levels. For high MDR1 expression patients, a lower CR
      rate (61.3%) was observed compared with low-MDR1 expression patients (80.0%, P =0.009). In
      this retrospective pilot study, 123 patients were received daunorubicin (DNR 35~45mg/m2/d,3
      days) or idarubicin (IDA 6~8 mg/m2/d, 3 days) in combination with cytarabine (Ara-c100~200
      mg/m2/d, 7 days) for remission induction and significant difference were also observed after
      2 courses of chemotherapy between those who receive IA regimen (57 cases) and DA regimen (66
      cases) regarding to CR rate (80.7% vs 57.6%, P=0.006). Significant difference could also be
      discovered between two treatment arm with regard to CR rate (75.9% vs 43.6%, P=0.011) in
      those who had high MDR1 expression AML patients. Our data shows that IDA may overcome MDR1
      induced chemoresistance with a higher CR rate than DNR in de novo high MDR1 expresser AML
      patients.These results provide rationale for development of randomized, prospective trial to
      compare the CR rate of IA regimen and DA regimen in de novo AML patients with high MDR1
      expression and to identify whether Idarubicin can overcomes MDR1 induced chemoresistance with
      higher induction remission rate than daunorubicin in de novo acute myeloid leukemia patients.
      We speculated that the more favorable outcome in high-MDR1 patient group with IA regimen may
      be associated with a higher remission rate.

      It had been reported that AML patients achieved lower MRD level had an extremely lower
      relapse rate. It had also been reported that patients treated with IA regimen had a
      significant higher long-term survival than those with DA regimen .22-24 Therefore, we
      speculated that the more favorable outcome in IA group may be associated with a lower MRD
      level and higher remission quality. This study is also to conduct a prospective analysis on
      the alteration of WT1 and MDR1 gene expression level after induction therapy with IA or DA
      separately to identify whether induction therapy with IA regimen has a lower MRD level and a
      higher remission quality than that of DA regimen.
    
  