
    
      This project is designed to enhance understanding of links between food and the health of the
      gut. The particular purpose of the project is to investigate the impact of a well-defined
      intervention in human volunteers on a panel of novel, and established, diet-related
      biomarkers of bowel cancer risk. We have developed a number of novel biomarkers of
      diet-related CRC risk measured in colo-rectal mucosal biopsies (and in stool). These
      biomarkers include differentially expressed proteins, DNA methylation markers and
      inflammation markers. In our on-going BORICC Study we are investigating the relationships
      between dietary exposure and nutritional status for these biomarkers in a cross-sectional
      study. The next logical step in this research is to determine whether a selected panel of the
      most promising biomarkers responds to a dietary intervention i.e. to test their utility as
      biomarkers of GI health and potential as surrogate endpoints in future human studies.

      We propose to use Hi-maize 260 and polydextrose (PD) as our model resistant starch (RS)
      intervention agents. RS describes the fraction of dietary starch which is not digested in the
      small bowel and which flows to the colon where it is a substrate for bacterial fermentation.
      (Asp, 1996) PD is produced by the bulk melt polycondensation of glucose and sorbitol to
      produce an oligosaccharide with a mean degree of polymerisation of 12 which is resistant to
      mammalian GI enzymes and, like other RSs, is a substrate for bacterial fermentation.
      (Auerbach, 2007) Both Hi-maize and PD are fermented (to a greater or lesser extent) producing
      short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) including butyrate. (Asp, 1996) Butyrate has beneficial
      effects on gut physiology and immune function including anti-inflammatory effects.
      (Wächtershäuser, 2000; Dronamraju, 2009)

      In the present project we will investigate the impact of PD and RS, as food-borne substrates
      for delivery of butyrate, on biomarkers of bowel cancer risk.
    
  