
    
      Seventy six (76) subjects (152 eyes) were enrolled and dispensed in the multisite,
      randomized, double masked clinical study to provide data that support the presumption of
      equivalence of the HDS HI 1.54™ investigational lenses to a historical control contact lens.
      Sixty four (64) subjects (84.2%) completed the study and 12 subjects (15.8%) were
      discontinued. The population demographics were similar to previous contact lens studies.

      Of the ten Test subjects who discontinued, Difficulty Cleaning Lenses (3 subjects) and Poor
      Comfort (2 subjects), Poor Vision (1 subject) and Poor Vision and Poor Comfort (2 subjects)
      accounted for 80% of the discontinuations. Two Control subjects discontinued, one for Loss of
      Interest and one for Poor Comfort There were no adverse events reported during the study. The
      only study related complications were slit lamp findings of grade 3 for injection. Each of
      these resolved without complication.

      Slit lamp findings were reported at frequencies within expected values and the positive slit
      lamp observations were primarily grade 1 (trace). Staining and injection were reported most
      frequently. Subject reports of no symptoms were lowest at the 1 week visit for both the
      Completed Test and Control eyes and then increased over the remainder of the study.
      Discomfort was reported most frequently (13.7% of Completed Test eye visits and 12.3% of
      Completed Control Eye visits). .

      Lens comfort was rated as an average of 4.04 (very good) for the Completed Test eyes and 4.07
      (very good) for the Completed Control eyes. This compared to a baseline value of 3.96 for the
      Test eyes and 4.23 for the Control eyes with the pre-study habitual correction.

      Keratometry changes were within 1.00 diopter for 93.1% of the Completed Test eyes and 96.4%
      of the Completed Control eyes. Manifest refraction changes were within 1.00 diopter for 97.9%
      of the Completed Test eyes and 98.2% of the Completed Control eyes.

      One eye of the 63 Completed Test eyes targeted for full distance vision was reported to show
      a decrease in contact lens visual acuity from the baseline best corrected visual acuity of
      greater than 0.20 logMAR. The reason for the loss was a reported baseline measurement error.
      One eye of the 48 Completed Control eyes targeted for full distance vision was reported to
      show a decrease in contact lens visual acuity from the baseline best corrected visual acuity
      of greater than 0.20 logMAR. The reason cited for the decrease was lenses being switched eye
      for eye.

      Average lens wearing time was stable at over 13 hours per day for the Completed Test and
      Control subjects and showed a decrease over time for the discontinued eyes.

      Forty nine (49) lens replacements were made for 40 of the 152 eyes dispensed in the study.
      The replacements were predominantly for deposits (8) or parameter and power change (21) which
      together account for 59% of the lens replacements. Discomfort was cited for 18.4% (5 test and
      4 control lenses) of the lens replacements. Five lenses (10%) were replaced due to loss.

      The results of the clinical evaluation of the Paragon HDS HI 1.54™ contact lenses provide
      evidence of substantial equivalence to the historical control, Paragon Fluroperm® 30 contact
      lenses.
    
  