
    
      The aim of the present protocol is to evaluate the effects of GH treatment in long-term
      steroid treated children, on muscle mass, and muscle strength. It will be an open,
      randomized, controlled, 2-parallel group study. The follow-up in this study will be one year.
      The objective of this study will be to evaluate short-term effects of GH treatment on muscle
      mass, muscle strength and body composition in children suffering from various diseases
      requiring steroid therapy. Expected pathologies are juvenile idiopathic arthritis, nephrotic
      syndrome, uveitis, systemic diseases and organ transplantation. Changes in muscle mass will
      be assessed by measuring the muscle and sub-cutaneous fat on the cross sectional area of the
      thigh by MRI. MRI offer the advantage of non-invasive technique, allowing serial and accurate
      measurements.Muscle strength will be performed by serial muscular testing of different
      muscular groups. Body composition will be assessed by DEXA. DEXA allows rapid, accurate and
      highly reproductible determination not only of bone mass but also of lean and fat mass of the
      whole body, with very low radiation exposure.It appears to be the most sensitive method for
      assessment of muscle wasting as well as of fat repartition that contribute to Cushing's
      appearance in steroid treated patients.

      The present study will be performed in children with growth retardation related to long-term
      glucocorticoid treatment These patients had never been treated with GH. In order to be able
      to evaluate the effect of GH on the muscle a comparative group is needed. Therefore it will
      be proposed in the study to delay in a group of patient the start of GH treatment by 6
      months. Six months should be enough to evaluate short-term effect of GH on the muscle and
      most publication have shown a maximum effect of GH within the first year of treatment.
      Therefore, this study will be a randomized trial: immediate start of GH treatment versus
      start of GH treatment 6 months later. After 6 months all children will be treated with GH.
      The dose administered in the present trial will be a GH dose already tested in glucocorticoid
      treated children (0.46 mg/kg/week)
    
  