
    
      Rhegmatogenous retinal detachment (RRD) is an acute, sight threatening condition, with an
      incidence of approximately 10 per 100,000 people.

      Without surgical intervention by a vitreoretinal surgeon, retinal detachment almost
      invariably results in permanent sight loss in the affected eye. There is an increased risk of
      delayed visual rehabilitation the longer the wait for surgery. Both of the treatments under
      investigation are widely used and accepted by vitreoretinal surgeons.

      Interventions for retinal detachment:

        1. Pneumatic retinopexy (PnR) has been employed to repair retinal detachments since the
           late 1980s and is a minor surgical intervention, carried out in a treatment room. The
           initial success rate (i.e. the proportion of patients in whom the retina becomes
           attached after one treatment) is quoted as approximately 70%. PnR is carried out under
           topical or local anaesthetic (a freezing injection under the conjunctiva, the
           superficial skin on the eye). The procedure involves injection of a small gas bubble
           into the eyeball via a fine needle. This step takes a maximum of 15 minutes. Two gases
           can be injected into the eye: perfluoropropane (C3F8), which lasts 6 weeks, and
           sulfahexafluoride (SF6), which lasts about 2 weeks. Both are non-toxic, equally
           effective, have been validated for this use, and are widely used amongst retina surgeons
           in the world. After injection of the gas bubble, the patient is required to maintain a
           strict 'head posture' (for example, head tilt to left) for up to 10 days. The purpose of
           this 'head posture' is to align the gas bubble (which floats within the eye) to the
           retinal tear. The buoyant force of the gas bubble, as well as its surface tension, act
           to reattach the detached retina over several days. The gas bubble spontaneously
           dissipates after 2-6 weeks, depending on the gas selected. Additionally, laser treatment
           or cryotherapy is carried out either before or 1-2 days after injection of the gas
           bubble, to secure the retinal tear. Both laser and cryotherapy are widely accepted
           methods of securing the tears in the retina and both are considered equally safe and
           effective. In patients where the retina does not reattach with PnR alone, vitrectomy
           surgery (PPV) or repeat PnR is needed (see below). However, the minority of patients who
           go on to need repeat treatment encounter similar final anatomical success rates and will
           experience the same gain in vision as those patients who underwent PPV in the first
           place.

        2. Vitrectomy surgery (PPV) involves 'keyhole' surgery to the eyeball, via three tiny
           (23/25 gauge) incisions to the sclera. This procedure is carried out in the operating
           room, under regional anaesthetic plus sedation. During PPV, the vitreous gel is removed
           from the eye using a fine metal instrument called a 'vitrector'. A large gas bubble
           (same gases as mentioned for PnR) is injected (to reattach the retina, as in PnR), and
           laser or cryotherapy is applied around the retinal tear to secure it (as in PnR). After
           treatment, the patient will be required to maintain a 'head posture' (face down for 24
           hours). The gas bubble reabsorbs after 2-6 weeks, depending on the gas selected. The
           surgery takes 1-1.5 hours. The success rate (i.e. the proportion of patients in whom the
           retina becomes attached after one treatment) is reported as being as high as 90% in the
           scientific literature.

      Both of the treatments may be associated with complications such as bleeding, infection,
      increased intraocular pressure or cataract. The risk of a sight threatening complication such
      as a severe intraocular infection or hemorrhage is less than 1:1000 (for both procedures).
      The risk of cataract development (clouding of the lens, requiring cataract extraction
      surgery) is less than 10% for PnR and at least 70% for PPV.

      Distortion and retinal displacement after retinal detachment repair:

      Image distortions such as metamorphopsia and micropsia are common complaints after surgery
      for retinal detachment. In 2010 there was the first study demonstrating hyper-fluorescent
      lines, adjacent to the retinal blood vessels in Fundus auto-fluorescence imaging (FAF) of the
      retina after retinal detachment (RD) repair surgery. The authors proposed a theory in which
      these lines which are called also Retinal Vessel Printing (RVP) correspond to the area where
      the retinal blood vessels were located before the retinal detachment. According to this
      theory the RVP in FAF imaging is due to increased metabolic activity of RPE cells. Prior to
      surgery these RPE cells were obscured to light rays by retinal blood vessels while after
      surgery, due to displacement of the retina, these RPE cells became exposed to the light which
      leads to increase in the cells metabolic activity. This increase in metabolism is thought to
      be the cause for the hyper fluorescence seen in FAF imaging. Displacement of the retina after
      RD repair surgery can serve as anatomy basis of vision distortion. Moreover, these reference
      lines allow us to quantify the displacement of the retina after retinal detachment surgeries.
      By doing this, we can compare retinal displacement of different retinal detachment repair
      surgeries and may reduce post operation visual distortion.

      Since the first report, several other studies looked into retinal displacement after RD
      repair, epiretinal membrane and macular hole. Other studies have shown that retinal
      displacement ratio is higher in patients with intravitreal gas compare to patients with
      silicon oil (71.4% vs. 22.2%). There was also a way of quantifying the rotational
      displacement of the retina. The authors showed that there is more than a simple rotation and
      probably also a temporal stretch of the retina. Recently there was a publication of the
      biggest study so far of 125 patients after pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) with 35.2% of patient
      showed signs of retinal displacement.

      Recently the investigators showed in PIVOT trial that patients after pneumatic retinopexy has
      less vertical distortion than patients after PPV. To the best of our knowledge, no study so
      far looked into retinal displacement after Pneumatic Retinopexy. Moreover, wide field FAF was
      not used in previous studies. The investigators think there is a reason to believe that
      Pneumatic Retinopexy will cause less retinal displacement than PPV. Thus, the investigators
      propose a prospective cohort study which will compare retinal displacement of patients after
      RD repair by PPV versus Pneumatic Retinopexy.

      The aim of this study is to compare retinal displacement and visual distortion of primary
      retinal detachment repair following pneumatic retinopexy (PnR) versus pars plana vitrectomy
      (PPV).

      The primary study hypothesis is that pneumatic retinopexy will cause less retinal
      displacement and less visual distortion at the first 12 months for patients with primary
      retinal detachment.

      Interventions Participants will undergo either: PnR + laser/cryotherapy or PPV +
      laser/cryotherapy depending on the treating physician's recommendation, regardless their
      participation in the study.

      For patients undergoing PPV, the use of adjunctive surgical techniques such as placement of a
      scleral buckle, use of silicone oil, or combined cataract extraction are at the discretion of
      the treating surgeon. All participants undergoing the vitrectomy arm, regardless of the
      additional steps done during the procedure, will be considered as one group for data
      analysis.

      In the event of primary intervention failure (i.e. failure of retinal re-attachment following
      primary intervention), the decision to proceed with secondary intervention, and the nature of
      such intervention, will rest with the treating physician in conjunction with the patient.
      Secondary intervention may involve any surgical procedure, as deemed clinically appropriate.

      Note: Additional laser retinopexy, cryotherapy, gas injection or head positioning are not
      considered a failure.

      Sample size:

      Sample sizes for each sub-study were calculated for a 5% level of statistical significance
      with 80% power. Assuming displacement ratio of 35% and 15% in the vitrectomy and pneumatic
      groups respectively, A total sample size of 80 subjects will be required for each group.
      Anticipating a dropout rate of 10%, we calculated a total of 180 patients in the study.

      Data management:

      Initial data collection (clinical examination findings, visual acuity, questionnaire data)
      will take place in a paper format. Subsequently, this data will be transferred to a digital
      database (Microsoft Excel). Paper data will be stored in a locked filing cabinet in the
      principal investigator's office and away from the study data, and will be destroyed once
      digital data entry has taken place. The digital spreadsheet will be held on a password
      protected computer in a locked room, and an encrypted memory stick. At recruitment, each
      patient's name and date of birth will be obtained to facilitate onward administration of
      follow-up appointments and safety monitoring, and stored on a face sheet (master linking
      log). The face sheets will be stored in a locked filing cabinet, away from the study data.
      Each patient will be allocated a unique study identification number, which will be used to
      label all paper and digital data pertaining to that patient. The face sheets (master linking
      log) and all paper/electronic data will be destroyed once publication takes place. The
      de-identified study data will be destroyed five years after publication has taken place.

      Consent:

      Written, informed consent will be obtained from each participant. On no occasion should
      consent be obtained by the treating physician or study investigator. During working hours:
      The study will be introduced to the patient by the examining physician. Interested patients
      are directed to the Research Technician who will obtain informed consent.

      Data Analysis:

      Continuous data: Data will be checked for normality. Normal data will be compared using a
      non-paired t-test. Non-normal data will be compared using non parametric tests. Categorical
      data: Chi squared test.

      Coefficients with 95% confidence intervals will be reported. A p-value of 0.05 will be
      considered for statistical significance. Data will be analyzed using SPSS (SPSS Inc.,
      Chicago, IL). Per protocol analysis will be used.
    
  