
    
      A major component of blood pressure regulation is the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, a
      system of hormone-mediated feedback interactions that results in the relaxation or
      constriction of blood vessels in response to various stimuli. Angiotensin II, a polypeptide
      hormone, is formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by angiotensin-converting
      enzyme as part of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Angiotensin II is the principal
      pressor agent of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system with a myriad of effects on the
      cardiovascular system and on electrolyte homeostasis. Two receptors for angiotensin II have
      been identified. Angiotensin II type 1 receptors are located predominantly in vascular smooth
      muscle, where activation by angiotensin II results in vasoconstriction, hypertrophic
      proliferation, and inflammation. In contrast, stimulation of angiotensin II type 2 receptors
      by angiotensin II results in vasodilatation, antiproliferative effects that are opposite from
      those of angiotensin II type 1 receptor stimulation.

      Drugs that modulate the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system are used commonly worldwide for
      the treatment of hypertension. Of these, some block the synthesis of angiotensin II by
      inhibiting angiotensin-converting enzymes, while others inhibit the action of angiotensin II
      by binding directly to the angiotensin II type 1 receptor (called angiotensin II receptor
      blockers), thereby causing vasodilatation of blood vessels, resulting in a reduction in blood
      pressure. The effects of angiotensin II receptor blockers on other conditions in which the
      renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system plays a significant role, such as congestive heart
      failure, postmyocardial infarction management and diabetic nephropathy have also been
      investigated.

      Although antihypertensive agents are effective at the appropriate dose, the majority have
      side effects that limit their use. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors are commonly
      associated with cough and more rarely with angioedema. Beta-blockers are associated with
      fatigue and erectile dysfunction, calcium antagonists with peripheral edema and diuretics
      with metabolic complications. As a class, angiotensin II receptor blockers generally are
      considered more tolerable than other classes of hypertensive agents, although there is still
      a need for compounds with improved tolerability and efficacy for the treatment of
      hypertension.

      TAK-491 (azilsartan medoxomil) is an angiotensin II receptor blocker with high affinity for,
      and selective antagonistic activity at, the angiotensin II type 1 receptor, and is being
      developed for clinical use as an antihypertensive agent.

      Ramipril is an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor widely prescribed in Europe and Asia
      for the treatment of mild to moderate essential hypertension.

      This study is designed to compare the efficacy and safety/tolerability of azilsartan
      medoxomil and ramipril for the treatment of hypertension.

      Participants in this study will be seen twice during the first month, then once a month for
      five months. Participants will also be required to fast for 8 hours prior to each visit to
      the study center. Total duration of study participation is 24-weeks, plus a safety follow up
      phone call after the study has ended.
    
  