
    
      Labour induction is a frequent obstetric intervention (20-30%). Prostaglandins (PGs) are
      effective agents, but gastrointestinal (GI) intolerance has limited use to intracervical and
      vaginal administration of PGE2 gels. Misoprostol, a prostaglandin E2 (PGE1) analogue, is
      marketed for oral treatment of upper GI disorders. The past five years has seen mushrooming
      literature on its use to initiate uterine contractions for pregnancy termination in the first
      and second trimesters, and labour induction in the third. Vaginal administration has been
      used almost exclusively, has been cost effective (less than one percent the cost of PGE2) and
      without demonstrated harm to mother or newborn. The investigators have published a randomized
      control trial (RCT) on vaginal use, and have also published a 275 subject RCT of oral
      misoprostol versus a traditional induction regime of (physician chosen combinations of
      intracervical or vaginal dinoprostone, intravenous (IV) oxytocin and artificial membrane
      rupture). Oral misoprostol was effective, well tolerated and without harm to mother or
      newborn. The investigators have in press a double blind RCT or oral versus vaginal
      misoprostol in 206 subjects. Oral misoprostol was effective, though time to vaginal birth was
      226 min longer, due to more time before labour was initiated. Oral misoprostol was associated
      with less uterine hyperstimulation (P<0.04). The investigators have also completed an RCT of
      oral misoprostol versus IV oxytocin with term pre-labour membrane rupture. Again,
      effectiveness was shown. There is no larger published collective experience with oral
      misoprostol labour induction. Before embarking on a costly RCT to evaluate more substantive
      outcomes (Caesareans or neonatal asphyxia) with sample size greater than 10,000, funding has
      been received for this three-group RCT of labour induction at term: oral misoprostol, vaginal
      misoprostol, and our centre's established approach.

      PRIMARY RESEARCH QUESTION When induction of labour at term is indicated, is there more than a
      four-hour difference in time to vaginal birth between vaginal misoprostol (25µg initial dose,
      followed by 25-50µg every six hours as needed), oral misoprostol (50µg every four hours as
      needed) and the Izaak Walton Killam (IWK) Health Centre established protocol? Secondary
      outcomes address harm to the newborn (including cord blood acid base analysis, and defined
      birth asphyxia criteria) and mother (Caesareans, peripartum interventions, maternal GI
      intolerance and excessive uterine activity).

      RESEARCH PLAN Eligible subjects will be at gestations greater than 37 completed weeks, with a
      cephalic presenting live single fetus, who have an indication for induction, and no
      contraindication to induction, vaginal birth, or PG use. Random allocation will be blocked
      and stratified (on membrane status). Sample size calculations were based on: ∆=240 minutes,
      α(2 tailed) = 0.05, β=0.05, with a σ=588 minutes from the investigators' prior publications.
      Adjustments for anticipated Caesareans (<20%) were made. Sample size is 510. Recruitment
      within a year is supported by the group's prior research [more than 1000 inductions per year
      at IWK Grace ( the centre's name officially changed in November, 2000, to IWK Health
      Centre)].
    
  