
    
      The study is designed as a prospective clinical trial with a parallel design comparing two
      different tissue-level implants placed adjacently in the posterior maxilla and mandible. The
      primary outcome is the change in the interproximal crestal bone level.

      Patients in this study were recruited from the general population attending the department of
      Periodontology at the Saint-Joseph University. Adult patients (males and females) in need of
      implant rehabilitation for partial edentulism in the posterior maxilla and mandible have been
      selected to take part in this study. Following initial screening procedures, each patient
      underwent a site-specific intraoral and radiographic examination (Cone Beam Computed
      Tomography analysis and periapical radiographs) in order to make sure that the inclusion
      criteria were satisfied. Patients presenting with bone width of less than 6 mm or more than 9
      mm were immediately excluded from the study. The day of the surgery, each implantation site
      was given a number depending on the tooth missing. Then, using a random team generator
      software each site was randomly assigned to one of the two groups based on the implant system
      used:

      The first group (group 1) consisted of patients receiving Straumann Standard Plus (SP)
      implants of 4.1 mm in diameter and length of 10 mm.

      The second group (group 2) included patients receiving JD Octa implants of 4.3 mm in diameter
      and 10 mm in length.

      Participants were blinded as to the assignment in the first or second group. The implant
      placement procedures were planned based on clinical and radiographic evaluation.

      The following parameters were monitored for each case:

      Crestal bone level changes (CBL)

      Primary and secondary implant stability

      Initial soft tissue thickness

      After a healing time of 3 months Patients were recalled 6 and 12 months after prosthetic
      treatment. At each visit, the restorations were evaluated for mobility, oral hygiene,
      peri-implant soft tissue conditions and patient satisfaction. Intraoral standardized
      radiographs were also taken at the 12-months follow-up visit to evaluate crestal bone level
      changes. CBL changes were defined as the difference between two consecutive CBL measurements.
      Secondary implant stability was evaluated. Impressions were taken at the implant level.
      Abutments were fixed on the implants with titanium screws.

      In order to reduce the risk of bias in the study, all the implant-supported crowns were screw
      retained. However, in only one case, and due to prosthetic considerations, two
      implant-supported crowns were cemented using a temporary cement. In this case, the
      restorations were thoroughly checked for excessive cement.

      Final restorations were delivered within 2 weeks of referral. Finally, standardized
      radiographs were taken to ensure abutment seating and check for residual cement (in the case
      of cemented crowns).

      Patients were recalled 6 and 12 months after prosthetic treatment. At each visit, the
      restorations were evaluated for mobility, oral hygiene, peri-implant soft tissue conditions
      and patient satisfaction. Intraoral standardized radiographs were also taken at the 12-months
      follow-up visit to evaluate crestal bone level changes. As described previously, CBL changes
      were defined as the difference between two consecutive CBL measurements.
    
  