
    
      A Phase I/II, single-center, randomized double masked placebo controlled study to evaluate
      the safety and efficacy of AS101 1% oral solution or placebo once daily for 24 weeks in
      treating patients with neovascular AMD.

      Following confirmation of patient eligibility (as detailed in in the inclusion criteria),
      patients who meet all of the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be enrolled.

      On day 1 patients will be randomly allocated to one of the two following study arms in a 1:1
      ratio and in a masked manner: (1) AS101 1% oral solution (2) Placebo oral solution. Patients
      of both study arms will be instructed on how to administer orally the drug at home once daily
      for 24 weeks. Patients will stop taking the study oral solution at week 24 treatment visit.

      In case of existence of fluid in macula, determined as intra retinal or sub-retinal fluid in
      the macula (as required in inclusion criteria) the standard to care anti-VEGF intravitreal
      therapy (Lucentis or Avastin, same as the treatment prior to study start) will be injected by
      a pro re nata (PRN).

      Every 4 weeks the investigator will assess if a patient has a fluid free macula based on
      clinical evaluation, OCT and FA findings In case of fluid in macula the standard of care anti
      intravitreal anti VEGF injections (Lucentis or Avastin, same as the treatment prior to study
      start) will be given the same day by a pro re nata (PRN).

      The investigator will monitor the occurrence of any adverse event. The study will be
      completed at week 24 and the study drug, 1% AS101 oral solution or placebo, will be collected
      from patients.

      At week 28 (4 weeks after treatment completion) all patients will be invited for safety
      assessment.

      If the investigator determines that there is a disease progression study therapy is to be
      discontinued prior to 24 weeks of treatment. Last observation carried forward (LOCF)
      technique will be used to analyze such patients.

      Efficacy will be evaluated in terms of duration of fluid free macula in the AS101 treated
      group as compared to placebo treated group;
    
  