
    
      Patients assigned to the "sevoflurane" group will be anesthetized with inhaled sevoflurane
      (induction and conduction of general anesthesia) and empirically administered fentanyl und
      pancuronium. During the CPB, sevoflurane will be delivered via the oxygenator of the
      CPB-machine.

      Patients assigned to the "propofol" group will be anesthetized with continuous propofol
      infusion and empirically administered fentanyl and pancuronium.

      The level of anesthesia will be monitored with BIS (bi-spectral index) - desirable level of
      40 - 60.

      Following preoperative data will be recorded: age, years of school education, NYHA-class,
      LVEF by TTE, comorbidities, glucosylated hemoglobin in patients with diabetes, non-invasive
      arterial blood pressure the day before the operation, smoked cigarettes, alcohol abuse.

      Recorded data from operation: type of surgery, CBP duration, aortic clamp duration, duration
      of arterial hypotension (MAP < 60 mmHg) on CPB or SAP < 90 after CPB, the lowest perfusion
      gradient (MAP-CVP), the lowest pO2 in arterial blood and lowest blood oxygen saturation,
      lowest and average brain blood saturation (measured by INVOS), steroid dosis, aprotinin
      dosis, mannitol dosis on CPB, epiaortic echocardiography for aortic clamping, TEE before
      weaning from CPB with evaluation of deaeration of the left ventricle, highest serum glucose
      level, highest oesophageal temperature.

      Data collected after operation: time to tracheal extubation, doses of catecholamines,
      consciousness disorders, CRP, S-100b protein, glucose level, core temperature, ICU stay, stay
      at the surgery department, hospital stay.

      The patients will undergo a psychological examination four times: before the operation,
      before discharge from hospital (usually 4-6 days after the operation), 3 and 12 months after
      the operation. The psychological test for evaluating the cognitive modalities will include:

        1. verbal learning - the Rey's AVLT test

        2. direct verbal memory - number repeating attempt from the WAIS-R/PL test

        3. direct nonverbal memory - Memory Test of Geometric Figures by Benton

        4. operating memory test - TMT test

        5. the cognitive interference test - a modified Stroop test

        6. verbal fluence - according to the Boston Test of Aphasia

        7. concentration and work effectiveness - by the Number Symbol test by Wechsler.

        8. mood - Beck's depression scale

        9. NEECHAM Delirium Scale - during the first 24-36 hours after surgery

       10. the Gough's Adjective Test will be performed with in-house relatives of the patient for
           evaluation the eventual emotional and eventual personality changes

      Neurological examination will be performed before and 6 days after surgery.
    
  