
    
      In March 30, 2020, 78797 confirmed cases of SARS-CoV-2, 6528 deaths and 14709 recovered were
      reported in Spain[1]; 16157 cases and 1410 deaths recorded in Catalonia[2]. Case fatality
      (8%) is calculated on the registered cases, even if the actual mortality rate is uncertain as
      the total number of cases (including those undiagnosed and with mild symptoms) is unknown
      [3]. It is already a fact that there is local transmission of SARS-CoV-2 in the community.
      Everyone with a compatible respiratory condition is considered likely to be a case of
      SARS-CoV-2[4], despite that the etiological diagnosis cannot be made in this context of
      health emergency for all cases suspected, because of the lack of kits, personnel and
      saturation of the health system.

      Other major outbreaks of infectious diseases as Ebola have demonstrated that there is an
      important impact on the individuals and the communities. Psychological effects of the disease
      itself as well as the traumatic experience on the beloved ones are seen at individual level.
      At community level, health services, social system and economic productivity are severely
      affected[5].

      After 2 months weeks of first case reported in Spain and 2,5 weeks of the quarantine and
      self-isolation of the region of Catalonia, the emotional burden of the general community has
      increased. In previous studies in other countries in which the SARS-CoV-2 epidemics have
      precede ours, a non despicable impact on mental health and emotional burden has been reported
      as well as has been demonstrated in mass quarantines which have been implemented in other
      epidemics context [6-8]. Moreover, a certain level of anxiety has been reported as necessary
      to adopt recommended precautionary measures against infection outbreaks[9], and therefore to
      successfully implement public health interventions understanding the attitudes and measuring
      psychological impact on people should be mandatory.

      On the other hand, in our setting by last report at 30th March 2020, 2600 of the confirmed
      cases in Catalonia are healthcare workers, representing the 16%. Besides their obvious
      increased risk of being infected, the healthcare workers facing the SARS-CoV-2 epidemics at
      frontline (emergency rooms, ICUs and other dept.) are put under a lot of stress and levels of
      anxiety. This is worse as the tension to the Health Systems increase, they needing to face
      important ethical dilemmas including triage of patients. Moreover, SARS epidemic proved not
      only that frontline healthcare workers suffered from chronic stress, but that this lasted at
      least for one year after the epidemics wave was over [10].

      The aim of the present study is to assess the psychological and socio-economic impact of the
      COVID-19 epidemics, and we intend to do this on both the general population and the
      healthcare workers.

      An anonymous online survey is been shared through social media networks (including telegram,
      whatsapp, twitter) in order to get as many responses as possible from individuals of >16
      years old. For the healthcare workers subpopulation the questionnaire will be also be
      distributed via email, posters, institutional websites and other means deemed appropriate (in
      hospital or other healthcare settings). The anonymous online survey will include questions on
      sociodemographic data, physical symptoms in the past 14 days, socio-economic impact of the
      COVID-19 outbreak, psychological impact of the COVID-19 outbreak and mental health status
      (through questions related to depression, anxiety, stress and PSTD, which have been used in
      other studies). We will share the survey through social media using the snowball sampling. We
      will continuously share the survey in order to collect responses 6 months after the outbreak,
      to learn how much the impact of it can last.

      The results obtained will allow us to:

        -  Understand more accurately the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak on general population
           wellbeing.

        -  Measuring the impact on the health-care workers subpopulation which is critical to cope
           outbreaks is important to design interventions for stress management and enchance
           infection-control measures and patient care.

      The COM-COVID project is led by Dr. Cris Vilaplana (Institute for Health Science Research
      Germans Trias i Pujol (IGTP)). Dr. Vilaplana's team, mainly dedicated to the study of
      tuberculosis (https://unitatdetuberculosiexperimental.wordpress.com/), has been following a
      research line for the last 4 years measuring the quality of life of people in the context of
      infectious diseases so that they can study people suffering from them in a more holistic and
      humanistic way[11,12]. The project is an initiative of the SMA-TB consortium
      (https://www.smatb.eu/) (IGTP and Anaxomics) to fight against COVID-19. The Fundació Lluita
      contra la SIDA (https://www.flsida.org/en) is also collaborating in the project.
    
  