
    
      Forty first ever ischemic stroke patients (3 to 6 months) were recruited and randomly
      assigned into two groups. Intervention for the study group consisted of 10 therapeutic( LF-
      rTMS) sessions, applied daily for two consecutive weeks in addition to their conventional
      upper limb physical therapy program. 1-hertz *HZ* stimulation was delivered at 90% of the
      contralesional Active Motor Threshold *cAMT* for 20 minutes over the contralesional motor'
      hot spot'. Sequential cortical excitability changes were examined by recording the
      contralesional Active Motor Threshold *cAMT* and the ipsilesional Active Motor Threshold
      *iAMT* at the end of every session for all patients in both groups throughout the 10
      therapeutic consecutive sessions, While the sequential cortical excitability rate of change
      was measured by calculating the difference in the sessional values of (cAMT and iAMT) between
      two successive recordings throughout the 10 therapeutic consecutive sessions. Active motor
      threshold was assessed by the visible election of the contralateral first dorsal interosseous
      *FDI*. Upper limb motor performance was assessed using the Fugal-Myer Assessment Upper
      Extremity scale *FMA-UE* and hand grip dynamometer before and after the whole treatment
      protocol for all patients in both groups. All the forty patients had successfully
      accomplished the study procedures. The post treatment findings for cortical excitability and
      upper limb motor performance declared considerable difference between both groups. It was
      concluded that Four sessions is the recommended minimal number of (LF-rTMS) sessions that
      revealed highest significant difference in cortical excitability findings between both
      groups, relying on both the sessional findings of (cAMT) and the sessional findings of
      (iAMT). Also, The maximum recommended number of the inhibitory (rTMS) sessions that showed
      boosted enhancement in cortical excitability in relation to the control group was Eight
      sessions after which there was a plateau in the findings of the sequential rate of change
      either for the (cAMT) or the (iAMT) findings. Recovery of the upper limb motor function is
      closely related to the regain of cortical interhemispheric balance in stroke patients.
      Further research is needed to reveal whether the sequential changes in cortical excitability
      is correlated to the stroke onset or the degree of the general motor impairment post stroke.
      Also, further studies are recommended to figure out whether the recovery of the upper limb
      motor function is related to implemented number of inhibitory (rTMS) sessions.
    
  