
    
      The American Diabetes Association define diabetes as a metabolic disorder characterized by
      decreased production of insulin and/or the development of insulin resistance which results in
      hyperglycemia. The most common types of DM are type 1 and type 2. Type 2 diabetes mellitus
      (T2DM) is more commonly observed in adults and represents 90-95% cases worldwide. According
      to WHO, Pakistan is ranked 7th among countries with high prevalence rate of T2DM. A review
      done in December 2016 stated that the prevalence rate of T2DM in Pakistan is 11.77%. (Males
      =11.20% /females=9.19%).

      Diabetes mellitus is found to be associated with a vast majority of co-morbidities that have
      devastating impact on the health and quality of life of the patients. Among diabetics the
      development of cardiovascular dysfunctions is a well known cause of mortality and morbidity.
      Around 80% diabetic populations develop the metabolic syndrome, characterized by the
      development of insulin resistance along with hypertension, Dyslipidemia and visceral obesity.
      Obesity is very commonly observed among diabetics and the occurrence of visceral adiposity
      contributes to the increment of the pathogenesis of insulin resistance. Other co-morbidities
      associated with diabetes are diabetic retinopathy, neuropathy, nephropathy, psychosocial
      impairments and cognitive dysfunction.

      It is well known that diabetes mellitus is found to be associated with many co-morbidities.
      Recent evidences show that it is also a risk factor for the development of cognitive
      impairment. Studies show that diabetics have a 1.2- to 1.5-fold greater rate of developing
      decline in cognitive function compared to those without diabetes. A 15 year follow up study
      done in Japan in 2011 also reported increased prevalence of dementia among the diabetics. It
      is becoming evident that diabetes affects the nervous system causing diabetic encephalopathy
      which results in the neuronal damage and loss contributing to cognitive dysfunction. A review
      published in 2009 stated that mild to moderate cognitive declines were observed among
      diabetics. Reduced performance was observed on the tests of multiple cognitive domains
      including episodic memory, information processing speeds and task executive functioning. A
      little decline was also observed on the tests concerning mental flexibility. It is becoming
      evident from the data of epidemiological studies that there is strong association between
      diabetes and increased risk of pathological changes in central nervous system resulting in
      cognitive dysfunction and later on developing into dementia. A review states that it is
      evident from the neurocognitive testing that cognitive decline should be listed among the
      many diabetes associated complications. The factors like the end organ damage influenced by
      hyperglycemia, vascular and neuronal damage, hypoglycemia and the presence of amyloid lesions
      may be held responsible for the changes and damages to cerebral structure. Literature shows
      that cognitive dysfunction is also related with the diabetes associated co-morbidities
      including Increased obesity, Low muscle mass, depression, cardiovascular diseases, chronic
      inflammation and cerebrovascular diseases.

      Diet and exercise represent the initial treatment approaches in clinical practice to slow
      progression of metabolic disturbance associated with prediabetes and to assist with
      pharmacological treatment in established T2DM. Increased physical activity has clear
      beneficial physiological effects for older adults with T2DM or glucose intolerance or insulin
      resistance and more recently has been shown to benefit cognition as well.Epidemiological
      evidence consistently links physical exercise with better cognitive performance, lower risks
      for dementia, and reduced pathological changes in the central nervous system (CNS).
      Experimental studies have also reported benefits of aerobic and resistance training on
      cognitive function in older adults.

      The trend towards using the virtual reality as a platform for rehabilitation among many
      neurological deficits is increasing tremendously. Researches show that VR training may be
      helpful in improving the physical, cognitive and emotional impairments faced by the patients
      experiencing some neurological deficit. It has been seen that when patients following brain
      insult after stroke are involved in VR related rehabilitation programs their functional
      performance was improved. The improvements were seen in balance, walking speeds and mobility.

      Although no trials have been done to our knowledge concerning the use of virtual reality and
      cognitive dysfunctions in adults with T2DM but a variety of researches indicate that VR can
      be useful in treating cognitive impairments. Undoubtedly VR training has potential to
      simulate many real life or imaginary situations, hence providing the platform for more valid
      and dynamic assessment and training. It also provides a constant environment with the
      prospective for multiple repetitions of the same task to be assessed. Furthermore in contrast
      to many conventional methods, VR-based assessment and training provides accurate performance
      measurements and exact replays of task performance. Currently VR is being used as a
      supportive intervention after brain damage to deal with multiple aspects of cognitive
      impairments including memory impairment, executive dysfunctions, visio-spatial and attention
      deficit. The use of VR brain damage rehabilitation is exceedingly expanding and will become
      an important part of cognitive assessment and rehabilitation in future. Studies also show VR
      as a beneficial tool for treating anxiety disorders.
    
  