
    
      1. Background

           1.1: History and Burden of COPD Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is believed
           to have been first described by Theophile Bonnet in 1679 in the form of cadaveric
           'voluminous lungs'(7). Despite being a major cause of disability and death in the UK(1),
           COPD still remains a relatively poor relation to many of the other current leading
           causes of death in terms of health resource allocation, patient and public understanding
           and the interest and motivation of health professionals to diagnose and manage the
           disease(8). Over the last three hundred years, COPD has been known to health
           professionals and the public in a variety of guises including emphysema, chronic
           bronchitis, smoker's cough and chronic airflow obstruction. The term, Chronic
           Obstructive Pulmonary Disease is believed to have been used for the first time in 1965
           by William Briscoe at the 9th Aspen Emphysema Conference(7). Although the name has now
           been successfully unified, the negative associations, variable diagnosis rates and
           management strategies amongst patients with the disease continue. Sadly, a nihilistic
           attitude towards the value of diagnosis and treatment of the disease is still found in
           some clinicians, with some feeling the value of accurate and early diagnosis is small as
           there is no evidence for any disease course altering interventions(8). Whilst there are
           a lack of disease-modifying interventions other than smoking cessation, there are
           effective pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions that have been shown to
           improve disease symptoms(4). Accurate, early diagnosis and disease education are the
           first steps to achieving high quality care throughout the whole patient journey up to
           and including palliative care.

           COPD patients may be perceived as either being on a slow emphysematous downward decline
           or, to spiral rapidly through the cycle of recurrent exacerbations and hospital
           admissions to lung function decline and death (8-10). However, with the range of
           effective interventions now available (including pharmacological strategies, patient
           education, diet and exercise strategies, vaccination and targeted smoking cessation
           interventions) early diagnosis and ongoing proactive care should be the 'gold
           standard'(4).

           The relatively recent evidence supporting pulmonary rehabilitation(11), lung volume
           reduction techniques(12), and modern developments in pharmacotherapy and preventative
           care have provided health care professionals with access to therapies which have proven
           benefits in terms of morbidity. The wealth of inhaled therapies flooding the market and
           the enormous cost burden of COPD to the NHS has led to more interest and research in the
           disease in the last decade. This research has generated an increased understanding of
           disease pathology, recognition of multiple disease phenotypes and the growing
           acknowledgement of the need to direct therapies to individuals rather than the disease
           population as a whole.

           Increasing bed pressures in the NHS has shifted focus towards identification of those
           high-risk patients who are recurrent hospital attendees, and resources have been
           directed towards strategies to reduce hospitalisation and towards community based care.
           Currently, services vary enormously between hospital trusts and commissioning groups,
           ranging from Community Matron support, hospital admission avoidance and early discharge
           schemes, to full time, multidisciplinary, integrated COPD teams all of which are
           attempting to bridge the gap in service provision and communication between Primary and
           Secondary Care(4).

           1.2: Risk Stratification within COPD In the last ten years, much research has been
           directed towards risk stratification within COPD, and whereas previous risk
           stratification has centred on lung function, i.e. FEV1, it is now recognised that the
           disease is far more complex(4). A variety of factors such as symptom burden, historic
           exacerbation rate, exercise tolerance, smoking status and co-morbidities have been shown
           to be significant markers of health status and risk in COPD (4, 13-15)and so, may be
           useful to predict deterioration and, consequent health and social care utilisation. Thus
           far, attention has been mainly focused on highlighting factors indicating deterioration
           into end stage disease with the aim of identifying how to most efficiently deploy health
           services to manage these patients with both high symptom burden and high levels of
           health care utilisation. Whilst this remains an important point of research there is a
           limit to what can be achieved at this, relatively late point in the disease process,
           where management is directed at achieving what is effectively, high quality,
           multi-disciplinary, palliative care.

           We hypothesise that to make a bigger difference to patients and the health service in
           the longer term, attention needs to be focussed on the earlier stages of COPD before the
           bulk of irreversible lung damage has already occurred.

           1.3: The DOSE score A variety of scoring systems exist to try to risk stratify COPD. The
           DOSE score (Dyspnoea Obstruction, Smoking and Exacerbation) is an index of severity in
           COPD developed by Jones et al in 2009 from an audit data set of patients from Devon in
           the UK(16). The DOSE Index points associated with each category of all four variables
           (mMRC Dyspnoea Scale Score, FEV1% predicted, smoking status, exacerbations per year) are
           added to build the DOSE Index score. It was derived from multiple regression analyses of
           possible markers of health status in COPD and their relationship to quality of life
           scores. A scoring system was developed according to clinical and statistical strength
           and this was validated against three other data sets from London, Holland and Japan. It
           correlates well with other COPD severity scoring systems such as the BODE (Body mass
           index, degree of airflow Obstruction, Dyspnoea and Exercise capacity) index(17) and ADO
           (Age, Dyspnoea, airflow Obstruction) scores, but carries the advantage of using some
           modifiable variables all of which are available from existing Primary Care datasets.

           Jones et al demonstrated a 'high' score (>4) to show the greatest risk of hospital
           admission, increased hospital bed days and risk of respiratory failure(16). A high DOSE
           score has since been demonstrated to predict an increased five year respiratory
           mortality of 42.4% vs 11.0% in those with a low score(18) and to predict an increase in
           respiratory symptom burden over the subsequent two years from scoring(19). A high score
           has also been shown to predict an increased risk of subsequent exacerbation frequency,
           hypercapnoea and poorer exercise capacity (20). In these patients we aim to optimise
           symptoms and risk and to provide high quality palliative care, which may span many
           years. Despite this, as demonstrated by Sundh et al, there will still be a mortality of
           over 40% at five years in the high DOSE score group(18), associated with a considerable
           symptom and care burden.

           Evidence exists to support poorer outcomes in COPD patients with certain co-morbidities,
           particularly those related to heart disease, osteoporosis, Body Mass Index and mental
           health (14). COPD prevalence is also strongly related to socioeconomic status. Other
           parameters such as living alone, the presence of other respiratory co-morbidities, a
           persistent inflammatory state reflected by raised inflammatory markers, the presence of
           dementia and gastro-oesophageal reflux disease all seem likely to be associated with
           poorer outcome and have less data or conflicting data associated with their link to
           COPD(20).

           The original paper by Jones et al noted a mean increase in DOSE score of 0.18 DOSE
           points/year over nine years in the London cohort(16) but one would expect considerable
           variation between patients in their rate of decline. The group is currently undertaking
           'CASCADE', a five year, retrospective, database search of anonymised primary care
           records (The Hampshire Health Record) in which, DOSE scores are recalculated over five
           years and an increase in score is used as a surrogate marker for health status
           deterioration. In those identified at baseline to have a low DOSE score (<4), the
           subsequent rate of change in DOSE scores and use of hospital emergency services will be
           used to divide the cohort into 'high risk' and 'low risk' groups. 'CASCADE' also
           identifies, at baseline, the co-morbid and social demographics mentioned in the above
           paragraph in these patients. Using a regression analysis, we hope to identify which
           co-morbid and social demographics can risk-stratify the patients at baseline, ultimately
           creating a model, applicable in Primary Care.

           In CASCADE II we will collect data regarding co-morbidities and social demographics from
           a real world COPD population. As one of the secondary analyses this will provide us with
           pilot data to further develop our risk prediction model in a real world clinical
           setting.

           Evidence for treatments that affect disease progression rates in COPD is scarce (with
           the exception of smoking cessation) perhaps partly as they are often a complex patient
           group both clinically and socially who are highlighted late in their disease process.
           Within the CASCADE II study we aim to go some way to remedy this deficit by further
           exploring the potential relationship between interventions already recommended (e.g.
           formal diagnosis using spirometry, optimal inhaler prescription, participation in
           pulmonary rehabilitation and optimisation of comorbidities) and respiratory health
           status when adequate time and expertise is prospectively allocated to recognise and
           optimise all aspects of these patients' health.

        2. Hypothesis We hypothesise that a complex intervention to optimise clinical and
           supportive care in early stage COPD patients will improve health outcomes and will be
           cost effective.

        3. Study Aim Within a population of COPD patients deemed 'low risk' by DOSE score but with
           respiratory symptoms, this study looks to establish whether intervention in the form of
           a prospective, in depth, medical assessment and individualised optimisation of care will
           alter their respiratory health status and clinical outcomes at twelve months in
           comparison with standard care.

        4. Study Design A cluster randomised controlled interventional study of the impact on
           health status of prospective assessment and individualised medical optimisation using GP
           practices as clusters in a cohort based analysis.
    
  