
    
      The study design will be a unicentric, randomized controlled clinical trial involving 2
      parallel groups. It will be approved by local ethics committees of Jamia Millia Islamia and
      all participants signed will sign an informed consent agreement. The settings will be the
      orthodontic departments of 1 dental teaching hospital (Jamia Millia Islamia Dental hospital)
      Participants for the trial will be identified from treatment waiting lists and new patient
      clinics.

      Proper randomization procedures and reporting include the following steps.

        1. Generation of the random allocation sequence, including details of any restrictions.

        2. Allocation concealment.

        3. Implementation of the random allocation sequence:

      information on who generated the allocation sequence, who enrolled the participants, and who
      assigned them to their groups.

      OPEN SURGICAL EXPOSURE

        -  surgically uncover the canine tooth and bone removal exposing the largest diameter of
           the ectopic canine crown. The edges need to be substantially trimmed back and dental
           follicle removed to prevent reclosure of the very thick palatal mucosa. For a deeply
           buried and palatally displaced tooth, the exposure will additionally need to be
           maintained using surgical pack.

        -  Surgical excision of the palatal mucosa-standardized using a preformed wire template.

        -  Surgical gauze soaked in Whitehead varnish (iodoform 10 g, benzoin 10 g, prepared storax
           7.5 g, tolu balsam 5 g, and solvent ether to 100 ml) or Coe-pack surgical dressing was
           sutured in place.

        -  The patient will be reviewed 10 days later and the surgical pack removed and the bracket
           bonded and force application started/Once the tooth has erupted sufficiently for an
           orthodontic attachment to be glued onto its surface, orthodontic brace treatment is
           commenced to bring the tooth into line.

      CLOSED SURGICAL EXPOSURE

      • surgically uncover the canine tooth and Surgical bone removal exposing the largest diameter
      of the ectopic canine crown.

        -  An multipurpose attachment with ligature wire and e chain will be bonded to the palatal
           or buccal surface of the ectopic canine crown (whichever was the most accessible).

        -  The palatal mucosa was sutured back intact with the gold chain extending through an
           incision in the palatal flap.

      Chlorhexidine digluconate 0.2% w/v mouthwash was prescribed after surgery (10 mL 3 times per
      day for 7 days, starting 4 hrs after surgery). OUTCOMES Definition of successful outcome The
      successful outcome for palatally displaced canine was defined as the full eruption of the
      tooth, thus permitting bracket positioning for final arch alignment when needed. Unsuccessful
      outcome was represented by the lack of eruption of the permanent canine (impaction) at the
      completion of the clinical observation period (48 months after the initial observation).
    
  