
    
      Lead-in phase 1 safety trial followed by asymmetrically randomized open- label, double-arm,
      two-stage, multicenter, phase 2 clinical trial.

      Patients are eligible if they are diagnosed with BRAF V600 mutant unresectable AJCC (American
      Joint Committee on Cancer) stage III or IV melanoma and are documented with progression of
      disease following treatment with a BRAF with or without MEK inhibitor and treatment with an
      immune checkpoint inhibitor (at least an anti-PD1 [programmed cell death 1] antibody).
      Patients will be considered for study participation not earlier than 12 weeks after the last
      dosing of the prior BRAF with or without MEK inhibitor therapy and 4 weeks after the last
      dosing of immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy.

      Phase 1

      Patients will be screened and if found eligible treated with the combination of standard
      dosing of dabrafenib (150 mg twice daily) and trametinib (2 mg once daily) with the autophagy
      inhibitor hydroxychloroquine (200 mg twice daily). Treatment will continue until disease
      progression, unacceptable treatment related toxicity or patient's refusal to continue study
      treatment. Throughout their study participation, patients will be continuously monitored for
      safety and evaluated for tumor response every 8 weeks or sooner if there is clinical
      suspicion of progressive disease.

      Six patients will be included for this phase 1 trial with incidence of adverse events as
      primary endpoint and ORR (objective response rate), PFS (progression-free survival), OS
      (overall survival, per RECIST v1.1 [Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors]) and value
      of ctDNA (circulating tumor DNA) as secondary endpoints.

      Phase 2

      Patients will be screened and if found eligible asymmetrically randomized to treatment with
      the combination of standard dosing of dabrafenib (150 mg twice daily) and trametinib (2 mg
      once daily) with the autophagy inhibitor hydroxychloroquine (200 mg twice daily) (arm A,
      investigational arm) or treatment with standard dosing of dabrafenib (150 mg twice daily) and
      trametinib (2 mg once daily) (arm B, contemporary control arm). Stratification will occur
      according to baseline lactate dehydrogenase level. Treatment will continue until disease
      progression, unacceptable treatment related toxicity or patient's refusal to continue study
      treatment. However, at disease progression in arm B (dabrafenib plus trametinib),
      hydroxychloroquine (200 mg twice daily) will be added to the standard treatment and treatment
      will be continued until disease progression, unacceptable treatment related toxicity or
      patient's refusal to continue study treatment.

      Throughout their study participation, patients will be continuously monitored for safety and
      evaluated for tumor response every 8 weeks or sooner if there is clinical suspicion of
      progressive disease.

      Primary endpoint is ORR (objective response rate) in arm A, secondary endpoints are ORR
      (objective response rate) in arm B and PFS (progression-free survival), OS (overall
      survival), incidence of adverse events and value of ctDNA (circulating tumor DNA) in both
      arms.
    
  