
    
      This is a phase 1, open-label, randomized pharmacokinetic and safety study in healthy adult
      subjects, who will undergo bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) after receiving
      seven (7) doses of 1.0 mg/kg IV TP-434. Dosing will be twice daily (q12h) for three
      consecutive days beginning on day one (1) and a morning dose on day four (4).

      Approximately 20 subjects will be enrolled into the study at one (1) investigational site.
      The population for this study is healthy male and female subjects 18 to 65 years of age.

      This study includes a Screening Period of up to 30 days, a 4 day, open-label Treatment
      Period, and a two week Follow-up Period. There will be one 6 day/5 night inpatient stay (Days
      -1 to 5) during the Treatment Period and one outpatient visit at the end of the Follow-up
      Period. Excluding the Screening Period, the total duration of confinement (in the Clinical
      Research Center) will be approximately six (6) days and the total study duration, not
      including screening, will be approximately three (3) weeks.

      Participants will be admitted to the Clinical Research Center on Day -1. Participants will
      receive four (4) days of intravenous TP-434 1.0 mg/kg of body weight twice daily (q12h) for
      three consecutive days and a morning dose on day four (4) (for a total of 7 doses) starting
      on Day 1. Blood and urine samples, ECGs, and vital signs will be collected for safety
      analysis at specified time points.

      Pharmacokinetic blood sampling will occur on Day 4before and after the Day 4 dose of TP-434
      at specified time points.

      Participants will be randomized to a single BAL procedure time point. Bronchoscopy and BAL
      will be performed at the following time points after dosing of TP-434 on Day 4: two (2), four
      (4), six (6), and 12 hours after start of infusion. Bronchoscopy and BAL will be conducted
      for up to five (5) different participants at each time point. Each subject will undergo
      bronchoscopy and BAL only once.
    
  