
    
      68Ga-PSMA-ligand PET-CT is a recently developed molecular imaging technique. It is based on
      the prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA), a transmembrane protein with a large
      extracellular domain which is over-expressed on prostate cancer cells surface. Initial
      experiments used a ligand to the extracellular epitope of PSMA and labelled it with the
      isotope 68Ga, a positron emitter (68Ga-PSMA-HBED-CC) 5.

      Recently published data based on more than 300 patients show recurrence detection rates and
      tumour to background ratios higher than choline PET-CT, even at low Prostate Specific Antigen
      (PSA) levels (sensitivity of 70% in PSA<2ng/ml) 6,7. False-positive PSMA findings are not yet
      reported.

      The therapeutic management of biochemical recurrence in prostate cancer depends on the
      localisation and the extent of the recurrent disease.

      In this study, the hypothesis is that 68Ga-PSMA-ligand PET-CT, through its high diagnostic
      accuracy has a significant impact on the therapeutic management of patients with biochemical
      recurrence.

      Primary objective:

      To prospectively evaluate the impact of PSMA-PET/CT on the therapeutic management of patients
      with biological recurrent prostate cancer and negative, equivocal or oligometastatic disease
      after routine imaging diagnostic work-up.

      The treatment management decision will be recorded at the urologic tumor board (UTB) before
      and after the PSMA-PET/CT result. Rate of decision change will be calculated.

      Secondary objective(s)

        1. To compare detection rates of PSMA PET/CT and Routine Imaging Workup

        2. To search for a predictor of a positive PET scan

        3. To assess diagnostic value of PSMA-PET/CT

        4. To assess PSA response after targeted treatment for oligometastatic disease.

        5. To evaluate the delay to start of Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) from the UTB
           decision.

        6. To evaluate the time to PSA progression.
    
  