
    
      The investigators also plan a prospective study of patients referred for pulmonary artery
      catheterization at the UNC cardiac catheterization lab for evaluation of known or suspected
      pulmonary hypertension. The purpose of this portion of the study is to evaluate the degree to
      which digital reading of pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) and pulmonary capillary wedge
      pressure (PCWP) impact the diagnosis and classification of pulmonary hypertension
      specifically in patients being evaluated for pulmonary hypertension while being tested in the
      supine, sitting and standing positions.

      The investigators will identify 60 patients referred for right heart catheterization to
      evaluate known or suspected pulmonary hypertension. Patients will have right heart
      catheterization performed by the clinician that was planning on performing the procedure and
      a pulmonary hypertension specialist in the Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine
      or Division of Cardiology. After informed consent is obtained, the subject will be prepped
      and draped per protocol in the UNC Cath lab. Their internal jugular vein will be visualized
      by ultrasound and accessed with a pulmonary artery catheter using standard procedure which
      also uses fluoroscopy to ensure correct placement of the catheter. Once pressure measurements
      are obtained from the cardiac chambers and pulmonary arteries, the catheter will be secured
      into place with tegaderm to allow for mobilization of the patient. The patient will then be
      asked to sit up on the side of the cath table and the pressure transducer will be
      re-calibrated to be at the level of the patient's right atrium. Repeat measurements will be
      obtained of the pulmonary artery and PCWP in this position. After, the patient will be asked
      to stand up and the pressure transducer once again re-calibrated to estimate the level of the
      right atrium; new measurements will be obtained in the standing position. Each position will
      be maintained for 5 minutes before measurements are taken. The supine position measurement
      will be used for clinical decision making purposes as per usual. The investigators will
      collect each measurement over at least 10 cardiac cycles and use the mean end-expiratory
      values to ensure precision.

      Once all measurements are obtained, the patient will be asked to return to the supine
      position. The tegaderm will be released and the catheter removed during sustained expiration
      maneuver per standard protocol.

      No sedation will be administered to the patients.

      No further contact will be done with the study subject for the purpose of this research
      trial.
    
  