
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To explore the safety of BO-112 in combination with nivolumab in soft tissue sarcoma
      patients undergoing preoperative radiotherapy, as assessed by the frequency and severity of
      adverse events (AEs) using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version
      (v)4.0 toxicity criteria.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the change in T cell infiltration at surgical resection from baseline as
      measured by immunohistochemistry.

      II. Assess treatment effect (necrosis score) of BO-112 in combination with nivolumab in soft
      tissue sarcoma patients receiving preoperative hypofractionated radiotherapy, compared to
      patients treated on a recently completed phase 2 study of preoperative hypofractionated
      radiotherapy alone.

      III. Evaluate the 2-year rate of local and distant metastasis of BO-112 in combination with
      nivolumab in patients with localized resectable soft tissue sarcoma receiving preoperative
      hypofractionated radiotherapy, as compared to historical patients receiving preoperative
      radiotherapy alone.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the dynamics of the intratumoral T cell phenotype. II. Assess the capacity to
      grow ex vivo tumor infiltrating lymphocytes from patients treated with BO-112 in combination
      with nivolumab.

      III. Analyze changes in T-cell receptor (TCR) repertoire in tumor infiltrating lymphocytes
      and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) between baseline, post-treatment, and ex vivo
      cultured tumor infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) samples.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive BO-112 intratumorally on days 1, 8, and 15 and nivolumab intravenously (IV)
      over 30-60 minutes on days 8 and 22 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients also undergo standard of care radiation therapy on days 8-12 for a total
      of 5 fractions. Patients then undergo standard of care definitive surgical resection on day
      26 to 50.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2 weeks, 3 months, and
      between 6-12, 12-18, and 18-24 months.
    
  