
    
      Background: Patients with a stable coronary syndromes include those with obstructive coronary
      artery disease (CAD) or ischaemia with no obstructive CAD (INOCA). Disorders of coronary
      vasomotion leading to microvascular and vasospastic angina are debilitating, prognostically
      important health problems. Use of coronary function tests with thresholds (normal/abnormal)
      that are linked to evidence-based treatment (start/stop) could be useful to diagnose
      (rule-in/rule-out) these conditions, but, evidence is lacking.

      Design: (1) A proof-of-concept, randomised controlled stratified medicine trial of a clinical
      strategy informed by invasive tests of coronary function and linked guideline-based treatment
      decisions vs. standard care using angiography only in 150 patients; (2) A nested
      observational imaging sub-study using quantitative stress perfusion cardiac magnetic
      resonance (CMR). CONSORT guidelines will be followed.

      Objectives: (1) To assess whether a diagnostic strategy involving tests of coronary function
      changes the diagnosis and treatment and improves health and economic outcomes; (2) To assess
      the diagnostic accuracy of novel MRI methods for abnormal perfusion due to microvascular
      disease.

      Methods: Patients undergoing invasive coronary angiography for the investigation of known or
      suspected angina and who do not have either structural heart disease or a systemic health
      problem that would explain those symptoms will be invited to participate. Written informed
      consent is required for participation. Eligibility is further confirmed at the time of the
      coronary angiogram by exclusion of obstructive (>50% stenosis, fractional flow reserve
      <=0.80) coronary artery disease (CAD). After the angiogram, eligible participants will be
      randomised immediately in the catheter laboratory to test disclosure (intervention group) or
      measurement without disclosure (control group). Coronary function will be assessed using a
      diagnostic guidewire and intra-coronary infusions of acetylcholine (10-6M, 10-5M, -10-4M) and
      a bolus of glyceryl trinitrate (300 micrograms). The guidewire-derived parameters include
      fractional flow reserve (FFR), coronary flow reserve (CFR), index of microvascular resistance
      (IMR) and the resistance reserve ratio (RRR). Participants who are enrolled but not
      randomised will enter a follow-up registry. The endotypes (diagnostic strata) are:
      obstructive CAD, coronary vasospastic angina, microvascular angina, endothelial dysfunction
      (no angina), normal (non-cardiac, normal coronary function results, no angina). Thus, a
      diagnosis may be ruled-in or ruled-out based on the test results. Microvascular disease will
      be characterised as structural (abnormal IMR) and/or functional (abnormal CFR, RRR). Primary
      outcome: Between-group difference in Seattle Angina Questionnaire (SAQ) scores at 6 months;
      Secondary: Reclassification of the treatment decision; certainty of the diagnosis; health
      status (EQ-5D, Illness Perception, Treatment Satisfaction & Patient Health questionnaires);
      angina medication and adherence; health economics; reference clinical decisions as evaluated
      by an independent expert panel of clinicians. Follow-up will continue in the longer term,
      including through electronic health record linkage.

      Value: To our knowledge, the study is the first to assess the clinical value of invasive
      management guided by routine use of adjunctive tests of coronary function in appropriately
      selected patients. The study will provide new insights into disease mechanisms and provide
      pilot data to inform the rationale and design of a larger clinical trial. The CMR substudy
      will provide information on the diagnostic utility of quantitative non-invasive imaging
      methods in this patient population. Should our hypotheses be confirmed, the research will
      bring new knowledge with potential benefits to patients and healthcare providers.
    
  