
    
      The Study Drug:

      Lenalidomide is designed to change the body's immune system. It may also interfere with the
      development of tiny blood vessels that help support tumor growth. It may decrease or prevent
      the growth of cancer cells.

      Researchers want to find out if lenalidomide can improve the cGVHD and if it can help
      decrease the amount of steroids you need, which may help prevent long-term side effects that
      occur when steroids are used over a long period of time.

      Study Treatment:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take lenalidomide by
      mouth (1 larger-dose capsule or 2 smaller-dose capsules) once daily for 21 days followed by 7
      days without treatment (a "rest period"). Each 28-day period is called a cycle of therapy.
      You will have up to 6 cycles of therapy on this study.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will swallow lenalidomide capsules whole with water (about 16 ounces) at the same time
      each day. You should not break, chew, or open capsules. If you miss a dose of lenalidomide,
      you should take it as soon as you remember on the same day. If you miss taking your dose for
      the entire day, you will take your regular dose the next day ( DO NOT take double your
      regular dose to make up for the missed dose).

      Study Visits:

      During treatment, you will have additional testing to check for side effects and to learn
      your body's response to therapy. You will have these tests every 2 weeks (during Cycles 1 and
      2), once a month (during Cycles 3-6), and every 3 months for up to 1 year from when you
      started treatment with the study drug.

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have a full skin assessment. For this assessment, the study doctor will look at
           your skin to see if your skin shows a reaction to the cGVHD transplant.

        -  You will have a 2-minute walking test. For this test, you will be asked to walk for 2
           minutes, and your walking distance will be measured.

        -  You will have a grip strength test. For this test, you will be asked to sit down and
           squeeze something that has a meter to measure your strength.

        -  You will complete some questionnaires about how you are feeling physically, emotionally,
           and socially. It should take about 20 minutes to complete.

        -  You will complete another questionnaire about how you assess your symptoms. It should
           take about 20 minutes to complete.

        -  You will have blood drawn (about 2 tablespoons) for routine tests and to check
           immune-suppressive drug (such as tacrolimus or cyclosporine) levels in your blood.

        -  You will be asked about how you are feeling and about any side effects you may have
           experienced since your last visit.

      Females who are able to have children that have regular or no menstrual cycles must agree to
      have pregnancy tests weekly for the first 28 days of study participation and then every 28
      days while on study, at the end of the study, and 28 days following the end of the study. If
      your menstrual cycles are irregular, the pregnancy testing must occur weekly for the first 28
      days and then every 14 days while on study, at study discontinuation, and at days 14 and 28
      following discontinuation from the study.

      Your dose of the study drug will be temporarily stopped or decreased if the study doctor
      thinks it is necessary for your safety. Other drugs may also be given to you to help decrease
      side effects. The study doctor will tell you what these drugs will be if this is necessary.

      Length of Study:

      You will be taken off this study if the disease gets worse or you experience any intolerable
      side effects. If you are tolerating and responding to the study treatment, you will be on
      this study for up to 1 year from enrollment.

      This is an investigational study. Lenalidomide is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of specific types of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). It is also approved in
      combination with dexamethasone for previously treated multiple myeloma. Its use in this study
      is investigational and authorized for use in research only. Up to 46 patients will take part
      in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  