
    
      Physical decline and frailty result from age- and disease-related impairments in organs and
      tissues. Frailty research has focused on the musculoskeletal, neurological and circulatory
      systems; yet interventions targeting these systems had limited success in preventing and
      treating functional decline. Given the aging of the US population, additional avenues for
      intervention development are urgently needed. Fragility and disability in people ≥65 strongly
      correlate with declining kidney function and are evident even in early stages of chronic
      kidney disease (CKD). Moreover, CKD is highly prevalent in the elderly and associates with
      sarcopenia, osteopenia, and increased incidence of fractures/falls with hospitalization. Low
      serum bicarbonate and impaired acid-base homeostasis, also common in CKD, are increasingly
      appreciated as contributors to functional decline with advancing age. With aging, the
      adaptive response of the kidney to low serum bicarbonate and high metabolic acid load becomes
      maladaptive, facilitating CKD progression. Conversely, in adult patients with CKD,
      maintenance of serum bicarbonate at 24 meq/L with oral bicarbonate supplementation or
      increased consumption of base-forming foods slows CKD progression.

      The study investigators propose the current study and protocol based on the evidence
      summarized above and our preliminary studies, which suggest that: In the Health Aging and
      Body Composition cohort (age 70-79) lower dietary acid load associates with stable kidney
      function over a 7-year follow-up, independent of age, race, gender, BMI, diabetes,
      hypertension or smoking status; metabolomics analysis in participants of the African American
      Diabetes Heart Study suggested that it is feasible to segregate a urine metabolomics profile
      in the early stages of CKD (stages 2 and 3), and that lower consumption of base-forming
      fruits and vegetables and higher rates of acid excretion may be associated with CKD and its
      progression.

      The investigators therefore hypothesized that decreasing metabolic acid production by
      titrating dietary acid load may ameliorate the generally expected, age-related decline in
      kidney function, decrease loss of lean body mass, preserve physical function, and ameliorate
      disability. This is not a treatment study as the investigators are exploring the effects of
      bicarbonate on these age-related issues.
    
  