
    
      Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is one of the most common malignances in South China.
      Radiation therapy remains the principal treatment for NPC. One of the frequently occurred
      radiation-related side effects includes radiation-induced skin reactions (RISR), also known
      as radiation dermatitis, which affects up to 90% of cancer patients receiving radiation
      therapy. Although intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) has been widely used in China
      nowadays, radiation dermatitis is still common. It is often characterized by edema, erythema,
      changes in pigmentation, fibrosis, and ulceration, and may cause signs and symptoms, such as
      skin dryness, itching discomfort, pain, warmth, and burning. Radiation dermatitis has an
      impact on pain and quality of life in this patient group, and if severe, may lead to
      interruption of the radiation schedule for the patient.

      A variety of interventions are used for prophylaxis and management of radiation dermatitis.
      However, a recent overview of systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled
      trials concluded that the use of these interventions is not yet supported by conclusive
      evidence and therefore warrants further investigations.

      Trolamine (Biafine; Genmedix Ltd, France) is an oil-in-water emulsion that can enhance skin
      healing by recruiting macrophages and modifying the concentrations of various
      immunomodulators. In China, Trolamine is commonly prescribed at the beginning of radiotherapy
      for preventing acute radiation-induced skin toxicity. However, as long as grade ≥2 radiation
      dermatitis is developed, Trolamine is not allowed to use any more. Medical Radiation
      Protectants (FORRAD®) is a new kind of topical agents for prevention and treatment of
      radiation dermatitis. It could be used during the course of radiotherapy, even when grade ≥2
      dermatitis is developed.

      The primary aim of this randomized phase II study is to assess the effectiveness and safety
      of Medical Radiation Protectants (FORRAD®) for the prevention and treatment of acute
      radiation-induced dermatitis of grade 3 or higher during IMRT for patients with NPC, compared
      with trolamine.
    
  