
    
      The current Covid-19 pandemic has caused significant strain on the health care system, and an
      unprecedented Governmental response to stem the spread of the disease through social
      distancing and self-isolation. Covid-19 is a pneumonia-like severe acute respiratory syndrome
      (SARS) caused by a virus, SARS-CoV-2, with similarity to the SARS virus responsible for a
      worldwide outbreak in 2002. Due to the original SARS outbreak, a large body of genomic data
      exists for SARS coronaviruses, allowing researchers to understand how the new virus
      SARS-CoV-2 has evolved to be so virulent in humans.

      Whilst testing kits have been designed to target specific genes in the viral RNA, whole
      genome sequencing of the virus offers increased scope to track the epidemiology of the virus.
      In addition, through the use of current sequencing technology available from Oxford Nanopore
      Technologies (ONT), genome scanning can be performed in real time and allow for
      identification of specific viral variants within patient samples. As the pandemic continues
      to spread, understanding the evolution of the virus and its spread across the globe will help
      researchers to begin to predict the future spread of the virus, estimate the number of
      worldwide cases, and aid in the development of epidemiological models for estimating a
      potential end point to the pandemic crisis. In addition, the ability to track mutations in
      real time allows researchers access to a large body of data to explore in order to identify
      potential targets for cures and vaccines. These data will also feed into the design of
      RNA-based therapeutic targets and diagnostics using patented array technology.

      In this project, we aim to use Nanopore-based sequencing technology to assemble viral genomes
      from patients who have presented to Portsmouth Hospital NHS Trust (PHT) in the Wessex region
      with symptoms of Covid-19. PHT, has containment level 3 (CL3) facilities within their
      Microbiology Department required for inactivation of the virus and extraction of viral RNA,
      and has recently begun testing of potential Covid-19 patients. Viral RNA samples from
      patients who show positive results will be selected for sequencing using Nanopore sequencing
      technology. Whole genome sequences will be compared using phylogenetic analysis to identify
      the spread of the virus within the local area, will be analysed in the context of anonymised
      patient level data to look for trends in the adaptation of the virus, and will be compared
      with a global database of such sequences to help develop global maps of transmission.

      As part of the COVID-19 Genomics UK Consortium (COG-UK), we will contribute sequencing data
      to the consortium which will monitor changes in the virus on a national scale to understand
      how the virus is mutating and spreading and whether different strains are emerging
    
  