
    
      The Continuous Home Oxygen-therapy (abbreviated as OCD in Spanish) refers to the supply of
      oxygen for continuous, general, and/or indefinite use at the home of patients with chronic
      hypoxemia. The purpose of this treatment is to prolong the life of the hypoxemic patient,
      improve exercise tolerance, and control clinical deterioration due to low oxygen saturation.

      Contextualizing the use of home oxygen in Colombia, it was observed that there was an
      increase in the prevalence of COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease) as well as the
      prescription of home oxygen in the first phases of the treatment. It was found that 3.176
      patients were enrolled in the home care program without knowing their sociodemographic and
      epidemiological characteristics. The reason behind is that there are few epidemiological
      studies that refer to this therapy. However, Gonzales M. et al. emphasize that current
      indications should be reviewed and research carried out in order to determine guidelines for
      recommending home oxygen in patients with COPD.

      Methods / Design Study Design A randomized controlled clinical trial divided in two parallel
      groups with a 6-months duration will be performed in order to evaluate the efficiency of a
      mobile application used for the monitoring of patients with home oxygen. The control group
      will be made up of individuals with oxygen therapy undergoing regular monitoring (periodic
      visits by the respiratory caregiver), and the intervention group formed by those who have
      conventional monitoring with the use of the mobile app called AppO2.

      Sample's size calculation A total of 32 individuals (16 for the experimental group and 16 for
      the control one) would be necessary to recruit, for a 1:1 ratio, a power of 80% (beta error =
      20%), a certainty of 95% (alpha error = 5%) and assuming that the intervention in the
      experimental group will cause a 3% increase with a ±6 standard deviation in recognition of
      self-management of dyspnea. A final size of 44 individuals has been established (22 for the
      EG and 22 for the CG) to minimise the effect of possible losses in statistical power.

      Intervention:

      The control group comprises patients who will be under the conventional follow-up of clinical
      assessment and control of home oxygen supplies. The intervention group will be monitored
      conventionally, and they will additionally have a mobile app, "AppO2". We will follow a
      consecutive sampling. Patients will be recruit as on the go. The allocation will be randomly
      performed using a statistical software called EPIDAT, 3.1.

      Study variables

      The following results variables and independent variables are suggested to achieve the
      proposed objectives:

      Variables:

        -  Oxygen saturation through a pulse oximeter, capillary filling, respiratory rate, heart
           rate, duration time of the oxygen cylinder.

        -  Oxygen saturation and inspired fraction of oxygen relationship

        -  Borg dyspnea scale

        -  Oxygen saturation and inspired fraction of oxygen relationship

        -  Recognition of self-management of dyspnea and quality of life through the mobile app.

        -  Saint George questionnaire for the assessment of health-related (CVRS) quality of life
           Statistical analysis A descriptive analysis of the variables under study will be carried
           out by characterising the patients. Also, graphs and frequency tables will be
           constructed for the qualitative variables, and the calculation of central tendency
           measures (mean), dispersion (standard deviation), and position (limits of the
           distribution and range) for the quantitative variables.

      For the bivariate analysis, the Student's T-test will be performed to compare two means,
      while for the qualitative variables, the chi-square test and Fisher's exact test will be
      used. For the analysis of three or more means, the repeated measures analysis of variance
      (ANOVA) will be calculated. Multiple linear regressions will be used to adjust the App use's
      impact and eliminate confounding factors. The standardized beta coefficients, the adjusted
      coefficient of determination, the residuals, etc., will be calculated. An alpha error <5%
      will be accepted for all statistical analyses, and confidence intervals will be calculated
      for 95% confidence (95% CI). For the complete statistical analysis, SPSS Statistics software,
      version 25.0 (IBM Corp), will be used.

      Practical applicability The general objective of this protocol is to evaluate the efficiency
      of a mobile application in the follow-up of patients with home oxygen therapy through an
      intervention aimed at reducing exacerbations. Besides, an attempt will be made to identify
      the adequacy of the prescription of oxygen systems and establish the underutilisation of
      oxygen supplies at home. A two-group randomized clinical follow-up will be used to evaluate
      the intervention.
    
  