
    
      The overwhelming majority of HIV/AIDS patients live in the developing world. The rate of HIV
      infection in China has been consistently and steadily increasing over the past few years.
      Commercial sex workers and their clients are at highest risk for HIV infection and
      transmission. Yunnan Province is reported to be home to about half of China's HIV infected
      population. Honghe Prefecture accounts for 14% of the total reported HIV infections in Yunnan
      Province. Even though the incidence of HIV is important in tracking the HIV epidemic, there
      are little data on HIV incidence among FSWs in China. Estimates of HIV incidence are
      essential for optimally monitoring the HIV epidemic, knowing where to focus prevention
      efforts, and evaluating the success of vaccines and other prevention strategies. The purpose
      of this study is to estimate the incidence of and risk factors for HIV infection among FSWs
      and miners in Honghe Prefecture, Yunnan Province, China. In addition, this study will
      identify and describe the different HIV clades currently circulating among FSWs and miners.
      Four cross-sectional surveys will be conducted: three among FSWs and one among miners. In
      addition, a 12-month cohort study will be conducted among a subgroup of FSWs enrolled in the
      baseline cross-sectional survey in Kaiyuan City, Honghe Prefecture, Yunnan Province, China.

      FSWs will complete cross-sectional surveys at study entry, Month 6, and Month 12. FSWs will
      complete two study visits: one to complete the survey and another to receive test results and
      participate in post-test counseling. Physical and gynecologic exams and blood collection will
      occur at both study visits. Each survey will include general participant information and
      sexual activity and drug use habits.

      Pre-test counseling will be provided to all FSWs; those who elect to donate specimens for
      laboratory testing will have an additional appointment within 6 weeks of donation to receive
      test results and post-test counseling. Multiple counseling sessions may be provided to some
      participants based on their individual needs. FSWs found to be either infected with HIV or
      another sexually transmitted disease (STD) will be referred for further medical evaluation
      and treatment.

      Every fourth participant enrolled in the FSW cross-sectional survey, all FSWs found to be HIV
      infected, and all FSWs who are intravenous drug users will participate in a substudy lasting
      12 months. Study staff will contact each participant once a month for 12 months and ask them
      for location information and about their current behaviors.

      Participants enrolled as FSW clients (miners) will participate in two study visits. The first
      visit will include completing a questionnaire and counseling. The second study visit will
      include post-test counseling to inform participants of their test results and will occur
      about one month after the first visit. A physical exam and blood and urine collection will
      occur at both visits.
    
  