
    
      This is a randomized, parallel-group, evaluator-blind, superiority, controlled clinical trial
      of PAE versus a sham procedure in patients with BPH with severe LUTS not adequately
      controlled by medical therapy with alpha-blockers.

      This study has a screening visit at day -14, a baseline visit at day -2, a randomization and
      intervention visit at day 0, follow up visits at months 1, 3 and 6.

      Patients initially randomized to the sham procedure and who completed the 6 month follow-up
      period will be offered the possibility of performing PAE at no cost. All patients will be
      invited to participate in a 6 months post-trial extension study.

      Patients over 45 years-old with a diagnosis of BPH associated with severe LUTS defined by an
      IPSS>=20 after a minimum of 6 months treatment with alpha-blockers and with a prostate volume
      ≥ 40 mL will start a two weeks screening period. Eligible patients will be started either
      tamsulosin 0.4 mg q.d., alfuzosin 10 mg q.d. or silodosin 8 mg q.d., which will be maintained
      throughout the study period, and have the intervention scheduled for the following 2 days
      (study day 0), when they will be randomized to PAE or to a sham procedure if the procedure is
      technically feasible

      Those patients in whom angiography has shown that PAE is technically feasible will be
      randomized to one of the study arms on a 1:1 ratio. Patients in both groups will be submitted
      to exactly the same procedure, except that patients randomized to the control group will not
      be injected with polyvinyl alcohol particles. Patients will be discharged as soon as their
      clinical condition is stabilized

      Patients will be assessed at 1, 3 and 6 months with IPSS, QoL, IIEF, BPH-II and will perform
      prostatic ultrasonography, uroflowmetry and PSA at month 1 and 6. At 1 month a pelvic NMR
      will be performed to evaluate prostate volume and the degree of ischemia.

      Patients completing the 6 month follow-up period will be invited to enter a 6 months
      extension study. In this extension study, patients will be evaluated at month 12 for all
      efficacy variables. Patients initially randomized to the sham procedure who wanted to perform
      PAE after the conclusion of the trial will be evaluated only at months 1, 3 and 6 after PAE.
    
  