
    
      - Statement of the problem:

      peri-implant bone is affected by excessive mechanical stress, the mechanism of bone formation
      is reduced and the bone resorption is increased, leading to MBL. Isidor F. 2006, Warreth A,
      009 A drilling sequence using a drill that is smaller than the implant diameter has been
      applied as a way to obtain enough initial stability.Bilhan H,2010 However, the implant can be
      extremely compressed or exceed the torque, which can be higher than the elastic limit of bone
      when a drill that is smaller than the implant diameter is used. This may affect the bone
      surrounding the implant and may also lead to a micro fracture.

      Frost mentioned that alveolar bone density is changed by micro deformation due to
      modification of the physical condition. Bone resorption and fibrous tissue production
      progress if the micro deformation rate is higher than 3,000 micro strain (με). Also,
      continuous bone replacement occurs while woven bone appears. Wolff J.1986 Bone tissue adapts
      to the change of stress while minimizing its weight and transforming its structure. Frost
      HM,1989 The bone formation mechanism is inhibited and the bone resorption mechanism is
      enhanced if excessive mechanical stress is applied to alveolar bone during implantation,
      resulting in the progression of marginal bone loss (MBL). Isidor F.2006 , Warreth A,2009-

      Rationale for carrying out the trial:

      Success and survival rate of an implant are directly associated with primary stability.
      Friberg B,et al 1991 Primary stability is achieved with initial rigid fixation of implants
      during the surgery and considered necessary for a successful osseointegration. Sennerby L,et
      al 1992, Rodrigo D,et al 2010 There are two different processes of bone formation at implant
      sites; contact and distance osteogenesis. Contact osteogenesis infers new bone formation in
      direct contact with the implant surface. Distance osteogenesis is the new bone formation on
      the surfaces of the parent bone and occurs when primary stability is absent at implant site.
      Davies JE.et al 2003, Sivolella S,et al2012

      When there is a gap between the implant surface and bone, a clot will fill the space and will
      be replaced by a provisional connective matrix that will act as scaffold for formation of
      woven bone. Berglundh T,et al,2003 , Rossi F,2012 Our study will evaluate the effect of
      oversized drilling on implant success and secondary stability
    
  