
    
      Movement disorders are a prominent cause of disability worldwide. In the United States, it is
      estimated that more than 4 million people suffer from Parkinson's disease (PD), essential
      tremor (ET), and dystonia, making them some of the most prevalent of neurologic disorders. Of
      these, PD is the most common, and is primarily characterized by tremor, rigidity, and
      bradykinesia. However, though primarily characterized by motor symptoms, many patients also
      have prominent non-motor features, including depression and cognitive impairment, with
      deficiencies in processing speed, memory, attention, and learning. Some of the most
      debilitating cognitive deficiencies include deficits in goal-directed response selection and
      response inhibition, language, and/or speech difficulties, all of which substantially
      contribute to reduced quality of life.

      Unfortunately, these features of movement disorders are less well-studied and lack effective
      treatment options, necessitating that new treatments be investigated. Deep brain stimulation
      (DBS), while a highly effective treatment for the cardinal features of PD, is essentially
      ineffective for, and can even worsen other cognitive domains, and there are few studies
      currently investigating how different parameters of DBS may improve these symptoms. In
      addition, speech abnormalities are common with Parkinson's disease and DBS can sometimes
      worsen speech problems. These impairments consists primarily of hypophonia, but cognitive
      deficits can result in actual language disturbance. It is often difficult to know whether the
      speech problems are related to language processing or articulation (related to the movement
      disorder). In an effort to begin addressing these questions, we propose to study motor and
      non-motor symptoms in patients with movement disorders, and to correlate movement and
      cognition with underlying neural electrophysiology.
    
  