
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effect of neoadjuvant atezolizumab alone or in combination with
      tiragolumab, tocilizumab, or other immune modulating agent(s) on T-cell infiltration in
      advanced in advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN). (Translational).

      II. To determine the impact of neo-adjuvant immunotherapy on surgical outcomes. (Clinical).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the changes in T-cell subtypes and other mediators of antitumor immune
      response induced by neoadjuvant atezolizumab alone or in combination with tiragolumab,
      tocilizumab, or other immune-modulating agent(s) in advanced SCCHN patients. (Translational).

      II. To describe the impact of neoadjuvant, surgical, and adjuvant therapy on peripheral
      immune responses. (Translational).

      III. To establish the safety/toxicity profile of each regimen in the perioperative settings
      for patients with advanced SCCHN. (Clinical).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize changes in the gut microbiome associated with each therapeutic
      combination.

      II. To assess the correlation of disease status with C-Reactive Protein (CRP) and lactate
      dehydrogenase (LDH) levels.

      III. To assess the correlation of disease status with Interleukin 6 (IL-6) levels for
      participants in Arm C (atezolizumab + tocilizumab).

      IV. If leftover tissue and funding are available: To develop immune-competent tumor xenograft
      models.

      V. To determine whether neo-adjuvant immune therapy improves 2-year relapse-free survival
      (RFS) in patients with SCCHN

      OUTLINE: This is a phase II, multi-arm, open-label trial of perioperative atezolizumab alone
      or in combination with other immune-modulating agents in advanced SCCHN. Based on the results
      of these initial cohorts, the trial will be amended to explore other novel atezolizumab-based
      combinations (such as atezolizumab in combination with another immuno-oncology (IO) agent,
      chemotherapeutics, or a molecularly targeted agent that could potentiate the activity of
      atezolizumab). Each of these new cohorts will be tested and enrolled to in sequential,
      non-randomized fashion.

      Arm A: Patients receive 2 infusions of atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes for
      up to 15 days prior to definitive surgery and radiation.

      Arm A (Adjuvant): Patients received 2 infusions of atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60
      minutes for up to 15 days prior to definitive surgery and radiation. In addition to
      neoadjuvant atezolizumab, the first 9 participants in Arm A (atezolizumab monotherapy)
      received adjuvant atezolizumab beginning 16 weeks after surgery and radiation, or
      chemoradiation therapy, every 3 weeks for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Adjuvant atezolizumab will only be initiated if
      radiation-associated adverse events have resolved to grade 2 or better.

      Arm B: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes for up to 2 courses and
      tiragolumab administered by IV infusion on Cycle 1 Day 1 of neoadjuvant treatment prior to
      standard surgery.

      Arm C: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes for up to 2 courses and
      tocilizumab administered by IV infusion on Cycle 1 Day 1 of neoadjuvant treatment prior to
      standard surgery. Tocilizumab will be administered (prior to atezolizumab administration) as
      an intravenous infusion Atezolizumab will be administered 2 hours after the conclusion of the
      tocilizumab infusion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days post surgery, 3
      months, 6 months, 12 months, and at 24 months.
    
  