
    
      -  This study has several periods of treatment called phases and uses several different
           drugs in each phase. The drugs may be given by mouth, into a vein, or into the spinal
           fluid (called intrathecal chemotherapy). In some individuals this treatment helps
           prevent leukemia cells from coming back in the spinal fluid and brain. Radiation therapy
           will also be administered as part of this treatment regimen.

        -  The treatment program consists of 2-different treatment arms with six separate phases of
           therapy. The phases of treatment are: (1) Steroid prophase (2) Induction (3)
           Consolidation I (4) Central nervous system (CNS) therapy (5) Consolidation II (6)
           Continuation.

        -  The participants treatment arm will depend on the status of their leukemia at the end of
           the induction therapy (the second phase of treatment). Arm A: all participants who
           achieve complete remission after Induction and Arm B: all participants who fail to
           achieve a complete remission after Induction.

        -  Steroid Prophase: All participants are involved in this treatment phase which consists
           of two drugs, one given intravenously (IV) and one given intrathecally. This phase lasts
           3 days and the purpose is to collect scientific data that might be useful in the future
           and to see how steroids work in treating leukemia

        -  Induction: This phase begins immediately after the steroid prophase and lasts about 1
           month. Induction is used to cause a remission. Eight drugs are used during this phase of
           treatment, and administration is either orally, IV or intrathecal. On day 29,
           participant's bone marrow and peripheral blood counts will be tested. If they have
           achieved complete remission or partial remission, they will proceed to the next phase of
           treatment. If they are not in complete remission, they will receive vincristine by IV on
           days 32, 39 and 46, until complete remission is achieved. If they do not achieve
           complete or partial remission by day 53 they will be removed from the study.

        -  Consolidation I: This phase of treatment begins as soon as there is a documented
           confirmation that the participant's leukemia is either in complete or partial remission.
           Treatment in this phase lasts about 7 weeks and is intended to further reduce the number
           of leukemia cells in the body. This consolidation treatment consists of 3 phases: 1A, 1B
           and 1C. Each phase involves a three week cycle of chemotherapy. Arm A and Arm B will be
           assigned according to remission status after induction therapy and will determine the
           order that the participant follows the Consolidation phases.

        -  Central Nervous System (CNS) Therapy: CNS therapy begins 3 weeks after the end of
           Consolidation I therapy and should last 3 weeks. Treatment includes a series of lumbar
           punctures with the administration of anti-leukemia drug as well as oral drugs and IV
           drugs. Radiation therapy will also be given during this phase of therapy. The purpose of
           radiation therapy is to prevent leukemia from coming back in the brain. Radiation
           therapy will be given in either 8 or 10 daily treatments.

        -  Consolidation II Therapy: This phase begins as soon as CNS therapy ends and lasts about
           27-30 weeks. It consists of cycles of chemotherapy repeated every three weeks along with
           IV PEG-asparaginase administered every 3 weeks. The cycles will be repeated until the
           participant receives a total of 10 doses of asparaginase.

        -  Continuation Therapy: This phase begins after the end of the Consolidation II phase. The
           goal of this phase is to get rid of all leukemia in the body. It consists of cycles of
           chemotherapy repeated every three weeks and will last until the participant has been in
           remission for two years.

        -  During all phases of treatment, participants will have tests and procedures to monitor
           their health and for research purposes.
    
  