
    
      Most autoimmune diseases are thought to develop as a result of chronic immune activation and
      dysregulation after selected environmental exposures in genetically susceptible individuals.
      Based on prior studies suggesting roles for noninfectious and infectious agents in the
      development of myositis, as well as the known clinical, epidemiologic and genetic differences
      among phenotypes, we hypothesize that different myositis phenotypes are triggered by
      different environmental exposures in genetically susceptible individuals. One phenotype that
      is particularly well-defined clinically and genetically, and for which environmental triggers
      are likely, is myositis associated with anti-synthetase autoantibodies (defined as the
      anti-synthetase syndrome). These patients have an acute myositis onset in the spring of the
      year and also tend to develop fevers, elevated white blood cell counts, arthritis and
      interstitial lung disease. Although these features are consistent with an environmental
      trigger for the anti-synthetase syndrome, and although case reports and animal models suggest
      infectious or noninfectious agents may play a role, no study has systematically assessed
      environmental agents in this population.

      In collaboration with multiple centers, we plan to test the hypothesis that certain
      environmental exposures are associated with the anti-synthetase syndrome and differ from
      those seen in matched controls and in myositis patients without the anti-synthetase syndrome.
      The specific aims of this study are to: 1) determine whether selected noninfectious
      environmental exposures are more common preceding disease onset in 150 recent-onset (defined
      as within 24 months of meeting criteria for possible, probable or definite myositis) myositis
      patients with the anti-synthetase syndrome, compared with 150 control subjects without
      autoimmune disease (1:1 matched with the patients), and compared with 150 recent-onset
      myositis patients without the anti-synthetase syndrome; and 2) determine whether selected
      infectious agents can be detected more frequently in blood samples of recent-onset
      anti-synthetase syndrome patients compared with matched controls, and in blood or biopsy
      samples from recent-onset anti-synthetase myositis patients compared with recent-onset
      myositis patients without the anti-synthetase syndrome.

      Medical histories, concurrent conditions and environmental questionnaire information will be
      collected from all participants. Subjects will undergo a clinical, laboratory and immunologic
      assessment to document current diagnoses, disease manifestations and severity. A chest x-ray,
      high resolution computed tomography (HRCT) of the chest, pulmonary function tests,
      bronchoalveolar lavage, and muscle and lung biopsies will be performed as clinically
      indicated. Blood DNA and RNA sera, biopsy and house dust repositories will be created for
      current and future investigations.
    
  