
    
      This double blind placebo study will take place over an 8 week treatment period of diet and
      exercise. All participants (n=16) will be placed on the same hypocaloric diet and exercise
      program. Both groups will exercise at the same time. Baseline habitual 3 day food logs, waist
      to hip ratio and BodPod measures of body fat & lean mass (both percentage & absolute values)
      will be taken for all participants. Each will be provided with macronutrient guidelines to
      follow (40% carbohydrate, 30% protein, 30% fat) & placed on a daily energy deficit of 500
      calories for the 8 week study period. Participants in both treatment and control groups will
      be asked to record their dietary intake using the MyFitnessPal smartphone application or
      website in order to insure compliance to the prescribed diet. MyFitnessPal is a fast and easy
      to use calorie counter for Windows or phones. Further, it has the largest food database of
      any calorie counter apps (over 3,000,000 foods). Each individual will provide the
      investigators with a weekly screen shot of their mean data. Exercise will take place in a
      class based, circuit training setting run by a certified personal trainer (Alicia
      MacDougall). Exercise safety will be assessed by a Physical Readiness Questionnaire (the Par-
      Q and You - see appendix). Further, it is important to note that these women are overweight,
      not obese, and that research evidence indicates clearly that inactivity is far more hazardous
      to one's health than regular exercise (American College of Sports Medicine). Attendance will
      be recorded to document adherence. This style of training was chosen in order to combine both
      strength and endurance based training in an attempt to generate fat loss while keeping the
      workouts controlled by study investigators. Participants will be matched into pairs based on
      body fat % and then assigned into a test group & a placebo group. This ensures the groups
      will have similar mean and SD for fat mass at baseline. The placebo group will follow the
      diet and exercise regime described above plus, be given an isoenergetic placebo to take
      daily. The placebo will be in the form of a powdered isoenergetic beverage with carbohydrate
      instead of amino acids, similar in taste & appearance to the powder BCAA supplement that the
      test group will receive in order to keep the participants blind to their treatment.
      Specifically, the test group 0.342g/kg of BCAA per day, partially accounted for through their
      diet with the rest provided by a BCAA supplement (NOW BCAA Powder). The supplement will
      provide a 2:1:1 ratio of leucine, isoleucine, & valine respectively. At 4 and 8 week of
      treatment, all participants will be remeasured for waist to hip ratio and BodPod measures of
      body fat & lean mass. These values can then be compared to the baseline values for each of
      the study groups in order to determine if the increased BCAA intake proved to be effective.
      The beverage powder (both treatment & placebo) will be distributed in zip lock plastic bags
      to the participants by a third party (a graduate student) not involved in the study thereby
      keeping the investigators blind.
    
  