
    
      This is a multicenter, randomized, parallel-group, open label study of the efficacy of
      AVAPS-AE to prevent re-hospitalization in hospitalized patients with comorbid COPD.
      Hospitalized patients with comorbid COPD who are at high risk for readmission will be
      recruited. Specifically patients with comorbid COPD who are to be discharged with (a)
      admission diagnosis of COPD (GOLD stage II or greater); AND (b) either a prior non-elective
      hospitalization (one in the past 12 months) OR active smoker. Such participants will undergo
      questionnaire-based screening for sleep-disordered breathing (STOP-BANG questionnaire) and if
      they have a high risk for Sleep Disordered Breathing (SDB) (> 3 points) will undergo an
      overnight portable sleep study for screening prior to hospital discharge (AHI > 10 per hour;
      >3% oxygen desaturation for hypopneas).

      After randomization and prior to discharge, participants will either be initiated on AVAPS-AE
      therapy (intervention arm) for 60 days or will be referred to the sleep center for further
      diagnostic testing and therapy initiation (standard of care arm). Participants will complete
      quality of life questionnaires Functional outcomes of sleep questionnaire (FOSQ) at baseline
      (in-person), and in 30 and 60 days (by mail) post discharge. Information regarding hospital
      admission, diagnostic tests, medication changes, and procedures will be collected from all
      participants. Discharge summaries of re-hospitalizations and office or ER visits, as well as
      diagnostics tests and therapies received will be collected for measuring healthcare costs.

      Participants will have an option to enroll in a registry for a 3 year follow-up and will also
      be queried on a yearly basis regarding hospitalizations, cardiovascular events, and
      assessment of vital statistics in the National Death Index registry. The study will conclude
      when all randomized participants have been followed for a minimum of 60 days.
    
  