
    
      The most common infections in schools are acute respiratory infections (colds, pharyngitis,
      influenza and others) and diarrheal diseases. Acute respiratory infections are a major cause
      of morbidity and mortality in children and a major public health problem in both developed
      and developing countries. The incidence of these infections may also be an important cause of
      school absenteeism, leading to negative outcomes in both education and health.

      Improving water, sanitation and hygiene in schools is an important intervention for the
      healthy development of children. WHO states that handwashing a well-known primary infection
      control measure, is the most important hygiene measure to prevent the spread of infection
      when handwashing is done with soap and water. It was found that well-structured and applied
      handwashing techniques were useful in reducing the incidence of gastro-intestinal and
      respiratory infections in school children; handwashing with soap reduces respiratory
      infections in children by 16% - 25%.

      In children, unlike adults, it is more likely to give positive behavior because negative
      hygiene habits are less established and do not have stereotyped and difficult to change
      habits. Since behavioral choices that determine lifestyle are made in childhood, it is
      important that health education in hand hygiene be implemented as early as possible to
      improve healthy behaviors. In this context, schools are important structures for information
      and behavior change about water, sanitation and hygiene interventions. Hand hygiene
      initiatives in the school provide multiple gains by enabling children to become hygienic
      ambassadors in their own homes and gaining the skills they can sustain during the adult
      period.

      Planned Behavior Theory (PBT) states that intention is the main precursor of behavior.

      According to the theory, intention is guided by three independent variables (perceived
      behavior control, attitudes and subjective norms), and intention formation leads to the
      development of behavior. In a systematic review of 30 studies using PBT in various health
      interventions, two thirds of studies reported effective behavior change. The theory has been
      used in a study to improve hand hygiene behavior in health workers, but it has not been used
      in the literature to improve hygiene behaviors in children.

      Researches indicate that students who do not attend school frequently or for a long time have
      difficulty in mastering the subject described in the lesson and that school absenteeism is an
      issue that should be emphasized in education. Therefore, hand hygiene has a simultaneous
      effect that improves both education and health and contributes to a safe and healthy learning
      environment. The aim of this research is; To test the effect of hand hygiene intervention
      program based on Planned Behavior Theory on students' health outcomes and school absenteeism.
    
  