
    
      Current treatment guidelines recommend combination ART for acute primary HIV-1 infection.
      However, it is not known whether ART given during acute infection delays progression to AIDS
      or improves survival rates. Preliminary studies suggest ART given early in HIV infection not
      only reduces viral load but also restricts CD4+ cell loss, delays the development of
      opportunistic infections, and preserves T-helper cells and naive T cells. The immunologic
      basis of these protective effects has not been characterized thoroughly. This protocol
      assesses ART's effects on immune responses in early HIV infection through a variety of
      cellular, humoral, and virologic assays, including 2 substudies. The substudies focus on
      antibody responses to neoantigen immunization (hepatitis B and tetanus). Primary endpoint
      analysis occurs at Week 72, but patients may be followed for long-term outcomes.

      In the main study, patients with HIV-1 infection of less than 120 days are given the option
      of taking a potent ART combination of abacavir (ABC), efavirenz (EFV), indinavir (IDV), and
      lamivudine (3TC) for 96 weeks. [AS PER AMENDMENT 9/15/00: Patients choose either Regimen 1:
      ABC, 3TC, IDV, and ritonavir (RTV) or Regimen 2: ABC, 3TC, and EFV.] Patients who decline
      treatment provide a concurrent, non-randomized comparison group. These patients may choose to
      be considered for study treatment at any time or to start antiretrovirals provided through
      another source. [AS PER AMENDMENT 9/15/00: If a patient who initially does not start therapy
      subsequently starts antiretroviral therapy provided by the study (within the 120-day limit),
      the visit schedule is re-set.] During the treatment period, all patients undergo regular
      physical exams and blood tests to characterize T cells, viral resistance, antibody responses,
      and other markers. Patients presenting within 30 days of HIV-1 infection undergo
      leukapheresis (where available) prior to starting ART. At Month 12, these patients and all
      untreated patients undergo leukapheresis to assess the proportion of latently infected CD4+ T
      cells. In addition, all patients in the main study and patients in 2 comparison groups
      (Cohorts A and B) participate in 1 of 2 substudies of antibody responses to neoantigen.
      Volunteers are recruited to 2 cohorts to serve as controls. Cohort A volunteers have
      established HIV-1 infection. Cohort B volunteers are HIV-1 seronegative but at high risk for
      HIV. In the first substudy, hepatitis B-seronegative patients from the main study and from
      Cohorts A and B receive hepatitis B vaccine at Weeks 40, 44, and 64 and undergo humoral and
      cellular response assessments at Week 68. In the second substudy, patients from the main
      study and from Cohorts A and B who did not qualify for the hepatitis B vaccination undergo
      intramuscular vaccination with tetanus toxoid at Week 64 and immune responses are assessed at
      Week 68. Volunteers in Cohorts A and B receive no anti-HIV medication as part of these
      substudies.
    
  