
    
      The present study is an open-label, randomized, controlled, two-arm multi-center study of the
      efficacy of Daromun neoadjuvant intratumoral treatment followed by surgery and adjuvant
      therapy versus surgery and adjuvant therapy in clinical stage III B/C melanoma patients. 186
      patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive Daromun treatment followed by surgery
      and adjuvant therapy (Arm 1) or surgery and adjuvant therapy (Arm 2).

      In both arms, follow-up for assessing recurrence-free survival will be performed up to five
      years after randomization. Survival information will also be collected in the following year
      (up to six years in total after randomization).

      This is an open-label study, so there is no blinding.

      Patients who successfully complete the screening evaluations and are eligible for
      participation in the study will be enrolled and randomly assigned (1:1) to two parallel
      treatment arms: Daromun plus surgery and adjuvant therapy (Arm 1) or surgery and adjuvant
      therapy (Arm 2).

      To ensure a balance across treatment groups, stratified randomization with permuted block
      will be used and separate randomization list for each subgroup (stratum) will be produced.
      Patients will be stratified on the basis of the following prognostic factors:

        -  Stage of disease (2 levels): Stage IIIB vs. Stage IIIC

        -  Planned post-surgical adjuvant therapy (2 levels): anti-PD-1 and other adjuvant
           therapies.

      The primary objective of the study is to demonstrate that a neoadjuvant Daromun treatment
      followed by surgery and adjuvant therapy improves in a statistically significant manner the
      recurrence-free survival (RFS) of Stage IIIB/C melanoma patients with respect to the standard
      of care (surgery and adjuvant therapy).

      Primary endpoint of the study is RFS in a time-to-event analysis in the Daromun plus surgery
      and adjuvant therapy treatment group (Arm 1) versus the surgery plus adjuvant therapy control
      group (Arm 2). Analysis will be based on the "Intention To Treat" population.

      The key secondary objective of the study is to demonstrate that a neoadjuvant Daromun
      treatment followed by surgery and adjuvant therapy improves in a statistically significant
      manner the overall survival (OS) of patients with resectable Stage IIIB/ or C melanoma
      patients with respect to the standard of care (surgery and adjuvant therapy).

      For patients enrolled in both arms, FDA-approved post-surgery adjuvant therapies (as part of
      the standard of care) are allowed and decided at the investigator's discretion. These include
      high-dose interferon- α2b, anti-CTLA-4 antibodies (e.g. Ipilimumab), anti-PD1 antibodies
      (e.g. Nivolumab, Pembrolizumab), targeted therapies (e.g. Dabrafenib + Trametinib), or other
      new FDA-approved treatments.
    
  