
    
      The SARS-CoV2 pandemic is causing morbidity and mortality. There is no cure. Remdesivir is a
      nucleotide analogue that has demonstrated its efficacy in vitro against SARS-CoV2 and in
      humans (shorten symptoms duration by 2 days without improving survival), but it is used
      parenterally. TDF belongs to the same therapeutic class, represents a promising avenue of
      research. TDF/FTC demonstrated in vivo efficacy against SARS-CoV2 in preclinical animal
      models and its use is associated with reduced risk of SARS-CoV2 infection in 2 large cohorts
      of HIV infected patients.The objective of this work is to evaluate the anti-viral efficacy of
      the TDF/FTC combination in short course in patients infected with SARS-CoV2 on an outpatient
      basis.

      The investigators propose a multicenter, open-label, phase 2B/3 randomized trial of a 7-day
      treatment with TDF / FTC (2 tablets on Day-1 then 1 tablet / day for 6 days) according to the
      dosage used in pre-exposure prophylaxis for HIV. This study should include 60 outpatients
      (Phase 2B) and 120 additional outpatients (Phase III) who were diagnosed with SARS-CoV2
      positive and with no contraindication to TDF / FTC and without criteria for hospitalization.
      The primary endpoint of the phase 2B will be the SARS-CoV2 antiviral efficacy quantified by
      RT-PCR nasopharyngeal sample Ct increase on Day-4 compared to baseline. The primary endpoint
      of the phase 3 will be the rate of non-contagious PCR on Day-4 from a nasopharyngeal sample.
      Secondary endpoints will be tolerance, symptoms resolution, percentage of hospitalization and
      the rate of non-contagious PCR on Day-7 from a nasopharyngeal sample.

      The investigators hypothesize that compared to no treatment, treatment with TDF/FTC reduces
      at Day-4:

        -  SARS-CoV2 viral load corresponding to a 4-point +/-5 increase in Ct (Phase 2B)

        -  contagious carriage from 80% to 60% (Phase 3).

      The AR0-CORONA investigators hope, through this study, to be able to validate an anti-viral
      treatment making it possible to reduce the duration of contagiousness and thus contribute to
      attenuating the R0 of recently infected patients carrying SARS-CoV2 who are isolated at home.
    
  