
    
      Background: Caregivers of Persons Living with Dementia (PLWD) in a Long Term Care (LTC)
      community are an at-risk group, and evidence suggests that the caregiver's mental health may
      actually worsen after the PLWD moves to LTC. Caregivers may report feelings of blame,
      self-doubt, loneliness, isolation, and powerlessness which negatively affect their mental
      health. This at-risk group requires support to maintain and improve their quality of life. My
      Tools 4 Care - In Care (MT4C-In Care) is a self-administered, multicomponent, flexible, and
      interactive website designed specifically to support family caregivers of PLWD in LTC to
      address this gap in service and the significant concerns about their mental health. The
      feasibility study in Alberta demonstrated that MT4C-In Care is informative, convenient, and
      easy to use; and shows potential to help caregivers cope with the transitions and adjustments
      beyond the PLWD's admission to LTC, increasing caregivers' hope and decreasing their loss and
      grief.

      Purpose: The purpose of Phase 2 is to implement and evaluate MT4C-In Care to assess its
      effectiveness, and the influence of participant factors (i.e., gender, cultural background,
      age, etc.) on the use of MT4C-In Care across four Canadian provinces (Alberta, Saskatchewan,
      Manitoba, and Ontario). The ability of MT4C-In Care to improve hope, self-efficacy, quality
      of life, social support, and mental health, and decrease grief and loneliness will be
      rigorously assessed in a pragmatic effectiveness trial with a large sample. The rigorous
      pragmatic trial, with in-depth mixed methods, will demonstrate whether MT4C-In Care works
      across four Canadian provinces as well as the reasons and mechanisms underlying its effects.
      MT4C-In Care will be updated based on pragmatic trial results in Jan-Feb 2022.

      Participants: Total of approximately 280 participants from four provinces will be recruited
      (100 each from Alberta and Ontario and 40 each from Saskatchewan and Manitoba). Each province
      will hire a recruitment specialist, and Alzheimer Societies and other community partners
      within each province will support recruitment of participants by including information in
      newsletters, distributing brochures, and/or attending support group meetings, etc. Recruited
      participants will be randomly assigned to the intervention and control group (140
      participants each group) via a centralized web-based randomization service (REDCap).

      Data Collection: Trained research assistants in each province will 1) track all participants'
      participation throughout the study, 2) conduct surveys with all participants by phone to
      assess whether or not the intervention was effective in improving outcomes over time, as
      compared to the control group, and 3) conduct in-depth telephone interview with five to
      fifteen participants (depending on the province; see below).

      Number of Participants in Surveys and In-depth Interviews: Alberta and Ontario: surveys with
      all 100 participants and in-depth interviews with 15 participants; Saskatchewan and Manitoba:
      surveys with all 40 participants and in-depth interview with 5 participants.

      Outcome Data Collection: Immediately before and after the intervention, outcome and process
      data will be collected from all caregivers.There will be 3 Data Collection Points: Baseline
      before the start of the intervention; 2-month follow up immediately post-intervention; 4
      month follow up after the end of the intervention.

      Data Analysis: Outcome will be analyzed (using Generalized Estimating Equations) to assess
      whether MT4C-In Care is effective in the intervention as compared to the control group over
      time. We anticipate that the intervention group will experience improved hope, mental health,
      quality of life, social support, and self-efficacy, and less loneliness and grief, as
      compared to the control group. 140 participants in each of the intervention and control
      groups will allow for rigorous testing of these hypotheses.
    
  