
    
      Objectives:

        1. To determine if stimulation of the extrinsic laryngeal muscles will elevate the larynx.

        2. To determine if augmentation of laryngeal elevation using intra-muscular stimulation
           will reduce the risk of aspiration in chronic pharyngeal dysphagia.

        3. To determine whether stimulation to induce laryngeal elevation assists with opening the
           upper esophageal sphincter both at rest and during swallowing.

        4. To determine whether laryngeal sensation is intact has bearing on the ability of
           patients with chronic dysphagia to trigger the onset of stimulation in synchrony with
           their own swallowing.

        5. To contrast the effects of surface and intra-muscular stimulation on hyo-laryngeal
           movement at rest.

        6. To contrast the benefits of surface and intra-muscular stimulation on the risk or
           aspiration/penetration during swallowing.

      Study Population: Both normal volunteers and patients with severe chronic pharyngeal
      dysphagia.

      Design: Hooked wire electrodes and surface electrodes will be used to stimulate extrinsic
      muscles either alone or in combination both at rest and during swallowing while using
      videofluoroscopy to record hyo-laryngeal movement.

      Outcome Measures: Kinematic analyses of hyo-laryngeal movements using image processing and
      marking from video-recordings will quantify movement with stimulation, manometric pressure
      recordings and cricopharyngeus electromyography will evaluate the effects of muscles
      stimulation on the upper esophageal sphincter function and blinded ratings of the degree of
      aspiration and penetration and clearance during swallowing will be conducted by
      speech-language pathologists to compare the effects of intra-muscular and surface stimulation
      on swallowing on risk of aspiration and penetration during swallowing.
    
  