
    
      Rationale: The global prevalence of diabetes, along with its devastating effects on life
      expectancy and quality of life, continues to increase. Worldwide, the total number of people
      with diabetes is projected to rise from about 171 million in 2000 to 336 million in the year
      2030. Type 2 diabetes accounts for about 85 percent to 95 percent of all diagnosed cases of
      diabetes and is associated with a number of serious long-term complications, which are a
      major cause of morbidity, hospitalization and mortality in diabetic patients. More evidence
      is becoming available that both lifestyle and clinical intervention in the pre-diabetic
      condition are effective in slowing down progression of pre-diabetes to overt diabetes.

      Over many centuries, several forms of traditional medicine have developed which are often
      based on fundamental principles that differ from those of "Western" medicine. One of the most
      prominent characteristics of Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), is a more holistic approach
      to the functioning and disfunctioning of living organisms. Every healthy organism is in a Yin
      Yang balance and is considered to be a complex interplay between body and mind. Western
      medicine relies on detailed classification of diseases, empirical investigations and
      treatments targeting those disorders. However, "Western medicine" is showing an increased
      interest in traditional forms of medicine.

      The progress in research, especially metabolomics, as the ultimate phenotyping, has been
      shown to enable the efficacy study of complex mixtures such as Traditional Chinese Medicine
      (TCM) in complex biological systems, bridging it with molecular pharmacology. The present
      study is especially designed to explore biomarkers and tools for early diagnosis of diabetes
      mellitus type 2 with objective Western markers and TCM.

      Objectives: The primary objective of the present study is to determine consistency in
      classification of DM type 2 in three categories as defined by Traditional Chinese Medicine
      (TCM) in pre-diabetic subjects.

      Secondary objectives are to find relationships between diagnosis according to TCM and risk
      profile according to Western approach (fasting glucose and HbA1c in plasma, age, BMI, waist
      circumference). Another objective is to find relationships between classification of risk for
      DM type 2 according to TCM and objective parameters.

      Study design: This study is designed as an explorative study. Study population: In the study
      50 pre-diabetic male volunteers, with a fasting blood glucose ≥ 6.1 and ≤ 6.9 mmol/L, 30-70
      years old, and having a BMI ≥ 26 and ≤ 35 kg/m2 will participate.

      Intervention: No administration of a study substance will take place.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      TCM Diagnosis:Identification of DM type 2 based on TCM, diagnosed independently by 3
      physicians and classified in Upper Xiao, Middle Xiao and Lower Xiao.

      General measurements as BMI, waist circumference, blood pressure and heart rate variability
      will be conducted.

      Next to these measurements also the following parameters will be established. Biophoton
      emission: a recording of the energy field and balance based on analysis of intensity and
      quantum stochastic nature of light from both hands (ventral and dorsum), in combination with
      both right-left and dorsal-ventral symmetry of both hands.

      Performance Meridian Measurements (MERID measurements): The 'MERID' meridian method is based
      on the change of skin impedance after a given IR (infrared) stimulus to a Biological Active
      Point (BAP) which gives a reliable and reproducible measure for the energy status of that
      particular meridian and consequently of the related organ or organ system.

      Heart rate variability:

      Heart rate is affected by both sympathetic and parasympathetic input. These two branches of
      the autonomic control system affect both heart rate and changes in heart rate. Cardiac
      autonomic balance, also called sympatho-vagal balance, is the combined effect of
      parasympathetic (inhibitory) and sympathetic (excitatory) innervation of the heart and can be
      considered the main determinant of the regulation of heart rate and can be quantified by
      means of electrocardiography (ECG) measurements and spectral analysis.

      Metabolomics:

      Metabolomics to be applied in this study consists of a number of methods based on LC-MS and
      GC-MS technology to determine (relative) concentrations of endogenous metabolites in
      biological samples (blood and urine).

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      This study is set up as a study with an explorative character. No administration of
      substances will take place. All subjects will be subjected to seven non-invasive
      measurements, filling in a number of questionnaires and subjected to three physical
      examinations. Blood sampling, in the fasting state, will be done at two determined time
      points (pre-study and in study) and will not exceed 30 mL. Furthermore, one (spot) urine
      sample will be collected in the study.

      Based on the above mentioned assessments and the fact that no administration of substances
      will take place, the discomfort for the subjects in the study is minimal and the risk for
      participating subjects is negligible.
    
  