
    
      Over the last 35 years, there has been a 700% increase in the number of women in prisons and
      jails. These women, mostly women of color, have pervasive trauma histories, mental health
      problems, and drug use, all of which compromise their ability to engage in preventive health
      behaviors. For the last eight years, the research team has studied women leaving jail and why
      they are 4-5 times more likely to develop cervical cancer, a disparity that has remained
      unchanged for over 50 years. The original objective of the Sexual Health Empowerment (SHE)
      for Cervical Health Literacy and Prevention program (R01 CA181047) was to assess the
      effectiveness of a jail-based intervention to increase cervical health literacy and
      screening. SHE increased jailed women's cervical health literacy and rates of cancer
      screening after the women left jail.

      While delivering SHE, researchers observed: 1) the cross-cutting nature of women's health
      risk factors, i.e. the risks that jailed women faced for cervical cancer also could lead to
      other women's health problems; and 2) opportunity for taking an evidence-based intervention,
      with a rich theoretical framing, to expand to other women's health issues faced by this
      group, around, not only cervical cancer prevention, but also breast cancer, unintended
      pregnancy, and STI prevention. While following women after release from jail (85% follow-up
      rate after 3 years), investigators also identified strategies for reaching this high-risk
      population through electronic communication. SHE participants were high users of mobile
      phones (88%), text (76%), Web (79%), and Facebook (70%). This renewal application presents an
      opportunity to holistically address health disparities experienced by women leaving jail and
      test new modalities for intervention delivery given use of electronic communication and
      social media.

      The first aim uses an RCT to test the effectiveness of SHE-Women with women leaving jail on
      increasing women's health literacy, screening, and risk reduction practices (for cervical,
      breast cancer, unintended pregnancy, and STIs) against a standard of care. The second aim
      will be to understand the role and impact of human interaction in electronic interventions by
      tracking participants and interviewing key stakeholders.

      Knowledge gained from this study will lead to an understanding of: 1) how a comprehensive
      women's health literacy intervention can narrow health disparities among justice-involved
      women and 2) the role of human interaction in successful electronic interventions, thereby
      creating a sustainable model for dissemination of health promotion interventions.
    
  