
    
      The best treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with cirrhosis, currently is liver
      transplantation because treating the cancer and the causal disease. For the majority of
      patients, transplantation is not proposed, and the curative treatment remains the surgical
      resection. Radiofrequency or cryotherapy currently allows local destruction (or ablation) of
      the small HCC, with results that seem equivalent to the surgical resection. These last
      techniques increase the therapeutic possibilities in the presence of hepatic insufficiency.
      However, all these treatments are followed by high rates of recurrence (50 - 70% at 5 years
      and close to 100% at 10 years). The development of tumoral nodules, undetected at the time of
      the curative treatment, or the occurrence of new HCC, under the effects of the cirrhotic
      process or viral genomic modifications explain these disappointing results. Therefore, it
      seems essential to associate an adjuvant treatment to the surgical resection or the local
      destruction. Intra-arterial chemotherapy with or without embolisation is a largely evaluated
      therapeutic approach whose results are contradictory. Several retrospective studies, seem
      nevertheless to show a benefit of this treatment in adjuvant situation. Systemic chemotherapy
      for a long time regarded as ineffective, currently has a renewed interest due to the use of
      new drugs like gemcitabine and oxaliplatin (GEMOX regimen). This regimen showed a certain
      effect in a phase II study in advanced forms of HCC with cirrhosis. We propose to test by a
      prospective randomized multicentric phase III study, the effectiveness of an adjuvant
      treatment by systemic chemotherapy or intra-arterial LIPIODOLISED chemotherapy (CIAL), after
      surgery or complete local destruction of HCC. Three groups will be compared: a group of
      untreated patients (n=109), a group of patients treated by intra-arterial chemotherapy (CIAL
      = cisplatin 75 mg + lipiodol 10 ml; 3 courses every 6 weeks)(n=77) and a group of patients
      treated by systemic chemotherapy (GEMOX= day 1: gemcitabine 1000 mg/m² iv within 100 min; day
      2: oxaliplatin 100 mg/m² iv within 2h; 8 courses every 2 weeks, d1 = d14)(n=77). Selection
      and randomisation are planned 4-8 weeks following complete treatment of the HCC. Identical
      follow up for the 3 groups includes clinical, biological, morphological exams every 3 months
      for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years. The main criterion of the study is survival
      without recurrence. The secondary objectives are the global survival, the safety and an
      estimate of the costs of the various treatments. The awaited results are 1) to demonstrate
      the effectiveness of at least one of these adjuvant treatment following complete treatment of
      HCC in cirrhotic patients and 2) to determine the best adjuvant treatment. Estimated
      inclusion time is 2 years, with an analysis of the principal criterion at 3 years. Follow-up
      of 5 years is envisaged for each patient, leading to a 7 years duration study.
    
  