
    
      Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) costs the U.S. $327 billion annually, representing a 26%
      increase from 2012 to 2017. African Americans (AAs) are twice as likely to have T2DM as
      non-Hispanic Whites, have worse health outcomes, and are less likely to engage in
      self-management behaviors. Interventions addressing these disparities are urgently needed.
      Among AAs, T2DM-associated stress is often compounded by general life stress, which further
      constrains diabetes self-management and is associated with poor glucose control (A1C) and
      complications such as depression. The impact of stress on diabetes self-management and health
      outcomes may be attenuated by resilience: a resolve to succeed despite adversities. Even with
      evidence supporting resilience resources benefiting other health outcomes, there is a dearth
      of evidence-based T2DM resilience interventions. Building on our promising pilot work, this
      study uses our culturally tailored, theory-derived Resilience-Based Diabetes Self-Management
      Education and Support (RB-DSMES) intervention to help participants manage the psychosocial
      and behavioral demands of the disease. The study is designed as a 24-month, 2-arm, cluster
      randomized clinical trial and involves assigning AA churches to the RB-DSMES or a standard
      DSMES condition. Both groups receive a 10-month intervention: 8 weekly educational sessions,
      followed by 8 bimonthly support group sessions, followed by 2 booster sessions. To
      investigate the efficacy of RB-DSMES, we compare RB-DSMES to DSMES on T2DM physical and
      mental health outcomes. To inform more targeted future interventions, we examine indirect
      effects of RB-DSMES (vs DSMES) on resilience resources, such as stress and coping. We also
      examine indirect effects of resilience resources on T2DM health outcomes through
      self-management behaviors, such as diet and exercise.

      The specific aims of the study are:

      Aim 1: To compare T2DM physical health outcomes (primary outcome: A1C) and T2DM mental health
      outcomes (primary outcome: depressive symptoms) in the RB-DSMES group vs DSMES group at 3, 6,
      12, and 24 months.

      H1: Compared with DSMES, RB-DSMES will have improved T2DM physical health outcomes.

      H2: Compared with DSMES, RB-DSMES will have improved T2DM mental health outcomes.

      Aim 2: To test indirect effects of RB-DSMES (vs DSMES) on T2DM physical and mental health
      outcomes via resilience resources, self-management behaviors, and HPA axis function.

      H3: RB-DSMES (vs DSMES) will improve resilience resources at 3, 6, and 12 months, which will
      improve T2DM physical and mental health outcomes at 6, 12, and 24 months.

      H4: RB-DSMES (vs DSMES) driven improvements in resilience resources at 3 and 6 months will
      improve self-management and HPA axis function at 6 and 12 months, which will improve T2DM
      outcomes at 12 and 24 months.

      The project will provide crucial guidance for addressing the T2DM burden among AAs by
      establishing the efficacy of the RB-DSMES and identifying behavioral and biological
      mechanisms by which the program affects T2DM health outcomes. The long-term goal is to enable
      AAs to effectively manage T2DM and thus avoid its serious consequences, via RB-DSMES
      interventions in a range of community settings.
    
  