
    
      EFFICACY OF A TRIPTAN IN THE TREATMENT OF HOSTILITY AND AGGRESSION AMONG CONVICTS WITH A
      PSYCHIATRIC TREATMENT ORDER

      Adriano van der Loo*, Dr. Rob van Ojen**, Prof. dr. Frank Koerselman**, Prof. Dr. Henk
      Nijman*, Prof. Dr. Berend Olivier***

      *Forensic Psychiatric Center De Kijvelanden, Poortugaal; **University Medical Center and
      Rudolf Magnus Institute of Neuroscience Utrecht; ***Department of Pharmacy, Utrecht
      University

      Background

      In a large number of studies, hostility, impulsivity and aggression have been demonstrated to
      be associated with decreased activity of the serotonergic system (Nelson and Chiavegatto
      2001). In rodents a specific role for the serotonin-1b receptor has been reported (Olivier et
      al. 1995) and it has been shown that specific central serotonin-1b/d agonists such as
      lipophilic triptans have a specific anti-aggressive effect. To date, no studies have been
      conducted on treatment of hostility, impulsivity or aggression among humans using a triptan.

      Goal of the Study

      Aim is to establish the efficacy of naratriptan, registered for the treatment of migraine, as
      an anti-aggressive agent in patients with refractory disorders of impulse control due to
      psychosis or psychopathy.

      Primary question is whether or not violent behavior and aggressive incidents decrease when
      naratriptan is administered daily in addition to treatment as usual.

      Secondary questions are:

        -  Does overall prognosis of the underlying condition improve with the intervention?

        -  Can responders be differentiated from non-responders in terms of covariants including
           endocrine factors and polymorphisms in areas in the genome that are involved in
           serotonergic neurotransmission?

        -  Is the triptan well tolerated in this group and in this dose-range?

      Study Design

      Population

      The sample consists of male adult volunteers with a psychiatric disorder who have been
      convicted and sentenced to undergo psychiatric treatment in Forensic Psychiatric Hospital "De
      Kijvelanden" after having committed a violent crime and have in the previous year been
      involved in violent incidents at least three times in spite of comprehensive psychiatric
      treatment of the underlying disorder.

      Intervention /Drug /Dosage

      In the course of a four-week period either a naratriptan 2.5 mg. tablet or a placebo tablet
      will be added twice to the daily medication in a double blind randomized fashion.
      Subsequently, after a two-week washout, patients will cross-over towards the alternative
      treatment condition for another four-week period.

      Endpoints

      Outcome will be measured using the AVL (aggression questionnaire) and the SDAS (social
      dysfunction and aggression scale) after 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10 weeks of treatment. Change on the
      CGI (Clinical Global Impression) will be compared to baseline. As usual at the study-site,
      the SOAS-R (Staff Observation Aggression Scale) will be filled in in case of violent
      incidents and type, number and duration of restraining interventions will be registered. Also
      recorded will be symptoms occurring during treatment and number and cause of dropout.

      Description and Estimate of Risk and Burden for Participants

      Safety and tolerability of both naratriptan and placebo are very well documented. Incidence
      and nature of side-effects and interactions has been described to be low and relatively mild,
      also with frequent (daily) use of naratriptan. Patients at risk for side-effects will be
      excluded from the study. Drugs will be added to the usual medication of the participants. A
      questionnaire will be administered and blood will be collected upon inclusion in the study.
      Data including genotype will be processed anonymously.
    
  