
    
      The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy of two osteopathic techniques (Thrust and
      MET) on CLBP adult workers treatment.

      A total of 15 male participants with chronic low back pain, volunteers, active workers aged
      from 35 to 55 years (in aging process) will be recruited by convenience from the community
      local. All participants will sign an informed consent form approved by the North of Parana
      University Ethics Committee for Research on Human Subjects. The intervention will follow the
      CONSORT recommendations for randomized controlled trials. All baseline testing and evaluation
      will be performed by a blinded evaluator to the study intervention. The sample will be
      randomized in two groups from crossover design: Group #1), which will receive the Thrust
      technique applied at the level of dysfunction; and Group #2, which will receive the Muscle
      Energy Technique, also applied at the level of dysfunction. The allocation will be printed in
      cards by sequentially numbered in opaque envelopes.

      The treatment (intervention) will occur in 2 phases of 3 weeks each one. The participants
      will receive only one of techniques in each phase, and after one rest week (washout) they
      will receive the other technique (crossover), totaling 7 weeks. In this study, both
      techniques will be applied at the lumbar vertebral level that present the dysfunction which
      will be diagnosed in the specific evaluation, performed by two specialized physiotherapists
      in osteopathy. Before and after the manipulation (with Thrust or MET) all participants will
      be evaluated in 2 tasks - bipedal without load and bipedal with load (10% of body mass) - on
      the force platform. Parallel to the tasks, the recording of the measurements of EMG surface
      will be computed to determine the pattern of the trunk neuromuscular activation in amplitude
      of the RMS signal as well as muscle fatigue through the median frequency parameters.

      Before performing the tasks on the force platform, a maximum voluntary isometric contraction
      will be performed for the back (paravertebral) and abdominal (rectus) muscles in order to
      normalize the signal EMG for determining of the level muscular activity during each task
      (with or without load). After the intervention, the immediate and final revaluations will
      include all the used measures in the initial evaluation, such as muscle activation of trunk
      (EMG), balance (force platform), and clinical symptoms of pain (Visual Analogue Scale and
      McGill Short Questionnaire), psychosomatic factors (Fear and Avoidance Believe Questionnaire)
      and disability (Roland Morris Questionnaire).

      For the analysis a two-way ANOVA will be used for each dependent variable to compare the two
      groups (G1 versus G2) in both situations (pre and post-immediate, and after 15 days) in the
      clinical measurements, postural balance and EMG. The size effect also will be computed to
      determine the rate of the changes observed.
    
  