
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the efficacy of bupropion hydrochloride and health education counseling vs
           placebo and health education counseling for smoking cessation among African Americans
           who are light smokers.

      Secondary

        -  To characterize CYP2A6 activity in African Americans who are light smokers by evaluating
           phenotype (3'hydroxycotinine/cotinine ratio [3HC/COT]) and CYP2A6 genotype.

        -  To evaluate the relationship between CYP2A6 activity and smoking cessation outcomes.

        -  To evaluate CYP2A6 genetic polymorphisms associated with nicotine and cotinine
           metabolism in African Americans who are light smokers.

        -  To measure baseline cotinine and metabolite levels to evaluate the nicotine metabolism
           phenotype of 3HC/COT.

        -  To evaluate the relationship between nicotine metabolism phenotype of 3HC/COT and
           smoking cessation outcomes.

        -  To evaluate CYP2A6 genotype as a predictor of smoking cessation outcomes.

      Tertiary

        -  To characterize CYP2B6 activity in African Americans who are light smokers by evaluating
           phenotype and CYP2B6 genotype.

        -  To evaluate the relationship between CYP2B6 activity and smoking cessation outcomes.

        -  To measure steady state bupropion hydrochloride and metabolite levels to identify a
           bupropion metabolism phenotype.

        -  To evaluate the relationship between bupropion hydrochloride metabolism phenotype and
           smoking cessation outcomes.

        -  To evaluate the relationship between CYP2B6 genetic polymorphisms (genotype) and blood
           levels of bupropion hydrochloride and active metabolites (phenotype).

        -  To determine the effects of CYP2B6 genotype as predictors of smoking cessation outcomes.

      OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to one of two arms.

        -  Arm I: Participants receive oral bupropion hydrochloride once or twice daily in weeks
           0-6. Participants also undergo 6 sessions of health education counseling conducted in
           person during clinic visits in weeks 0, 3, and 7 and via telephone in weeks 1, 5, and
           16. The health education counseling sessions include providing information about the
           risks of continued smoking and the benefits of quitting, developing a quit plan,
           outlining a concrete quit day preparation plan, discussing strategies for successful
           quitting, building social support, reducing stress, recognizing and managing withdrawal
           and craving, overcoming barriers to abstinence, and using medication for smoking
           cessation. Participants receive Kick It at Swope: Stop Smoking Guide, a
           culturally-sensitive smoking cessation guide, to review with their study counselor
           during the first counseling session.

        -  Arm II: Participants receive an oral placebo once or twice daily in weeks 0-6.
           Participants also undergo health education counseling as in arm I.

      Participants complete baseline questionnaires about demographics, smoking history, and
      psychometrics, including the following: racial identity, depressive symptoms, alcohol use,
      stress, smoking consequences, social support, environmental influences of smoking, adherence
      to study medication, nicotine withdrawal, craving, and mood.

      Participants undergo serum sample collection in weeks 0 and 3. To standardize the time since
      the last cigarette, participants are asked to smoke one cigarette prior to serum sample
      collection in week 0. Samples are analyzed for nicotine metabolism phenotype and bupropion
      hydrochloride metabolism phenotype by liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry and CYP2A6
      and CYP2B6 genotype by polymerase chain reaction and polymorphism analysis. Participants who
      self-report abstinence also undergo saliva sample collection in weeks 7 and 26 to measure
      cotinine levels to verify smoking status.

      After completion of study intervention, participants are followed at 6 months.
    
  