
    
      Urea cycle disorders (UCD) are genetic disorders caused by the liver's inability to break
      down ammonia from proteins; ammonia then accumulates and is toxic to the brain. UCD cause
      brain damage and intellectual and developmental disabilities and even death.

      Treatment involves a special diet low in protein, drugs that help metabolize ammonia and
      amino acid supplements (conservative management). Many patients and families choose liver
      transplantation rather than conservative treatment; both alternatives are effective in
      reducing or normalizing blood ammonia. While liver transplantation eliminates the ammonia
      problem, conservative management does so only temporarily and in many patients, blood ammonia
      can rise during an infection.

      The long-term objective of this study is to help patients make decisions about management
      alternatives (conservative vs. liver transplantation) by providing them with scientific
      information that is currently lacking. The questions the investigators will address are:

        1. What is the disease's risk of mortality and illness in the two treatment approaches?

        2. What can parents expect in terms of the development of their child and his/her school
           performance?

        3. What are the expected effects of each treatment on short-term and long-term quality of
           life?

      The investigators will use statistical methods to compare numbers or percentages of survival,
      illness, psychological testing for IQ, executive function, memory, behaviors, and quality of
      life among patients that choose conservative management and those who have chosen liver
      transplantation. Some of this information is already being collected by the Urea Cycle
      Disorders Consortium (UCDC) in 14 metabolic clinics (11 of them in the US) as part of its
      long-term follow-up study. To ensure that the information the investigators analyze is
      representative of the UCD patient population in the US, the investigators will also obtain
      data from the Studies of Pediatric Liver Transplantation (SPLIT) registry, which collects
      information about children who undergo liver transplantation for many different diseases
      (including UCD).

      The National Urea Cycle Disorders Foundation (NUCDF) and the Patients' Research Working Group
      collaborated with the clinical investigators to design this research and to ensure that it
      that it covers the questions that are most important to patients and their families. The
      results of this study will be disseminated to patients, their doctors, and clinical staff so
      they receive current, validated information before making a decision about the best treatment
      for them.
    
  