
    
      Since 2007, the cost of sequencing a diploid human genome has fallen dramatically, from
      approximately $70 million to $20,000 (Illumina, 2010). As affordable sequencing platforms
      become more widely available, the advancement of biomedical science will draw increasingly on
      whole genome sequencing research requiring large cohorts of diverse populations (Lunshof et
      al., 2009; Need & Goldstein, 2009). Key policy, ethical and legal implications of these
      developments will need to be understood in order to promote the efficacy and effectiveness of
      genomic research going forward.

      <TAB>

      In addition to information about well-understood regions of the genome both sought-after and
      incidental whole genome sequencing yields results of probabilistic, uncertain, and changing
      significance over indefinite periods of time. Sequence data is most useful when shared widely
      among investigators in conjunction with detailed clinical information (Angrist, 2010). It may
      have implications for individuals and families and be of unclear clinical significance. As
      such, the boundary between clinical and research testing is dissolving, and standards for
      returning test results to research participants are non-existent (McGuire & Lupski, 2010).
      The difficulty of acquiring informed consent for studies involving whole genome sequencing is
      therefore a topic of active debate within the biomedical research community.

      This proposed study approaches both informed consent and genomic medicine as iterative
      constructs shaped by civic values and social norms. Understanding the civic and social
      contexts where informed consent takes place is crucial in order to adapt it to new realities
      in genomic research. An overall aim of this inquiry is to solicit feedback on the informed
      consent process from some of the earliest adopters of whole genome sequencing in research. A
      more specific goal is to characterize the salient personal and public references accessed by
      participants around the time of the informed consent process. By highlighting trends in and
      relationships between these civic values and social norms, we aim to advance the development
      of an ethically and socially relevant vocabulary with which to broker terms of use for
      personal sequence data.

      Participants will be recruited from two NIH protocols employing whole genome sequencing for
      distinct purposes. The ClinSeqTM Study is a large-scale medical sequencing project
      investigating the causal role of genetics in cardiovascular disease enrolling both
      symptomatic and healthy individuals. The Whole Genome Medical Sequencing for Gene Discovery
      Study (WGMS) enrolls children and adults for full sequencing with the aim of discovering the
      genetic etiology of rare conditions.
    
  