
    
      Indirect inguinal hernia is one of the pathologies that is widely researched in national and
      international studies because of its high prevalence in the community and its
      life-threatening or permanent loss of function. However, no point has been reached regarding
      the etiology of this disease and a consensus has been reached.

      The investigators believe that the study will contribute to the explanation of the formation
      mechanisms of the mentioned disease. Considering the high prevalence of this disease and its
      potential for life-threatening, the investigators anticipate that the analysis of the
      relevant genes for the Turkish population will make significant contributions to the public
      health. In the literature, analysis of GATA6 SNPs in the Chinese population has subsequently
      associated certain polymorphisms with indirect inguinal hernia. It is also been stated that
      TBX3 gene pathologies may be associated with inguinal hernia.

      However, there is no study in the literature about the patent processus vaginalis expression
      levels of these genes. There is no study on the SNP analysis of these genes in Turkish
      population. For these reasons, the first time the expression / SNP analysis of the specified
      genes in Turkish society will be carried out will make an additional contribution to
      scientific knowledge. As stated clearly in the studies, the implementation of medical
      treatment of indirect inguinal hernia may change the approach of the pediatric surgical
      community to indirect inguinal hernia. In order for medical treatment to be carried out, the
      formation pathways and genetic origins of the disease must be clearly revealed.

      Investigating the relationship of GATA6 and TBX3 genes, which are known to be involved in
      connective tissue homeostasis, with the mechanisms of indirect inguinal hernia formation,
      will contribute to the studies in the literature and is important in terms of revealing
      whether the treatment of these diseases can be performed medically in the future.

      The study aims to reveal that gene expression levels in indirect inguinal hernia sacs due to
      SNPs in at least one of the GATA6 and TBX3 genes, thus causing an error in the sac closure
      pathway. The hypothesis of the study; It is stated that the gene expression levels of at
      least one of GATA6 and TBX3 in the sacs of inguinal hernia patients are altered.

      The primary goal of this study is; To determine the level of GATA6 and TBX3 gene expression
      in sacs obtained from indirect inguinal hernia patients. The secondary goal is to investigate
      SNPs in the leukocytes of these patients and to investigate whether the genetic elements in
      our hypothesis in these diseases are regulated by different genes acting as transcription
      factors.

      Considering that indirect inguinal hernia poses significant health risks, especially in
      children, it is predicted that the results to be obtained may contribute to clarification of
      the etiology and non-invasive methods other than surgery.
    
  