
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Determine the sensitivity and specificity of relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV)
      measured by steady state MRI with ferumoxytol in identifying true versus (vs)
      pseudoprogression in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) receiving
      pembrolizumab with standard of care chemo-radiation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the safety and toxicity of pembrolizumab when used in combination with standard
      of care chemo radiation.

      II. Determine the progression free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), clinical response
      and duration of best response.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the immune response as determined by the volume, pattern and intensity of delayed
      (24 hour [hr]) ferumoxytol uptake between subjects who develop true vs pseudoprogression.

      II. Investigate the serum immunological parameters (serum biomarker) and correlate clinical
      as well as radiological response with systemic immune response to pembrolizumab as measured
      by immunological panel.

      III. Compare the changes in PDL-1 expression in the biopsy tissue before and after therapy at
      the time of progression and correlate PD-L1 expression with response rates and survival.

      IV. Investigate the feasibility of measuring vascular volume fraction (VVF), vessel size
      index (VSI) and vessel density index (VDI) as surrogate for response (true vs
      pseudoprogression, as determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] 1.1
      and immune related response criteria [irRC]).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 3 weeks for up to 2 years or 35 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive ferumoxytol IV and undergo MRI scans at
      baseline, 4 weeks after the last day of standard of care stereotactic radiosurgery or
      chemoradiotherapy, every 9 weeks thereafter until suspected radiographic progression, and
      then within 4 weeks from suspected radiographic progression.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 12 weeks for
      up to 1 year, and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  