
    
      Several studies have demonstrated that rTMS is an efficacious treatment for treatment
      resistant major depressive disorder (TRD). However, recent meta-analyses, and more recent,
      large, multi-centre studies, have provided evidence suggesting that rTMS, at best, provides
      modest therapeutic efficacy compared to sham stimulation.

      Several reasons may account for this modest therapeutic effect. First, the majority of these
      studies involved left-sided treatment alone to the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC),
      which is a significant limitation when considering that electroconvulsive therapy - another
      form of brain stimulation used in TRD - has been shown to be less efficacious when used
      unilaterally, compared to bilaterally.

      Second, sub-optimal methods were utilized to target the DLPFC (i.e., '5-cm anterior method'),
      limiting the treatment potential of what is inherently a targeted form of treatment. In this
      regard, recent data from the investigators suggests that treatment directly targeting the
      DLPFC provides enhanced therapeutic efficacy compared to the '5-cm anterior' method.

      Third, treatment durations were typically short (i.e., 2-4 weeks). Fourth, stimulation
      intensity may have been insufficient by not taking into consideration coil-to-cortex
      distance, which is of particular importance when considering that this parameter may
      contribute significantly to rTMS-induced antidepressant response. Fifth, there has not been a
      study that has examined TRD across the lifespan in a way that addresses the differences
      between older and younger adults. Therefore, the investigators propose to conduct a study
      evaluating the efficacy of rTMS for TRD that directly addresses all 5 of these major
      limitations.

      This study will compare bilateral rTMS to unilateral rTMS and will involve targeting the
      DLPFC using cortical co-registration techniques, as well as treatments of optimal duration
      (i.e., up to 6 weeks) and intensity parameters (i.e., adjusted for coil-to-cortex distance).
      The use of distance cortical co-registration and adjustment for coil-to-cortex distance
      addresses the major limitation (lack of stimulation intensity to compensate for age-related
      prefrontal atrophy) in studies that have examined rTMS in an elderly sample. Preliminary data
      from this research group provide compelling evidence that rTMS may, indeed, be effective when
      some of these limitations are optimized in both younger and older adults. Finally, it is also
      essential that research investigate the mechanisms of therapeutic efficacy, so that increases
      in understanding can be translated into enhanced treatment. For several reasons, cortical
      excitability may represent a neurophysiological process through which the therapeutic effects
      of rTMS are mediated. Recent advances in electroencephalography (EEG) technology now permit
      direct measurement of excitability from the DLPFC; thus, we are now able to ascertain whether
      these are mechanisms through which the therapeutic effects of rTMS in TRD are mediated.

      Hypotheses:

      Hypothesis 1: Treatment with bilateral and high frequency left rTMS (HFL-rTMS) will both
      result in a greater reduction in 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D17) scores
      compared to sham rTMS.

      Hypothesis 2: Bilateral rTMS will result in a significantly greater number of patients
      reaching criteria for therapeutic response and remission on the HAM-D17 compared to
      unilateral or sham rTMS.

      Hypothesis 3: An increase of excitability following HFL-rTMS to the left DLPFC (in the case
      of bilateral rTMS or HFL-rTMS) and a decrease in excitability following low frequency
      right-rTMS (LFR-rTMS; in the case of bilateral rTMS) to the right DLPFC will mediate the
      relationship between rTMS and response in TRD. Finally, the induction of gamma activity
      following rTMS will be associated with improved treatment efficacy.

      Hypothesis 4: rTMS will result in improved executive function in patients over age 60 with
      TRD.
    
  