
    
      Nowadays, esthetic demands increased greatly where all seek a Hollywood smile with a white
      well-aligned teeth and pink healthy gingiva. Therefore, the demand on treatment of gingival
      recession increased. Since most gingival recession cases are generalized or involve multiple
      sites so, current research is focusing on how treatment of multiple recession defects can be
      efficient and less traumatic.

      Several modifications of tunnel technique have been described in order to preserve esthetics,
      avoid relapse of gingival recession and maintain papillary integrity. These modifications
      also attend to avoid scar formation and delayed healing related to vertical releasing
      incision.

      Although tunneling technique excluded vertical incisions with its drawbacks, tunneling was
      still a sensitive and a blind technique with increased trauma to sulcular epithelium which
      eventually resulted in unfavorable healing outcomes. So evolution of a newer approach known
      as Vestibular Incision Subperiosteal Tunnel Access (VISTA) was proposed to avoid some of the
      potential complications occurring with other intrasulcular tunneling techniques.

      Moreover, a study by Cairo et al., 2009 reported increased incidence of post-operative pain
      and increased chair side time with tunneling in comparison to coronally advanced flap.

      However, the evidence in literature is minimal on VISTA technique and there is no enough data
      comparing patient morbidity and root coverage outcomes between intrasulcular tunneling and
      vestibular tunneling except for few case reports. Therefore, this study aim to do a
      randomized clinical trial in order to assess the efficacy of VISTA technique in treatment of
      multiple gingival recession and compare it to tunneling technique.

      The use of connective tissue graft seems to be a key of success in treatment of gingival
      recession regardless of the surgical technique used. Although there are numerous studies
      focusing on the effect of subepithelial connective tissue graft for the treatment of
      localized gingival recessions, but still more studies are needed to focus on the treatment of
      multiple recession defects.

      Therefore, this study will monitor the effect of tunneling and VISTA techniques together with
      connective tissue graft on patient morbidity and root coverage outcomes.
    
  