
    
      Introduction Pupillary examination, and in particular pupillary light reactivity (PLR), is
      fundamental for intensive care unit (ICU) monitoring and follow-up of patients with acute
      brain injury (ABI), and has both diagnostic and prognostic values. Secondary cerebral
      insults, e.g. elevated intracranial pressure (ICP) may alter midbrain function and cause
      abnormalities in pupil size, symmetry and PLR. Sustained or newfound pupillary abnormalities
      are associated with a worse outcome, and indeed PLR is a robust validated predictor in
      several prognostic models, such as the CRASH (Corticosteroid Randomization after Significant
      Head Injury) and the IMPACT (International Mission for Prognosis and Analysis of Clinical
      Trials) scores. In current clinical practice however, pupillary examination is performed
      using a manual, hand-held light source (e.g. pen torch), implying that the evaluation of
      pupillary size and reactivity remains essentially based on a visual qualitative assessment.
      This traditional approach has several limitations, such as limited precision (especially in
      patients with small pupil size), significant intra- and inter-observer variability,
      differences in ambient light exposure between measurements, or the technique used to direct
      the stimulus (i.e. intensity, proximity, duration and orientation of the light source).

      The use of quantitative, automated, infrared technology for pupillary examination has long
      been used in ophthalmology and anesthesiology research. Its interest in neurocritical care
      has progressively grown, in parallel with the advancements in device technology. In this
      regard, the use of the noninvasive NPi®-200 pupillometer (Neuroptics, Laguna Hills, CA, USA)
      allows the measurement of a series of dynamic pupillary variables (including the percentage
      pupillary constriction, latency, constriction velocity, and dilation velocity), which can be
      integrated into an algorithm, to compute the Neurological Pupil index (NPi). The NPi is a
      proprietary scalar index with values between 0 and 5 (with a 0.1 decimal precision), an NPi
      value < 3 indicating an abnormal pupillary reactivity. Importantly, the NPi is not influenced
      by sedation-analgesia, at the doses used in neurocritical care practice, and by mild
      hypothermia.

      Preliminary single-center data recently demonstrated that abnormal NPi is associated with
      worse outcome in patients with traumatic and hemorrhagic ABI, and can be a useful adjunct for
      ICP monitoring and therapy. There is currently a great need for quantitative tools to predict
      early prognostication in ABI patients, and the NPi appears of potential great value. For this
      purpose, large multicenter studies are required. The Investigators recently conducted an
      international multicenter study that demonstrated the prognostic value of NPi in the setting
      of early prognostication of ABI following cardiac arrest. Here, the Investigators aim at
      evaluating the prognostic value of the NPi in patients with ABI following traumatic brain
      injury (TBI), aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) or intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) at
      risk of secondary ICP elevation.

      Research questions

      The Investigators hypothesize that:

        1. Abnormal NPi (defined as NPi <3) are strongly predictive of poor GOS-E (1-4) at 6 months
           after the acute event.

        2. NPi=0 is strongly predictive of mortality (GOS 1).

        3. Abnormal NPi is predictive of a higher ICP 20 index (number of end-hourly measures of
           ICP >20 mm Hg divided by the total number of measurements, multiplied by 100) and a
           greater burden of interventions needed to control ICP (measured by the Therapy Intensity
           Level scale for ICP management, TIL 4).

      Methods

      Prospective, observational, international cohort study focused at identifying the
      relationship of NPi with:

        -  long-term outcome defined as 6-months mortality and neurological recovery, measured with
           the extended Glasgow Outcome Score, GOS-E;

        -  intracranial hypertension.

      Sample size calculation No formal sample size calculation has been performed due to the
      exploratory nature of the study. However, the Investigators expect to recruit a total of 420
      patients, 140 per pathology for whom GOSE will be performed (i.e. TBI, ICH, SAH), over a
      12-months period. Therefore, the twelve participating centres will contribute, based on their
      potentiality of recruitment, with a minimum of 20 patients.

      Screening All patients admitted to the participating ICUs in coma after ABI will be screened
      daily and entered into a screening log . Each ICU will recruit eligible patients for 12
      consecutive months and collect data for each recruited patient daily in an expanded
      electronic case report form (eCRF). Both common-data elements and etiology-specific data will
      be collected.

      Demographics and Medical History Demographic characteristics and medical history information
      will be extracted from patients' medical records including gender, age, co-morbidities,
      diagnosis, timeline and clinical presentation of acute brain injury. All NPi and ICP
      monitoring data, as well as additional neuro-monitoring and neuroimaging data will be
      extracted from patients' medical records too and documented in the eCRF.

      NPi Data and Daily eCRF The daily eCRF Data Capture will be completed for NPi (collected
      every 4 hours) and for ICP (matched to NPi), every day, from admission up to day 7 . Data
      collected will also include additional ICP derived variables and interventions.

      Outcome measures Glasgow Outcome Scale-Extended (GOS-E) as main outcome will be collected at
      ICU/hospital discharge and at 6 months). Data on the cause of death will be collected as
      well. The GOS-E at the End-of-Study will be collected via telephone-structured interviews to
      patients and/or family members using a validated questionnaire.

      Statistical methods No formal sample size calculation has been performed due to the
      exploratory nature of the study. However, the Investigators expect to recruit a total of 420
      patients, 140 per pathology (i.e. TBI, ICH, SAH), over a 12-months period.

      Therefore, the twelve participating centres will contribute, based on their potentiality of
      recruitment, with a minimum of 20 patients.

      Data will be summarised by counts and percentages and quartiles or means and standard
      deviation, as appropriate, for qualitative and quantitative characteristics, respectively.

      Unsupervised and supervised methods will be applied with explorative purposes using the
      individual NPi longitudinal measurements. For example, the pattern recognition of
      longitudinal profiles and the cluster trajectory analyses will be used in order to identify
      patterns of NPi trajectories associated with prognosis. NPi trends will be also described
      graphically and modelled by longitudinal mixed models using splines.

      A Cox and a logistic model will be then applied to evaluate the association between the NPi
      process with the 6-month mortality and the neurological recovery (GOSE≤4 vs GOSE>4) at 6
      months, respectively. This will be done considering NPi in categories identifying different
      potential patterns in NPi profiles or using summary measures that have been already
      introduced in this context, such as the percentage of NPi<3 observed in the time interval of
      observation or the area under the trajectory in time. The two eyes will contribute to these
      analyses with the worst result. This analysis will be done overall on a multivariable model
      that will also explore a potential interaction effect with the different pathologies, while
      the improvement with respect to the standard risk factors (e.g. the components of the IMPACT
      model for TBI patients) will be evaluated by multivariable models on each of the three
      specific pathologies.

      Lastly, the association between NPi and mortality will be evaluated by the use of shared
      frailty joint models, in which NPi trend in left and right eye will be evaluated by a
      multivariate mixed model, which outcome will be used to model mortality. Model-based
      mortality prediction will be computed based on individual NPi trends. The same kind of
      approach will be used for the binary outcome.

      Potential Risks and Benefits Risks The ORANGE study is observational. It does not introduce
      any interventional procedure. The data is extracted from the patients' medical records and
      does not affect local standard of care. Hence, the study does not add any interventional risk
      to the patients recruited.

      Confidentiality breach is a potential risk, which will be addressed by patients' data
      codification. A unique code will be generated by the e-CRF and allocated to every site and
      every enrolled patient.

      Benefits No individual benefit is expected for the study participants. Nevertheless, the
      results of the study could possibly help us improving the knowledge for a better medical care
      for similar patients in the future and the generation of hypotheses for further collaborative
      research.

      Data Collection ICUs willing to participate will register electronically and collect data via
      an electronic Case-Report Form (RedCAP platform). An online training module will be developed
      to help data collectors in completing the study eCRF. Data collection will be web based,
      permitting conditional Data Collection screens, i.e. data collectors will be automatically
      guided as to which sections to complete based on data entered indicating whether Inclusion
      Criteria are met.

      Ethical standards This study is conducted in compliance with the protocol version 3.0 , the
      current version of the Declaration of Helsinki, the ICH-Good Clinical Practice (GCP)
      guidelines, as well as local relevant legal and regulatory requirements of every site.

      Ethics committee Each investigator will notify the relevant ethics committee, in compliance
      with the local legislation and rules.

      The approval of the protocol (if required by local authorities) must be obtained before any
      participant is enrolled. Any amendment to the protocol will require review and approval by
      the 3 chief investigators before the changes are implemented to the study.

      Lack of capacity and Delayed Consent Patients recruited in this study will not be able to
      provide informed consent at the time of recruitment. The responsible clinical/research staff
      will act as Consultee and consent eligible patients after discussion with the next-of-kin.

      If the patient has a Power of Attorney or a Legal tutor or an, he/she will act as Consultee
      and will be asked to consent/decline participation to the study on legal behalf of the
      patient.

      If patients have Advance Decision Plan including participation in research studies the Plan
      will be respected and recruitment pursued/abandoned accordingly.

      At follow-up, patients who have regained capacity will be asked to provide Informed Consent
      and will be given the possibility to:

        -  Provide Informed Consent for the acute data and follow-up.

        -  Deny research participation and request destruction of acute data collected.
    
  