
    
      Background:

      Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is characterized by a major loss of lung volume
      due to alveolar flooding, atelectasis and consolidation. Alveolar recruitment maneuvers (ARM)
      permit to recruit non-aerated or poorly aerated lung tissue, and thus may improve gas
      exchange and oxygenation in patients with ARDS. However, ARM may also be harmful by
      overdistending the previously open lung tissue and can induce hemodynamic instability. The
      potential effectiveness and benefit of ARM depends on the patient's recruitability. A simple,
      routinely applicable bedside method to assess recruitability has been described in 2020 and
      is as efficient as multiple pressure-volume curves. We called it MERP for Potential for lung
      Recruitability Evaluation Method.

      The investigators therefore propose to use this new method that determine lung recruitability
      as a diagnostic test to determine responder an non responder to ARM, and define a threshold.

      Objectives:

      The major aim is to determine the threshold of Vrec with the best sensitivity and specificity
      to define patient responders to alveolar recruitment maneuvers in ARDS.

      The secondary objectives are :

        -  Evaluate the differences in morbi-mortality comparing responders and non responders to
           ARM

        -  Calculate the mean time of realization of the MERP+ARM maneuvers

        -  Estimate the occurence of secondary effects due to ARM (hemodynamic instability,
           arrhythmia, hypoxemia)

      Methods:

      This study will enroll at least 42 patients from the three Intensive Care Units at CHU Caen
      Normandy in 18 months. In all patients a MERP will be performed to determine the recruitable
      volume (Vrec). It consists to a brutal drop in PEEP level from 15 cmH2O to 5 cmH2O over a
      single breath maneuver to determine the increased end expiratory volume at the next
      respiratory cycle. The difference between this volume and the tidal volume represent the "
      measured recruitable volume " (Vmes). We can therefore calculate the predicted change in lung
      volume (Vcalc) by the product of respiratory system compliance at low PEEP (5 cmH20) and the
      change in pressure (10 cmH2O). Finally, the Vrec for each patients is the difference between
      the Vmes and the Vcalc.

      An alveolar recruitment maneuver is then performed following the maximal alveolar recruitment
      method (driving pressure of 15 cmH2O, with 3 steps of PEEP 20-25-30 cmH2O) followed by a
      decremental PEEP procedure to determine the best PEEP. 15 minutes a posteriori, a blood gas
      sample permits to calculate the change in PaO2/FiO2 ratio.

      Data Analysis:

      The primary endpoint is to determine the threshold of Vrec that permits to identify
      responders to alveolar recruitment maneuvers defined by an improvement of the PaO2/FiO2 ratio
      > 20% 15 minutes after ARM, through ROC curve and Youden index.
    
  