
    
      Central venous cannulation (CVC) is commonly performed to give volume resuscitation and
      parenteral medications to patients with time sensitive conditions such as severe traumatic
      injury or undifferentiated shock. CVC via the subclavian route is associated with more
      frequent technical complications but less frequent infection or thrombosis as compared with
      via the internal jugular or femoral veins. Traditionally CVC via the subclavian vein is
      guided by anatomical landmarks. CVC guided by real-time use of traditional diagnostic
      ultrasound device is associated with a lower technical failure rate (overall and on first
      attempt), fewer punctures, faster access, and fewer mechanical complications as compared with
      guidance by anatomical landmarks when performed via the internal jugular vein. It remains
      unclear whether CVC guided by real-time ultrasound is associated with significantly lower
      failure and complication rates as compared with CVC guided by landmarks when performed via
      the subclavian vein. CVC guided by real-time ultrasound may reduce the incidence of
      complications, number of punctures, and the time between skin penetration and the aspiration
      of venous blood into the syringe as compared with guidance by landmarks. A limitation of
      guidance by a traditional diagnostic ultrasound device is it that it may require an assistant
      to perform, which may not be feasible when treating time sensitive conditions or in low
      resource settings. In addition, most traditional ultrasound probes are not designed to image
      the subclavian vein behind the clavicle. The AxoTrack system is a novel ultrasound guidance
      system recently cleared for human use by the United States Food and Drug Administration. It
      is intended to facilitate CVC by a single operator as well as to reduce complications and
      time associated with CVC. The AxoTrack has a small ultrasound scan head which facilitates
      imaging of the subclavian vein. It remains unclear whether CVC guided by AxoTrack reduces
      procedure times and complication rates when compared with CVC using landmark guidance in
      patients with undifferentiated hypotension.
    
  