
    
      Cochlear implants (CIs) represent one of the most important achievements of modern medicine
      as, for the first time in history, an electronic device is able to restore a lost sense -
      hearing. As of December 2012, approximately 324,200 cochlear implants have been implanted
      worldwide. In the United States, roughly 58,000 devices have been implanted in adults and
      38,000 in children .

      Cochlear implantation is a powerful tool for helping children with severe to profound
      sensorineural hearing loss to gain the ability to hear, and to achieve age appropriate
      communication skills. Evaluating the development of auditory, speech, language skills and the
      personality of implanted child is useful for the parent, the teacher, the therapist, and the
      subsequent rehabilitation progress .

      However the final outcome in pediatric implantation is yet not entirely predictable as there
      are a large number of factors which alone or in combination will decide the outcome of
      cochlear implantation.

      Categorizing these determinants increases the ability of clinicians to offer educated
      preoperative prognosis and might potentially allow for manipulation of variables in an
      attempt to achieve the best possible outcome .

      Before implantation, a trial period with appropriate amplification combined with intensive
      auditory training should be attempted to ensure that maximal benefit is achieved.

      Several factors have been reported to have an impact on the ability of prelingually deaf
      children to develop oral language skills after cochlear implantation. The most important and
      consistently reported variable that influences the ability to use auditory-only communication
      is the age at which the child is implanted .

      Communication mode after implantation has also been frequently reported to be a factor that
      contributes to final speech and language outcome, with oral-only communication producing
      speech and language results superior to those observed in children who use a combination of
      sign and spoken language (total communication).

      The wide range of speech perception abilities exhibited by cochlear implant recipients may
      depend in part upon differences in the central auditory processing abilities of implant
      users. One way to assess central auditory function in these individuals is to measure speech
      evoked cortical potentials. In particular, measuring cortical potentials that reflect
      auditory discrimination may provide insight into the central mechanisms underlying speech
      perception .

      Moreover, if those cortical potentials can be recorded from cochlear implant users, comparing
      the potentials to the responses measured in normal listeners should indicate whether the
      brain's response to speech mediated by a cochlear implant is similar to the brain's response
      to speech processed by a normal cochlea. From a theoretical standpoint, the presence of
      cortical potentials in cochlear implant users may provide a unique window to viewing the
      central auditory system.

      Aim of the study:

      The aim of this study is to assess the factors affecting the audiological, speech and
      language outcomes achieved by the recipients of multichannel cochlear implants.
    
  