
    
      As a part of Air Force Technical Training orientation week, all Airmen attending Technical
      Training at Lackland AFB, TX are given a brief group alcohol intervention (BAI) designed to
      reduce the number of alcohol related incidents during attendance at technical training.

      The BAI was designed and approved by the sponsor as a Quid Pro Quo for having time in
      technical to conduct a tobacco use Cohort study. The intervention was designed to take
      advantage of the 8.5 weeks of forced alcohol use cessation during Basic Military Training.

      Because the BAI was considered a part of Technical Training Orientation Airmen were not
      consented for the BAI and no personally identifying information was collected. The Airmen
      were however consented for participation in the Tobacco Cohort study.

      Significance: Too many Airmen who have successfully completed Basic Military Training have an
      alcohol related incidents during Technical Training which can result in administrative
      separation from the Air Force. These incidents are avoidable. Approximately 12,000 Airmen
      attend Technical Training in San Antonio each year and the costs associated with early
      discharge are not trivial. Additionally, new Airmen become extremely distressed when they are
      sent home, after completing 8.5 weeks of Basic Military Training, due to an alcohol related
      incident.

      The BAI capitalizes on entry into Technical Training as a potential teachable moment for new
      Airmen. It is a time when both Airmen and Technical Training staff are highly motivated to
      graduate every qualified Airman possible.

      The BAI is an interactive group intervention. The intervention is conducted as a briefing and
      given to approximately 50 Airmen per session and lasts approximately 45 minutes. The content
      includes helping Airmen clearly identify their reasons for joining the Air Force as well as
      possible roadblocks to successful completion of technical training. The intervention includes
      basic information about alcohol for those Airmen who chose to drink, two anonymous self
      assessments, and information about how to consume alcohol in smaller time-based quantities to
      decrease the risk of an alcohol related incident.

      The study will compare the prevalence of alcohol related incidents for the 10,953 Airmen who
      attended technical training during the 12-month time period prior to the initiation of the
      BAI to the prevalence of alcohol related incidents for the 15,000 Airmen who will receive the
      BAI during the course of this investigation.
    
  