
    
      Background:

      Acute illness is accompanied by infection/inflammation, anorexia and immobilization all
      contributing to muscle loss, making nutritional supplement optimization an obvious target for
      investigation and eventually clinical intervention. In the clinical setting large
      heterogenicity among patients complicates investigations of muscle metabolism during acute
      illness. Therefore we introduce a disease model by combining "Inflammation + 36 hour fast and
      bedrest". Inflammation/febrile illness will be initiated by using the well-established "human
      endotoxemia model" with a bolus injection of Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS), known
      to cause inflammation comparable with the initial phase of sepsis. The amino acid leucine has
      shown to be particularly anabolic in performance sports, but little is known about its
      potential beneficial effects during acute illness. Leucine is a powerful activator of muscle
      protein synthesis and it seems that protein supplements with the highest leucine content
      elicit a greater increase in protein synthesis than those with a smaller fraction of leucine.

      The protein supplements used most in hospitals contain casein derived protein, which has a
      much lower leucine content than the whey protein compounds typically used in performance
      sports.

      This study compares three different protein supplements.The study is an open, randomized
      crossover trial. Laboratory technicians, test subjects and investigators will be blinded.

      Interventions:

      I. LPS (1 ng/kg as bolus) + 36 h fasting + 36 h bedrest + Casein (9% leucine) II. LPS (1
      ng/kg as bolus) + 36 h fasting + 36 h bedrest + Whey (11% leucine) III. LPS (1 ng/kg as
      bolus) + 36 h fasting + 36 h bedrest + Leucine-enriched whey (16% leucine)

      The test objects will be given 0,6 g protein/kg, 1/3 as a bolus and 2/3 as sipping over a
      period of 3,5 hour. Muscle metabolism will be investigated by phenylalanine tracer using the
      forearm model and total protein metabolism using a carbamide tracer. Through muscle biopsies
      intracellular signalling pathways will be investigated.
    
  