
    
      This study is realized with university students. For a first objective of this study, all the
      participants complete the "big five questionnaire" to determine their personality traits and
      then the subjects are analyzed with a stabilometric platform and cervical/lumbar range of
      motion (ROM) to determine their basal parameters. The personality traits and the basal
      stabilometric parameters like the postural sway, will be crossed to investigate a possible
      relation. For a second objective, the randomized study of the effectiveness of the Global
      Postural Reeducation (GPR) in the stabilometric parameters, the subjects are divided in a
      experimental group or in a control group. Experimental group is treated in a 45 minutes GPR
      session, with three postures: the first is for stretch the anterior muscular chain with the
      patient lying supine on a couch with arms at 45 degrees, hips open, and feet in opposition on
      top of the couch. This posture is maintained 25-30 minutes. In the second GPR posture, to
      stretch the posterior muscular chain, the subject is positioned with legs elevated, for 12-15
      minutes. Third position is with the participant in upright standing posture 2-5 minutes to
      integrate the postural corrections. During all the time, the physiotherapist uses manual
      therapy for stretch the muscles under the official rules of GPR techniques. Group control do
      not receive any technique. After the time of the intervention or no intervention, a second
      measure of stabilometric parameters and ROM is taken. After this first day, two days later
      and seven days later, the measures are repeated to determinate the permanence of the effects
      of GPR techniques.

      The improvement will be assessed by calculating indicators of clinical relevance: relative
      risk (RR), absolute risk reduction (AR). The results will be compared statistically to
      determine some possible relation. The confidence intervals (CI) will be calculated for the
      most relevant parameters. The analysis will be made with a statistics program (SPSS 19.0)
    
  