
    
      This is a 52 week Phase I/II double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study of adjunctive
      clenbuterol in LOPD (Table 2, Section 6). All subjects will be evaluated at Week 0 and Week 6
      to establish a baseline for motor function testing. At Week 6, subjects will be randomized
      3:2 to clenbuterol or placebo, and evaluated for safety and efficacy during the Week 12 and
      18 visits. The Investigational Drug Service will maintain double-blinding by providing either
      the study drug or placebo (over-encapsulated tablets) directly to subjects. The drug (or
      placebo) will be initiated at the Week 6 visit in a staged manner (first once daily and later
      BID), and the dose will be increased at the Week 12 visit in a similarly staged manner to
      minimize AEs and related attrition. All subjects will return for a final visit after a total
      of 52 weeks in the study.

      In terms of standard of care, the subject will have two clinical visits (charged to the
      subject and/or the subject's insurance company), one at the initiation of the study drug
      (baseline) and one at the study completion (52 weeks). Study drug will be attempted to be
      initiated during the "off week", approximately one week following a dose of ERT, and ERT will
      continue throughout the duration of the study. Thereafter, study visits will be during the
      "off week". The 6, 12, and 18 week visits will be research visits (not charged to the subject
      and/or the subject's insurance company) in order to determine subject's overall health status
      and measure early signs of motor improvement. The initial dose of clenbuterol will be 40 mcg
      per oral each morning for one week, followed by 40 mcg BID for the next 5 weeks until the
      week 12 visit. If the 40 mcg BID per oral is well tolerated, the dose will be increased to 80
      mcg each morning/40 mcg each evening for one week, followed by 80 mcg BID for the next 5
      weeks until the Week 18 visit. If 80 mcg BID is tolerated at Week 18, the subject will
      continue on that dose until Week 52.

      Compliance will be discussed at the Week 6, Week 12, and Week 18 visits. The subject will
      have phone visits during Week 1, 7, 13, 36, and 52, and compliance will be discussed then. We
      will call subjects daily during the first week following initiation of study drug (Week 7)
      and dosage escalation (Week 13) to support subjects through the early adverse effects of
      tachyphylaxis that may lead to premature termination. An interim call will occur during Week
      36 to monitor compliance. Subjects who admit non-compliance, missing >6 doses of the study
      drug, will be considered non-compliant and withdrawn from the study. Subjects will be called
      during Week 1 and Week 52, 3 days following the muscle biopsy. All phone calls will review
      AEs (Table).

      The efficacy of clenbuterol treatment during ERT in patients with LOPD will be evaluated with
      muscle and pulmonary function testing as the primary endpoints. A secondary endpoint, the
      urinary Glc4 biomarker, will be monitored when the subjects are evaluated at baseline, week
      18 and week 52. The impact of enhanced CI-MPR-mediated uptake of GAA will be analyzed by
      comparing the muscle function, pulmonary function, and biochemical correction of muscle in
      subjects with LOPD treated with ERT, both prior to and during simultaneous β2 agonist
      therapy.
    
  