
    
      Objectives and Outcome measures

      This proposal aims to (1) improve identification of early cardiometabolic dysfunction in
      children and (2) investigate the reversibility of this dysfunction through exercise. The
      study will provide the platform for developing practical, effective primordial CVD prevention
      strategies and the identification of novel early therapeutic targets.

      Study Design

      This study combines elements of both observational and interventional study designs. A
      prospective, cross-sectional study of adolescents with 1-year follow-up is combined with a
      randomised placebo (sham-exercise)-controlled trial (RCT) of eight-weeks of supervised,
      individualised exercise in an obese sub-population. The RCT is of an established,
      standardised exercise programme that is low-risk. Group allocation will be known only to the
      exercise physiologist and staff carrying out the exercise intervention.

      Fitness tests and exercise sessions will be carried out in schools and these sessions will
      also provide opportunities to support questionnaire completion, fit accelerometers, fit and
      return ambulatory blood pressure monitors and address participant questions or concerns. In
      addition, participants will visit The Oxford Centre for Clinical Magnetic Resonance Research
      (OCMR) for the initial assessment and for the follow-up assessment for those participants in
      the obese group.

      Participants

      210 participants will be recruited, 110 of these will be obese, 50 will be normal weight and
      their activity will be matched to the obese group and therefore, relatively sedentary. 50
      normal weight controls will be selected on the basis of high levels of physical activity. The
      110 obese participants will be randomised (1:1) to exercise intervention or a low-intensity
      sham exercise placebo intervention. These numbers are justified by a priori power
      calculations and take into account potential withdrawals at an attrition rate of 10% that is
      compatible with recent studies in the same or similar populations (e.g. Fit to Study).
      Compliance with the interventions will be increased by carrying out the interventions in a
      school setting, predominantly during mandatory physical education (PE) lessons. Trained,
      experienced staff will supervise the exercise sessions, ensuring participant engagement with
      the activities.

      Recruitment

      Pre-screening will be done through schools who will write to families informing them that
      their children will be taking part in an enhanced P.E. lesson at school that includes a
      fitness and health screening session. As part of this, the children will be asked to wear an
      activity watch (accelerometer) for a week. The session will explore many aspects of their
      agility and fitness and assess their muscle strength, power, motor skills, speed, endurance
      and flexibility, adjusted for their physical size (height and weight). The lesson will be
      educational, giving personalised feedback to the children on their strengths and how to
      improve on areas where they are less strong. The school will retain a file linking the
      children's names to random identifiers but the researchers will not have access to, or
      retain, any identifiable information. Parents will be sent a letter giving them the
      opportunity to withdraw their children from this health screening session and explaining that
      researchers may ask the school to contact them again on their behalf if their children are
      eligible for study participation on the basis of their fitness assessment. Children who are
      withdrawn by their parents will participate in their usual P.E. lesson.

      Recruitment will be done by letters to parents, delivered via the schools. Recruitment from
      an established population already in contact with the investigators research group should
      increase participation rates. It is difficult to precisely estimate the proportion of
      participants who fulfil the inclusion/exclusion criteria but it is assumed an obesity rate
      (BMI z-score (WHO) > 2) of approximately 20%.

      Screening

      Pre-stratification of the potential population for recruitment will be carried out, based on
      BMI and activity levels. Obese and normal weight groups will be approached for recruitment
      sequentially, according to their rank position within their respective BMI-based criteria in
      order to maximise the difference between groups (e.g. the most obese will be approached first
      for the obese group). The normal weight group will be further stratified according to
      activity levels such that half of this group matches the obesity group for activity whilst
      the other half are highly-active individuals. Again, individuals within this subgroup will be
      approached according to their rank position in the distribution of activity such that the
      most active are preferred in order to maximise the difference between groups.

      Informed Consent

      Participants and/or their parents/guardians will be asked to sign and date the latest
      approved version of the Informed Consent/Assent form(s) before any study-specific procedures
      are performed. The latest approved Participant Information sheet will be provided to them and
      verbal explanations will also be provided ensuring that all of the following information has
      been presented and understood: the exact nature of the study; what it will involve for the
      participant; the implications and constraints of the protocol; and all known risks or
      benefits involved in taking part.

      Participants will be told that they are free to withdraw from the study at any time and for
      any reason without being required to give a reason for their withdrawal. The participant will
      be allowed as much time as they wish to consider the information, and the opportunity to
      question the Investigator, their General Practitioner (GP) or other independent parties to
      decide whether they will participate in the study. Once these conditions are satisfied,
      written Informed Consent will be obtained by means of participant dated signature and dated
      signature of the person who presented and obtained the Informed Consent. The person taking
      consent will be a qualified member of the study team with a complete understanding of the
      study and with the authorisation of the Principal Investigator. A copy of the signed Informed
      Consent will be given to the participant and the original signed form will be retained at the
      study site.

      Randomisation

      Random allocation of members of the obese group to a sham fitness intervention or to a
      standardised exercise intervention will be carried out using an online randomisation service.
      The analysis will be carried out on an "intention-to-treat" basis when participants do not
      complete all elements of the data collection process and single-blinding will be maintained
      such that members of the team carrying out procedures at OCMR e.g. MRI and those involved in
      the data analysis are blinded to the allocation of intervention and sham groups. All data
      acquired at OCMR will be identified by a unique study number only. Inadvertent un-blinding
      will result in the exclusion of that individual's data from the analysis.

      Incidental findings

      Cardiovascular findings will be dealt with by the PI or another MRI-trained Consultant
      Paediatric Cardiologist. Findings in other imaging will be reviewed by the study Paediatric
      Radiologist. OCMR standard operation procedures (SOPs) for dealing with cardiac and
      non-cardiac incidental findings, respectively will be followed. Participants will not be
      informed of incidental findings on the day and will only be contacted after they have been
      formally reviewed and if a concern remains that further investigation is required.

      Discontinuation or withdrawal of participants from the study

      Each participant will have the right to withdraw from the study at any time. In addition,
      participation in the study may be discontinued at any time if the Investigator considers it
      necessary for any reason, including but not limited to: Pregnancy, ineligibility (either
      arising during the study or retrospectively, having been overlooked at screening), a
      significant protocol deviation, significant non-compliance with the exercise regimen or other
      study requirements, withdrawal of consent, and loss to follow-up. Data gathered to that point
      will be included in the analysis under an intention-to-treat principle. Where possible,
      further recruitment will be carried out to compensate for data loss resulting from early
      discontinuation of participation. The reason for all withdrawals will be recorded in the Case
      Report Form.

      Confounding Factors

      The exercise intervention RCT will be carried out over 8 weeks. The MRI scan operator will be
      blinded to RCT group allocations and all analyses will be carried out on anonymised data.
      Confounding factors in the observational part of the study will be addressed by matching of
      groups for age, sex, pubertal status and by matching the normal-weight sedentary group on
      activity level with the obese group. Questionnaires on cardiometabolic risk factors such as
      diet and sedentary behaviour will be used to quantify potential confounders. At least 24
      hours prior to study visits, participants will be asked to avoid strenuous exercise, not
      smoke or drink alcohol, and eat a standardised evening meal before fasting in the morning.

      Analysis

      Analyses in the RCT will be carried out on an "intention-to-treat" basis. Secondary
      exploratory analysis will be to explore mechanisms
    
  