
    
      Respiratory complications are very frequent, especially in the sub-acute phase following a
      spinal cord injury and must be treated to avoid even very serious outcomes. In the patient
      with a complete cervical spinal cord injury (and therefore tetraplegic, from a motor
      perspective), the lungs often become obstructed due to the accumulation of secretions and the
      contemporary inefficiency of the physiological mechanism of the cough. Various methods for
      bronchial clearance are known, but when the patient is tracheotomized and the secretions
      accumulate in the deepest part of the lung, nowadays the only described method available to
      mobilize such secretions and allow more efficient respiratory exchanges is based on the
      principle of Percussive Intrapulmonary Ventilation (IPV). It requires a special device,
      equipped with a pneumatic air generator, connected to the tracheal cannula. Such treatment
      needs the assistance of highly trained and expert operators, moreover IPV is a quite complex
      and expensive technique which has to be applied in a prudential manner in such tetraplegic
      patients, especially because they show significant hemodynamic instability in the
      acute/sub-acute phase after the spinal cord lesion.

      The principle of Positive Expiratory Pressure (PEP) is already known for its efficacy in the
      secretions' clearance of the lower respiratory airways in other pathological conditions.
      However, in its classic modalities, it requires the preservation of the functionality of the
      respiratory muscles. To circumvent this limit in tetraplegic and tracheotomized patients, a
      respiratory physiotherapeutic procedure called "T-PEP" has been developed at the Montecatone
      Rehabilitation Institute. Such method is conceptually simple and low cost, it requires the
      manual assistance of a trained physiotherapist and the use of some components of common use
      in the clinical practice of Critical Care Units.

      The present pilot randomized controlled trial aims at comparing the T-PEP and IPV methods,
      assigned to 2 parallel arms (1:1 allocation ratio), in the context of the Critical Care Unit
      of the Montecatone Rehabilitation Institute hospital, in sub-acute, tetraplegic,
      tracheotomized, mechanically ventilated, spinal cord injured patients. The trial covers
      safety and efficacy issues; cognitive performances are also addressed.
    
  