
    
      Control of thyroid hormone homeostasis is essential for function and development of the
      organism and hence for individual health. It is therefore not surprising that the thyroid's
      function is controlled by a complex, multi-loop feedback control system.

      Today, the central component of the thyrotropic feedback control system is still poorly
      understood on a physiological level. Therefore, in mathematical models different functional
      relations describing the feedback-inhibition of thyrotropin incretion by thyroid hormones
      have been suggested [Danziger and Elmergreen 1956, Roston 1959, Norwich and Reiter 1965,
      DiStefano and Stear 1968, DiStefano 1969, Saratchandran et al. 1973, Li et al. 1995, Dietrich
      et al. 2004, Degon et al. 2008, Jonklaas and Soldin 2008, Hörmann et al. 2010]. Most of these
      models fail in delivering biochemical explanations for the functional interrelations they
      postulate.

      Nevertheless, some clinical applications of these models have been developed, although their
      diagnostical potential is usually rather limited [Yagi et al. 1997, Pohlenz et al. 1999,
      Jostel et al. 2009].

      Assuming that the pituitary's response to peripheral thyroid hormones is determined by active
      transmembrane thyroxine transport mechanisms [Dietrich et al. 2008], intracellular
      deiodination of thyroxine (T4), binding of resulting triiodothyronine (T3) to iodothyronine
      receptors and, finally, their inhibiting effect on mRNA expression, translation and release
      of TRH, a novel, physiologically motivated model has been developed that is based on
      compartment-analytical approaches, Michaelis-Menten kinetics and non competitive divisive
      inhibition [Dietrich et al 2004]. However, this model has not been sufficiently evaluated in
      a clinical context.

      It is the aim of the NOMOTHETICOS study to deliver new systems-level insights into the
      pituitary's thyrotropic function. This unicentric cross-sectional study compares different
      models of feedback-inhibition by means of modern statistical methods like nonlinear
      regression and Akaike information criterion. Structural parameters are obtained in vivo from
      open-loop analysis in patients with disconnected feedback in equilibrium.

      These parameters can serve as theoretical basis for possible future trials developing
      advanced diagnostical evaluation methods of thyrotropic pituitary function.
    
  