
    
      Cerebral Palsy(CP) is a lifelong disability and 65-90% of these individuals have a normal
      lifespan. A multidisciplinary team approach is needed to evaluate and treat individuals with
      CP. This team varies according to the age, developmental level, severity of functional
      independence and participation in the society. However, according to the needs and dependency
      levels of individuals as well as team members, the family is at the center of the lives of
      these teams and their children. Depending on the limitations of their physical abilities,
      individuals with CP may need help from others in daily living activities (toilet, bath,
      mobilization, eating), although their limitations vary according to their clinical types.
      Therefore, CP can affect the lives of all family members. Today, it is known that especially
      the parents of individuals with CP experience widespread anxiety, financial problems,
      time-related pressures, and social-cultural activities. While some families adapt well,
      others may have difficulty coping and making various adjustments. This results in parents'
      life satisfaction, poor quality and deterioration of personal well-being. As a result of a
      study examining the quality of life; the importance of evaluating caregivers with reduced
      quality of life, potentially having physical, psychological or social problems. One of the
      effective ways of coping with the disabilities of a child with CP is to consider primary
      caregivers, especially mothers. Therefore, assessment of caregivers' responsibilities and
      their impact on health is a fundamental requirement of long-term care programs for children
      with disabilities. Paying special attention to caregivers can be achieved by using specific
      tools that determine their needs and, together with all family members, not only improve the
      quality of life of the child, but also accelerate the treatment of the child (9). It is
      necessary to assess the responsibilities of care in order to provide access to the necessary
      facilities by providing good support to the caregivers. This can only be achieved by having
      an appropriate scale of caregiver responsibilities (9). The use of questionnaires to assess
      caregivers is most common in developed countries. When the literature is examined, the scale
      called 'Caregiver Difficulties Scale (CDS) en which evaluates the responsibilities of the
      caregivers of the individuals with CP and covers the responsibilities in every aspect (10). A
      Turkish validity and reliability study of several questionnaires evaluating children with CP
      was conducted in Turkey (11). However, there is only one scale for Turkish validity and
      reliability studies on parental involvement (11). The aim of this study is to determine
      whether the Caregiver Difficulties Scale (CDS) is a valid and reliable tool by cultural
      adaptation.
    
  