
    
      An online survey will be used to assess outcomes in conservative and surgical therapies used
      for carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) in patients with a diagnosis of inherited neuropathy such as
      CMT or HNPP (Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease and Hereditary Neuropathy with liability to Pressure
      Palsies respectively). HNPP is an inherited neuropathy which is allelic to CMT1A. This
      patient reported outcome measurement will also assess symptom severity and functional status
      related to carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) in various types of patients with inherited
      neuropathy.

      The survey incorporates two validated questionnaires for the evaluation of outcomes related
      to carpal tunnel syndrome. The Boston Carpal Tunnel Questionnaire (BCTQ) is very specific to
      carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). The Disability of Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire
      is less specific for CTS but has been shown to have equal validity in the assessment of
      outcomes in CTS. The relative non-specificity of DASH for CTS can be useful in assessing the
      possible contribution of CMT to the overall upper extremity symptom severity and functional
      outcome. Data collected from participants with a diagnosis or therapies for CTS can be
      compared to data collected from participants with no diagnosis or therapies for CTS.

      Furthermore, the study will incorporate components from the CMTNS to assess the extent of CMT
      disease in the participants.

      It is proposed that a retrospective analysis of patients with CMT who have symptoms in the
      upper extremities suggestive of carpal tunnel syndrome. Two validated questionnaires
      exploring changes in symptoms and functional status (BCTQ and DASH) can be used in evaluating
      outcomes of patients with reported symptoms or diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome.

      The Boston Carpal Tunnel Questionnaire (BCTQ) is a 19 item scale which was developed
      specifically for carpal tunnel syndrome and consists of 11 questions to assess symptom
      severity and 8 questions to assess functional status. BCTQ has established test-retest
      reliability with a good Pearson's correlation of scores on re-test (0.91 for the symptoms
      severity component and 0.93 for the functional status component of the test). High internal
      consistency has also been reported for the BCTQ (0.88-9.92). Convergent validity has been
      demonstrated with high correlation between pre- and postoperative BCTQ scores and physical
      measures such as grip, key pinch and three-jaw pinch. Responsiveness of the BCTQ after carpal
      tunnel surgery has been demonstrated in randomized clinical trial settings. BCTQ has also
      been reported to be 2-4 times more responsive to clinical improvement in comparison to
      measures of neuromuscular impairment. High response rates have been reported with BCTQ with
      80-93% at 6-12 weeks follow-up and between 67-93% at 6-12 months follow-up after carpal
      tunnel release. Response rates remained high at 85% at 2 years follow-up. Mailed follow-up
      response rate of 69% has been reported with a mean follow-up of 4.8 years. The mean time to
      complete BCTQ has been reported to be 5.6 minutes. There is no data to indicate the precision
      of BCTQ in relation to carpal tunnel syndrome.

      The Disability of Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire is a 30 item scale which
      assesses symptoms and physical function. This questionnaire is not specific for carpal tunnel
      and can be used for a variety of disorders affecting the upper limb. DASH is intended to
      measure disability through an emphasis on upper extremity activity. The test-retest
      reliability of DASH has been demonstrated with a Pearson's 8 correlation of 0.9 in a group of
      patients with carpal tunnel syndrome.

      The validity of DASH was demonstrated through correlation with BCTQ. Pre- and postoperative
      DASH scores also correlate with physical measures such as grip, key pinch and three-jaw
      pinch. Responsiveness through improved DASH scores has been demonstrated at three and six
      months post-surgery follow-up. BCTQ was found to be more responsive to DASH for carpal tunnel
      syndrome. Postal mail response rates have been shown to be 80-93% at 6-12 weeks and 66-98% at
      6 months after carpal tunnel release. The mean time to complete DASH is reported to be 6.8
      minutes. There is no data to indicate the precision of DASH in relation to carpal tunnel
      syndrome.

      The survey data will be stored by the Rare Diseases Clinical Research Network's Data
      Management and Coordinating Center (DMCC) at the University of South Florida. Names or other
      personal health information will not be collected. Upon conclusion of the study period, the
      data will be sent to Dr. Michael Shy, principal investigator of the Inherited Neuropathies
      Consortium. Deidentified data will be sent to the database of Genotypes and Phenotypes
      (dbGaP).
    
  