
    
      Part 1: IV Screening Twenty subjects with chronic SCI (>1 year) and difficulty with
      evacuation (DWE) managed by a regular, thrice weekly BC routines will be recruited for study
      participation. In order to determine eligibility for the study, the subject will have to
      undergo an IV screening to test whether or not they are responsive to the drug treatment
      (neostigmine-glycopyrrolate). If the subject responds (bowel movement) to the IV treatment,
      they will be allowed to continue on to part 2 of the study. If patient does not have a
      successful bowel movement, then they will be considered a non-responder and study
      participation will be discontinued.

      Part 2: Baseline and Dose Titration Once eligibility has been determined, and subject consent
      has been obtained, each subject will undergo 1 week of baseline observation after admission.
      An abdominal x-ray (KUB) will be performed, the SCI Bowel Survey and Treatment Satisfaction
      Questionnaire (TSQM) will be administered, and the subject's weight determined. Each subject
      will continue with regular bowel care as an inpatient, and after 1 week, all of the baseline
      measurements (KUB, weight and surveys) will be repeated. This will be followed by a 2 visit-
      dose titration study of concomitantly administered, transcutaneous neostigmine methylsulfate
      (NEO) and glycopyrrolate (GLY). Each visit will be scheduled on a BC day. All procedures will
      take place in the "Blue Room" located in the SCI inpatient ward. Subjects will be prone
      throughout the duration of the study, in a stretcher routinely used during bowel care. As
      part of the setup, subjects will be instrumented with blood pressure cuff; intravenous access
      will be obtained at a peripheral vein (if one is not available), as a precautionary measure,
      since the drug will be administered via an Iontophoresis transdermal patch. Heart rate will
      be continuously monitored throughout the procedure through finger oximetry. Symptoms will be
      assessed every 5 minutes for the first 30 minutes, and then at 1 hour post drug
      administration. Once the subject has a positive response to one of the two doses, or the
      higher dose has been performed, the dose titration will be stopped. If the subject has a
      positive response (bowel movement within 60 minutes of drug administration) he/she will be
      eligible to continue to the third study phase. If the subject does not respond to either
      dose, the subject will be considered a non-responder and study participation will be
      discontinued. We expect that about 1/3rd of the subjects will be non-responders, or will be
      lost to attrition; therefore, we are prepared to over-recruit by 5 subjects in order to
      ensure that at least 15 subjects will be eligible to complete the second part of the study.

      The study will be stopped once the patient experiences a bowel movement within 30 minutes of
      administering ION NEO because the protocol objective will have been achieved. If the patient
      should experience cardiopulmonary side effects when receiving the ION NEO on the lower doses
      that are not effectively reversed by the ION GLY, the study will be stopped. In addition, the
      study investigators reserve the right to stop the study should they have any other safety
      concerns.

      Part 3: 2 Week Treatment Each subject will be assessed for their perception of their current
      BC routine using the Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication (TSQM-Appendix 1),
      and their bowel habits using the bowel survey (Appendix 2).The subject will then be asked to
      continue with their normal BC routine for two weeks during their inpatient stay, with the
      exception that NEO and GLY will be administered at the beginning of each BC session as an
      adjunct to each subject's normal routine. Each BC session will be documented by a study team
      member including the time needed to complete BC, methods used (i.e. number of enemas used,
      oral laxatives, suppositories, digital stimulation, abdominal massage) and the quality and
      completeness of the bowel movement. Heart rate, oxygenation and blood pressure will be
      monitored continuously. Subjects will be weighed at baseline, once after each week of
      treatment and once at the post treatment follow-up visit. After two weeks of treatment, each
      subject will undergo a final KUB and be reassessed for their perception of the BC routine for
      the past two weeks using the TSQM and their bowel habits (bowel survey).
    
  