
    
      Hidradenitis suppurativa is a disorder of unknown etiology. Various hypotheses have
      implicated obesity, diabetes mellitus, genetic predisposition and tight clothing as probable
      contributing factors. Although patients are presenting with suppuration of their lesions,
      typical furuncles are absent (1). Administration of antibiotics offers transient relief of
      symptoms whereas therapies like androgens, isotretinoin and methotrexate have failed to
      disclose clinical benefit (2).

      More than thirty out-patients with hidradenitis suppurativa are followed up at the clinic of
      the "Immunology of Infectious Diseases" of the ATTIKON University Hospital of Athens. None of
      them is presenting with diabetes mellitus and their CD4 cell counts are within normal limits.
      However, their testing for the function of monocytes is often abnormal. This test involves
      the isolation of monocytes and the ex vivo release of pro-inflammatory cytokines both without
      and after stimulation by bacterial endotoxins and lipoteichoic acid. Results have shown an
      increased baseline secretion and poor response of monocytes after stimulation.

      Case reports with limited number of patients have disclosed clinical benefit of an other
      anti-TNF drug (infliximab) after one or two doses administration in hidradenitis suppurativa.
      These reports involve retrospective results of five patients (3) or single cases (4,5). The
      rationale of the administration of etanercept in hidradenitis suppurativa is based on the
      following data: a) etanercept has been proven effective for the management of psoriasis that
      is considered a skin disorder with autoimmune background (6); and b) laboratory findings of
      our patients with hidradenitis suppurativa point towards an altered immune response of their
      adaptive immunity (7).

      Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is a dominant cytokine in the inflammatory process of rheumatoid
      arthritis. Elevated levels of TNF are also found in the synovium of patients with psoriatic
      arthritis. Etanercept is a competitive inhibitor of TNF-binding to its cell surface receptors
      and thereby inhibits the biological activity of TNF. TNF and lymphotoxin are pro-inflammatory
      cytokines that bind to two distinct cell surface receptors: the 55-kilodalton (p55) and
      75-kilodalton (p75) tumor necrosis factor receptors (TNFRs). Both TNFRs exist naturally in
      membrane-bound and soluble forms. Soluble TNFRs are thought to regulate TNF biological
      activity.

      TNF and lymphotoxin exist predominantly as homotrimers, with their biological activity
      dependent on cross-linking of cell surface TNFRs. Dimeric soluble receptors such as
      etanercept possess a higher affinity for TNF than monomeric receptors and are considerably
      more potent competitive inhibitors of TNF binding to its cellular receptors. In addition, use
      of an immunoglobulin Fc region as a fusion element in the construction of a dimeric receptor
      imparts a longer serum half-life.

      OBJECTIVE

      The objective of this study is to clarify the potency of etanercept for the therapy of
      hidradenitis suppurativa.

      RATIONALE

      The rationale of the protocol is based on the reported beneficiary results of case-patients
      by the administration of other anti-TNF drug (infliximab) in separate cases on the grounds of
      a probable autoimmune predisposition of the disease.
    
  