
    
      1. INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE Pheochromocytoma (PCC) is a rare but clinically important
           catecholamine secreting neuro-endocrine tumour that typically arises from the adrenal
           gland. In addition, this neuro-endocrine tumour can also originate from chromaffin cells
           in sympathetic ganglia(1)(2). In this protocol, PCC refers to both adrenal and
           extra-adrenal chromaffin tumours with hypersecretion of catecholamines (i.e.
           norepinephrine and/or epinephrine). The annual incidence rate in the US population has
           been estimated to be 1-2 cases per 100,000 adult individuals (3). Data on the incidence
           and prevalence of PCC in the Netherlands have not been published. Based on the Dutch
           registry of pathology diagnoses (PALGA), we found an incidence of 117 cases of PCC in
           the year 2007 (unpublished observation).

           PCCs may occur as part of an autosomal dominant inherited tumor syndrome, caused by
           germline mutations in the RET proto-oncogene (Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia type 2
           syndrome), VHL gene (von Hippel-Lindau disease), NF1 gene (Neurofibromatosis type 1), or
           in one of the genes encoding the subunits of mitochondrial complex II, also called
           succinate dehydrogenase (SDHB, SDHC, SDHD)(4). PCCs are termed 'sporadic' when the
           family history for PCC is negative. Overall, about 25% of all PCC patients harbour a
           germline mutation. Notably, germline mutations in one of the PCC susceptibility genes
           may also be present in a significant number of patients with a sporadic PCC, with
           mutation rates varying between 7.5 - 14.6% in the populations studied(5-7). Therefore,
           genetic testing is recommended in all patients with PCC(7). Very recently, a new PCC
           susceptibility gene has been described, and it seems likely that future research will
           result in the discovery of other genetic mutations associated with PCC(8).

           PCC constitutes a surgically curable cause of hypertension. Hypertension in patients
           with PCC can be either persistent or paroxysmal, but is absent in a minority of
           patients. It is a potentially life-threatening disease with a high risk for
           cardiovascular complications such as myocardial infarction, arrhythmias, cardiomyopathy,
           stroke and pulmonary edema(1). The clinical picture results from release of
           catecholamines by the tumour. This release can be evoked by stimuli that would normally
           not pose a hazard, such as surgery or general anaesthesia. Thus, preoperative treatment
           with alpha-adrenoceptor antagonists is usually recommended for prevention of these
           serious and potentially fatal complications(9). In one of the largest surgical series
           reported so far, perioperative mortality and morbidity were 2.4% and 23.6%,
           respectively(10).

           According to the literature, about 10% of the patients with PCC are normotensive(1). A
           normal blood pressure at diagnosis is relatively frequent among carriers of one the
           aforementioned germline mutations, as these individuals are subjected to periodic
           biochemical screening for the presence of PCC. It has been demonstrated that
           intraoperative hemodynamic instability during adrenalectomy for PCC occurred to the same
           extent in MEN2a patients (most of whom were normotensive) as in patients without MEN2a
           (most of whom were hypertensive)(11). Thus, preoperative treatment with alpha
           -adrenoceptor antagonists is also recommended for normotensive patients with PCC (9,11),
           Historically, the noncompetitive and nonselective alpha -adrenoceptor antagonist
           phenoxybenzamine has been the drug of choice(12). Alternatively, doxazosin - a
           competitive and selective alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist - might be at least as
           effective asphenoxybenzamine with fewer side effects. Notably, it has been suggested
           that doxazosin results in a significant and clinically relevant reduction of
           postoperative hypotension(13). Severe postoperative hypotension necessitates admission
           to the intensive care unit (ICU), where volume resuscitation and norepinephrine are
           administered under strict monitoring of hemodynamics. Data on the optimal preoperative
           pharmacological management of patients with PCC are conflicting. For example, a recent
           study reported comparable effects of phenoxybenzamine and doxazosin on intraoperative
           hemodynamic control(14).This study, however, was retrospective in design and therefore
           affected by several confounding factors such as lack of randomisation, non-standardised
           intraoperative care, and use of historical controls. Until now, prospective randomised
           controlled trials comparing phenoxybenzamine and doxazosin have not been conducted.
           Thus, the preoperative drug therapy of choice remains an unresolved issue, and at a
           recent international PCC symposium it was concluded that no specific recommendations can
           be made on this subject(9). We performed a survey among all university medical centers
           in the Netherlands, showing that almost half of the centers prescribed phenoxybenzamine,
           whereas the other centers used doxazosine as the preoperative drug of choice for
           patients with PCC(15). Usually, these drugs are administered during 2-3 weeks before
           surgery. This preoperative medical preparation takes place either in the outpatient or
           inpatient clinic, depending on patient-related factors (e.g. disease severity,
           geographical considerations) and local experience.

           Preoperative volume expansion is recommended in all patients with PCC(9). The rationale
           behind this recommendation is based on the notion that PCC is associated with a
           decreased intravascular volume, which is restored under influence of treatment with
           alpha -adrenoceptor antagonists. Without administration of volume expansion severe
           hypotension might ensue. Therefore, it is common practice to advise a liberal salt
           intake during alpha -adrenoceptor antagonist therapy and to administer a saline infusion
           (e.g. 2L NaCL 0.9% in 24 hours) shortly before surgery(9,15).

           Several drugs, including certain anaesthetics, may evoke an uncontrolled catecholamine
           release with resulting severe hemodynamic instability(16). Patients are advised to carry
           a document enlisting all medications which are contra-indicated in case of a PCC. There
           is no consensus on the optimal anaesthetic management during resection of a PCC, as
           randomised controlled trials on this subject are not available(16,17). In a survey on
           the anaesthetic management of PCC in the Netherlands, we found as many different
           protocols as the number of hospitals (=10) which had responded (including all university
           medical centers; unpublished observation).

           PRESCRIPT represents the first randomised controlled trial comparing the effects of
           pretreatment with either phenoxybenzamine or doxazosin on the intraoperative hemodynamic
           control in patients with PCC. The relevance of conducting a trial as described in this
           study protocol was recently expressed again by experts in the field of PCC research(18).
           In addition, PRESCRIPT provides a unique opportunity to prospectively collect data
           containing detailed information on items such as presenting symptoms and signs,
           perioperative outcome and results of biochemical, imaging and genetic studies in
           patients with PCC. Of interest, results of this study are expected to have a direct
           impact on national and international guidelines regarding the perioperative care of
           patients with PCC.

        2. OBJECTIVES Primary Objective: The primary objective is to determine which of two
           commonly used drugs for preoperative management provides the best intraoperative
           hemodynamic control in patients undergoing resection of a PCC.

           Secondary Objective(s):

             -  to identify other determinants of intraoperative hemodynamic control. Potential
                determinants are: gender or age of the patient, clinical setting for preoperative
                management (i.e. outpatient or inpatient clinic), preoperative levels, of
                catecholamines or N-terminal pro-brain-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) PCC
                size, sporadic or hereditary PCC,

             -  to describe prospectively symptoms and signs of PCC in a large cohort of patients.
                Note: until now, data on symptoms and signs have been described retrospectively

             -  to describe prospectively the results of several diagnostic techniques

             -  to assess prospectively the distribution of sporadic and hereditary PCC in a large
                cohort of Dutch patients

             -  to build a biobank with blood and tissue samples for future studies on PCC

        3. STUDY DESIGN Randomised open-label controlled trial.
    
  