
    
      Sunitinib malate is designed to block pathways that control important events such as the
      growth of blood vessels that are essential for the growth of cancer. Hormonal treatment is
      used to lower testosterone levels in the body because prostate cancer cells need testosterone
      to survive.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests." These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this
      study. Your complete medical history will be recorded. You will have a physical exam,
      including measurement of vital signs (blood pressure, pulse, temperature, and weight). Blood
      (about 2 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests. You will have a
      computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan, a bone scan, or a
      chest x-ray to evaluate the status of your disease. You will be asked about any medications
      or treatments you are currently taking. You will have an electrocardiogram (ECG - a test that
      measures the electrical activity of the heart) and an echocardiogram. An echocardiogram uses
      sound waves to make pictures of your heart, which helps show how well your heart pumps blood.
      You will be asked to lie on your left side while a technician places a probe with gel on your
      chest to create images of your heart to determine the function and size. Your ability to
      perform daily activities will also be evaluated. You will have a bone marrow aspirate and
      biopsy. To collect a bone marrow aspirate and biopsy, an area of the hip or chest bone is
      numbed with anesthetic, and a small amount of bone marrow and bone is withdrawn through a
      large needle.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take the sunitinib
      malate by mouth 1 time a day for 30 days together with hormonal ablation therapy. You will
      receive hormone injections to lower the levels of testosterone in the blood. Hormonal therapy
      may be given either monthly for 3 months or in a single 3-month dose. Every 30 days is
      considered a study "cycle." You may receive up to 3 cycles of treatment.

      On Day 1 of each cycle, you will have a physical exam and you will be asked about your
      medical history. Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests. You will be asked
      about any medications you have taken and any side effects you may have experienced. You will
      be asked questions about your ability to perform daily activities (performance status
      evaluation.)

      On Day 15 of Cycle 1, you will be asked about any side effects you have experienced. Blood
      (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine testing.

      After completing 3 cycles of treatment, you will have surgery to remove your prostate. The
      surgery will occur 1-2 weeks after you receive the last dose of study drug.

      After the last dose of the study drug, you will have a follow-up visit. You will be asked
      about any side effects you are experiencing and you will have a physical exam. You will also
      have digital rectal exam. Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests. You will
      also have an echocardiogram. An echocardiogram uses sound waves to make pictures of your
      heart, which helps show how well your heart pumps blood. You will be asked to lie on your
      left side while a technician places a probe with gel on your chest to create images of your
      heart to determine the function and size.

      You will have a follow-up visit, 28 days after you stop treatment. You will have a physical
      exam and your complete medical history will be recorded. Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be
      drawn for routine tests. You will be asked about any medications you have taken and any side
      effects you may have experienced. You will have a performance status evaluation. You will
      have an echocardiogram if it was abnormal at your last visit.

      About 3 months after your surgery, you will return for another follow-up visit. You will have
      a physical exam and your complete medical history will be recorded. Blood (about 2 teaspoons)
      will be drawn for routine tests. You will have a performance status evaluation.

      For the first year after surgery you will have a prostate specific antigen (PSA) blood test
      every 3 months. Two (2) years after surgery you will begin having PSA tests every 6 months.

      This is an investigational study. Sunitinib malate has been authorized by the FDA for
      research purposes only. About 64 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled
      at M. D. Anderson.
    
  