
    
      Aortic valve disease is the most common valvular heart disease with approximately 200,000
      patients per year undergoing conventional aortic valve replacement in North America and
      Europe. Around 60% of valves have Aortic Stenosis (AS) and 40% of have Aortic Insufficiency,
      which is the failure of the aortic valve to close completely during diastole, causing blood
      to flow from the aorta back into the left ventricle. Bicuspid valve morphology is present in
      a fourth to a third of patients coming to surgical intervention, and constitutes a very
      important subset. Several conditions are associated with bicuspid disease, including
      ascending aortic or root aneurysms in up to a third.

      Traditional management of aortic valve and root disease has been with aortic valve
      replacement, with or without root replacement (Bentall Procedure). However, as has been
      observed in patients with mitral valve repair, the option of maintaining one's reconstructed
      native valve versus a replacement, either bioprosthetic or mechanical, can have multiple
      benefits. The advantages of repair include: the avoidance of prosthetic valve related
      complications and structural degeneration with bioprosthetic valves over 10-15 years and
      elimination of the need for anticoagulation and related problems with mechanical valves in
      younger patients. The significantly lower rate of endocarditis after repair is a major
      impetus to increasing performance of BAV reconstruction. Thus, aortic valve repair currently
      is established as an excellent option for patients with BAV. However, with connective tissue
      disorders being an inherent feature of BAV, outcomes have been less stable long-term than for
      trileaflet repair, primarily because of late annular redilatation in BAV disease.

      Therefore, this study is designed to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of annular
      stabilization with a bicuspid annuloplasty ring in patients undergoing repair of a bicuspid
      aortic valve for predominant aortic insufficiency.
    
  