
    
      Previous studies have reported the high prevalence of hypertensive (HT) urgency. However,
      these studies have also reported low rates of serious complications, suggesting that rapid
      blood pressure (BP) reduction may be unnecessary. There are limited clinical data available
      on this topic in Asian populations. The investigators aimed to determine the basic
      characteristics, treatment methods, and outcomes in HT urgency patients, both in the
      emergency room (ER) and at a two-week follow-up.

      This was a cohort study conducted at Srinagarind hospital, a tertiary-care level university
      hospital in Khon Kaen, Thailand. The data collection period was from January 2012 to June
      2017. The Khon Kaen University Ethics Committee in Human Research approved the protocol.
      Patients aged 18 years or older who visited the ER with a diagnosis of HT urgency were
      consecutively enrolled in the study. Patients who were pregnant or lactating had secondary
      causes of HT, or had incomplete medical records were excluded from the study Office BP was
      measured using an upper arm cuff oscillometric BP device. The appropriate cuff size for each
      individual's arm circumference was used. Three BP readings were taken at 30-second intervals
      with the patient in a sitting position after five minutes of rest. The average of three BP
      measurements was used for analysis.

      Baseline characteristic data were shown as the mean and standard deviation (SD) or
      percentage. An independent sample t-test was used to compare between groups for continuous
      variables including age, body mass index (BMI), systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic
      blood pressure (DBP), mean arterial pressure (MAP), time of treatment, and the number of
      medications being administered. A probability value <0.05 was considered statistically
      significant. All statistical analyses were performed with SPSS for Mac version 20.0,
      registered to Khon Kaen University.
    
  