
    
      This is a Phase 1, open-label, multicenter, two-part, dose-finding, dose-escalation study.

      The study is divided into two parts:

      Part 1

      Up to five sequential dose cohorts will enroll a maximum of 6 patients each. Escalation of
      the pralatrexate dose, after CHOP administration (Fol-CHOP), will continue in a traditional
      3+3 design, until determination of the MTD. If the MTD is not reached, the Maximum
      Administered Dose (MAD) of pralatrexate in combination with CHOP will be 30 mg/m2 IV on Days
      1 and 8 of each 21-day cycle for up to 6 cycles.

      The first cohort will begin with three patients with dose A and CHOP at full dose. If none of
      the first three patients experiences a Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT), the next three patients
      will be enrolled in next higher dose cohort. If one of the first three patients in the first
      cohort experiences DLTs, an additional three patients will be enrolled into that cohort. If 2
      or 3 of the first 3 patients experience DLTs, then the MTD is not found.

      For cohorts 2, 3, 4, and 5, If none of the first three patients experiences a DLT, the next
      three patients will be enrolled in next higher dose cohort. If one of the first three
      patients in the first cohort experiences DLTs, an additional three patients will be enrolled
      into that cohort. If 2 or 3 of the first 3 patients experience DLTs, then the previous cohort
      will be considered the MTD and up to an additional 10 patients will be enrolled at that dose
      in Part 2 of the study.

      Part 2

      Once the MTD for the Fol-CHOP regimen has been established in Part 1 of the study, an
      additional 10 patients will be treated at the MTD (or MAD if MTD not reached) to confirm
      tolerability. Additionally, the PK of the established MTD of pralatrexate, when administered
      with CHOP at full dose, will be evaluated in these 10 patients.
    
  