
    
      The purpose of this study is to assess the effect of Interactive Guidance Therapy with video
      feed back (IGT) of parent and child with Autism Spectrum Disorder, under three years of age,
      using a Single Case Experimental Design.

      Early Interventions in Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) undergo a major development. The
      investigators identify three generations of early support: 1) Behavioral studies ; 2) Early
      Intensive Behavioral Interventions (EIBI), inspired by ABA, focused on targeted ASD disorders
      3) Naturalistic Behavioral Developmental Behavioral Interventions (NDBI), more ecological,
      focused on the child's skills.

      Among them, methods of video feedback target parental sensitivity (identification,
      interpretation, response, contingency and synchrony). The VIPP (Video Interactive Positive
      Parenting) in children less than one year of age, has shown moderate and long term effects on
      parent-child interaction. The PACT (Preschool Autism Communication Trial) showed immediate
      and in the long term effects on the synchronization of the parental response, the child
      initiation, less importantly on the joint attention, and on the autistic symptoms. The dyadic
      communication allows for changes in autistic symptoms.

      Interactive guidance is a brief video-feedback therapy, based on the analysis of "the here
      and now" with the parent (s), of videotaped interactions with their child. The objective is
      to strengthen parental skills, their sensitivity, their ability to decipher and respond to
      the specific needs of their child.

      The interest of IGT in the field of ASD, compared to VIPP and PACT, is to offer a
      standardized feedback intervention adapted to each dyad, according to the child's and parents
      skills and difficulties, structured on the "here and now" more than on a predetermined
      sequence of goals.

      The investigators use the Single Case Experimental Design (SCED) with multiple baseline
      across subjects, multicentric, randomized, with multiple replications, blinded scored.

      They expect

        -  to improve the interactive and communicative basic skills of the child, soon after the
           ASD diagnosis, by accompanying the parents in the identification and understanding of
           their child's disorders.

        -  to propose a method highlighting parental skills, in a collaborative and pleasant way

        -  To increase the parental alliance in the implementation of a tailored intervention for
           the child

        -  To facilitate access to healthcare and reduce the parental wandering in the
           implementation of intervention
    
  