
    
      Rapid progression of liver disease to liver failure has been observed in people coinfected
      with HIV and HCV. This observation appears to be directly related to an increase in the rate
      of fibrotic progression in the liver compared to people infected with HCV alone. PEG-IFN and
      ribavirin are used in standard treatment of HCV. This study tested the effectiveness of using
      PEG-IFN in reducing the rate of liver fibrosis progression in participants coinfected with
      HIV and HCV who could not lower their HCV viral load to undetectable or who could not
      maintain their HCV viral load at undetectable on PEG-IFN and ribavirin treatment.

      Participants entered Step 1 (initial run-in period) to receive 12 weeks of 180 mcg PEG-IFN
      subcutaneously once weekly plus 1 to 1.2 g/day ribavirin based on body weight. At week 12,
      HCV RNA testing was performed.

      Participants with early virologic response (EVR), defined as >=2 log10 drop in HCV RNA from
      baseline or undetectable HCV RNA (<600 IU/ml with quantitative assay used in Step 1) at Week
      12, who had tolerated Step 1 treatment, entered into Step 3 to continue receiving the Step 1
      treatment for a total of 72 weeks (Arm C). Participants who did not meet the criteria for
      entry into Step 3 were discontinued from the study. In Step 3, participants were followed for
      an additional 24 weeks after treatment discontinuation to determine sustained virologic
      response (SVR). Initially, Step 3 participants who had a detectable HCV viral load (>=60
      IU/ml with the qualitative assay used in Step 3) at Week 36 were eligible to enroll in Step
      2. After early closure of Step 2, such participants remained in Step 3 until study
      completion.

      Participants with <2 log10 drop in HCV RNA from baseline and detectable HCV RNA at Week 12
      (non-EVR) discontinued Step 1 treatment. Non-EVRs who met the Step 2 eligibility criteria,
      were enrolled in Step 2 and randomized to receive 180 mcg PEG-IFN subcutaneously weekly for
      72 weeks (Arm A) or observation for 72 weeks (Arm B). Participants who did not meet the
      criteria for entry into Step 2 were discontinued from the study. Step 2 of the study was
      closed prematurely in May 2007 due to lower than expected progression rates among the
      participants in the observation arm such that the primary objective could not be reached.
      There were no safety concerns.

      Liver biopsies were conducted at study screening, and at Step 2 entry and exit until the
      early closure of Step 2. Medical history assessment, physical exams, and blood collection
      were conducted every 4-12 weeks for participants in Steps 1, 2, and 3. Participants were
      followed for up to 18 weeks in Step 1, followed by a total of 72 in Step 2 or by up to a
      total of 84 weeks in Step 3.
    
  