
    
      The retinal vein occlusion (RVO) is the second most common retinal disease after diabetic
      retinopathy, and is a common cause of unilateral visual loss. The occlusion of a branch of
      the central retinal vein (BRVO) and central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) are two topics
      discussed and very deserving of further study, especially for the need of greater clarity
      arising from the availability of new diagnostic and especially therapeutic opportunities.

      The literature on the prevalence of RVO is not particularly rich, and the results of the
      available studies are very heterogeneous because such studies are conducted on a few cases,
      using different methodologies and are mainly characterized by a different distribution of
      risk factors among the different populations. In this regard, it was particularly interesting
      a publication of 2010 which proposed a combined analysis of the main study population
      (population based study).

      The sample of the final analysis was of 49 869 subjects, and the results showed that the
      retinal vein occlusion overall prevalence, standardized for age and sex, is 5.2 per 1000, of
      which 4.42 and 0.80 to BRVO and CRVO respectively. Despite the slightly higher prevalence in
      females, this difference wasn't statistically significant.

      In contrast, the prevalence of venous occlusion increases with increasing age in a
      statistically significant manner, both in the overall analysis of the occlusions of branch
      and central, that for the individual entities. This pattern is characteristic of chronic
      degenerative diseases and in fact the RVO has a behavior very similar to that of these
      diseases, probably because the risk factors (especially those such as atherosclerosis and
      systemic hypertension) increases with age.

      The results provided by these systematic analysis are particularly important because they
      provide a reliable estimate of RVO prevalence in general population; must be considered,
      however, the inherent limitations mainly concerning potential sources of heterogeneity, such
      as different methodologies used, the fact that most of the studies were carried out on a
      single ethnic group, often with different distribution of risk factors and therefore were not
      suitable to capture these differences.

      The risk factors predisposing to RVO are many and are generally the same as those found in
      vascular alterations involving other parts of the body as in the case of stroke or coronary
      heart disease. Several authors have attempted to determine whether the disease can be
      consequent to atherosclerosis and therefore caused by arterial disease rather than the
      pathogenesis of venous disease.

      There is a very variable delay between the onset of symptoms and initiation of treatment; the
      excessive delay of treatment was considered an exclusion criterion in only a minority of the
      studies considered. Although it is very difficult to estimate the age of the thrombotic
      event, early identification is surely preferable and the treatment time is a critical factor
      to evaluate the efficacy of a therapeutic strategy. Because of the relatively small number of
      patients is not possible to determine which therapy is more effective.

      Recently new experimental therapeutic approaches have been proposed, such as intravitreal
      administration of various drugs (steroids, anti-VEGF). It is not yet clear whether these
      approaches can eliminate the need for anticoagulant therapy during the acute phase of the
      disease. Surely antithrombotic drugs may have a role in the treatment of the acute phase of
      the RVO, at least in some categories of patients, and can be used in association with
      intravitreal drugs. Future studies should also explore the possibility of combined
      approaches. The retinal vein occlusion is a disease related to age and surely there will be
      an increase in social-economic impact of this disease due to the increase in population of
      the most advanced age group.

      To assess the social-economic impact should be considered in addition to visual impairment
      related to the disease, the impact on quality of life of the patient and the direct medical
      costs of retinal vein thrombosis have shown that in one year a patient with this disease has
      an average cost 20% higher than a hypertensive patient (BRVO: + 16%; CRVO: + 22%) or glaucoma
      ones (BRVO: + 18%; CRVO: + 24%); Therefore, although it is less frequent than the other
      diseases RVO affects considerably on health care costs. The data available in the literature
      show that in the overall one year management, direct costs that have the greatest impact, in
      percentage terms, are the costs associated with ocular pathology caused by acute event
      (thrombosis) and diagnostic tests. After three years, however, the cost is linked to systemic
      disease (hospitalization) has a bigger impact in percentage terms, as if to indicate that
      retinal vein thrombosis is nothing more than an epiphenomenon of systemic disease.

      Operating Modes The study will be divided into 4 phases: Step 1: establishment of the
      network: identification of specialized facilities (ophthalmic emergency care and thrombosis
      centers), which may accept patients with suspected RVO, which will participate in the
      establishment of the register online; Step 2: Create the registry and recruitment of patients
      cohort; Step 3: Follow-up planned (1 month) for instrumental tests to confirm the diagnosis
      of RVO; Step 4: Observational follow-up supported by dedicated web platform for the
      identification of major adverse cardiovascular events, in order to export in the context of
      clinical acquisitions epidemiological and disease management in real time.
    
  