
    
      Background JJA sting appears to be a dominant cause of insect sting anaphylaxis in the cooler
      areas of southern and eastern Australia where the native ant is prevalent. Immunotherapy for
      treatment of stinging insect anaphylaxis involves the administration of increasing doses of
      purified insect venom with the aim of inducing clinical tolerance, but also carrying the risk
      of allergic reactions to treatment. In a randomised double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial
      of JJA VIT7 we have shown JJA VIT to be highly effective at preventing JJA sting anaphylaxis,
      with an objective systemic sting reaction rate in those who were on maintenance JJA VIT < 5%
      vs 70% for those receiving placebo VIT. Real world experience in Tasmania has supported these
      findings with objective systemic reaction rates to sting challenges on 50 and 100 mcg
      maintenance doses respectively 14/130 and 12/126 subjects as against reaction rates to stings
      in similar subjects without JJA VIT of 70-76% in trial and epidemiological studies.

      Although JJA VIT is highly effective at preventing severe objective reactions to JJA stings,
      its applicability is limited by (1) venom availability with venom collected by venom sac
      dissection of ants harvested from wild nests with inherent WH&S risks; (2) venom costs, at $2
      per microgram of venom (3) as with honey bee VIT difficulties in a significant minority of
      subjects in achieving maintenance because of immediate generalised allergic reactions (4)
      prolonged therapy, generally 5 years or longer - for those in whom a previous sting reaction
      was immediately life-threatening, treatment continues indefinitely for as long as the risk of
      an accidental sting remains. An adjuvant that would facilitate the wanted immune response to
      JJA venom has the potential to reduce venom requirements and thereby reduce costs and
      increase availability of JJA VIT, reduce the number of hospital visits required and if the
      protective response can be achieved with lower doses of venom and/or earlier in therapy,
      reduce the number of systemic allergic reactions to JJA VIT.

      Inulin is a natural storage polysaccharide in some plants. It is approved around the world
      for intravenous human use in renal function studies and generally regarded as safe. Inulin
      exists in different polymorphic forms, and water suspensions of inulin particles in delta
      polymorphic form are potent adjuvants that preferentially induce IgG4 without the toxicity
      exhibited by other adjuvants and without increasing IgE production as occurs with traditional
      aluminum-based adjuvants. This effect is particularly important as one of the functions of
      VIT is to reduce IgE and increase IgG4, making inulin an ideal candidate vaccine adjuvant to
      be tested in combination with VIT. A cGMP product of delta-inulin adjuvant (Advax™) is
      supplied in Australia by Vaxine Pty Ltd (Flinders Medical Centre, Bedford Park, SA 5042) and
      is suitable for human use. Delta-inulin adjuvant (Advax) have successfully been tested in
      adult human subjects in combination with such antigens as Hepatitis B virus surface antigen
      and influenza haemagglutinin, with an excellent safety record and evidence of antigen
      dose-sparing, greater sero-protection and fewer systemic adverse effects. In the recently
      completed RAH-FMC trial of honey bee venom immunotherapy with and without delta inulin the
      addition of the adjuvant delta-inulin to honey bee venom vaccine has been shown in another
      study to promote a better immune response than the standard venom preparations.

      Study design The aim of this proposed study is to compare responses to in-hospital sting
      challenges and JJA venom specific lgE and IgG4 responses to semi-rush JJA VIT at doses of 25
      and 50 mcg of JJA venom, with and without delta-inulin adjuvant (Advax). Subjects will be
      randomised, ten to each arm, to receive semi-rush JJA VIT with or without delta-inulin (a
      fixed dose of 5 mg with each dose of venom) aiming to achieve a maintenance dose of JJA venom
      of 25 or 50 mcg. The study will be subject and observer blind because it is very difficult to
      mask from attending nursing staff the turbid appearance of the delta-inulin containing
      vaccines and we judge it unsafe to use opaque syringes. Furthermore, it is not appropriate to
      use a placebo that mimics the cloudy appearance of venom vaccine containing delta-inulin
      without first performing a trial on the placebo itself to ensure that it does not either
      positively or negatively influence the effect of the venom extract. In a previous study with
      256 sting challenges performed after 12 months JJA VIT, 50 mcg and 100 mcg of JJA venom
      appear to have similar efficacy as maintenance doses. In an attempt to give all participants
      a real possibility of some medium term protection, the study schedule has been designed such
      that, after effects of twelve months of maintenance injections have been assessed by sting
      challenges, all subjects in 25 mcg maintenance dose arms giving suboptimal responses in
      comparison to standard 50 mcg dose group will be offered conversion to the 50 mcg
      maintenance.

      Selection of subjects Subjects for this study will be recruited from the Royal Adelaide and
      Royal Hobart Hospitals. We plan to recruit a total of 40 patients to this study, half of whom
      (i.e. 20 subjects) will be recruited from the Royal Adelaide Hospital.

      As this is a Phase 1/2 study, no formal sample size estimation is normally required. The
      sample of 20 patients for the delta-inulin adjuvant preparation and 20 control subjects
      receiving standard venom therapy without adjuvant was chosen in order to provide adequate
      evaluation of the study endpoints.

      Randomisation Participants will be randomised in equal proportions to receive a top study
      dose 25 or 50 mcg of JJA venom with or without 5 mg delta-inulin adjuvant, that is four (4)
      study groups each of ten (10) subjects. Randomisation will be performed in real time, with
      all calls/emails regarding allocation to be logged to ensure adherence to allocation. Given
      the small patient numbers, we will use a randomisation table. Patients will also be
      stratified by site, with a target of 20 cases at each site.

      Treatment will be given by our established semi-rush regimen adapted for different target
      maintenance doses. Following this groups with modified doses will continue designated
      maintenance dose monthly to 12 months of maintenance VIT.

      Study measurements

        1. Adverse events during venom immunotherapy. Severe (hypersensitivity and
           non-hypersensitivity) reactions to JJA VIT, deaths and unexpected hospital admissions
           will require immediate notification to a Data Safety Monitor independent of the
           investigators.

        2. Laboratory studies

             1. Safety tests: At entry, on achieving maintenance and then only if clinically
                indicated. Full Blood Examination (FBE), C-reactive Protein (CRP), Urea and
                Electrolyte (U&E), Liver Function Test (LFT), Mast Cell Tryptase (MCT)

             2. Markers of venom delta-inulin immunogenicity and desensitisation: Sera for
                determination of specific IgE and IgG4 to JJA venom using ImmunoCAP assay will be
                taken at baseline, at attendance after reaching maintenance VIT, at attendance
                after 4th injection of maintenance dose; then at 12 months. Venom skin testing
                (VST) will be performed at the same timepoints.

        3. JJA in-hospital sting challenges - will be performed after 12 months tolerating the
           1-month maintenance interval, and one month after the last dose.
    
  