
    
      SCD is an inherited blood disorder. Symptoms include anemia, infections, organ damage, and
      intense episodes of pain, which are called "sickle cell crises." ACS is a life-threatening,
      lung-related complication of SCD that can lower the level of oxygen in the blood. Repeat
      occurrences of ACS can cause lung damage. It is the second most common cause of
      hospitalizations among people with SCD and accounts for more than 25% of premature deaths in
      people with SCD. Symptoms of ACS include fever, chest pain, cough, and breathing
      difficulties. ACS can appear suddenly and often requires immediate hospitalization and
      treatment, including antibiotics, supplemental oxygen, and blood transfusions. Previous
      studies have shown that dexamethasone, a type of steroid medication that blocks inflammation,
      can decrease hospitalization time for people with ACS; however, some participants in these
      earlier studies were re-hospitalized due to new sickle cell pain. Slowly decreasing the
      dosage of dexamethasone over a period of time may decrease the chance that new sickle cell
      pain will occur. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a
      dexamethasone regimen that includes a gradual dose reduction at decreasing hospitalization
      and recovery time in people with SCD and ACS.

      This study will enroll people with SCD who are hospitalized and have been diagnosed with ACS
      within the past 24 hours. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either
      dexamethasone or placebo on a daily basis for 8 days. Every 2 days the medication dose will
      be gradually reduced. While in the hospital, participants will receive usual care for ACS,
      including antibiotics, pain control medication, intravenous fluids, and other needed
      treatments. Each day, participants will undergo a physical exam, a pain assessment score, a
      test to measure the oxygen level in the body, blood collection, and, if needed, a chest
      x-ray. Vital signs and blood pressure measurements will be taken every 4 hours. Study staff
      will document the amount of pain medication, blood transfusions, oxygen, and breathing
      treatments participants receive.

      Upon leaving the hospital, follow-up visits will occur 1 week after participants were
      originally admitted to the hospital (participants who are still hospitalized at this time
      will not attend this visit) and 1 month after hospital discharge. At both visits, information
      on hospital visits for pain treatment and blood transfusions will be collected, and
      evaluations performed earlier in the study will be repeated. The second visit will also
      include lung function tests.
    
  