
    
      Recent estimates approximate that 120,000 ostomies are created yearly, with an overall
      prevalence greater than 800,000. Parastomal hernia formation is the most common complication
      thereof, as most reviews acknowledge a rate of 50%, which increases to 75% for patients with
      a waist circumference >100cm. As patients live longer and rates of obesity climb, the
      sequelae of parastomal hernias do as well, including difficulty fitting stoma appliances,
      parastomal skin breakdown, pain, and obstructive episodes - all negatively impacting the
      patient's quality of life and compelling them to seek repair.

      Recent data from the Americas Hernia Society Quality Collaborative (AHSQC) - a quality
      improvement hernia registry of surgeon-entered patient demographics, operative details, and
      outcomes - found that only 22% of stomas were reversible at the time of their parastomal
      hernia operation.[7] So in the vast majority of cases, the surgeon must decide the optimal
      technique for repair in the presence of a persistent stoma. Decision-making includes open
      versus laparoscopic approaches, stoma re-siting versus leaving it in situ, use of mesh, and
      mesh orientation relative to the bowel. The same AHSQC analysis found that mesh is used in
      94% of repairs, and almost 80% are repaired open, likely due to the need for repair of a
      concomitant midline incisional hernia that frequently exists. As a high-volume hernia center,
      the investigators' preference has been to perform an open retromuscular repair with a
      transversus abdominis release (TAR) and retromuscular mesh placement, allowing for
      reinforcement of the midline, stoma, and prior stoma site if the stoma was re-sited. The
      stoma can be brought through a keyhole incision in the retromuscular mesh. The investigators'
      hernia recurrence rate at just 13-months mean follow-up was previously found to be 11%. A
      more recent audit of parastomal hernia repairs among the investigators using the
      aforementioned "keyhole" technique with a minimum of 1-year follow-up found a 17% rate of
      radiographic recurrence and 33% "composite" recurrence rate - patients who feel a bulge,
      regardless of their radiographic results. Recently, Pauli et al. reported the results of a
      novel technique for parastomal hernia repair at the 2018 International Hernia Congress with
      exciting early results. The technique is similar to the investigators' approach with a
      bilateral transversus abdominis release and placement of a retromuscular mesh reinforcement.
      However, rather than bringing the stoma through a keyhole defect in the mesh, it is draped
      over the mesh in the retromuscular space akin to a Sugarbaker repair offsetting the defect in
      the mesh and the fascia. Six surgeons reported their results of 44 patients with a mean
      follow-up of 10 months, with a 4.5% (n=2) recurrence rate, with no reports of mesh erosion or
      stoma necrosis. Given the excellent early results of this novel approach, the investigators
      hypothesize that the retromuscular Sugarbaker technique would dramatically reduce hernia
      recurrence compared to the traditional keyhole repair.
    
  