
    
      Rationale:

      Renal biopsies can be used in patients with renal mass lesions to diagnose whether it
      concerns a malignant or benign mass. In case of malignancy, surgery will be the following
      step. However, 7 to 33% of biopsies are non-diagnostic, what can result in unnecessary
      surgery (even up to 30% in small renal masses). The investigators think that optical biopsy
      (OB), a new diagnostic tool based on the absorption en reflection of light in tissues,
      reduces the non-diagnostic biopsy rate. This could have a direct impact on the quality of
      life of the patients that are therefore scheduled for an unnecessary surgical procedure.
      Also, concerns about overtreatment have led to the concept of focal therapy, a selective
      patient tailored nephron sparing surgical or ablation technique of a lesion, reducing
      lifetime morbidity and side effects without compromising life expectancy. For this novel form
      of treatment, accurate identification, grading and demarcation of a lesion is crucial and OB
      is the ideal platform to provide this approach to an improved cure.

      Objectives:

      Primary

      - The accuracy of DRS and OCT in the diagnostic of renal malignancy

      Secondary

        -  The accuracy of DRS and OCT in the diagnostic of renal malignancy and in distinguishing
           among the 3 main RCC subtypes

        -  The accuracy of the combination of the DRS and OCT

      Study design:

      This is a prospective, observational, multi-centre in-vivo study.

      Study population:

      Patients ≥ 18 years of age, with a solid enhancing renal mass suspected for renal cell
      carcinoma (RCC) and candidates for active (surgical) treatment of the renal mass.

      Intervention:

      Patients will receive an ultrasound guided percutaneous OB followed by a Core biopsy (CB)
      during the same procedure. The planned institutional surgical protocol will be followed
      irrespective of the results of OB and CB. During surgery (radical/partial, open/laparoscopic,
      percutaneous ablation) a new set of DRS and OCT measurements of the tumor and normal tissue
      will be performed.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

        1. To determine the accuracy of OB to differentiate renal tumor pathology from benign
           tissue by means of minimal invasive quantitative DRS and OCT.

        2. To determine the differentiation capability of OCT this combined technique to
           distinguish between the three most common RCC sub-types.

        3. To determine whether OB is a good alternative to the percutaneous biopsy for diagnosing
           renal cancer.
    
  