
    
      Study Title:

      Efficacy and Safety of Quinine vs Artemether/Lumefantrine in uncomplicated malaria during
      pregnancy, Mbarara, Uganda (2006/2007).

      Regulatory Status:

      Investigational - Phase IV

      Investigational Product and route:

        -  Quinine hydrochloride, oral route.

        -  Coartem® (Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland), oral route.

      Lead Investigator and Study Centre Primary objective - To establish that, in pregnant women
      with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria, the PCR-adjusted efficacy of
      Artemether/Lumefantrine is not inferior to oral Quinine.

      Secondary objectives

        -  To define the pharmacokinetics of the combination artemether-lumefantrine (AL) in the
           treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum infections in the last two trimesters of
           pregnancy.

        -  To collect baseline data on maternal, obstetric and infant outcomes.

        -  To estimate the incidence of malaria infection, both microscopic and sub-microscopic (by
           PCR) during pregnancy.

        -  women attending Mbarara National Referral Hospital (MNRH) ante-natal clinic (ANC).

        -  Women with a positive blood smear during follow-up will be invited to participate in a
           non-inferiority, open, randomised, non- inferiority trial comparing the efficacy and
           tolerance of Coartem® (Artemether-Lumefantrine) for the treatment of uncomplicated
           malaria during second and third trimester pregnancy to oral Quinine hydrochloride.
           PCR-corrected adequate clinical and parasitological response (ACPR) on day 42 is
           considered as the primary efficacy criterion.

        -  Women with uncomplicated malaria from the efficacy study, will be followed to obtain an
           efficacy endpoint at 42 days OR at delivery, whichever timepoint is the last.

        -  Newborns will be followed monthly up to the age of 1 year.

      Inclusion Criteria (Efficacy Study):

        -  Pregnant woman

        -  Malaria infection, detected by microscopy, with P. falciparum (mixed or mono-infection)

        -  Age of gestation: 13 weeks and beyond

        -  Efficacy study signed informed consent form

      Exclusion Criteria (Efficacy Study):

        -  P. falciparum parasitaemia above 250,000 parasites/μl

        -  Severe anaemia

        -  Signs or symptoms of severe/complicated malaria requiring parenteral treatment (WHO
           2000)

        -  Known allergy to artemisinin derivatives, lumefantrine or quinine;

        -  Previous participation in the efficacy study

        -  Inability to attend the efficacy study follow-up schedule.

      Study drugs and Administration

        -  Group 1 (Active Control): Quinine hydrochloride (10 mg/Kg/8h for 7 days) administered
           orally.

        -  Group 2 (Test): Coartem®, fixed Artemether-Lumefantrine (20/120 mg) GMP manufactured by
           Novartis Pharma AG (Basel, Switzerland), 4 tablets twice a day for 3 days with 200 ml of
           milk tea at each dose .

      Endpoints

      - Primary efficacy endpoint: PCR-corrected adequate clinical and parasitological response
      (ACPR) on Day 42.

        -  Secondary efficacy endpoints:

        -  PCR-corrected(ACPR)at delivery

        -  Pharmacokinetic parameters

        -  Symptom clearance Time

        -  Proportion of patients who have fever cleared at Day 1, 2 and 3

        -  Safety endpoints:

        -  Incidence of any adverse events

        -  Pregnancy outcome

        -  Infant development during the first year of life
    
  