
    
      Background: Long-term use of benzodiazepine medication has been increasing sharply inside and
      outside of VA, raising the risk of cognitive decline, falls, and overdose among patients. A
      self-directed benzodiazepine tapering intervention known as EMPOWER was shown effective in a
      non-VA clinical trial, and within VA there is significant interest in tailoring it to and
      providing it for Veterans. Significance: Although often useful as short-term medications,
      when taken for extended periods benzodiazepines carry risk of cognitive decline and other
      brain damage, falls and other accidents, benzodiazepine dependence and opioid-benzodiazepine
      overdose (VA Pharmacy Benefits Management Academic Detailing Service, 2017). This is major
      concern within VA, which prescribes benzodiazepines to over 350,000 Veterans a year, 2/3 of
      whom take them long-term (i.e., 3 months or more) (VA Pharmacy Benefits Management Academic
      Detailing Service, 2017). Innovation: Because the EMPOWER intervention was paper-and-pencil
      based, it would be useful to convert it to an electronic version that worked on smart phones,
      tablets, and/or desktop computers. Accordingly, the proposed project intends to convert
      EMPOWER to electronic format and to tailor it to the needs and preferences of the Veteran
      population. Specific Aims: Aim 1: Tailor a promising non-VA benzodiazepine cessation
      intervention (EMPOWER) to Veterans and simultaneously convert it from paper-and-pencil to
      electronic format. Aim 2: Conduct a randomized clinical trial of the effectiveness of the
      tailored, electronic intervention (EMPOWER-ED) on VA primary care patients' benzodiazepine
      cessation/reduction and functional outcomes. Aim 3: Conduct a budget impact analysis to
      estimate the costs of implementing the EMPOWER-ED throughout VA. Methodology: This conversion
      and tailoring will be an iterative process that the project team will conduct via focus
      groups comprising Veterans, VA primary care providers, and VA operational partners. When the
      revised intervention, called EMPOWER-ED (for EMPOWER "Electronically Delivered"), is fully
      designed and has been successfully beta-tested by Veterans, its effectiveness will be
      evaluated in a randomized clinical trial with 170 Veterans who have been on benzodiazepines
      for at least 3 months. The primary hypothesis of the study is that those receiving EMPOWER-ED
      will be significantly more likely than controls to cease benzodiazepines entirely, and, to
      reduce their dose by at least 25%, at 6-month follow-up. The secondary hypothesis is that
      Veterans receiving EMPOWER-ED will also experience fewer anxiety symptoms, better sleep
      quality, and overall health/quality of life at 6-month follow-up. A supplemental analysis of
      benzodiazepine use only will be conducted using VA databases at 12 months to evaluate whether
      changes identified at 6 months persist over time. The VA operational partners of the project
      team (Pharmacy Benefits Management, Psychotropic Drug Safety Initiative, and Office of
      Connected Care) are committed to disseminating EMPOWER-ED if it proves successful. Therefore,
      a third aim of the study is to undertake a budget impact analysis to determine what the costs
      would be to implement EMPOWER-ED in the VA systemwide. Next Steps/Implementation: Because
      electronically-delivered interventions are inexpensive to disseminate once they have been
      developed, this project has an excellent chance to promote health care value by creating an
      easily scaled-up, method of reducing the prevalence of a widespread risk to Veterans' health.
    
  