
    
      Objective:To test in liver transplant recipients identified as non-tolerant whether
      discontinuation of calcineurin inhibitors followed by 6-month treatment with sirolimus
      modifies the pattern of expression of the set of genes associated with tolerance

      Background: Sirolimus is an immunosuppressive drug used to counter autoimmunity and to
      prevent acute graft rejection in human and has remarkable tolerance-promoting properties in
      animal transplant models.

      Hypothesis/Specific Aims:We hypothesize that sirolimus promotes tolerogenic pathways in human
      liver transplantation.

        1. To test in liver transplant recipients identified as non-tolerant whether
           discontinuation of calcineurin inhibitors followed by 6-month treatment with sirolimus
           modifies the pattern of expression of the set of genes associated with tolerance

        2. To test in liver transplant recipients identified as non-tolerant whether conversion
           from calcineurin inhibitors to sirolimus modifies memory type immune responses.

        3. To test in liver transplant recipients identified as non-tolerant whether conversion
           from calcineurin inhibitor monotherapy to sirolimus affects the frequency, phenotype and
           function of potentially immunoregulatory peripheral blood lymphocyte subsets

        4. To test in liver transplant recipients identified as non-tolerant whether conversion
           from calcineurin inhibitors to sirolimus promotes epigenetic changes related to
           immunoregulation and cancer development/progression

      Proposed Methods:Gene expression experiments: we will quantify the expression in peripheral
      blood of a set of genes previously identified as predictive of successful immunosuppression
      withdrawal in stable liver transplant recipients. Blood samples will be obtained before and 6
      months after conversion to sirolimus treatment. Measurement of gene expression levels will be
      conducted employing real-time TaqMan PCR. Classification of patients in the
      tolerant/non-tolerant categories will be conducted utilizing thresholds and predictive
      algorithms developed in our laboratory.

      Immunophenotyping studies: we will quantify in peripheral blood various mononuclear cell
      subsets implicated in immunoregulatory pathways before and 6 months after conversion to
      sirolimus treatment. Measurements will be conducted employing flow cytometry.

      Functional assays: we will isolate CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells (Treg) from peripheral blood
      by Sorter before and 6 months after conversion to sirolimus treatment. Serial dilution
      experiments will be conduct in an antigen non-specific assay to assess the relative
      suppressive properties of Tregs. IFNg ELISpot assays will be conducted in parallel employing
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells as responder cells to measure donor-specific alloimmune
      responses.

      Measurement of DNA-methylation: recipient DNA will be extracted from peripheral blood samples
      before and after 6-month sirolimus treatment and used to conduct whole-genome methylation
      studies employing the ILLUMINA array platform.

      Expected results: We expect to precisely define the effects of sirolimus on previously
      identified tolerogenic pathways in humans and, to assess the capacity of this drug to enhance
      the proportion of liver recipients undergoing successful immunosuppression weaning.
    
  