
    
      Background: Peanuts and tree nuts (almonds, Brazil nuts, cashews, hazelnuts, macadamia nuts,
      pecans, pine nuts, pistachios and walnuts) are an important source of unsaturated fatty
      acids, vegetable protein, and fibre, as well as minerals, vitamins, and phytonutrients. The
      FDA has permitted health claims for tree nuts for cardiovascular disease risk reduction and
      the cardiovascular benefits of nuts is acknowledged [FDA, 2015; Bao et al., 2013; Sabate et
      al., 2010]; however, intake of tree nuts is low in Canada. Based on the 2004 Canadian
      Community Health Survey (CCHS), <5% of Canadians consumed nuts on any given day with a mean
      intake of 18 g/day in those consuming nuts [PHAC, 2004]. This intake level is far below the
      42 g/day amount recommended by the FDA for cardiovascular risk reduction. One of the barriers
      to increasing the consumption of nuts is the perception that they may contribute to weight
      gain more than other "healthy foods" owing to their high energy density. With the rise in
      overweight and obesity and its downstream cardiometabolic complications, heart and diabetes
      associations have cautioned against the over consumption of nuts at the same time that they
      recommend them for heart health [Sievenpiper et al., 2013; Evert et al., 2014; Anderson et
      al., 2013]. In a series of earlier systematic reviews and meta-analyses, we have shown that
      nuts improve glycemic control and metabolic syndrome criteria, findings which run contrary to
      any expected weight gain [Viguiliouk et al., 2014; Blanco Mejia et al., 2014]. Although an
      earlier systematic review and meta-analysis of controlled trials showed a lack of effect of
      nut intake on body weight [Flores-Mateo et al., 2013], it remains unclear whether nuts have
      an increasing, neutral, or even decreasing effect on a broader set of markers of adiposity.

      Need for proposed research:The lack of high quality syntheses and knowledge translation to
      reconcile the benefits of nuts with potential weight gain represents an urgent call for
      stronger evidence. High quality systematic reviews and meta-analyses of randomized controlled
      trials and prospective cohort studies represent the highest level of evidence to support
      dietary guidelines and public health policy development.

      Objective: The investigators will conduct a series of systematic reviews and meta-analyses to
      (1) distinguish the effect of peanuts and tree nuts on body weight and markers of adiposity
      in randomized controlled trials and (2) assess peanut and tree nut consumption with incident
      overweight/obesity and changes in weight and markers of adiposity in prospective cohort
      studies.

      Design: Each systematic review and meta-analysis will be conducted according to the Cochrane
      Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions and reported according to the Preferred
      Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) [Higgins et al., 2011;
      Moher et al., 2009].

      Data sources: MEDLINE, EMBASE, and The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
      (Clinical Trials; CENTRAL) will be searched using appropriate search terms supplemented by
      hand searches of references of included studies.

      Study selection: The investigators will include either randomized controlled dietary trials
      or prospective cohort studies. Randomized controlled trials that investigate the effect of
      including and/or exchanging nuts for other nutrients on changes in body weight or markers of
      adiposity outcomes in adults (>= 18 years) will be included. Studies that are <3-weeks diet
      duration, lack a control, include individuals <18 years, or assess intake during wasting
      conditions/malnourished populations, pregnancy or lactation will be excluded. Prospective
      cohort studies will be included if they are >= 1-year duration, involving adults (>=18 years)
      and assess the relation of tree nuts and/or peanuts with incident overweight/obesity or
      changes in body weight or markers of adiposity.

      Data extraction: Two or more investigators will independently extract relevant data and
      assess risk of bias using the Cochrane Risk of Bias Tool. All disagreements will be resolved
      by consensus. Standard computations and imputations will be used to derive missing variance
      data.

      Outcomes: Three sets of outcomes will be assessed: (1) incidence of overweight/obesity, (2)
      measures of global adiposity (body weight, body mass index (BMI), body fat), (3) measures of
      abdominal adiposity (waist circumference, waist-to-hip ratio, visceral adipose tissue).

      Data synthesis: Mean differences will be pooled for the trials and risk ratios for the
      cohorts using the generic inverse variance method. Random-effects models will be used even in
      the absence of statistically significant between-study heterogeneity, as they yield more
      conservative summary effect estimates in the presence of residual heterogeneity.
      Fixed-effects models will only be used where there is <5 included studies. Paired analyses
      will be applied for crossover trials. Heterogeneity will be assessed by the Cochran Q
      statistic and quantified by the I2 statistic. To explore sources of heterogeneity, the
      investigators will conduct sensitivity analyses, in which each study is systematically
      removed. If there are >=10 studies, then the investigators will also explore sources of
      heterogeneity by a priori subgroup analyses by health status (metabolic syndrome/diabetes,
      overweight, normal weight), comparator (carbohydrate, other fat source, animal protein, mixed
      macronutrient, other), nut type, nut dose, baseline measurements, randomization, study design
      (parallel, crossover), energy balance (positive, neutral, negative), duration of follow-up,
      and risk of bias. Meta-regression analyses will assess the significance of categorical and
      continuous subgroups analyses. When >=10 studies are available, publication bias will be
      investigated by inspection of funnel plots and formal testing using the Egger and Begg tests.
      If publication bias is suspected, then the investigators will attempt to adjust for funnel
      plot asymmetry by imputing the missing study data using the Duval and Tweedie trim and fill
      method.

      Evidence Assessment: The strength of the evidence for each outcome will be assessed using the
      Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) [Guyatt et al.,
      2011a, 2011b, 2011c, 2011d, 2011e, 2011f, 2011g, 2011h, 2011i; Balshem et al., 2011; Brunetti
      et al., 2013; Guyatt et al., 2013a, 2013b, 2013c].

      Knowledge translation plan: The results will be disseminated through interactive
      presentations at local, national, and international scientific meetings and publication in
      high impact factor journals. Target audiences will include the public health and scientific
      communities with interest in nutrition, diabetes, obesity, and cardiovascular disease.
      Feedback will be incorporated and used to improve the public health message and key areas for
      future research will be defined. Applicant/Co-applicant Decision Makers will network among
      opinion leaders to increase awareness and participate directly as committee members in the
      development of future guidelines.

      Significance: The proposed project will aid in knowledge translation related to the role of
      peanuts and tree nuts in relation to body weight, in particular adiposity and the development
      of overweight and obesity, strengthening the evidence-base for guidelines and improving
      health outcomes by educating healthcare providers and patients, stimulating industry
      innovation, and guiding future research design.
    
  