
    
      Background Cardiac sympathetic innervation comes from the paravertebral cervical and thoracic
      ganglia. Among them, the stellate (cervicothoracic) ganglion is a major source of sympathetic
      innervation. It constantly connects with phrenic nerves and almost as often to the vagal
      nerves.37 The paravertebral ganglia also directly connect with spinal nerves, which connect
      with the intercostal nerves. These intercostal nerves split into ramus cutaneous lateralis
      and a deep branch to the musculus rectus abdominis. Histological studies of human skin biopsy
      confirmed the presence of abundant sympathetic nerves in arteriovenous anastomoses arrector
      pilorum muscles, and arterioles. Using horseradish peroxidase as tracer, Baron et al and
      Taniguchi et al found that all skin sensory and sympathetic neurons are located
      ipsilaterally. The sympathetic somata are located in the middle cervical and stellate ganglia
      as well as the thoracic ganglia. Because of the direct and extensive connections among
      various nerve structures, it is possible for the sympathetic nerves in the various structures
      to activate simultaneously. Therefore, the investigators hypothesized that SKNA recorded from
      the upper thorax can be used to estimate the cardiac sympathetic tone.

      Utilize the differential frequency contents of ECG and SNA to record neuECG To preserve the
      signal and eliminate noise, the American Heart Association (AHA) standard recommendation for
      low pass filtering of the ECG is 150 Hz for adolescents and adults, and 250 Hz for children.
      Higher frequency signals, although known to be clinically important, are routinely eliminated
      by this low pass filtering. Because there is no need to record high frequency signals, the
      conventional ECG and Holter monitoring devices do not have a wide bandwidth and high sampling
      rate. neuECG recording takes a different approach. the investigators use equipment with wide
      bandwidth (2K Hz) and high sampling rate (4K/s-10K/s) to record the signals from the skin.
      The signal is then band passed between 0.5 Hz and 150 Hz to display ECG signal. The same
      signals are then high passed at > 150 Hz to reveal nerve activities. Figure 1 illustrates the
      above concept. It shows Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) analyses of the signals recorded from
      the skin. High pass filtering at 150 Hz eliminated the ECG signals. The remaining high
      frequency signals may contain both muscle and nerve activities. McAuley et al reported that
      the electromyography (EMG) usually has a frequency of <100 Hz. At most, small amounts of
      muscle activities could reach 400 Hz. By high pass filtering at 500 Hz, the EMG is eliminated
      but so are other signals with frequencies < 500 Hz. The standard high pass setting for
      microneurography study is 700 Hz. High pass filtering at 500 or 700 Hz increased the
      specificity but reduced the sensitivity of SKNA recording. The signal to noise ratio is
      reduced. However, the basic patterns of nerve discharges remain.
    
  