
    
      Overview: This study will involve 3 phases: Phase 1- the Preparatory Phase to map the project
      area and prepare communities for the planned research. Phase 2- Implementation and Evaluation
      of CHARM 2 (Aims 1&2), using a two-armed cluster randomized controlled trial (RCT) in 20
      geographic clusters mapped in Phase 1. To assess treatment impact on contraceptive use, MSV
      and unintended pregnancy, clusters will be randomized to receive CHARM2 or the control
      program, which includes standard of care public health FP services. Intervention effects will
      be assessed via surveys and pregnancy testing at baseline and 9 &18-month follow-up with
      n=1000-1200 couples (wife aged 18-29 years). Phase 3- Implementation Science Assessments will
      include in-depth interviews with CHARM2 providers (n=20), select CHARM2 couples (n=50) and
      key Indian stakeholders in FP & public health (n=50). Interviews with providers and couples
      will explore intervention delivery and perceived impact. Interviews with FP & public health
      stakeholders will obtain feedback on perceived feasibility to sustain and scale up CHARM2. A
      cost-effectiveness analysis will also be done to support considerations of sustainability.

      Intervention: The CHARM2 intervention will involve gender, culture and contextually-tailored
      FP+GE counseling sessions delivered individually to husbands by a trained male health
      provider (2 sessions), and, in parallel, delivered individually to wives by a trained female
      provider (2 session2). CHARM2 differs from the original CHARM intervention by 1.) eliminating
      the couple session 2.) adding a parallel component for wives, delivered by a female and
      inclusive of reproductive coercion counseling 3.) including LARC counseling for husbands and
      wives and LARC provision via the public health system.

      Standard of Care (Control): Under India's public health system, frontline health workers,
      including nurses, provide household visits to women to increase awareness and use of FP
      services but they rarely providing contraceptives. For those women or couples that reach the
      health center, standard of care FP counseling and services are delivered by a physician; free
      contraceptives are then offered.

      Timeline: Phase 1 of the study preparation will take approximately 3 months. Phase 2 will be
      in month 4 to month 60, including enrollment and intervention start at month 4, 9 month
      follow up at month 13, and a 18 month follow up at month 22. The outcome analysis will also
      be carried out in this phase at month 40. Phase 3, on sustaining the intervention will
      overlap from month 7 to month 60.

      Plan for Data Collection: All survey data will be collected using mobile devices (tablets)
      with an ODK-based software system for e-data collection and web-based data management. The
      ODK application with CHARM2 survey questionnaire will be loaded onto the tablets, displaying
      questions simultaneously in English and Marathi.
    
  