
    
      Background Robotic operations in gynecology is one of the fastest growing fields in applied
      robotic technology.

      In Denmark 4000 hysterectomies are performed each year on benign indications and minimal
      invasive techniques has risen from 35 to 80%. These operations consist of vaginal,
      laparoscopic assisted und the latest robotic assisted hysterectomy. The robotic surgical
      system DaVinci was introduced in 2000 and, by 2016, 3803 robot units were established all
      over the world and 644 of these were in Europe. Hysterectomy and prostate operations are the
      most common robotic assisted operations as an alternative to conventional laparoscopy.

      Robotic surgery on benign indications in gynecology is still a discussion on the cost vs.
      benefit due to increased cost and lack of evidence on superiority in surgical outcome
      compared to conventional laparoscopy. For minimal invasive surgery is but a part of a complex
      series of treatment in a strategy, the so-called multi-modal regimen (1-7,16). By this, the
      day of discharge has dramatically decreased without compromising safety during surgery and
      postoperative recovery. However, not all single elements are proven for efficacy, let alone
      the specific targets for effect (16).

      To further improve the overall outcome of surgery the surgical stress response are
      investigated, which includes inflammatory components and are of importance of postoperative
      pain and recovery (8,9,16). Here amongst others, glucocorticoids have proven to relieve pain
      in a number of procedures, applied in general surgery on colon, gallbladder, and breast, in
      orthopedic surgery on knee and breast surgery, and in gynecology, too, in laparoscopic
      hysterectomy (1-10,15,16). The dose of steroid to provide significant analgesic effect is, at
      least, dexamethasone of 0.1-0.2 mg/kg or 15 mg, which is substantiated in some reduction in
      inflammatory response (7,15,16). Glucocorticoids are known for analgesic, opioid-sparing and
      antiemetic effects but procedure-specific outcome are lacking. Similarly, the specific
      anti-inflammatory and sites of surgical stress-related responses are not well elucidated.

      Aim The PhD study evaluate the effects of a single dose of steroid on acute postoperative
      stress response and pain after hysterectomy. The evaluation is on clinical relevant outcome
      that directly benefit the patients. We will measure surgical stress by c-reactive protein and
      other inflammatory markers based on transcriptional profiling, register pain and medication
      needed during hospital stay and after discharge, and when work and sexual function could be
      resumed.

      Outcome The primary endpoint is reduction of postoperative c-reactive protein (crp) after
      robotic hysterectomy as an objective measurement of the stress amelioration by the given
      steroid. The rise postoperatively will be ascertained by two baseline measurements and every
      4-6 hours after operation as long as the women is not discharged. The crp is not expected to
      be dependent on each operation team eagerness to perform well or the postoperative care to
      reach certain standards.

      As secondary outcome we register pain scores from baseline to 24 h and later on, the
      postoperative analgesics medication from baseline to discharge and later on, quality of
      recovery (QoR-15D) in the latest 24 hours (12). Further, after discharge incontinence
      (ICIQ-UI), start of sexual life (PISQ-12/31), inflammatory markers, and resumption to
      recreational and work life will be ascertained in a diary. The baseline and early acute
      postoperative pain scores (visual analog scale, VAS) at rest and at movement (0-4 h
      postoperatively), late acute postoperative pain scores (VAS) at rest and at movement (24 h
      postoperatively); and cumulative opioid consumption (up to 24 h) will be registered. Blood
      samples will be analyzed for white blood cells, Il-6, cortisol, and creatinine kinase and a
      part will be stored for analysis of the cellular inflammatory systems by NanoString to
      explore the innate system and cellular activation (19,20). NanoString has the capacity to
      demonstrate activation of immune-related genes in the bloodstream during inflammatory
      induction and highlight an exciting role of immune competent cell in linking peripheral
      inflammation with immune activation and possibly anti-nociception. NanoString methodology
      investigates gene expression and currently quantifies the expression of 770 genes by
      determining the amount of messenger RNA (mRNA). mRNA is the end-product of gene transcription
      and, therefore, allows the study of gene up-regulation.

      Monitoring cycles and levels of rest and activity will be done by an actigraph in a
      non-invasive method (13,14).

      Hypothesis Women undergoing robotic hysterectomy would benefit from peroperative
      glucocorticoid treatment on important life qualities like pain, fatigue, freedom of
      medications and resuming work and sexual activities. Biological substrates such as
      inflammatory markers will be explored as underlying mechanism behind surgical stress response
      in order to direct perioperative medical interventions (19).

      Perspectives and impact The randomized design will evaluate the effects of the single dose
      dexamethasone on the highest level of evidence. The anti-emetic effects of steroid are
      already incorporated in several guidelines on perioperative care; however, this study could
      further enhance our knowledge on minimal invasive surgery and optimize the treatment for
      surgical stress. The stress response in humans have evolved over millennia and is embedded in
      our genes but has no natural association with modern days surgery and may be ill placed and
      timely inadequate for recovery. The exploratory study may help identify pathways and specific
      mechanism in surgical stress that can be targeted in future to enhance women's recovery after
      surgery. The perspective is in further studies to target these specific sites in the immune
      activation.

      Methods:

      The PhD study in robotic hysterectomy will include a randomized trial with a single dose
      intravenously of 24 mg dexamethasone (Dexavit®) corresponding to 128 mg methyl prednisolone
      (Solumedrol®). The robotic hysterectomy is performed with the Intuitive surgical Da Vinci Xi
      system.

      The randomization will be performed in Redcap and data stored the same place under each
      patient cpr.-no. but in a separate section. A person not involved in the project in any other
      form will perform the randomization. The patient will then receive the dose of either steroid
      or placebo saline intravenously, blinded to the patient and operation team (gynecology,
      operation ward and anesthesiology). The applicant PhD student will later enter the data in
      Redcap unknowing to the randomization results.

      All women in the department operated by with a robotic assisted hysterectomy will be
      monitored and fill out a diary with validated questionnaires (names of quest.) to streamline
      the information gathering in a high flow work place and not to discriminate those outside of
      the project. These data will be presented as the drop-out analysis to evaluate the external
      validity of the trial. The flow of data collection is displayed below.

      Sample size was calculated to be 49 women included in each arm on the primary outcome of
      c-reactive protein rising to the level of 40 mg/l with an expected reduction of 10 % a with a
      standard deviation of 7 calculated by https://clincalc.com/stats/samplesize.aspx (1,17,18).
      This may seem a parsimonious reduction but in practical terms, it translates to more than
      halving the need of opioids early and late postoperatively (2). On the assumption of
      incomplete data in less than 10 % of cases, 50 women in each group with complete data will be
      included. Robotic hysterectomy is a standard procedure in our department with about 80-90
      hysterectomies each year, so we expect the study inclusion to last 1½-2 years.

      Statistics Analysis are performed on the intention-to-treat principle with women on current
      use of analgesics as a subgroup analysis. The statistics will be unpaired and paired analysis
      (2-ways ANOVA) including relevant co-variates. Regression analysis will be performed with the
      primary outcome as dependent variable and the secondary outcomes and anthropometrics as
      dependent variable.
    
  