
    
      Diabetes mellitus is one of the leading causes of illness worldwide. Diabetes can affect
      nerves, skin and blood vessels. Diabetics with problems in the patients nerves can lose the
      sense of touch in the patient's feet (called neuropathy) and so may unknowingly cause damage
      to the skin resulting in skin loss or an 'ulcer'. Diabetics also have difficulty healing any
      damaged tissues especially if the patient have diseased blood vessels causing a lack of blood
      to areas of the body including the feet (called ischaemia). Therefore diabetics have a
      greater chance of having an ulcer and a higher chance that it does not heal up. The loss of a
      protective skin barrier means that bacteria can enter the foot causing infections which can
      spread to bone and beyond. Ultimately this can result in gangrene, amputation or even death.

      Stem or progenitor cells help repair and replace damage in the body. Blood vessels are key to
      this repair. Recent research has suggested that special progenitor cells found in the blood
      may be responsible. They are called Endothelial Progenitor Cells (EPCs) and seem to be in
      fewer numbers and are less effective at repair in diabetics.

      Current treatments for diabetic wounds are not always successful and so the investigators
      need more research to look at new treatments. One possibility is to use electrical
      stimulation of nerves in the leg. Research studies have shown this may improve blood
      circulation and healing of wounds. This research will assess EPCs to see if they are linked
      to ulcer healing in diabetic patients with neuropathy only or with ischaemia as well.
      Furthermore the investigators wish to investigate whether electrical stimulation can affect
      progenitor cells and wound healing in these patients. The longterm goal of this research is
      to help diabetic patients improve their quality of life by reducing wound related
      complications
    
  