
    
      Patients and methods: This study was conducted in Zagazig University Hospitals in the period
      from May 2014 to June 2015 after approval from the Zagazig University Institutional Review
      Board (Zu-IRB). All patients were subjected to complete history talking, clinical evaluation
      and adequate radiological and laboratory investigations.

      The radiological studies included plain X-Ray lumbosacral spine, anteroposterior, lateral
      neutral, and lateral dynamic views (lateral with flexion and lateral with extension), MRI
      lumbosacral spine sagittal and axial views, and in some cases CT lumbosacral spine with
      sagittal reconstruction. All these modalities give us a good idea about both soft tissue and
      bony pathology in the area of interest. Selection of the patients for surgery was based on
      clinicoradiologic items.

      All the cases of pedicular screw insertion were preceded by full laminectomy with discectomy
      for interbody fusion. In all cases the medial and inferior aspects of the pedicle are clearly
      visualized, so selection of the entry point and direct observation of medial and inferior
      pedicle violation are two main advantages of this technique. On the other hand after
      discectomy the disc space with the two parallel endplates are available for use as a guide
      for screw craniocaudal angulation.

      After the removal of the whole lamina with its inferior articular processes and removal of
      fibrocartilagenous tissues overlying the exiting roots and removal of the intervertebral
      disc, the anatomy of the pedicle and its relation to the exiting roots is clearly evident.

      Starting pedicular screw insertion, part of the cortical bone at the inferolateral edge of
      the superior facet is removed. This entry point lies exactly along the transverse plane
      passing through the middle of the corresponding transverse process.

      At the same time the inferior and medial surfaces of the pedicle along with the exiting nerve
      root are clearly visualized, so all factors needed for correct pedicle screw insertion are
      available including the correct entry point, the mediolateral and craniocaudal orientation in
      addition to the visual protection provided from inside the canal to observe any medial or
      inferior pedicle violation.

      The investigator used to insert a dissector inside the disc space as an additional guide to
      craniocaudal orientation of the screw which should be parallel to the disc space.

      The process of pedicular screw insertion is completed as usual and the disc space is properly
      curetted using the suitable shavers then the prepared autologous bone graft is impacted in
      the disc space. The remaining screws are inserted and the rods are installed and secured as
      usual.

      The time needed for each screw insertion was calculated. During the previous steps neither
      fluoroscopic guidance nor neuronavigation were used.

      After completion of the previous steps, a single lateral and anteroposterior film was used to
      confirm the correct screw position.

      The surgery is completed as usual and the patient is discharged for follow up after two
      weeks, during which a complementary CT scan lumbar spine is routinely performed and analyzed
      for the accuracy of the screw position.

      Pedicle violation was assessed whether medial, inferior, lateral or superior.
    
  