
    
      Patients with an acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and comorbid depression have a 2-fold higher
      risk for recurrent ACS and mortality, worse quality of life, and higher costs of care than
      nondepressed ACS patients. The strength of these observational findings prompted the American
      Heart Association (AHA) to advise that routine depression screening for ACS patients and
      referral for depression diagnosis and treatment as indicated occur. Unfortunately, there are
      no randomized controlled trials (RCT) to inform this potentially expensive screening
      recommendation. Additionally, screening guidelines/advisories in the absence of RCT evidence
      have recently been extensively criticized (and withdrawn). This poses a serious dilemma for
      clinicians, health care systems, and for health care policy leaders. A RCT is urgently needed
      to provide evidence for these different constituents about the costs and benefits of the AHA
      depression screen and treat algorithm.

      Two critical gaps in knowledge must be filled to determine if public health would be improved
      by the AHA strategy for depression screening in post-ACS patients: 1) Does this strategy
      improve quality-adjusted life years for patients with a recent ACS 2) Is the cost of
      providing depression screening and any type of depression treatment within the acceptable and
      typical amounts reimbursed for health care services? Our specific aim is to determine the
      quality-adjusted life year benefits and health care costs of following the AHA's advisory for
      depression screening and then referral for further diagnosis and treatment in post-ACS
      patients, if depression is found. To accomplish this aim, we will randomize patients from
      four different, geographically diverse health care systems to three different groups: 1) to
      the AHA depression screen and treat if depression is found algorithm (screen and treat
      intervention group) or: 2) to be screened and a primary care provider notified (screen and
      notify intervention group) or: 3) to receive no depression screening (control group).
      Health-related quality of life, depressive symptoms, and costs will be obtained from all
      patients, so that the benefits and the costs of these three different depression screening
      strategies can be compared.
    
  