
    
      Project: Application of a Severe Sepsis Electronic Health Record Integrated Screening Tool
      and Management Bundle (eASSIST-M) Study

      Study Type: Prospective Cohort Outcomes Study

      Background: Early recognition of severe sepsis is critical for the institution of goal-
      directed therapy and for improving patient outcomes. Barriers to early recognition include
      the lack of standardized tools to identify children with severe sepsis. The investigators
      will study the potential impact of applying a novel Pediatric Severe Sepsis Screening Tool
      (PSSST) integrated with the Electronic Health Record (EHR) to facilitate earlier detection
      and effective management of severe sepsis.

      Population: Patients between the ages 1 month and 18 years admitted to the hospital or
      presenting to the Emergency Department (ED) with clinical signs of Systemic Inflammatory
      Response Syndrome (SIRS).

      Primary Hypothesis: Prospective application of a PSSST electronically integrated with the EHR
      can accurately diagnose pediatric patients with early signs of severe sepsis.

      Primary Outcome Measure: Proportion of correctly diagnosed patients with severe sepsis among
      those presenting with SIRS will be assessed to prospectively validate the sensitivity,
      specificity, positive and negative predictive values of the PSSST tool.

      Secondary Hypothesis 1: Application of the PSSST will reduce lag-time for the administration
      of a goal-directed sepsis therapy bundle by 50%.

      Outcome Measure: Time delay from diagnostic identification to critical therapeutic
      intervention. Sepsis Recognition Lag Time will be defined as the time elapsed from the first
      electronic alert to the first therapeutic intervention. Therapeutic interventions will be
      defined as Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR), fluid resuscitation, initiation of
      cardiotonic agents, or request for transfer to the ICU. Since this is an intent-to-diagnose
      study, outcomes defined above will be compared with those for the same period in the
      preceding year.

      Secondary Hypothesis 2: Application of a severe sepsis management bundle will reduce
      mortality and morbidity.

      Outcome Measure: Proportion of deaths in the study population due to severe sepsis. Morbidity
      will be defined as the number of ventilator days, days on vasopressor or inotropic agents,
      days of Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) support, need for tracheostomy, need for
      Gastrostomy tube.

      Proposed Study Design:

      The investigators will conduct a prospective study where patients within the ED and inpatient
      units are electronically screened using the PSSST during a 3-year study period. Patients will
      be screened using a novel electronic tracking tool designed locally, using pre-defined severe
      sepsis variables and validated on patients with severe sepsis. Patients screened as positive
      for severe sepsis using the electronic tracking tool will be treated prospectively with a
      standardized severe sepsis management bundle. Data will be collected prospectively on all
      patients admitted to the ED and inpatient units. For the ED and each inpatient unit, the
      outcomes defined above will be compared with those for the same period in the preceding year.

      Covariates: Demographic, clinical characteristics and sepsis-specific factors that could
      potentially influence the effect of the alerts on critical intervention.

      Statistical Analysis:

      To assess the effectiveness of this tool, we will compare the proportions of the population
      with each variable of interest between the intervention and prior periods.

        1. To assess the efficacy of the PSSST, we will compare the changes over time in the
           proportion of patients diagnosed severe sepsis adjusting for key covariates of interest.

        2. To assess the effectiveness of the PSSST in reducing treatment delays, we will compare
           changes in the Sepsis Recognition Lag Time between the intervention and control periods,
           while adjusting for key covariates of interest.

        3. To assess the efficacy of the PSSST in reducing mortality, we will compare the changes
           in the age and risk adjusted mortality rates over time between the intervention and
           control periods.

      The investigators will use a robust variance estimate for all analyses to account for the
      clustering of patients within units. We will also use propensity scores to control for
      differences in patient characteristics and diagnostic categories.
    
  