
    
      Two hundred and fifty patients with PAH will be included: 65 patients with idiopathic PAH
      (iPAH), 20 with PAH associated with HIV infection, 20 with porto-pulmonary hypertension, 20
      with PAH secondary to congenital heart disorders, 40 with SSc, 20 with SLE, 20 with MCTD and
      10 with a PAH associated with a Sjögren's syndrome.

      Two hundred patients without PAH will also be included: 80 patients with SSc and 20 in each
      of the following groups: HIV infection, porto-pulmonary hypertension, SLE, congenital heart
      disorders, MCTD and with Sjögren's syndrome.

      Twenty patients with proximal chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTPH) will also
      be included in a control arm of the study.

      Two hundred and fifty healthy blood donors age and sex-matched with patients with PAH, will
      be included as controls.

      By using 2D-immunoblotting techniques, we will evidence IgG antibodies to fibroblasts, EC,
      vascular smooth muscle cells (SMC) in multiple groups of patients and we will characterize
      target antigens of these autoantibodies. We will also assess the production of ROS: nitric
      oxide (NO), hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and the effect of the whole serum (and the IgG
      particularly) on in VITRO proliferation of EC, fibroblasts and vascular SMC. For sera that
      will induce the production of ROS, we will study the effect of different vasodilatator
      (prostacycline, endothelin receptor antagonist, type 5 phosphodiesterase inhibitors) and
      anti-oxidant therapies.

      Expected results We will characterize target antigens of autoantibodies of patients with
      non-idiopathic and non SSc-associated PAH. We will compare these target to those previously
      identified in idiopathic or SSc-associated PAH. We will then, distinguish subpopulations of
      PAH patients whose serum or purified IgG (possibly specific for a given antigen) are able to
      induce ROS production or cell proliferation. For the population of ROS-producer patients, we
      will correlate the clinical response to vasodilatator therapy to results of in VITRO
      inhibition experiments with vasodilatators and anti-oxidant molecules.

      Perspectives The characterization of target antigens of EC, fibroblasts and vascular SMC
      specifically
    
  