
    
      Mycosis Fungoides (MF) is a rare malignancy in the United States. It is the most common form
      of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL). Sézary syndrome (SS) is the most severe and leukemic
      form of CTCL. Severe pruritus is a manifestation of the SS and also affects patients with MF.
      Severe pruritus is a manifestation of SS and also a common symptom among patients with MF.
      Pruritus can significantly impact on quality of life. In one national survey of the impact of
      MF on patients' health-related quality of life (HRQOL), the majority of survey respondents
      (88%) reported being bothered by pruritus.

      The pathogenesis of pruritus is complex and not well understood. It affects a majority of
      patients with mycosis fungoides (MF) and is most severe in Sézary syndrome (SS), the leukemic
      form of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Chemical or physical stimuli that perturb, without
      damaging, only the epidermis (the outer most layer of the skin), elicit the symptom of
      pruritus. The perception of itch is abolished if the epidermis is removed. This observation
      and the data on PAR2 expression on nerve fibers indicate that pruritus in inflammatory skin
      disorders including MF/SS is likely to have a neuroepidermal origin or be mediated by
      molecules that percolate to the epidermis from inflammatory cells in the dermis. In this
      regard, MF/SS are characterized histologically by infiltration of the epidermis by neoplastic
      T cells (epidermotropism), and in some of these cases, the neoplastic cells form collections
      of 2-3 cells around epidermal Langerhans cells (Pautrier microabscess). Neoplastic cells of
      advanced MF/SS typically are polarized to secrete TH2 cytokines. It has been hypothesized
      that the accumulation of neoplastic cells in skin lesions promotes a shift from a TH1
      predominant cytokine profile in early MF to a TH2 predominant cytokine profile in advanced
      disease 4. The shift to TH2 production coincides with impaired immune responses,
      eosinophilia, and high levels of IgE in the blood. Severe pruritus is more frequent in
      patients with advanced MF/SS suggesting that tumor burden or cytokines elaborated by
      activated tumor cells may be correlated to intensity of pruritus.

      While it is not clear which cells contributed to the TH2 cytokine shift, studies of T-cells
      isolated from skin and blood of affected patients showed activation of the signaling
      molecule, STAT3. In CTCL lines, constitutively activated STAT3 mediates IL-5 production
      (principal regulator of eosinophilia) and IL-13 (favors antibody responses) 5. Moreover,
      IL-31 also seems to signal through STAT3 in one lung model. Current treatments of pruritus
      are aimed towards symptomatic relief although these do not address the mechanism of pruritus.
      If neoplastic cells are producing IL-31 or other pruritogenic factor as we propose, then any
      treatment that eliminates these cells will also be effective for pruritus. To date,
      effectively improving pruritus and the disease manifestations is not always possible
      especially in advanced MF or SS.

      Vorinostat is a FDA approved histone deacetylase inhibitor for the treatment of the cutaneous
      manifestations of patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (MF/SS) who have progressive,
      persistent, or recurrent disease on or following 2 systemic therapies. Vorinostat induces
      differentiation, growth arrest, and/or apoptosis of malignant cells both in vitro and in vivo
      and has shown clinical responses in approximately 30% of patients with advanced MF/SS 7.
      Overall, 32% of patients with severe pruritus had relief of this symptom, and it was observed
      that the relief of pruritus often presaged the clinical response, especially in SS. This
      suggests to us that the gene modulating effects of vorinostat might be directly inhibiting
      expression of IL-31 or other cytokines that mediate pruritus in MF/SS. IL-31 appears to be
      implicated in pruritus of atopic dermatitis. 8 Recently, studies have demonstrated that itch
      can be mediated by a novel cysteine protease and that proteinase-activated receptor-2 plays
      an important role in itch signaling pathways. 9, 10 In another recent study, substance P has
      been implicated in itch pathophysiology. In one small case series of patients with CTCL, the
      efficacy of aprepitant was evaluated11. Aprepitant is a substance P antagonist that blocks
      the neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor. Substance P has a role in the physiology of unmyelinated
      C-fibers in the skin that convey both pain and pruritus and has the ability to modulate mast
      cell functioning.

      Data from skin biopsies have shown that successful treatment with vorinostat is associated
      with decreased dermal and epidermal lymphocytes, a shift from nuclear to cytoplasmic p-STAT-3
      staining, and decreased CD31-positive dermal vessels. This was not confirmed in another
      study. Vorinostat has been postulated to indirectly inactivate STAT proteins that drive
      cellular proliferation and TH2 cytokine expression. Researchers observed that in skin
      biopsies of patients enrolled in the vorinostat stage IIB trial, nuclear accumulation of
      STAT1 and high levels of nuclear pSTAT3 in malignant T cells correlated with a lack of
      clinical response. To date, there has been no evaluation of STAT3 proteins and TH2 cytokines
      in pruritic versus non-pruritic skin lesions of CTCL. Signal transducers and activators of
      transcription (STATS) are important to active transcription of cellular proteins including
      cytokines. Constitutive activation of STATs has been shown to be a feature of MF/SS.

      Study Rationale:

      Since pruritus is a common manifestation of the disease that significantly impacts on
      patient's quality of life and that oral vorinostat provides clinical relief from pruritus in
      treated patients, understanding the mechanisms of action of vorinostat on cytokines
      implicated in pruritus will shed light on its therapeutic effect. In particular, because we
      believe that a reduction in pSTAT3 activity as evidenced by fewer and/or less strongly
      stained tumor cells may be taking place in patients responding to therapy and reporting
      decrease pruritus. Thus, understanding the extent of STAT3 protein aberration and cytokine
      expression (IL-31) in pruritic skin lesions could significantly contribute to our
      understanding of the mechanism of pruritus in MF/SS and to how vorinostat relieves this
      serious symptom.

      Objectives/Hypothesis It is hypothesized that skin tissue expression of pSTAT3, IL-31, and
      cathepsin S will correlate with response to vorinostat, a recently FDA approved therapy for
      MF and SS, decreasing in expression with relief of pruritus.

      Methods: Dosing and Frequency of Drug

      Participants who are cared for at Boston Medical Center will first be assessed by physicians
      of the CTCL multi-specialty clinic if vorinostat, administered per standard of care, is an
      appropriate therapy for their CTCL. The decision to invite patients to participate in this
      study is (1) separate from the above described clinical decision to utilize vorinostat, and
      (2) will be offered subsequent to the clinical decision to utilize vorinostat. There is no
      placebo group for this study. Up to ten participants are desired for this study.

      Three biopsies will be taken: (1) at baseline; (2) after 4 weeks of 300 mg daily vorinostat,
      and (3) if tolerated, after 4 more weeks of 400 mg daily vorinostat. At each time point, up
      to 2 biopsies will be taken depending on if 1 or both skin types are present (itchy vs
      non-itchy) at that time point and whether or not itchy or non-itchy skin shows a lesion. For
      each time point and each skin type, pSTAT3 staining will be measured as strong (2+), weak
      (1+), none (0). At each time point, patients will report the extent of their pruritus on a
      visual analogue score (VAS) from 0-100 mm (0, no pruritus; 100, worst imaginable pruritus).
      Meaningful change in pruritus will be a change in VAS score of 30 mm or more from baseline to
      the third time point (a change measure that will also be computed for all endpoints; the
      baseline to time 3 measure being of primary clinical interest).

      Sample Size/Accrual Rate: The total enrollment planned is 10 patients at a rate of 1-2
      patients per month. With 10 subjects, for our primary hypothesis (correlation of staining
      intensity with self-reported degree of pruritis) we can detect a Spearman rank correlation
      coefficient as small as 0.75 for a one-sided test with 80% power (a directional hypothesis
      that is reasonable) or one as small as 0.80 for a two-sided hypothesis. In each case, these
      coefficients are of clear clinical relevance and are plausible given the nature of the
      measures. For the hypothesis of equal changes between treated and control areas on the same
      individuals, we propose using paired data analyses such as paired t-tests and Wilcoxon rank
      sum tests. For a sample size of 10 and 80% power, a paired t-test can detect an effect size
      of 0.996 or greater for a two-sided test and an effect size of 0.853 or greater for a
      one-sided test. These effect sizes are large but are within reason to expect for a clinically
      effective treatment.
    
  