
    
      Cardiac arrest (CA) is at present a major cause of mortality as well as a cause of disability
      for the surviving victims. In France, every year counts as 50,000 cardiac arrests responsible
      for 40 000 deaths. Thus, less than 20% of patients with heart failure discharged home. Then
      these patients had impaired quality of life associated with symptoms of fatigue, stress,
      anxiety hindering the resumption of business activity including. The prognosis is related in
      part to the initial cardiac rhythm present at the establishment of specialized resuscitation.

      Recent progress in improving mortality and neurological outcome has been achieved over the
      last decade with systematic implementation of a period of targeted temperature management
      between 32 and 34 ° C (TTM 32-34) in patients with cardiac arrest and who benefited from the
      completion of at least one external electrical shock when help arrived. The mechanisms
      underlying this improvement of neurological prognosis are many, but mainly related to an
      attenuation of post resuscitation syndrome that combines in one hand an inflammatory response
      (mediated by pro-inflammatory cytokines including interleukin 6) and secondly the formation
      of reperfusion injury related to the production of radical oxygen species (free radicals).

      While some studies have shown the feasibility of induction of this TTM 32-34 in prehospital
      conditions, no prospective study has evaluated the significant speed of warming in the end.
      An observational study in which the heating was carried passively, found that patients with
      an extended heating period (600 minutes) had a worse neurological outcome than patients with
      a duration of shorter warming (479 minutes) while a second retrospective study concluded the
      opposite in case of active warming . Besides the fact that these studies were observational,
      in the two originals randomized studies on TTM 32-34 in CA, the rate of warming was not like:

        -  Objective 6 hours with active warming is 0.5 ° C / h in the Australian study with an OR
           of 5.25 (1.47 - 18.76) for the neurological prognosis

        -  Objective 8 hours with passive warming of 0.37 ° C / h in the European study with an OR
           of 1.4 (1.08 - 1.81) for the neurological prognosis Although populations of two studies
           are obviously not comparable, it is possible that suboptimal speed of rewarming could
           mitigate some of the gain related to the implementation of TTM 32-34.

      In this context, investigators propose to conduct a randomized, single-center pilot study
      comparing a fast warming in a slow warming when performing a TTM 33 patients presented with a
      shockable cardiac arrest.
    
  