
    
      Enteroaggregative Escherichia coli (EAEC) causes diarrhea in travelers from industrialized
      nations to developing countries, children of developing countries, and patients with HIV.
      Although infection responds to antibiotic therapy, increasing antibiotic resistance and the
      widespread nature of the infection limit the utility of antibiotics. The development of an
      EAEC-specific vaccine would be useful in the prevention of travel-associated EAEC diarrhea
      and in the decrease of EAEC-associated mortality in young children in the US and of
      developing countries. The first objective of the study is to perform a dose-escalation study
      of EAEC 042 infectivity in healthy adult volunteers who are high producers of IL-8 and
      seronegative to EAEC. The study will identify the dose of EAEC 042 needed for future studies
      on EAEC 042 such as phase I-II EAEC vaccine studies. The second objective of the study is to
      identify the humoral, secretory, and cellular immune response to EAEC 042 specific antigens
      that are associated with EAEC infection. Study participants will include 25 healthy
      volunteers, ages 18-40, from the greater Houston area. Study participants will be assigned to
      1 of 4 possible dose levels in groups of 5 volunteers each. Each study group will consist of
      4 volunteers receiving EAEC and 1 volunteer receiving a sodium bicarbonate placebo solution.
      Safety data and results will be reviewed by the safety monitoring committee before beginning
      the next highest dose group. If a dose results in at least 3 of the 4 infected volunteers of
      a given group, the next highest dose will not be administered. Instead, the concentration
      will be repeated for validation of the dose. Healthy volunteers will be screened as
      outpatients for the presence of the -251 AA SNP genotype in the IL-8 gene promoter. Once a
      volunteer has been screened and determined to be eligible to participate in the study, the
      volunteer will sign a consent form and be admitted at the University Clinical Research Unit.
      The volunteer will ingest a determined concentration of EAEC 042 or placebo and be observed
      for symptoms of infection. All volunteers will receive therapy with levofloxacin to eradicate
      the infection either once they develop diarrhea or at Day 5 if they remain asymptomatic.
      Volunteers will be discharged from the hospital on Day 7+/-1. Saliva, blood, and feces will
      be collected for secretory, humoral, and cellular immune responses to EAEC. An optional
      procedure will consist of obtaining jejunal and colonic biopsies prior to challenge (Day
      -13±2) and Days 4±1 and 24±3 post challenge. Volunteer participation in endoscopy studies
      will be optional and will not be a requirement for the rest of the study. The primary
      endpoints of the study include: diarrheal illness after exposure to EAEC, shedding of EAEC
      after exposure, and IgG and secretory IgA (slgA) seroconversion to EAEC dispersin. The
      secondary endpoints of the study include: increase in fecal markers of intestinal
      inflammation including cytokines and lactoferrin and description of the jejunal and colonic
      immune response to EAEC infection.
    
  