
    
      Cardiovascular risk factors including type 2 diabetes underpin a major threat to the globe
      and result in a heavy health and financial burden across the healthcare system. Treating type
      2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease is expensive and often unsatisfactory. Current
      medications bring unwanted side effects, and often merely delay rather than prevent type 2
      diabetes complications and cardiovascular disease. As a further concern, the micro- and
      macrovascular complications of type 2 diabetes often start developing before actual
      diagnosis. Diabetes prevention and treatment through weight loss and exercise programs is a
      difficult and costly public health measure, leaving the tidal wave of type 2 diabetes to
      swell even more. An alternative is urgently needed: a low-cost safe approach, easy to
      implement at population level.

      Could carnosine be that alternative? The evidence suggests carnosine has significant
      metabolic impact and presents such an alternative. A naturally occurring dipeptide, carnosine
      is already emerging as a human therapy in exercise physiology, heart failure, cataract
      prevention and treatment, neurology, and psychiatry. A promising further use may derive from
      its effect on cardiovascular risk factors. Metabolic research, though confined to animal
      studies, strongly suggests that carnosine supplementation aids the prevention and treatment
      of obesity, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular disease - by virtue of its anti-inflammatory,
      antioxidative, and anti-glycating effects. The investigators conducted the first pilot data
      in human and demonstrate relationships among carnosine, obesity, insulin resistance, and
      dyslipidemia. Put briefly, the pilot weighs strongly in favour of carnosine as a means of
      reducing cardiovascular risk in humans.

      Too good to be true? Apart from its excellent side-effect profile, carnosine is inexpensive
      and seemingly safe (available as an over-the-counter food additive), making it prima facie
      ideal for population use. In this setting research is now urgently needed - to test the
      significant metabolic potential of carnosine to address a major health problem.

      The investigators propose a comprehensive double-blind placebo-controlled human trial to
      investigate the effects of carnosine supplementation on cardiovascular risk factors. If the
      investigators demonstrate a role in reducing risk factors for type 2 diabetes and
      cardiovascular disease in overweight and obese non-diabetic humans, the public health
      implications will be revolutionary, offering the world a genuine low cost, accessible,
      intervention to curtail the advance of obesity, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular disease.
    
  