
    
      INTERVENTION DESCRIPTION

      SilverCloud platform SilverCloud is a platform on which to quickly build online interventions
      for common mental health problems. It utilises four design strategies that have been drawn
      from research in human-computer interaction: personal, interactive, supportive and social.
      SilverCloud is unusual among online interventions for its utilisation of current interactive
      design approaches.

        -  Personal: Users are encouraged to draw together all strands of the programme and build
           their own plan or "toolbox" for staying well and managing current and future mood
           difficulties.

        -  Interactive: Users can engage with the range of media, such as interactive quizzes,
           video presentation, online exercises and activities, homework, and mobile diary-keeping.
           These are meant to encourage reflection and personalization of the information.

        -  Supportive: Though mainly self-directed, each user in the programme will be assigned a
           therapist who will support them and provide feedback at specified intervals throughout
           the intervention on the activities that the user has chosen to share.

        -  Social: Users can gain a sense of other people using the system be seeing how many
           people liked an activity, or by sharing answers to an activity that are visible to all
           after moderation.

      Mindbalance programme Mind Balance is a six-module programme built on the SilverCloud
      platform, incorporating psycho-educational and therapeutic elements of managing difficulties
      with low mood and depression. The programme draws primarily on the principles of cognitive
      behavioural therapy (CBT) and incorporates elements of mindfulness.

      Service-based use The SilverCloud online intervention will be used as part of IAPT: Improving
      Access to Psychological Therapies. IAPT is a recent, centrally-developed, nationally-
      implemented, service model to implement National Institute for Clinical Excellent (NICE)
      guidelines for common mental health problems in primary care in the UK. It provides high
      throughput talking therapies at two levels of intensity to the adult population. The higher
      level provides therapy with a clinical psychologist and the lower level, guided self-help
      with a trained IAPT worker. The SilverCloud online intervention will be provided at the lower
      level of intensity as an alternative to manual-based guided self-help. Participants will
      receive up to eight reviews on a weekly or fortnightly basis as agreed with their IAPT worker
      with the intervention running not more than three months.
    
  