
    
      Project Background: Diabetes mellitus is a highly prevalent chronic condition, affecting one
      in four Veterans who use the Veterans Affairs (VA) health care system. Self-management skills
      are critical for controlling diabetes and reducing its cardiovascular sequela. Providing
      diabetic patients with effective self-management training and support can be challenging due
      to time constraints at primary care encounters and limited clinician training with behavior
      change. The investigators have previously demonstrated that a group-based, VA primary care
      intervention to help patients set highly effective, evidence-based diabetes goals had a
      positive impact on both diabetes self-efficacy and hemoglobin (Hb) A1c levels. This study
      aims to evaluate the process of implementing a collaborative goal-setting intervention
      personalized to patient activation and health literacy levels (i.e. Empowering Patients in
      Chronic Care [EPIC]) into routine PACT care and to evaluate the effectiveness of this
      intervention relative to usual care.

      Project Objectives: Specific Aim 1: Assess effective processes for and costs associated with
      implementing a collaborative diabetes goal-setting intervention personalized to patient
      activation and FHL (i.e., EPIC) into the routine workflows of PACTs. H1: Formative measures
      within the PARIHS framework (evidence, context, facilitation) will be associated with
      implementation of EPIC (defined by reach, adoption, cost effectiveness, and fidelity
      measures) into routine PACT care. Specific Aim 2: Evaluate the effectiveness of delivering
      collaborative goal-setting personalized to patient activation and FHL on clinical (HbA1c) and
      patient-centered (Diabetes Distress Scale) outcomes among eligible patients in enrolled
      PACTs. H2: Patients receiving collaborative goal-setting personalized to activation and FHL
      levels will have significant improvements in a) HbA1c and b) Diabetes Distress Scale levels,
      respectively, at post-intervention compared with patients receiving enhanced usual care. H3:
      Patients receiving collaborative goal-setting personalized to activation and FHL levels will
      maintain significant improvements in a) HbA1c and b) Diabetes Distress Scale levels at
      post-maintenance follow-up, respectively, compared with patients receiving enhanced usual
      care.

      Project Methods: In Phase 1 of the study, the investigators will implement EPIC into routine
      PACT care. The investigators will conduct a mixed-methods formative evaluation that includes
      33-48 key informant interviews with VA leadership, clinicians, and staff and an assessment of
      organizational readiness for change. This evaluation will identify how group and one-on-one
      sessions of EPIC can best be implemented into routine workflows of PACT. In Phase 2, the
      investigators will conduct a randomized clinical trial enrolling 284 patients with poorly
      controlled diabetes defined by average hemoglobin A1c of 8% to receive EPIC or enhanced usual
      care. The patient will serve as the unit of randomization. EPIC consists of six 1-hour group
      sessions focusing on 1) Your Health, Your Values, 2) Diabetes ABCs, 3) Setting Goals and
      Making Action Plans, 4) Communication with Your Health Care Provider, 5) Staying Committed to
      Your Goals, and 6) Reviewing and Planning for the Future. After each group session, a
      one-on-one session between a designated PACT member and patient participants will focus on
      collaborative goal-setting. Designated PACT members will be trained to personalize
      goal-setting using patient-reported activation and health literacy data. The investigators
      will collect laboratory and survey data at baseline, post-intervention, and post-maintenance
      phase. The investigators will evaluate the effectiveness of personalized goal-setting
      compared to enhanced usual care on clinical (e.g., hemoglobin A1c) and patient-centered
      (e.g., Diabetes Distress Scale) outcomes.
    
  