
    
      Patients undergoing thoracic surgery often benefit from aggressive post-operative pain
      management including thoracic epidural analgesia (1). However, a significant number of
      patients develop shoulder tip pain (SP) refractory to epidural analgesia. The incidence of
      post-thoracotomy ISTP has been noted in association with treatment studies to be high, as
      much as 88% of patients having thoracotomy for lobectomy (2). The actual incidence of SP has
      not been systematically studied. We propose to prospectively study all thoracotomy patients
      for a period of six months. The goal of this study is to determine the incidence of
      post-thoracotomy SP and to identify predictive factors. Further, we hope to elucidate the
      incidence of SP associated with newer minimally invasive surgical procedures such as
      video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery for lobectomy. This will facilitate early identification
      of the patients most likely to benefit from treatment.

      All procedures requiring thoracotomy including video assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) be
      included. The following non-nominal information will be collected:1. demographic data- age,
      sex, BMI, 2. presence/absence and tip position of epidural catheter3. type of surgery and
      duration of surgery4. surgeon5. inta-operative analgesia6. epidural infusion and rate7.
      position and number of chest drains8. pain assessment9. co-morbid conditions- diabetes,
      hypertension, coronary artery disease, pulmonary disease (obstructive/restrictive), arthritis
      (rheumatoid/osteo)10. pre-existing pain conditions 11. treatment for ISTPPatients will be
      separated into two groups for assessment of SP. The two groups will consist of patients with
      functional epidural analgesia (group E) and those without epidural catheters or with
      non-functioning epidural catheters (group NE). Epidural catheter level will be determined
      using nerve stimulation (Tsui test) prior to induction of anesthesia. Upon arrival to the
      Post Anesthetic Care Unit (PACU), patients in group E will be assessed for incision pain and
      shoulder tip pain. Epidural catheter function will be assessed by pinprick testing to assess
      the function of the anesthetic. In patients experiencing incisional pain and in whom nerve
      stimulation indicates positioning of the epidural catheter in the epidural space (stimulation
      at 1.1-10 mA), 4 millilitres of 2% lidocaine will be infused through the epidural catheter.
      Incision pain and anesthetic level will be reassessed after 10 minutes. The catheter will be
      considered non-functional if no improvement in incisional pain is noted 10 minutes after
      infusion of the 2% lidocaine. Time 0 will be the time at which incisional pain is determined
      by pinprick testing to be absent. This may be immediately on arrival to PACU or 10 minutes
      after instillation of 2% lidocaine. Standard epidural infusions of bupivacaine 0.1% plus
      hydromorphone 0.015mg/ml or ropivacaine 0.1% will be continued. Management of SP will be at
      the discretion of the attending anesthesiologist and the Acute Pain Service. Patients will be
      followed daily until resolution of the SP or hospital discharge. Patients with ongoing ISTP
      at discharge will be followed by telephone weekly for 3 months or until the pain resolves,
      whichever is earlier. Patients in group NE will also be assessed for incision and shoulder
      tip pain upon arrival to the PACU. VAS and VRS will be obtained after the initial nursing
      assessment. This will be recorded as time 0. Patients will be asked to identify the area of
      greatest pain. They will then be asked specifically about shoulder tip pain. VRS and VAS
      scores will be recorded for 1) incision pain, 2) ipsilateral shoulder pain 3) contralateral
      shoulder pain and 4) area of greatest pain if different from 1,2and 3. Management of pain
      will be at the discretion of the anesthesiologist and the Acute Pain Service. Patients will
      be followed until the resolution of their pain or until discharge. Patients with ongoing SP
      at discharge will be followed by telephone weekly for three months or until the pain
      resolves, whichever is earlier.
    
  