
    
      In the RE-COVER- and RE-COVER II studies, 5109 patients with deep-vein thrombosis (DVT)
      and/or pulmonary embolism (PE) were randomized to receive 6 months of treatment with either
      dabigatran (150 mg twice daily) or warfarin (once daily to maintain international normalized
      ratio (INR) 2.0-3.0). All patients received an initial 5-7 day phase of parenteral
      anticoagulant treatment. The studies were designed as double blind, double dummy trials.
      RE-COVER was conducted between April 2006 to November 2008 and RE-COVER II between June 2008
      and October 2010; they were completed in 2009 and 2011, respectively. A substantial number of
      patients are expected to have developed post-thrombotic syndrome (PTS). However, since
      dabigatran provides a stable level of anticoagulation throughout the treatment period and
      knowing that the quality of anticoagulation is an important factor in the development of PTS,
      we anticipate that a lower rate of PTS will be seen in the dabigatran treated patients
      compared to warfarin.

      Patients will be interviewed and examined by the investigator if they accept to attend a
      clinic visit. Otherwise, a telephone interview will be performed if the patient refuses to
      meet up. PTS will be determined using Patient Reported Villalta (PRV) Score form. However,
      those who will meet for consultation will in addition be assessed for PTS by the standard
      Villalta score.

      The primary endpoint will be the prevalence of PTS determined by Patient Reported Villalta
      (PRV) score. The secondary endpoints are 1- objectively verified DVT or PE after the
      discontinuation of treatment, 2- prevalence of PTS determined by the standard Villalta score,
      3- health related quality of life (HRQOL) determined by EQ-5D (www.euroqol.org) and Venous
      Insufficiency Epidemiological and Economic Study quality of life and symptom (VEINES-QOL/Sym)
      questionnaires.

      The investigators will recruit the subpopulation of patients who were included into the
      RE-COVER studies in the Norway, Sweden and Canada.
    
  