
    
      BACKGROUND BC is the most common invasive cancer in women and evidence has shown that
      exercise can significantly improve the outcomes of BC survivors. MoviS (Movement and Health
      Beyond Care) is a randomized controlled trial that aims to evaluate the potential health
      benefits of exercise and proper nutritional habits.

      Aim The present research study aims to assess the efficacy of aerobic exercise training on
      the QoL of high-risk BC survivors and the improvement of health-related factors.

      Methods BC patients (sample size n=172), age 30-70 years, non-metastatic, stage 0-III,
      non-physically active, 6-12 months post-surgery, and post chemo- or radio-therapy, with a
      high risk of recurrence defined by one or more of the following criteria: BMI ≥ 25, diagnosis
      of metabolic syndrome, increased level of blood testosterone and insulin will be randomly
      allocated to the interventional arm (lifestyle recommendations and MoviS Training) or control
      arm (lifestyle recommendations). The MoviS Training consists of 3 months of aerobic exercise
      training (2 d/week of directly supervised and 1 d/week of remotely supervised exercise) with
      a progressive increase in exercise intensity (40-70% of heart rate reserve) and duration
      (20-60 min). Both arms will receive counseling on healthy lifestyle habits (nutrition and
      exercise) based on the World Cancer Research Fund (WCRF) 2018 guidelines through the
      DIANA-Web platform. All patients will also undergo psychological well-being counseling, which
      comprises evaluation for anxiety and depression.

      The primary outcome is the improvement of the QoL assessed by the European Organization for
      Research and Treatment of Cancer QoL (EORTC QLQ-C30) questionnaire.

      The secondary outcome is the improvement of health-related parameters such as: fatigue;
      anthropometric measurements and body composition; cardiac function indexes and heart rate
      variability; functional parameters (cardiorespiratory fitness, muscle flexibility and
      strength, coordination and posture variability, upper limb muscle viscoelastic
      characteristics); psychological well-being; metabolic, hormonal and inflammatory risk
      factors; gut microbiota; osteoporosis level; recurrences. Diet habits, physical activity
      level, pharmacological treatments and comorbidity will be recorded as confounding factors and
      covariates.

      The hypothesis is that supervised exercise may improve QoL and health-related factors of BC
      survivors with a high risk of recurrence.

      Data will be collected at baseline and after the 3 month intervention period, ad interim in
      the short term (6 months) and long term (12 and 24 months).
    
  