
    
      Hernias are areas of weakness in the muscle of the abdomen and commonly develop after people
      have had abdominal surgery. This area of weakness often turns into a bulge or protrusion that
      can increase in size over time, interfere with the intestines and make it difficult for
      people to work or exercise. Many people undergo surgery to fix their hernia. Unfortunately,
      the operations to repair the hernia frequently fail and the hernia returns. The investigators
      are developing a material to help the body heal after abdominal surgery and thereby prevent
      incisional hernias for forming in the first place. This study is the first step in testing
      this new material in patients and whether it is safe to use. This study will include patients
      having all types of abdominal surgeries.

      The test material is called MYOSEAL; a combination of a tissue sealant called TISSEEL®
      (Baxter Biosurgery, Deerfield, IL) plus small particles of metallic silver (<250µ, American
      Elements, Los Angeles, CA). TISSEEL is made from naturally occurring blood proteins and has
      been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in surgery since 1998. But,
      TISSEEL has not been approved to prevent incisional hernias after abdominal surgery. The
      silver particles are not approved by FDA, but are thought to be generally safe in the way
      they will be used. This study hopes to learn how to help the body better heal after abdominal
      surgery.

      At the conclusion of a laparotomy, 4-6 pairs of stainless steel clips (large Horizon®
      titanium clips, Teleflex Medical, Research Triangle Park, NC) will be attached opposite each
      other and equally spaced to the edges of the sutured myofascial incision, followed by the
      application of MYOSEAL to the sutured myofascial incision before closure of the skin. Study
      participants will be examined at 1 day, 1 month, 3 months, and 6 months after surgery. The
      primary endpoints include wound occurrences, including wound infections, seromas, and
      hematomas and postoperative complications through 6 months following surgery. The secondary
      endpoint is the incisional hernia rate at 1 month as determined by the distance between the
      metal clips marking the myofascial edges using calipers and a plain abdominal radiograph.
    
  