
    
      Behavioural theories assume that, as a result of natural selection, women undergo a brief,
      unconscious change in some psychological aspects during ovulation. This short-term change,
      "ovulatory shift", is assumed to aim to increase the probability of successful reproduction
      in the decisive days of the female cycle. Amongst others, it is assumed that women behave
      particularly uncooperatively and particularly competitively towards other women during the
      fertile days. Though, empirical evidence is ambiguous.

      The effect on risk preferences is unclear. Theory generally assumes that female risk aversion
      increases in the fertile days. However, empirical studies find partly positive and partly
      negative correlations.

      Within the scope of this study, estradiol levels which are collected in the clinical
      treatment of patients in the Clinic for Gynaecological Endocrinology and Reproductive
      Medicine are to be linked with the behavioural economic measures of cooperation,
      competitiveness, and risk preferences, which are collected using questionnaires or a
      computer-based decision task.

      The aim of the research project is to quasi-experimentally isolate the effect of estradiol on
      competitiveness, cooperation and risk preferences of women.

      No study known to us has ever been able to realize a comparable quasi-experimental design
      which is necessary to isolate the causal effect of estradiol on different behavioural
      measures.

      In the experimental group, a sample of approx. 50 women in fertility treatment (In Vitro
      Fertilization/Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection (IVF/ICSI), long Gonadotropin releasing
      Hormone (GnRH) agonist protocol) is surveyed. This allows us to create a quasi-experimental
      design in which the estradiol level is exogenously manipulated and regularly measured.

      A random sample of 30 male students of Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische Hochschule (RWTH)
      Aachen University serves as a control group.

      We realize a longitudinal section design with measurement repetitions, which allows inter-
      and intrapersonal comparisons. A three-stage procedure with two measuring points and a
      preliminary clarification meeting is planned.

      The following measuring instruments are used to record competitiveness, cooperation and risk
      preference: SOEP Risk Attitude, Social Value Orientation German A, The cooperative and
      competitive Personality Scale German, Risk aversion, Willingness to compete.
    
  