
    
      Acne lesions may vary in number during the natural course of the disease and multiple
      measurements have been developed which is based on clinical examination and photographic
      documentation, to measure the clinical severity.

      The Grading of acne based on the type of lesions, affected surface area and their severity
      that can help in deciding which therapies are needed in each individual. However, no grading
      system has been accepted universally. The Global Acne Grading System is a quantitative
      scoring system to assess the severity of acne. According to this score acne was graded as
      mild, moderate, severe and very severe.

      The severity of acne was also graded using the Comprehensive Acne Severity Scale.

      Adipokines are proteins that are synthesized and secreted primarily by adipocytes in response
      to various stimuli, include interleukin 6 and other small molecular weight bioactive proteins
      such as adiponectin, resistin, leptin, serpin E1 [also known as plasminogen activator
      inhibitor 1 and endothelial plasminogen activator inhibitor], visfatin (also known as
      nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase), apelin, chemerin, retinol binding protein 4, and
      monocyte chemoattractant protein 1.

      Due to their different biological properties and diverse cellular targets adipokines are
      involved in a wide array of (patho)physiological processes and are responsible for mediating
      the inflammatory effects of the adipose tissue in the local tissue environment as well as to
      different organs via circulation. By detecting alterations in their serum levels also in
      dermatological diseases such as acne vulgaris and psoriasis, extensive studies have also
      started in dermatological research to identify the possible targets and the cutaneous sources
      of these proteins.

      Apelin is an endogenous ligand of the previously discovered "orphan" receptor named APJ,
      isolated from bovine stomach extracts.

      It is a product of apelin gene that is located on chromosome Xq25-26.1 and translated as a 77
      amino acid prepropeptide. It is processed into several active molecular forms with different
      biological activities. Apelin belongs to adipokines group because its m-RNA expression has
      been demonstrated in mature adipocytes in rodents and humans.

      Apelin peptide expression has been also demonstrated in several tissues and seems to have
      different regulatory functions, depending on the expressing tissue, the apelinergic system
      distribution over such a variety of tissues has suggested that it might play relevant roles
      in human physiology.

      Apelin has been reported to have an effect on appetite, drinking behavior, angiogenesis, and
      the cardiovascular system. It is regulated by insulin. Apelin might be a novel target for
      preventing obesity and obesity-related diseases via enhancement of vascular integrity.

      Several active apelin forms exist such as apelin-36, apelin-17, apelin-13, and apelin-12.

      Apelin-12 is a 12-amino peptide fragment that has been implicated in reducing blood pressure
      via a nitric oxide mechanism, and is involved in feeding mechanisms via stimulation of
      cholecystokinin secretion.

      It is considered to be one of the most potent isoform of apelin.

      The studies evaluating the role of adipokines are very few in patient with acne vulgaris.
    
  