
    
      Sickle cell disease is an autosomal recessive disorder and the most common genetic disease
      affecting African-Americans. Approximately 0.15 percent of African-Americans are homozygous
      for sickle cell disease, and 8 percent have sickle cell trait. Hemoglobin S polymerization
      leads to red cell rigidity, microvascular obstruction, inflammation, and end-organ ischemic
      injury. Our published data indicate that up to 50 percent of sickle cell patients have
      vascular dysfunction due to impaired bioavailability of endogenous nitric oxide, due in large
      part to scavenging of nitric oxide by cell-free hemoglobin. We recently have completed
      studies that directly demonstrate endothelial dysfunction in patients with sickle cell
      disease, characterized by decreased ACh dependent vasorelaxation in forearm blood flow
      studies, distinct from the nitric oxide resistance above. Further, we have found in sickle
      cell patients a new association between low levels of apoA-I, pulmonary hypertension and
      endothelial dysfunction. Raising levels of HDL, and therefore apoA-1, could have the effect
      of ameliorating the endothelial dysfunction characteristic of sickle cell disease by
      affecting endothelium dependent vasorelaxation. Therapies directed at restoring HDL in these
      patients may be beneficial.

      HDL is thought to promote vascular health in a variety of ways, some of which are unrelated
      to lipid transport. One of the best-known mechanisms relates to efflux of cholesterol from
      atherosclerotic plaque, yet HDL is thought to have several antithrombotic and
      anti-inflammatory effects. In vitro HDL attenuates formation of oxidized LDL and inhibits
      endothelial cell expression of inflammatory cell adhesion molecules. It is also thought to
      mediate NO production via stimulation of eNOS, thereby modulating endothelial function. In a
      study of subjects with atherosclerosis, low HDL levels correlated with impaired vasomotor
      relaxation via brachial artery FMD. Another study utilizing recombinant HDL cholesterol
      infused into brachial arteries of hypercholesterolemic men resulted in increased
      acetylcholine mediated blood flow that was inhibited by the infusion of L-NAME, an eNOS
      inhibitor, suggesting that HDL increased blood flow via an eNOS dependent mechanism. This may
      have implications not only for subjects with atherosclerosis, but also for those with sickle
      cell disease and endothelial dysfunction.

      We propose that niacin therapy could improve vascular reactivity in response to
      acetylcholine. Several options for increasing HDL levels have been previously utilized in
      forearm flow studies using venous occlusion plethysmography or flow-mediated dilation.
      Reconstituted HDL (rHDL), apoA-1 mimetics and niacin therapy were all shown to improve
      endothelial dysfunction, and proved safe and effective.

      This trial will aim to 1) establish the effects of niacin treatment on raising HDL levels in
      subjects with sickle cell disease, 2) investigate whether niacin treatment would result in
      improvement of endothelial-dependent relaxation via venous occlusion plethysmography, and 3)
      compare the efficacy of peripheral arterial tonometry measurements to venous occlusion
      plethysmography and flow-mediated dilation as indicators of vascular dysfunction.
    
  