
    
      United States military Veterans from recent conflicts are coping with symptoms related to
      posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Many Veterans are resistant to conventional health and
      mental health interventions (e.g., medication, psychotherapy), and often symptoms are not
      significantly improved by traditional treatments. Alternative treatment methods are needed.
      An underlying feature of PTSD is exaggerated inflammation, both peripherally and in the
      central nervous system, which is thought to play an important role in the vulnerability to,
      aggravation of, and perpetuation of adverse consequences of this condition. Therefore, an
      innovative intervention strategy would be the use of immunoregulatory/anti-inflammatory
      probiotics to reduce inflammation. In this study, the investigators will investigate the
      effects of an 8-week oral administration of an immunoregulatory probiotic, Lactobacillus
      rhamnosus GG (LGG; ATCC53103), a probiotic shown to have anti-inflammatory and
      immunoregulatory effects (i.e., decreases in C-reactive protein [CRP]). Project aims will be
      assessed using a longitudinal, double blind, randomized placebo-controlled design. After
      initial evaluation procedures to confirm PTSD diagnosis, 59 participants will be randomized
      to probiotic supplementation and 59 will be randomized to placebo supplementation.

      Primary Aim. Demonstrate the effects of LGG in a cohort of OEF/OIF Veterans with PTSD and
      Functional Bowel Disorders (FBD), including IBS, on plasma CRP concentrations (mechanistic,
      primary outcome), and PTSD symptom severity (clinical, exploratory). Additional biological
      signatures associated with this condition will be considered exploratory, including gut
      microbial community and intestinal permeability [IP]), other biological signatures of
      inflammation, as well as stress responsivity and decision making. Hypothesis 1.1. Those who
      receive LGG supplementation will respond with lower plasma levels of CRP as compared to those
      allocated to placebo. Exploratory Hypothesis 1.2. Those who receive LGG supplementation will
      respond with decreased PTSD symptoms (PCL-5), as compared to those allocated to placebo.
      Exploratory Hypothesis 1.3. Those who receive LGG supplementation will respond with increased
      abundance of LGG and community-level shifts (e.g.,increased alpha diversity) in the gut
      microbiota (measured using qRT-PCR and DNA sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene, respectively),
      decreases in IP (decreased fatty acid binding protein 215 and D-amino acid oxidase16),
      increases in plasma concentrations of anti-inflammatory biomarkers (IL-10, IL-4), decreases
      in additional plasma biomarkers of inflammation (IL-6, IL-8, IFNγ, IL- 1α, IL-1β, and
      IL-12p70), reduced stress response (biological and psychological) during the Trier Social
      Stress Test (TSST), and improved decision-making (measured by performance on the modified
      Iowa Gambling Test [mIGT] as compared to those allocated to placebo. Exploratory Hypothesis
      1.4. The effect of LGG supplementation on stress response, decision-making, and PTSD symptom
      severity is mediated by effects of LGG supplementation on the gut microbiota, intestinal
      permeability, and plasma biomarkers of inflammation.
    
  