
    
      Ischaemic heart disease (IHD) includes coronary artery disease (or 'coronary heart disease
      'CHD') and ischaemic with no obstructive coronary arteries (INOCA). Coronary angiography is
      standard care for the evaluation of symptomatic patients and known or suspected coronary
      artery disease. A considerable proportion e.g. >1 in 3, of patients undergoing invasive
      coronary angiography for known or suspected angina do not have obstructive epicardial
      coronary artery disease.

      The CorMicA pilot study involved prospective enrolment of patients referred for clinically
      indicated coronary angiography during a 12-month period (2016-2017) in the West of Scotland).
      391 patients were enrolled, 185 (47%) had no obstructive coronary disease and 151 were
      randomised in a clinical trial of stratified medicine based on invasive tests of coronary
      vascular function. A high proportion (~4 in 5) of these patients had a diagnosis of INOCA due
      to a disorder of coronary vasomotion including microvascular- and/or vasospastic angina. The
      trial provided preliminary evidence that stratified medicine, as an adjunct to standard
      angiography-guided management, has potential to improve symptoms and quality of life. The
      mechanisms involved changes in diagnosis, treatment and lifestyle measures.

      The CorMicA investigators were the first group to introduce stratified medicine for the
      management of ischaemic heart disease. Limitations of the CorMicA study included the setting
      (mainly single centre), partial blinding, short-term follow-up (primary outcome at 6 months)
      and the sample size. Acetylcholine reactivity testing was used to assess the susceptibility
      to coronary spasm (microvascular and/or macrovascular). Although acetylcholine is a naturally
      occurring substance, current formulations are not licensed for parenteral administration.
      Further, clinicians should have training and experience before implementing acetylcholine
      coronary reactivity testing. These considerations present a barrier to adoption in daily
      practice, which becomes all the more relevant given INOCA is generally under-recognised. A
      diagnostic coronary guidewire is already widely used in standard care and, unlike reactivity
      testing using acetylcholine, a guidewire has transferable potential to support stratified
      medicine during routine practice. This is especially the case for ad-hoc follow-on testing
      when obstructive coronary artery disease is excluded.

      The vasoactive responses to acetylcholine reflect endothelial and vascular smooth muscle cell
      effects, which may overlap with the vasoactive responses to adenosine (non-endothelial
      dependent). Calcium channel blocker therapy is indicated for the functional endotypes
      associated with impaired vasodilatation and/or vasoconstriction. This raises the possibility
      that acetylcholine testing may not be routinely required as an adjunctive test to coronary
      angiography and instead could be reserved for selected cases, or in specialist centres.
      Instead, the diagnostic guidewire approach may be sufficient as a routine, first line test
      for the evaluation of INOCA during daily practice.

      Anatomical imaging using coronary angiography is the standard of care and clinicians may
      determine any diagnosis based on all of the available information and their clinical
      judgement. This approach avoids the need for additional tests. With this approach, the
      patient's symptoms in response to empirical therapy can be assessed during follow-up and the
      treatment can be revised as clinically appropriate. In daily practice, adoption of adjunctive
      tests of coronary function is very low and, in the absence of large, multicentre trials,
      coronary angiography with or without adjunctive tests of coronary vascular function may be
      considered reasonable, reflecting equipoise.

      iCorMicA is a multicentre, prospective, randomised, double-blind, sham-controlled,
      parallel-group, end-point (patient reported outcome measures (PROMS), health outcomes, health
      economics) trial and registry. The investigators aim to determine whether stratified medical
      therapy, guided by a guidewire-based interventional diagnostic procedure (IDP) at the time of
      invasive coronary angiography (i.e. functional angiography), improves outcomes in patients
      with known or suspected angina but no obstructive coronary artery disease. Symptoms of angina
      or angina-equivalent are determined according to the Rose and/or Seattle Angina
      questionnaires. The IDP utilises principles of thermodilution to measure coronary vascular
      function (IMR, CFR, RRR), which aid clinicians in establishing a diagnosis of microvascular
      angina, vasospastic angina, mixed (both), or none, as per Coronary Vasomotion Disorders
      International Study Group (COVADIS) criteria. The feasibility, safety, efficacy and effect on
      healthcare resource utilisation of stratified medicine will be tested in multiple hospitals
      in different countries in Europe.

      Participants with no obstructive epicardial coronary artery disease (coronary stenosis <50%
      and/or FFR >0.80) are eligible for randomisation (1:1) to either the intervention
      (IDP-guided, results disclosed) or blinded control (IDP undertaken but results not disclosed,
      standard of care) group. Medical therapy will be informed according to the clinical diagnosis
      (endotype). Patients in the intervention group with abnormal coronary vascular function may
      undergo repeated evaluations to assess the response to intracoronary therapy e.g. calcium
      channel blocker, enabling a personalised treatment plan. Patients who are ineligible for
      randomisation (e.g. obstructive coronary artery disease) may be entered into a prospective
      clinical registry, with individuals from each site invited to undergo similar follow-up
      assessments as the randomised participants.

      Trial participants will be blinded to treatment group. The clinicians responsible for
      on-going care will also be blinded. Following invasive management, patients and clinicians
      will be advised of the diagnosis (endotype) but not the randomised group. The endotype will
      be informed by the IDP in the intervention group but not in the control group (sham
      procedure). Medical therapy and lifestyle measures are linked to the endotype and informed by
      contemporary practice guidelines. Therefore, optimal guideline-directed medical care
      according to the endotype is intended to be the same, regardless of the group allocation.

      The sample size is 1500 randomised participants. The minimum follow-up duration is 12 months
      from the last participant recruitment. Follow-up will continued in the longer term including,
      where feasible, electronic case record linkage. The primary outcome measure is the Summary
      Score of the Seattle Angina Questionnaire at 12 months. Secondary outcomes include other
      Patient Reported Outcome Measures (PROMS) to describe other aspects of health and wellbeing.
      These include EQ-5D-5L, Illness perception (Brief IPQ), Treatment satisfaction (TSQM), Duke
      Activity Status Index (DASI), the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ-SF)
      short-form and a pain questionnaire.

      Additional objectives include the wider evaluation of the safety and diagnostic utility of
      the IDP in a multicentre, multinational setting, and the effects of stratified medicine on
      the rates of major adverse cardiovascular events by randomised group. The registry will
      represent a parallel control group. Scientific analyses of circulating biomarkers will be
      performed to better understand the pathophysiology of INOCA.
    
  