
    
      Prophylaxis for Thromboembolism in Critical Care Trial:

      PROTECT pilot Study

      Background: Critically ill patients have an increased risk of deep venous thrombosis (DVT)
      due to their acute illness, procedures such as central venous catheterization, and immobility
      due to sedation and paralysis. Among patients in the intensive care unit (ICU), DVT is an
      important problem, since thrombus propagation and embolization can lead to potentially fatal
      pulmonary embolism (PE). Only 1 published randomized trial (n=119) in medical-surgical ICU
      patients demonstrates that unfractionated heparin (UFH) prevents DVT as compared to no
      prophylaxis; only 1 published randomized trial (n=223) in mechanically ventilated COPD
      patients shows that low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) prevents DVT as compared to no
      prophylaxis. A trial comparing LMWH and UFH for DVT prophylaxis in medical-surgical ICU
      patients is needed. On one hand, LMWH is likely to be more effective at VTE prevention and is
      associated with a lower rate of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT). On the other hand,
      UFH is likely to be associated with a lower bleeding rate, and is less expensive. The
      necessity for such a trial is highlighted by the fact that UFH is the dominant method of VTE
      prophylaxis in critically ill patients in Canada, whereas LMWH is standard of practice in
      western Europe.

      Objectives: The scientific objectives of PROTECT are to determine the effect of LMWH versus
      UFH on rates of DVT, PE, bleeding, thrombocytopenia and HIT in medical-surgical ICU patients.
      The feasibility objectives of the PROTECT Pilot are to assess: 1) the feasibility of timely
      enrollment and complete, blinded study drug administration, 2) the bioaccumulation of LMWH in
      patients with acquired renal insufficiency and its association with bleeding, 3) the
      feasibility of scheduled twice weekly lower limb ultrasounds, and 4) recruitment rates for a
      future randomized trial.

      Design: Prospective, concealed, stratified, block randomized, blinded, multicentre trial.

      Setting: Canadian medical-surgical university-affiliated ICUs.

      Inclusion criteria: Patients >18 years old with an anticipated ICU stay of >72 hours.

      Exclusion criteria: Patients admitted to ICU post trauma, orthopedic surgery, cardiac
      surgery, or neurosurgery, with severe hypertension, DVT, PE or major hemorrhage on admission
      or within 3 months, coagulopathy, thrombocytopenia, creatinine clearance <30ml/min, or need
      for therapeutic anticoagulation will be excluded. Patients with documented heparin allergy or
      HIT, receipt of >2 doses of LMWH or UFH in ICU, contraindication to heparin or blood
      products, and patients who are pregnant, undergoing withdrawal of life support, or enrolled
      in a related randomized trial will also be excluded.

      Methods: Using centralized telephone randomization, we will allocate 120 patients to
      dalteparin 5,000 IU daily or unfractionated heparin 5,000 IU twice daily subcutaneously. The
      ICU team and research personnel will be blinded to study drug. Patients developing creatinine
      clearance <30 ml/min in ICU will have trough anti-Xa heparin levels; results will be
      unavailable to the ICU team but used for blinded dose adjustment by the ICU Study Pharmacist.
      Adherence to study protocol will be maximized using guidelines, interactive education, audit,
      feedback and reminders. All patients will have bilateral lower limb ultrasound within 48
      hours of ICU admission, twice weekly until ICU discharge, upon clinical suspicion of DVT, and
      within 7 to 10 days after ICU discharge. Patients with a positive or indeterminant ultrasound
      for proximal DVT will have confirmatory ascending contrast venography if no contraindications
      exist. We will diagnose PE according to a predefined diagnostic algorithm. We will record
      bleeding events, thrombocytopenia, HIT and other complications. Patients will be followed
      throughout their hospital stay. Adjudication Committees blinded to other data will adjudicate
      indeterminant and positive VTE tests, test complications and bleeding events. We will
      formally evaluate the success of our feasibility objectives and use intention to treat
      analysis in this Pilot Study.

      Primary Outcome: The primary outcome for the PROTECT Study is objectively confirmed proximal
      DVT (proven symptomatic or asymptomatic DVT) diagnosed by bilateral lower extremity
      compression ultrasound, confirmed by venography when possible.

      Secondary Outcomes: There are four secondary outcomes: 1) PE diagnosed by the PE Diagnosis
      algorithm, 2) bleeding, 3) anti-Xa levels associated with heparin dose adjustment, 4)
      thrombocytopenia and HIT

      Relevance: Results of the PROTECT Pilot Study will provide key feasibility and safety data
      which will serve to plan a larger multicentre trial of LMWH versus UFH for VTE prophylaxis in
      medical-surgical ICU patients.
    
  