
    
      Cholera is a life-threatening disease if prompt actions are not taken. The most recent
      estimates of the global burden of cholera estimate that there are more than 1.3 billion
      people at risk. Of which, 2.86 million (range: 1.3-4.0 million) will contract cholera and
      95,000 (21,000-143,000) will die each year. A safe, effective, and affordable killed
      whole-cell oral cholera vaccine (OCV) is now being used widely to prevent cholera in areas at
      risk. This regimen demonstrated 65% efficacy retained for at least 3 years and even up to 5
      years in an endemic setting.

      As described in the package insert, the standard dosing schedule of the OCV is two doses with
      the second dose given 2 weeks after the first. In several campaigns, it was felt to
      appropriate to give a single dose to twice as many people and to give the second dose at a
      later time when this was logistically possible. In fact, modelling of the impact of OCV
      during an outbreak finds that when the vaccine supply is limited (as it is currently), more
      cases are prevented if a single dose strategy is used since a single dose can be provided to
      twice as many people. Even if the efficacy is a bit lower, the number of cases prevented will
      be higher. Even the individual person in this situation will be better off if more of his
      neighbors also receive vaccine since he benefits from the herd protection when more people
      are vaccinated.

      A single dose strategy was used during an outbreak in Zambia in 2015-16, but this first dose
      was then followed up with a second dose after 6 to 8 months. I was also used in Haiti in
      2016-17 following the hurricane. While the delayed second dose strategy has been used and
      will likely continue to be used during outbreaks or during humanitarian crises, there is no
      feasible way to assess the relative effectiveness against clinical cholera comparing a
      two-week interval with a delayed second dose strategy.

      While clinical effectiveness trials are not feasible, serological responses comparing
      different dose intervals are possible. One such study found that vibriocidal titers were
      similar if the second dose was given either 2 week or 4 weeks after the first , but studies
      have not been done with longer dose intervals, as was used in Zambia and Haiti.

      The proposed study will determine if giving the second dose of the OCV using a longer
      interval will result in a response to the second dose that is not inferior, or perhaps even
      results in a more prolonged elevated vibriocidal titre. From an immunological standpoint,
      there could be advantages to a longer dose interval if this resulted in a true booster
      response which sustained high titre of antibody. While acknowledging that the vibriocidal
      titer is not an established correlate of protection, it is the best correlate of the immune
      response following vaccination. It seems logical that a sustained high titer is likely to be
      more effective. Unfortunately, the clinical trials comparing the 2 week and 4 week interval
      with Shanchol only examined the serum titers shortly after the dosing (about 2 weeks).
      Follow-up serum samples were not obtained to discern how these dose intervals compared in
      terms of duration of elevated serum titres.

      Recent studies have found that children <5 years of age are less well protected than older
      individuals even though their serum antibody response rates (take rates) were similar to the
      older subjects when the serum was collected about two weeks after the vaccine doses were
      administered. These immunogenicity studies have not, however, examined antibody titers when
      blood samples were obtained after a longer time interval. Therefore, it is not known if the
      antibody titers decline at the same rate as older subjects. It could be that GMT titers are
      lower or that titers fall more rapidly in the young children, and a different dosing interval
      could maintain higher titres. To compare antibody responses in different age groups, we plan
      to stratify groups into age 1-4, 5-14, and 15 years and older.
    
  