
    
      The incidence of community-associated (CA) staphylococcal infections, especially those caused
      by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), has increased in recent years. Skin
      and soft tissues are the primary sites for these infections. Although many patients without
      apparent underlying immune dysfunction suffer from recurrent and persistent skin infections
      with S.aureus, patients with conditions such as hyper immunoglobulin E syndrome (HIES, or Job
      s syndrome) and chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) are disproportionately affected. Although
      underlying host molecular defects responsible for some of these predisposing conditions have
      been uncovered in recent years, the skin immune response to S. aureus infections has not been
      elucidated in either healthy volunteers or susceptible populations. We hypothesize that the
      local skin response determines susceptibility to S. aureus skin infection.

      In this sample collection protocol, we will perform exploratory evaluations of
      anti-staphylococcal immune responses in healthy volunteers, subjects with HIES, and subjects
      with CGD. Following screening and baseline procedures, including blood draw and skin swab,
      subjects will have the option to undergo blister induction, where a suction device will be
      used to induce skin blisters on the forearm. The tops of the blisters and blister fluid will
      be collected for research testing and storage for future research. An optional overnight
      inpatient stay may be performed to collect additional cellular infiltrates in response to
      autologous serum and/or sterile saline. Subjects may also have up to 4 skin punch biopsies
      from the forearm over the course of a week to capture wound healing progress and identify
      involved genes. All research procedures will be performed at the National Institutes of
      Health Clinical Center (NIH CC).

      The primary objective of this research is to perform ex vivo assessment of wound healing
      pathways using a skin blister model and skin biopsies to obtain keratinocyte cultures and
      evaluate skin immune responses. We will use three experimental approaches: 1) ex vivo
      evaluation of anti-microbial responses and tissue remodeling through derivation of
      keratinocyte cultures from skin blisters and biopsies, 2) in vivo and ex vivo assessment of
      cellular response after blister induction using overnight exposure to autologous serum and/or
      sterile saline, and 3) evaluation of in vivo responses to skin biopsies. We anticipate that
      the research will provide critical new information on the human skin immune and remodeling
      responses and will have direct relevance for the development of vaccines, diagnostics, and
      therapeutics.
    
  