
    
      The Innovations at Scale for Community Access and Lasting Effects (inSCALE) project is
      identifying and documenting limitations to national scale up of Integrated Community Case
      Management (ICCM) and aims to demonstrate that coverage and impact of government-led ICCM
      programmes can be extended if innovative solutions can be found for critical limitations.
      Based on research, three main constraints have been found to limit coverage of community
      based management of childhood diseases: supervision, motivation and information flow

      Potential solutions to the identified constraints have been formulated based on current
      knowledge and experiences from Malaria Consortium ICCM implementation and other relevant
      community-based initiatives in both project countries and elsewhere. Extensive formative
      research was conducted to support the design of innovations aimed to improve motivation and
      performance of community health workers.

      Innovations which have potential to address the project's aims but lack sufficient evidence
      of impact are being formally evaluated in a randomised control trial. In Mozambique, a
      technology based intervention is being tested where community health workers (CHWs) are
      provided with smart phones to programmed with a tool for decision support, immediate feedback
      and multimedia audio and images to improve adherence to protocols. The tool will also allow
      CHWs to send key indicators to a server and to keep a register of patients who can be tracked
      over time. The indicators submitted will be used for performance monitoring of the CHWs by
      providing automated timely, digestible reports with targeted follow-up actions for CHW
      supervisors. In Uganda, one technology and one community based intervention are being
      evaluated over a 12 month period. In the technology intervention, CHWs are given a Java
      enabled mobile phone through which they can send their weekly reports and drug stocks,
      receive immediate feedback based on data submission and monthly motivational messages. The
      phones in both countries also contain innovative tools such as a respiratory timers to
      support the CHWs in their work. CHWs and their supervisors are on closed user groups in order
      to increase communication and support. The community intervention is focused on the running
      of Village Health Clubs. These are designed to be highly participatory with the CHWs in the
      role of facilitator, aimed at increasing awareness about the CHW role and improving
      motivation through the support of the community.

      Continuous Ministry of Health support for health facilities to provide referral care and
      equip community health workers with medicines, tools, supervision and training are critical
      for the success of the project.
    
  