
    
      1. Study objective

           The objective of the study is to evaluate the effect of hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) on
           mandibular osteoradionecrosis as an adjunctive to surgical treatment in patients
           previously irradiated for head and neck cancer.

           Hypothesis: Osteoradionecrosis lesions heal more frequently when administering HBO as an
           adjunct to surgery.

        2. Introduction and rationale

           Each year, 300 danish patients are diagnosed with oral cancer. The majority of these
           cancers are planocellular carcinomas. The established treatments are surgery and
           radiation therapy. Depending on multiple factors such as total radiation dose,
           fractionation, localization and use of brachytherapy, mandibular osteradionecrosis
           occurs in 5-15% of previously head and neck irradiated patients.

           Osteradionecrosis is defined by National Cancer Institute (NCI) as radiation-induced
           cell death in components of bone (e.g., the marrow fat and mineralized tissue). It
           represents the final common pathway of several disease entities, which result in
           impaired blood supply to the bone tissue causing bone necrosis. Often,
           osteoradionecrosis is clinically expressed in relation to surgery or a similar tissue
           trauma, but may also arise spontaneously several years after radiation treatment. Oral
           rehabilitation is difficult in these patients as denture wear is painful. Furthermore,
           radiation-induced hyposalivation complicates retention of dentures, which are normally
           retained by a thin saliva film. As denture wear appears difficult, insertion of implants
           seems obvious in these patients. However, the survival rate of dental implants are
           reduced when inserted in irradiated bone. Thus, osteoradionecrosis patients has great
           requirements regarding pain therapy as well as oral functional and social
           rehabilitation.

           HBO is currently offered to osteoradionecrosis patients as a standard treatment in
           combination with surgical removal of the necrotic bone (sequestrectomy). 30 preoperative
           and 10 postoperative treatment sessions are given daily (on weekdays) during eight
           weeks. The duration of each treatment session is 90 minutes and involves inhalation of
           100% oxygen during decompression to 15 meters (2.5 ATA). The decompression leads to an
           increased oxygen tension in the tissues. HBO stimulates monocyte and fibroblast
           proliferation as well as collagen synthesis in irradiated tissue. Also, angiogenesis is
           stimulated, resulting in an increased vascularity. Moreover, recent research shows that
           HBO induces bone marrow derived progenitor cells in previously irradiated humans and
           animals.

           At this point, there is not sufficient scientific evidence for a clinical effect of HBO
           on osteoradionecrosis. The majority of relevant studies are casuistic reports and
           case-control studies with few participants. Few randomized clinical trials (RCT) have
           been conducted. Two of these studies document an effect of HBO, but one of the studies
           only include twelve participants, which is not associated with sufficient power. The
           other study document a prophylactic effect of HBO on osteoradionecrosis, and does
           therefore not conclude on any treatment effects. The authors of the third study
           conclude, that there is no effect of HBO treatment. However, in this study, the protocol
           was closed before full inclusion (68 vs. 222), and therefore, the power may not be
           sufficient. Furthermore, the study protocol lacks accordance with the standard HBO
           protocol and sufficient description of the surgical interventions. Moreover, there is an
           unrealistically high recovery rate in the control group with following risk of drawing
           the wrong conclusions.

           A Cochrane review states that there is not sufficient amounts of data to perform a
           meta-analysis. Thus, more randomized clinical studies are needed in order to document
           whether there is an effect of HBO on osteoradionecrosis.

        3. Endpoints

           3.1. Primary endpoint The primary endpoint recovery from osteoradionecrosis as defined
           by the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria of Adverse Events (CTCAE) v 3.0. Recovery is defined
           as no signs of osteoradionecrosis according to these criteria or grade 1 on this scale.

           Grade 1: Asymptomatic, radiographic findings only. Grade 2: Symptomatic and interfering
           with function, but not interfering with ADL (Activities of Daily Living , , , ). Minimal
           bone removal indicated i.e. minor sequestrectomy)..

           Grade 3: Symptomatic, interfering with ADL. Operative intervention or hyperbaric oxygen
           indicated.

           Grade 4: Disabling Grade 5: Death

           3.2. Secondary endpoints

             -  Life quality (EORTC schemes QLQ-C30, QLQ-H&N35)

             -  Body Mass Index

             -  Pain intensity (VAS)

             -  Analgetics consumption

             -  Antibiotics consumption

             -  Trismus

             -  Xerostomia

             -  Dysphagia

             -  Dental status

           CTCAE v. 3.0 is based on clinical as well as ADL related criteria. The primary endpoint
           value is obtained by filling out 21-05 and 21-06. The ORN stadium is the highest
           obtained score. In patients not wearing dentures, the denture-related question can be
           omitted.

        4. Investigational plan

           4.1. Inclusion

           All patients eligible for the study will be asked for informed consent by the protocol
           responsible person. If the patient does not wish to participate in the study, standard
           treatment will be given (HBO and surgery). Verbal and written information about the
           study will be given during the preliminary investigation. Randomization will occur
           approximately one week prior to participation.

           4.1. Study plan

           After confirmation of study eligibility, the participant is randomized to either group I
           (HBO and surgery) or group II (surgery).

           Drug registration is performed at home until 3 months postsurgically. After this point,
           information is obtained from a central register.

           The study is not blinded, as we consider it unrealistic to blind the investigator
           because of risk of 1) the participant unintentionally mentions details from the HBO
           treatment or that the investigator runs into the patient at the hyperbaric facility.

           The trials is ended when 114 participants are included. Participants withdrawn from the
           study will be replaced until 114 have completed participation. A drop-out rate of 20-30%
           is considered likely, which means that in total, 150 potential participants will be
           asked to participate in order to obtain 114 observations. The drop-out The drop-out rate
           will be evaluated throughout the study. All patients eligible for the study will be
           asked for informed consent by the protocol responsible person. If the patient does not
           wish to participate in the study, standard treatment will be given (HBO and surgery).
           Verbal and written information about the study will be given during the preliminary
           investigation. Randomization will occur approximately one week prior to participation.

        5. Prior to participation

      Prior to inclusion, the participants is examined by a hyperbaric physician and a head and
      neck surgeon to ensure that the following criteria are met.

      Inclusion criteria

        1. Osteoradionecrosis grade 2, 3 or 4 (CTCAE v 3.0.)

        2. Localization: Mandibula

        3. Age > 18 No contraindications for hyperbaric oxygen treatment, e.g. emphysema,
           uncontrolled asthma, epilepsy, previous optic neuritis

      Exclusion criteria solely applies for HBO treatment. Should any criteria arise after the HBO
      treatment, it is unnecessary to withdraw the patient from participation.

        1. Malignancy/residual cancer

        2. Previous HBO treatment

        3. Pregnancy or lactation (fertile female participants are required to use safe
           anticonception)

        4. Unmanageable claustrophobia

        5. Undrained pneumothorax

        6. Uncontrollable hypertension or blood pressure >220/110

        7. Explosion of titanium reconstruction device

           5.2. Clinical evaluation prior to treatment

           Examination at baseline is carried out using the existing HBO examination programme and
           includes following anamnestic registrations:

           § Epilepsy

           § Lung disease

           § Heart disease

           § Diabetes

             -  Psychologic or psychiatric disorders (to evaluate the need for medication during
                HBO)

             -  Drug list

             -  Use of eyeglasses

           Objective examination

           § Ability to equalize the pressure in the ears and sinuses (otherwise drained)

           § Heart and lung stetoscopy

             -  Blood pressure

             -  Weight

             -  Pain assessment (VAS)

           5.3. Inclusion, randomization and stratification. For all eligible patients with
           informed consent, a DAHANCA 21-inclusion form, which is a checklist for inclusion- and
           exclusion criteria is filled out and faxed to the DAHANCA office: Fax +45 86 19 71 09.
           The fax is returned with randomization number and treatment regimen.

           Included patients will be stratified according to

             -  Gender

             -  ORN stadium

      6. Treatment

      All patients will be followed closely during their treatment. The investigator will perform
      the evaluations blinded. Since HBO treatment is time-consuming (8 weeks) and expensive (2000
      DKK per session), it is not possible, nor ethically acceptable, to include a placebo group in
      order to conduct the study blinded to the participants.

      6.1. Hyperbaric oxygen treatment

      The patient will be decompressed according to a standard profile used in the clinic. During
      the first five minutes, the patient is decompressed to 14,5 +/- 0,5 m (2,45 +/- 0,05 ATA) and
      stays here for the next 90 minutes. Decompression to the surface (0 m) will hereafter take
      place during five minutes. The patient will breathe 100% oxygen during the full 100-minute
      procedure inside a hood (Amron Systems, California, USA) or mask (Divex Hyperlite II (Divex
      Industries, Aberdeen, Scotland). Each patient receives 30 preoperative treatment and 10
      postoperative treatments.

      6.2. Surgical treatment

      All patients with ORN grade >1 will be surgically treated according to standardized
      guidelines. The interventions implies either

        1. Resection of necrotic bone (sequestrectomy) with preservation of mandibular continuity.

        2. Resection of necrotic bone (sequestrectomy) with loss of mandibular continuity. The
           least mutilating intervention will be performed. Resection with loss of continuity will
           only be performed in case of potential or stated fracture.

      6.3. Termination of participation

      Protocol treatment will be terminated in case:

      The patient wish to terminate participation. New indication for surgery arises because of
      osteoradionecrosis at another localization.

      Other unintentional events occurs that may impede participation.

      7. Clinical evaluation and follow-up

      7.1. One week after sequestrectomy The first evaluation occurs one week after surgery in
      order to evaluate wound healing.

      7.2. One month after sequestrectomy (+/- two weeks).

      7.3. Three months after sequestrectomy (+/- three weeks).

      7.4. One year after sequestrectomy (+/- one month).

      7.5. After relapse/progression In case of relapse or progression patients are treated
      according to local guidelines.

      7.6 Follow-up

      All patients are followed once a year for at least 5 years after completion of participation.
      Additionally, patients are instructed to contact the department in case of relapse.
    
  