
    
      Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) is a complex three-dimensional deformity of the spinal
      column, including scoliosis in the coronal plane, fixed rotation of the vertebral body and
      physiological curvature loss in the sagittal plane. AIS has a relatively high prevalence in
      adolescents. Exercise is the most common conservative therapy for mild AIS patients and has
      been widely used to reduce spinal deformity and halt curve progression. There are two kinds
      of exercises: generalised physiotherapy exercises and physiotherapeutic scoliosis specific
      exercise (PSSE). Little evidence is in favor of generalised physiotherapy exercises. There
      are increasing evidences suggesting that PSSE can halt the curve progression. Nevertheless,
      the evidence concerning PSSE is inadequate and low quality. Thus, the aim of this study is to
      identify the efficacy of PSSE on Cobb's angle, rotation angle, fall index, pulmonary
      function, bone quality, and health related quality-of-life (HRQoL) for mild AIS patients, and
      to promote PSSE's application in Shanghai.

      The AIS patients will be recruited from and investigated at the Xinhua Hospital, Xinhua
      Hospital Chongming Branch, Shanghai First Rehabilitation Hospital, Shanghai Yangzhi
      Rehabilitation Hospital, and Shanghai Yangpu Daqiao Community Health Service Centre. Prior to
      inclusion, all subjects will be examined by the physiatrists. The subjects' height, weight,
      shoulder, chest, back and pelvic asymmetries, and the Adams forward bend test will be
      evaluated and recorded. The following information will be obtained for all subjects,
      including demographic data (for example, age and sex), menarche status for the girls, and
      family history. A parent of each subject will be asked to sign an informed consent form
      before the subject participate in the study.

      Eligible subjects will be randomized by a 1:1 allocation ratio by computer either to the
      intervention group, in which they will perform PSSEs under the guidance of an experienced
      physiotherapist with expertise in scoliosis in an outpatient clinic; or the control group, in
      which they will perform generalised physiotherapy exercises. All subjects will receive the
      treatment as allocated and will be assessed at the initial visit and 6 months. A
      multidimensional, comprehensive evaluation including aesthetic appearance, radiographic
      measurement, static balance test, pulmonary function test, bone quality, and HRQoL will be
      used.
    
  