
    
      The Study Drug:

      TTP607 is designed to work by blocking the action of certain enzymes (proteins) in the blood
      that are responsible for abnormal growth of cancer cells. This may cause the cancer cells to
      eventually die.

      Dose Level Assignment:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be enrolled in a group
      of 3-6 participants. The dose you receive will be based on when you join this study (on how
      many participants have been enrolled before you, and on the safety data that is available at
      that time). The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose of TTP607. Each new
      group of participants will receive the next highest dose of the study drug, as long as no
      intolerable side effects occur. This process will continue until the highest tolerable dose
      of TTP607 is reached. Once the highest tolerable dose is found, 12 additional participants
      will be enrolled and treated at that dose, so that researchers can learn more about the
      effects of the study drug on the tumor. Both you and your study doctor will know what dose of
      the study drug you are receiving.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Starting on Day 1 of Cycle 1, you will receive TTP607 by central venous catheter (CVC or
      central venous line). There are several types of central venous catheters. Each type of
      catheter is a flexible, long, thin tube that is inserted through a vein, under a local
      anesthetic, through a small cut in your chest (near your heart). Some chemotherapy drugs are
      not suitable to be given into the veins in your hand or arm, so these drugs must be given
      into a larger vein. The CVC may also be used for drawing blood samples that are needed
      regularly. Using the CVC for these blood draws will lower the need for repeated blood draws
      from your arm. TTP607 will be given over 1-4 hours depending on the dose you receive, each
      day for 5 days in a row, followed by a 10-day "rest period" (no study drug). This 15 days is
      considered 1 cycle.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 (All Cycles):

      You will have the below tests/procedures during your study visits:

        -  Your vital signs will be taken.

        -  You will have blood (about 1-2 tablespoons each time) drawn and urine collected for
           routine tests.

        -  You will be asked about any other medications that you may be taking and any side
           effects you may have experienced since your last visit.

        -  You will have an ECG.

        -  You will have a brief physical exam and routine eye exam.

        -  You will have a computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or positron
           emission tomography (PET) scan to check the size of the tumor.

        -  You will complete a questionnaire (1 question only) to rate your quality of life over
           the past week. It should take about 1 minute to complete.

        -  Women who are able to have children will have a urine pregnancy test.

      On Days 2-5 (All Cycles):

      The following tests/procedures will be performed before the start of the study drug infusion:

        -  You will be asked about any side effects that you may have had since your last visit.

        -  Your weight will be measured.

      After the infusion, your vital signs will be measured.

      On Days 2-5 (Cycle 1):

      You will have an ECG performed, and blood (about 2-3 teaspoons each time) and urine will be
      collected for routine tests.

      On Days 8, 10, and 12 (Cycle 1):

      You will have the below tests/procedures during your study visits:

        -  You will complete the questionnaire to rate your quality of life over the past week.

        -  You will be asked about any medications you may have taken since your last visit and if
           you have had any side effects from them.

        -  You will have an ECG (Day 8 only).

        -  You will have blood (about 2-3 teaspoons each time) and urine collected for routine
           tests.

        -  You will have a brief physical exam and routine eye exam.

        -  Your weight will be measured (Days 8 and 12).

        -  Your vital signs will be measured.

      On Days 3 and 5 (Cycles 2 and 3):

      You will have an ECG.

      On Days 2, 3, and 5 (Cycles 2 and 3):

      You will have blood (about 2-3 teaspoons each time) drawn and urine collected for routine
      tests.

      On Days 8-12 (Cycles 2, 3, and Further Cycles):

      At least once at some time between Days 8 and 12, you will return to the clinic for the
      following tests/procedures:

        -  You will complete the questionnaire to rate your quality of life over the past week (on
           Day 12 of even-numbered cycles).

        -  You will be asked about any medications you may have taken since your last visit and if
           you have had any side effects from them.

        -  You will have an ECG (Cycles 2 and 3).

        -  You will have blood (about 2-3 teaspoons each time) and urine collected for routine
           tests.

        -  You will have a brief physical exam and routine eye exam.

        -  Your weight and vital signs will be measured.

      On Day 5 (Cycle 4 and Further Cycles):

      You will have blood (about 2-3 teaspoons each time) and urine collected for routine tests.

      PK Testing:

      You will have blood (about 2-3 teaspoons each time) and urine samples collected at different
      times for PK testing of TTP607.

      Cycle 1:

      Days 1 and 5:

      Blood will be drawn immediately before the infusion, at 30 minutes during the infusion, at 60
      minutes immediately after the infusion, and at 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 45 minutes, and at 1,
      2, 3, 4, and 6 hours after the infusion.

      On Day 1, urine will be collected immediately before the infusion and within 3 hours, between
      3 and 7 hours, between 7 and 12 hours, and between 12 and 24 hours after the infusion. On Day
      5, urine will be collected before the infusion and within 3 hours and between 3 and 7 hours
      after the infusion.

      Days 2, 3, and 4:

      Blood will be drawn immediately before the infusion and at 1 hour after the end of the
      infusion. Urine will be collected immediately before the infusion and within 2 hours after
      the end of the infusion.

      Day 8:

      Blood will be drawn at any convenient time, and urine will be collected when you first arrive
      in the clinic.

      Cycles 2 and 3:

      Days 1 and 5:

      Blood will be drawn before the infusion and at 1 and 2 hours after the infusion, and urine
      will be collected before the infusion and within 2 hours after infusion.

      Days 8-12:

      Blood will be drawn at any convenient time, and urine will be collected when you first arrive
      in the clinic.

      Cycle 4 and Further Cycles:

      Day 5:

      Blood will be drawn 1 hour after the infusion, and urine will be collected immediately before
      the infusion and within 2 hours after the infusion.

      Length of Study:

      You will continue on this study, as long as the study doctor thinks it is safe to continue,
      the cancer does not get worse, and if no intolerable side effects occur. If you continue on
      to further cycles, you will be on the same study drug schedule and will have the same
      tests/procedures for study visits, though they may be performed less often.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      Once you are off this study for any reason, you will have an end-of-study visit about 30 days
      after your last dose of the study drug. During this visit, you will have the following
      tests/procedures:

        -  You will have a complete physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Your blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn and urine collected for routine tests.

        -  You will have an ECG.

        -  You will complete the questionnaire to rate your quality of life over the past week.

        -  Women who are able to have children will have a blood (about 1 teaspoon) pregnancy test.

      This is an investigational study. TTP607 is not FDA approved or commercially available. At
      this time, it is being used for research purposes only. Up to 40 patients will take part in
      this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  