
    
      Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC, previously called 'primary biliary cirrhosis') is an
      autoimmune cholestatic liver disease characterized by destruction of intrahepatic bile ducts
      and progression to liver fibrosis and cirrhosis. In the pre-cirrhotic phase, fatigue and
      pruritus are the dominant symptoms. They reduce PBC patients' quality of life, but the extent
      to which they cause the patient to leave the work force and seek disability pension is
      unknown. The diagnosis of PBC is based on the presence of two of three major criteria;
      unexplained serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) >1.5 times upper normal limit for more than 24
      weeks, presence of anti-mitochondrial antibodies (AMA), and compatible liver histology.
      Multiple models have been conducted to predict prognosis in patients with PBC. The Mayo risk
      score is the best validated and includes information on age, bilirubin, albumin, prothrombin
      time and peripheral oedema. Other prognostic factors are pruritus and fatigue at diagnosis
      that predict the time to develop cirrhosis and its complications.

      In PBC, inflammation is attributed to an immune response to mitochondrial autoantigens
      followed by a serologic response of anti-mitochondrial antibodies (AMAs); and accompanied by
      inflammation of small bile ducts. The pathogenesis includes both CD4 and CD8 cells, which in
      the presence of biliary cells expressing the 2-oxo-dehydrogenase pathway (PDC-E2) activates
      macrophages via granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor. The activated macrophages,
      together with AMAs, produce a proinflammatory response with subsequent liver inflammation and
      fibrosis. Thus, macrophages seem to be involved in PBC disease severity and progression.
      However, macrophage activation markers have not previously been investigated in PBC patients.
      The investigators' research group have during the last years investigated the macrophage
      activation marker sCD163. The group have shown increased levels in relation to liver
      fibrosis/cirrhosis in patients with chronic viral hepatitis (HBV and HCV), non-alcoholic
      fatty liver disease (NAFLD/NASH) and alcoholic liver disease (alcoholic hepatitis and
      cirrhosis) and liver disease severity including risk of portal hypertension and development
      of complications and mortality. Just recently the investigators' research group also
      demonstrated that the soluble mannose receptor (sMR) and sCD163 are associated with early and
      long-term prognosis of patients with cirrhosis and acute-on-chronic liver failure.

      Aims:

      To investigate sCD163 and sMR as markers of fibrosis and cirrhosis in PBC patients. Further,
      the investigators will investigate sCD163 and sMR as prognostic markers of short-term disease
      progression and impact on quality of life in patients followed in our liver centre. Moreover,
      the patients' short-term risk of requiring disability pension will be investigated. This will
      improve the information available for the patients regarding their short-term prognosis.
    
  