
    
      The primary purpose of this study is to determine whether short-term (12-week) administration
      of the GLP-1R agonist, liraglutide, will improve joint and skin swelling in patients with
      active Psoriatic Arthritis compared to placebo.

      Background: Psoriatic Arthritis is a systemic inflammatory T-cell disorder affecting the
      joints and spine, and is associated with an elevated risk for Type 2 Diabetes and
      Cardiovascular Disease. In addition to classical effects on glycemic-lowering, GLP-1R
      agonists are anti-diabetes agents which also have anti-inflammatory properties that may be
      clinically useful for patients with inflammatory diseases, particularly those with co-morbid
      metabolic disease. While a few small exploratory studies in patients with psoriasis have
      demonstrated that GLP-1R agonists reduce the severity of skin plaques, dedicated prospective,
      randomized mechanistic studies evaluating potential mechanisms by which GLP-1R agonists exert
      anti-inflammatory action(s) in humans with inflammatory disease is lacking.

      Objectives: Primary objective is to evaluate the clinical efficacy of short-term liraglutide
      (GLP-1R agonist) administration on the severity of joint and skin inflammation in patients
      with active Psoriatic Arthritis. Secondary objectives are to determine whether short-term
      liraglutide administration in patients with active psoriatic arthritis will 1) modify the
      degree of impaired glucose tolerance, underlying b-cell function and cardiovascular risk
      factor profiles, 2) improve patient-centered outcomes such as quality of life and
      functionality, 3) modify specific sub-populations of T-cells and affect their differentiation
      and activation, and 4) modify activation of circulating immune cells, pro-inflammatory
      cytokines, and hormones.

      Design: Double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial, Phase II.

      Patient population: 34 patients between with active Psoriatic Arthritis meeting CASPAR
      (ClASsification criteria for Psoriatic ARthritis).

      Intervention: Participants will be randomized (1:1) to liraglutide (1.2 mg sc daily) or to
      placebo (sc daily) for 12 weeks.

      Endpoints: The primary endpoint of this study will be the proportion of patients who
      experience a 20% ACR (American College of Rheumatology) improvement response following
      liraglutide therapy as compared to placebo.
    
  