
    
      Age-related sarcopenia is a common situation defined by muscle mass and function loss in an
      otherwise healthy elderly person. Epidemiological data from the USA show 49% of men and 72%
      of women to suffer from sarcopenia. Few data is available on the French population.
      Sarcopenia is associated with increased morbidity, mortality, disability and reduced
      resistance to metabolic stress. Resistance training and nutrition are two non-pharmaceutical
      methods that may be able to prevent several age-related condition.

      The aim of this study is to assess the effects of resistance training, associated or not with
      oral nutritional supplements, on skeletal muscle mass (expressed as skeletal muscle mass
      index) in sarcopenic subjects. This is a prospective randomised controlled single-centre
      study that will last two years, three months for a participant.

      200 healthy elderly (70-80 years old) subjects will be screened for sarcopenia by dual energy
      X-ray absorptiometry. 128 sarcopenic subjects will be randomized into 4 groups:

        -  group 1: controls

        -  group 2: oral nutritional supplement (260 kcal and 20 g protein per day)

        -  group 3: resistance training (3 times per week)

        -  group 4: oral nutritional supplement + resistance training

      Every subject will be assessed at the beginning and at the end of 12 weeks of intervention
      on:

        -  muscle mass (DXA)

        -  muscle function (dynamometers)

        -  hormonal (testosterone, GH, IGF-1, cortisol) and inflammatory (IL-6, TNF-alpha) profiles

        -  food intake. Ten subjects in group 4 will undergo a muscle biopsy (quadriceps) before
           and after the intervention in order to explore protein and mRNA levels of the mTOR
           pathway, which may be involved in sarcopenia.

      We expect to show that sarcopenia can be improved by 12 weeks of resistance training and that
      this improvement can be potentialized by oral nutritional supplements (with a stimulation of
      the mTOR pathway), and that oral nutritional supplements alone will affect neither muscle
      mass nor function.
    
  