
    
      At present, an accurate and definitive clinical test to predict early the onset of the sepsis
      pathology does not exist. At least 7 million people per year enter into the early stages of
      the sepsis pathology, which will lead to more than 250,000 deaths per year in the USA and
      more than 750,000 worldwide. An early, accurate, and reliable test that can assess an
      intensive care unit (ICU) patient's risk of becoming septic would be a major medical
      breakthrough. A large unmet clinical laboratory need exists for a test that can aid
      physicians in assessing their patient's risk for the onset of the sepsis pathology. The
      current culture procedures suffer from a number of problems. (1) They are slow. The first
      answer is obtained only after 24 hours of culture, and an absolute answer requires a minimum
      of 48 hours of culture. (2) Blood culture only yields positive results (i.e. sepsis is
      present) in approximately 28% of patients who become septic, thus over 70% of the patients do
      not yield positive blood cultures. Everyone in the sepsis field agrees that better IVD tests
      for the sepsis pathology are desperately needed. Our PliNOSa IVD test based upon the presence
      of iNOS in plasma should identify those patients as being at risk for developing sepsis since
      our assay is not dependent upon the culturing of live bacteria or other micro-organisms.

      Sepsis develops from a variety of bacterial and fungal sources stemming from the patient's
      inability to fight infection, and is commonly acquired while recovering from severe injuries
      and surgery in hospitals. An early, accurate, and reliable clinical diagnostics test for the
      onset of sepsis currently does not exist, but an enormous clinical laboratory need does
      exist. In January 2008, Levenson reviewed the current status of the clinical diagnosis of
      sepsis and concluded [1] that none of the currently FDA cleared risk-assessment tests work
      well and [2] that new biomarkers specific for the sepsis pathology would be a major medical
      breakthrough. In 2000, the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Science estimated
      the cost to the US healthcare system to be $17 - 29 billion annually. The presence in plasma
      of a normally intracellular protein, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), has been found
      to be an early and accurate biomarker for the onset of the sepsis pathology. Data gathered
      using our in vitro diagnostic (IVD) test to analyze more than 1,200 blood samples collected
      during our clinical studies on 350 study subjects (295 ICU patients and 55 healthy
      volunteers) demonstrated that iNOS is present only in plasma samples obtained from people
      suffering from the onset of sepsis. In our three clinical studies, the latter two of which
      were partially funded by the NIH, our candidate IVD test for plasma iNOS was found to predict
      the onset of sepsis 24 - 72 hours before the appearance of the physiological symptoms of the
      pathology.

      The superiority of plasma iNOS as compared to other potential biochemical markers of SIRS
      (pre-sepsis) and sepsis was assessed using the data from our third clinical study. Four
      cohorts from this study were analyzed for the plasma levels for four potential biomarkers of
      the sepsis pathology: iNOS, procalcitonin (PCT), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis
      factor-alpha (TNFα). The four cohorts are (1) 36 normal healthy individuals as Group A; (2)
      critically injured patients who remained SIRS and septic negative throughout the entire study
      period as Group B; (3) critically ill patients who became septic during the study period,
      with their plasma levels 24 hours before the symptoms of sepsis were recognized by the
      attending doctors as Group C; and (4) confirmed septic patients who were enrolled in our
      study and had not received antibiotics prior to their enrollment as Group D. Only plasma iNOS
      was found to differentiate between non-septic critically ill patients (Group B) and the
      critically ill patients who were developing sepsis (Group C) or were already septic (Group
      D). The plasma level of procalcitonin, one of the FDA cleared IVD tests, was not specific for
      sepsis since a number of normal healthy volunteers and many of the non-SIRS and non-septic
      patients had elevated plasma levels of procalcitonin (PCT).

      To summarize, infections in intensive care units and other hospital settings can be caused by
      different types of organisms, such as bacteria and fungi. These infections annually cause
      more than 7,000,000 cases of SIRS (pre-sepsis) that can deteriorate to sepsis, severe sepsis
      with organ dysfunction, and septic shock with multiple organ failure. To date, three clinical
      studies have been conducted on this project in which 295 ICU patients and 55 healthy
      volunteers have been enrolled and studied. The data obtained during these prior clinical
      studies clearly demonstrate that a measurable increase in the plasma level of iNOS occurs
      during the onset of the sepsis pathology. The main focus of this research proposal is to
      gather the data needed to obtain FDA clearance to market our new PliNOSa® test by
      demonstrating in a statistically significant number of critically ill ICU patients that the
      presence of iNOS in plasma is a reliable early biomarker as a risk assessment aid for the
      onset of sepsis.
    
  