
    
      Interstitial lung diseases (ILD) comprise the most highly incapacitating group of chronic
      respiratory diseases, with significant morbidity and high mortality.

      Physical activity (PA) improves HRQoL, exercise capacity and performance of activities of
      daily living, control the symptoms and prevent the development of further comorbidities in
      people with chronic respiratory diseases. However, people with ILD are highly inactive and
      sedentary and, as the disease progresses, these people spend most of time at home and adhere
      poorly to interventions, which worsens HRQoL, intensifies clinical decline and increases
      dependency on others.

      Home-based PA programmes, integrated in patients' daily routines, may increase PA levels.
      Lifestyle Integrated Functional Exercise (LiFE) is a home-based PA programme, which
      integrates training into daily routines. This programme has shown to be effective in healthy
      older, however its effectiveness in people with a chronic respiratory disease population is
      unknown.

      Therefore, this study will develop and implement a home-based PA programme, based on LiFE, in
      patients with advanced ILD and assess its impacts on PA levels, HRQoL and other
      health-related domains.

      The PRIMARY AIM of this study is to assess the effects (short- and mid-term) of a home-based
      PA programme, based on the LiFE programme, on PA levels and HRQoL of patients with ILD,
      through a randomised controlled trial (RCT).

      Secondary aims are to:

        1. establish the feasibility of iLiFE and adherence to the intervention;

        2. explore the short- and mid-term effects of the iLiFE on the impact of the disease on
           patients' life, symptoms, exercise tolerance, muscular strength, balance, and emotional
           status of patients with ILD;

        3. assess the cost-benefit of the iLiFE on unscheduled healthcare resources utilisation,
           length of hospitalisation and number of respiratory infections.

      To accomplish these aims, a feasibility study and a RCT will be conducted. iLiFE will be
      individually tailored to address each person's motivations and capacities, within the home
      context, to ensure the development and implementation of an innovative home-based PA
      intervention. Thus, it is expected that iLiFE will improve the PA levels of patients with
      ILD, enhancing HRQoL. Ultimately, this innovative research will potentially reduce
      health-care utilisation and costs, and finally, guide clinical and research practice, as well
      as policy decision makers, at a national and international level.

      Task 1: Literature review

      To inform the design of the intervention, the investigators will conduct a systematic review
      on home-based PA interventions in patients with chronic respiratory diseases according to
      Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines.

      Task 2: iLiFE-Feasibility study

      A mix-methods feasibility study will be conducted to inform the recruitment procedures and
      components of iLiFE. Sample size will be determined by the qualitative data saturation. The
      investigators will use a maximum variation strategy to guide recruitment.

      Ethical approval will be obtained, and data protection will be ensured by following the
      European regulation. Eligible patients will be identified by general practitioners or by
      pulmonologists, who will provide a brief explanation about the study and inform the
      researcher about interest participants. Then, those interested will be contacted and informed
      consent obtained. Participants will be eligible if are: i) ≥18 years; ii) diagnosed with
      stable ILD, in an advanced stage, as determined by referred doctor; iii) living at home.
      Participants will be excluded if: i) have a history of acute cardiac/respiratory condition on
      the previous month, and ii) present signs of cognitive impairment or significant
      cardiovascular, neurological and/or musculoskeletal disease, which may limit participation.

      Data will be collected (approximately 1h) at baseline, 4-weeks (after the programme
      beginning) and 12-weeks (immediately after the programme). The researcher will collect:

        -  Sociodemographic/anthropometric and general clinical data (e.g., smoking habits, number
           of exacerbations, healthcare utilisation, and hospitalisation): structured
           questionnaire;

        -  PA (steps per day): accelerometry;

        -  HRQoL: St. George Respiratory Questionnaire;

        -  Impact of the disease on patients' life: COPD Assessment Test (CAT);

        -  Dyspnoea: Modified Medical Research Council questionnaire (mMRC) and modified Borg
           scale;

        -  Peripheral muscle strength: Handheld dynamometry and handgrip;

        -  Functional capacity: Time Up and Go test; Brief-Balance Evaluation Systems Test and
           Physical Performance Test;

        -  Exercise tolerance: Chester step test;

        -  Emotional status: Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale;

        -  Activities of daily living: London Chest Activity of Daily Living;

        -  Self-perception of performance in everyday living: The Canadian Occupational Performance
           Measure (COPM);

        -  Fatigue: Borg modified scale and Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy -
           Fatigue Scale;

        -  Cough and sputum: Cough and Sputum Assessment questionnaire;

        -  Occurrence of adverse events and adherence to the interventions.

      Accelerometers will be used for 1-week (8h/day) before and after the 12-weeks. The COPM will
      be used to develop the individualised programme for each patient based on participants'
      goals.

      Individual semi-structured interviews will be conducted, before and after the programme, to
      inform about patients' preferences, perspectives, barriers and facilitators for programme
      participation.

      iLiFE will be conducted for 12 weeks in participants' homes and will include everyday tasks
      to train endurance, balance, flexibility and strength. Activities will include: 1) walking
      and/or stair climbing to improve endurance; 2) functional-based incorporated in activities of
      daily living, to improve balance (work at the kitchen while standing on one leg), flexibility
      (stretch the upper limb when watching TV) and muscle strength (squatting instead of bending
      at the waist to close a drawer or to pick things up from the floor). Intensity of training
      will be adjusted to perceived exertion confirmed by heart rate and oxygen saturation levels.
      PA programme will be individualised and based on the results of the assessment.

      At the start of the program, the physiotherapist will be present at all sessions, but these
      face-to-face visits will decrease over time using the following schedule:

        -  Weeks 1-4: 3 face-to-face sessions/week;

        -  Weeks 5-8: 2 face-to-face sessions/week and a weekly phone call;

        -  Weeks 9-11: 1 face-to-face session/week and a weekly phone call;

        -  Week 12: 2 phone calls.

      Face-to-face sessions aim to adapt activities to everyday tasks, increase frequency and/or
      intensity, monitor progress, clarify doubts, motivate higher daily energy expenditure and
      manage expectations. Phone-calls aim to clarify doubts and to monitor patients'
      motivation/evolution, following a motivational interview. Patients will also receive a
      personalised manual (iLiFE manual) with activities to do in everyday tasks.

      Task 3: iLiFE randomised controlled trial

      Based on the findings of the literature review and feasibility study, the intervention will
      be refined.

      A sample size calculation was computed for the primary outcome measure (daily steps). Based
      on a home-based pulmonary rehabilitation study conducted in patients with chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease, it is anticipated that 42 participants in each group (total=84) will be
      needed to detect a between-group difference of 520 steps/day (power=80%, α=0.05, 2-tailed),
      assuming a strong correlation among paired measures (r=0.70). Since in respiratory
      interventions dropout rates are around 20%, 100 participants will be needed.

      Patients will be randomised into experimental group (EG) and control group (CG). The EG will
      receive the iLiFE programme described in task 2 and, the CG will receive a leaflet with
      exercise and PA recommendations.

      Data will be collected as described in task 2, however, follow-up assessments will be
      conducted at 3 and 6 months after iLiFE, to assess short- and mid-term results. In this task,
      all assessments will be performed by a second researcher blinded to the intervention.
    
  