
    
      Detailed Summary: Bone disease has been a well-recognized complication of renal disease for
      over 100 years. Until the advent of dialysis, however, it was only another of the many
      dreadful complications of a fatal disease. Almost since the onset of dialysis, however, bone
      disease and calcium metabolism presented major difficulties to patients and physicians.
      Recently we reported that dialysis patients had an 8-fold increase in hip fracture rate,
      compared to the normal population. In younger dialysis patients (age 30-50 years) this risk
      was increased to nearly 100 fold. We have also noted a similar or even higher incidence of
      fracture in the transplant population. Low bone mass has been found in dialysis patients by
      ourselves and other investigators, a finding in the general population which predisposes to
      fracture. In the dialysis population, bone histologic studies done by us and others have
      reported the adynamic (low turnover) lesion in more than half of the dialysis population.
      This lesion is similar to what is seen in osteoporosis. Thus, dialysis patients, like
      osteoporotics, have low bone mass, low bone turnover, and a high fracture rate. In the
      osteoporotic patients, various bisphosphonates have been shown to inhibit bone resorption,
      increase bone mass and decrease fracture rate. The only bisphosphonate approved for use in
      patients with renal failure is pamidronate. This agent has not been used extensively in the
      general population because it must be given intravenously. This, together with the fact that
      pamidronate has a bone half-life of over 300 days, actually makes this drug a strong
      candidate for the treatment of patients with renal failure. In this investigation we propose
      using pamidronate in patients with renal failure to prevent bone loss and fracture. We will
      monitor bone mass by DEXA in patients to assess treatment response, assess bone histology in
      selected subjects, and collect data on fractures in the population.

      Comparison: Subjects with normal or low parathyroid hormone (PTH) who receive dosing with
      pamidronate will be compared to similar subjects who receive placebo. Comparison groups will
      be randomly assigned and assignment will be blind.
    
  