
    
      Malignant pleural effusion (MPE) imposes a significant burden on patients and health-care
      providers. Most of the malignant pleural effusions are the result of metastases to the pleura
      from other sites. The primary tumors were, in the decreasing order of frequency: lung (37%),
      breast (17%), unknown site (10%), lymphoma (9%), gastrointestinal (8%), ovary (7%) and
      mesothelioma (3%) .

      Management of malignant effusions depends on palliation of dyspnea and prevention of the re
      accumulation of pleural fluid to provide the highest possible quality of life, regardless of
      the need for other treatment modalities. Most patients require definitive treatment, usually
      drainage and chemical pleurodesis to relieve symptoms and prevent fluid recurrence.
      Pleurodesis is defined as the symphysis between the visceral and parietal pleural surfaces;
      its function is to prevent accumulation of either air or fluid into the pleural space.
      Effusions of malignant origin are the most common indication for pleurodesis Thoracic
      ultrasound (TUS) can easily visualize pleural effusions and help in identifying malignant
      effusion and the presence of pleural adhesions or thick pleural peel and could therefore have
      a role in predicting long-term pleurodesis success or failure in MPE.

      One of the easiest sign to identify during chest sonography is the movement of the visceral
      pleura compared to immobility of the parietal pleura. This sign of 'pleural sliding', firstly
      described in veterinary medicine and was used to exclude the presence of pneumothorax when
      present and to suspect atelectasis, fibrosis or pleural adhesions (pleurodesis) when absent.
      Thoracic ultrasonography easily detects the sign of 'pleural sliding', due to the movement of
      the visceral pleura on the parietal pleura This sign is absent when pleurodesis is
      successful. Contrast-enhanced chest CT has become the imaging modality of choice to detect
      pleural effusions and assist the differentiation between benign andmalignant effusions
      detected bystandard radiographs. Chest CT findings characteristic of malignant pleural
      disease include (i) circumferential pleural thickening, (ii) nodular pleural thickening,
      (iii) parietal pleural thickening greater than 1 cm, and (iv) mediastinal pleural involvement
      or evidence of a primary tumour.(9'10) The reported specificities of each of these individual
      findings range from 22% to 56% and sensitivities range from 88% to 100%.(9;11) Histological
      confirmation of the diagnosis, however, remains necessary. Chest CT should be performed
      before large-volume thoracocentesis to allow visualization of both the visceral and parietal
      pleurae, which may identify a pleural mass and appropriate site for needle biopsy.
    
  