
    
      Neoadjuvant hormonal treatment (NHT) for clinically localised prostate cancer consists of
      complete androgen blockade (CAB) preceding either radiotherapy or surgery. The rational for
      this approach is based on the assumption that NHT will reduce both the tumour and normal
      prostatic tissue volume, and induce cancer regression by the mechanism of apoptosis [1].

      Most randomized clinical trials show that NHT reduces the incidence of positive surgical
      margins after radical prostatectomy and apparently determines tumour downstaging, however no
      advantage has been documented in terms of biochemical disease progression [for example, time
      to prostate specific antigen (PSA) increase] between treated and untreated patients [2-8].
      Because of relatively low biological aggressiveness of prostatic carcinoma, many patients
      will need to be followed for a considerable time before drawing significant conclusions on
      the effects of NHT on survival [2,4,7,10]. A large sample of 393 radical prostatectomy
      specimens were evaluated in 3 treatment groups, which were immediate surgery, 12 weeks of NHT
      (Zoladex and Casodex), and 24 weeks of NHT. Patients included clinical stage B (T2a and T2b)
      and stage C (T3a and T3b). Systemic hormonal treatment, whether 12 weeks or 24 weeks of NHT,
      is able to "downstage" the primary tumour and decrease the positive margin rate before
      definitive localised treatment [11].

      Currently treatment of patients with oligometastatic prostate cancer is undergoing dramatic
      changes [12]. The local treatment of the primary tumour might provide a survival benefit to
      men with metastatic and lymph node-positive disease. Similar observations have been made in
      treatment of metastatic lesions with life-prolonging, rather than palliative intent [13-17].

      This study is proposed primarily to observe the efficacy and safety of 24-week NHT (Zoladex
      and Casodex) in patients with locally advanced or oligometastatic prostate cancer.
      Progression status and survival will be followed-up for up to 2 years after NHT.

      This is a multi-centre, single-arm and prospective study to explore the efficacy and safety
      of neoadjuvant hormone therapy (NHT) for advanced prostate cancer patients undergoing radical
      prostatectomy (RP). A total of 104 subjects with locally advanced and oligometastatic
      prostate cancer at clinical stage of T3 and T4 will be enrolled at almost 20 centres in
      China.

      The eligible subjects will receive Casodex 50 mg orally per day in combination with Zoladex
      10.8 mg implant subcutaneously every 12 weeks as neoadjuvant therapy for 24 weeks, and then
      will be assessed for resectability of the primary tumour. The subjects will undergo a RP
      [RALP (robot-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy), laparoscopic RP or RRP (radical retropubic
      prostatectomy)] plus eLND thereafter if the primary tumour is assessed as resectable.
      Surgical margin status and involvement of bilateral pelvic lymph nodes will be evaluated.
      Subjects will be prescribed post-surgical treatment such as continuous ADT and
      metastasis-directed therapy upon investigator's discretion and be followed-up for up to 2
      years.

      Progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) will be collected during this
      study.

      For the subjects with unresectable primary tumour after NHT, PFS and OS will also be
      collected in the follow-up for up to 2 years after 24 weeks of CAB.
    
  