
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor
      disability and many disabling non-motor symptoms. Excessive daytime somnolence (EDS) is found
      in up to 50% of patients with PD, and can cause considerable impairment of quality of life.
      At present, the only proven treatment for EDS in PD is modafinil, an alerting agent with an
      unknown mechanism of action. However, modafinil is only moderately effective and is very
      expensive. Caffeine is a very well tolerated and inexpensive alerting agent that is used
      worldwide, but very few patients with PD use it as therapy for EDS. It is unclear whether
      this is because it does not help EDS in PD, has side effects, or simply has not been
      considered because of lifelong patterns of non-use.

      If caffeine can be demonstrated as an effective agent for EDS in PD, it will likely become
      the first-line agent for EDS. This will result in considerable cost savings for patients and
      health care payers, as well as potentially helping those who cannot tolerate, do not respond
      to, or cannot afford modafinil.

      Another compelling question of interest to patients with PD is whether caffeine may be
      neuroprotective. Despite intensive research, no treatment has been found that can slow the
      progression of neurodegeneration in PD. Recently numerous epidemiologic studies have linked
      lifelong use of caffeine to a lower risk of PD. Although the mechanism for this finding is
      unclear, supporting evidence from animal models suggests that a true neuroprotective benefit
      of caffeine is a strong possibility. Alternatively, caffeine could have a benefit on motor
      manifestations of PD, which would prevent diagnosis of PD. Any finding of a symptomatic
      benefit of caffeine on motor manifestations of PD will have obvious and important
      implications for treatment of persons affected with PD and for planning of neuroprotective
      trials. Any finding of a neuroprotective benefit of caffeine will almost certainly result in
      its immediate widespread use in PD, with profound implications for patient care.

      The present proposal is for a double blind randomized placebo controlled crossover trial that
      will answer three important questions in PD: is caffeine useful for the treatment of EDS in
      patients with PD? does caffeine have any symptomatic effect on the motor manifestations of
      PD? and, does caffeine have an acceptable tolerability and side effect profile that will
      allow planning of an eventual neuroprotective trial? Patients with PD who have EDS with an
      Epworth sleepiness scale of >10 will be randomized to caffeine therapy (100 mg twice per day
      for three weeks, then 200 mg twice per day for three weeks) or placebo. A final assessment
      will be performed after a 4-week washout. A total of 52 patients will be randomized over a
      two-year period. The primary outcome measure will be the change in Epworth sleepiness scale
      between patients receiving caffeine versus placebo. Secondary outcome measures will include
      other sleep scales, tolerability measures, and measures of motor function and overall quality
      of life. After tests to assess normal distribution, analysis will be with two-sample t-test.
    
  