
    
      Bladder cancer is the seventh most common cancer in the United Kingdom (UK) and ninth most
      common cancer worldwide. New strategies for treating this disease are urgently required to
      reduce recurrence and progression rates. Pembrolizumab is a type of immunotherapy drug that
      has been approved for use in certain types of melanoma and lung cancer. It is thought to work
      by helping the body's immune system to recognise and attack cancer. Drugs that work in a
      similar way have shown some encouraging results in studies treating patients with bladder
      cancer that has spread to other parts of the body, although they are not currently approved
      for treating either advanced or localised bladder cancer.

      This trial is being performed to assess the safety and tolerability of giving pembrolizumab
      to patients with localised bladder cancer and to study what effects the drug has on the
      tumour; Participants will have all but one tumour (referred to as the marker lesion) removed
      during their transurethral resection of bladder tumour (TURBT) procedure at the start of the
      trial. After trial treatment, a further TURBT procedure will be carried out to remove the
      marker lesion, or if the marker lesion is no longer visible, a biopsy will be taken of the
      area where the growth was before.

      After a safety run in with intra-patient dose escalation of intravesical pembrolizumab
      performed in paired patient cohorts, the trial will test two different ways of giving the
      pembrolizumab; directly into the bladder (intravesical) with 6 doses being received over 6
      weeks and with a further dose approximately 3 weeks later, or into the blood stream via the
      veins (intravenous) with a dose being received every 3 weeks for a maximum of 4 doses.

      36 eligible participants from across 3 UK centres will be randomly allocated to receive
      treatment by one of these ways. Following the end of treatment visit, patients will return to
      receiving standard care but receive follow-up for up to 2 years.
    
  