
    
      When the intubation is required in patients with an injured cervical spine, securing the
      airway while minimizing C-spine motion to prevent neurological damage can be very difficult.
      The awake intubation using a flexible bronchoscope is preferred as it minimizes C-spine
      motion. However, in the emergent clinical practice, direct laryngoscopy with manual in-line
      stabilization is most commonly used, because it is quicker and does not require patient
      collaboration. Numerous alternatives to direct laryngoscopy and fiberoptic bronchoscopy have
      been studied. But, none of these methods combines the convenience of direct laryngoscopy and
      the C-spine immobility afforded by intubation using a fiberoptic bronchoscope patient with an
      injured C-spine.

      The videolaryngoscopy has recently developed extensively and become more widely available. It
      has the potential of combining the advantages of both direct laryngoscopy and intubation
      using a fiberoptic bronchoscope. Indeed, it provides an indirect view of the glottis, which
      could diminish C-spine movement, but its handling shares many similarities with direct
      laryngoscopy, which could make it more convenient than the flexible bronchoscope.

      In the previous study examining C-spine movement during direct laryngoscopy and GlideScope®
      videolaryngoscopy, found no difference in movement at the rostral level but showed
      significantly less movement of the inferior C-spine with GlideScope® videolaryngoscopy. We
      postulate that C-MAC videolaryngoscope will induce less movement than direct laryngoscopy.
      The effect of C-MAC videolaryngoscope intubation technique on cervical spine motion is not
      investigated yet.

      In this study, C-spine stabilization will be provided by Philadelphia neck collar. We will
      investigate a prospective cinefluoroscopic study comparing C-spine motion during direct
      laryngoscopy and C-MAC videolaryngoscope in patients with an intact C-spine stabilized by
      Philadelphia collar.

      The duration and maximum change for C-MAC videolaryngoscope intubation technique was compared
      to those with direct laryngoscopy at each motion segment using a Student's paired t-test.
    
  