
    
      The study is intended to be carried out at the Department of Surgery of Uppsala University
      Hospital, as a single-center study. All (consecutive) otherwise healthy patients between the
      ages of 18-70 who have been diagnosed with perianal fistula where attempts to close the
      fistula is considered appropriate are asked to participate. This is done by the examining
      physician at their visit at the outpatient clinic. These are either patients who already have
      a relieving seton or those who need to be revised and treated with a seton before final
      closure.

      They receive written information about the study plan and have time to think about it. If
      they choose to participate in the study, they are planed for a visit to one of the surgeons
      involved in the study and here get another opportunity to ask questions and then also sign an
      informed consent. This step can be adjusted as telephone contact due to the Covid-19
      pandemic. Thereafter, they are included in the study.

      The participants are operated on only by the surgeons involved, all of whom have undergone
      practical training in how fat cell transplantation is carried out according to the
      standardized Coleman method.

      The procedure itself then takes place as a day surgery operation at the Samariter Hemmet (
      part of the Surgical Department, Uppsala University Hospital ) operating department and
      either as a one- or two-step procedure, depending on whether they have a relieving seton or
      not. The seton has to be placed sometime before the definitive fatty tissue procedure so that
      there is no sign of inflammation/infection.

      A 3- and 12-months follow up visit is then arranged. In these visits, the patients are
      examined for evaluation of the result, possible residual fistulas, and complications. Wexner
      score and VAS scale are filed in and saved in their patient files.
    
  