
    
      In a previous trial, researchers demonstrated that the Coach2Move approach is superior to
      regular physiotherapy in terms of increasing physical activity, reducing frailty, improving
      quality of life and reducing healthcare costs. In short, in less physiotherapeutic sessions,
      better outcomes were realized.

      Despite these promising findings, the research group still has questions regarding the
      generalisability of these findings. The reservations towards the generalisability of the
      approach are caused by the following:

        1. A modest (n=130), yet somewhat selective study sample was included: nearly half of the
           eligible individuals declined randomisation and thereby participation. An understanding
           is needed how this group of eligible non volunteers respond to Coach2Move. Therefore, a
           study design that avoids randomisation at the patient level will be used.

        2. The Coach2Move approach significantly increased the level of moderate physical activity
           among the treatment group and reduced levels of frailty significantly after 6 months,
           but the clinical importance of these findings is still unclear. Thus, a replication of
           the effects in the light of physical functioning is needed in a larger more variable
           study population and with a longer follow-up.

      In addition, the results from the earlier carried out RCT concerning the cost-effectiveness
      of Coach2Move have to be replicated on a larger scale.

      For the reasons mentioned above, it is important to further implement Coach2Move and study
      its effect, costs, and feasibility in current practice. A stepped wedge cluster randomised
      trial design is chosen because in the opinion of the researchers, the implementation strategy
      will do more good than harm (making a parallel design, in which certain practices do not
      receive the intervention or to withdraw the intervention as would occur in a cross-over
      design, is unethical) and it furthermore minimizes contamination.

      The objective of this study is to assess the cost-effectiveness of the implementation of a
      patient and context focused tailored coaching intervention (Coach2Move) in the daily
      physiotherapy practice for older adults with mobility problems compared to usual
      physiotherapy. The hypothesis is that Coach2Move leads to better physical outcomes and lower
      costs than usual care.
    
  