
    
      Sample Size Determination The sample size is determined considering both the intervention and
      control group proportion. The sample size for dichotomous outcome is recommended based on an
      assumption of superiority trial hypothesis testing. The hypothesis of the researcher is that
      implementation of the new community based prevention intervention program to prevent domestic
      violence against women will have significant effect than the standard (existing) prevention
      program in public health point of view. So the corresponding null hypothesis (Ho) is that:
      the new community based preventive intervention is not more efficacious to prevent domestic
      violence against women than the comparison group based on public health relevance. In
      addition, the sample size is determined considering an assumption of 5% margin of error, 95%
      significance level and 80% power.

      Where; N is the sample size of each group, P is prevalence in standard intervention/control
      arm, d: the real difference between two treatment effect (d= Po-Px); 22%-9%=13%=0.13); δ0: a
      statistical acceptable margin (5%); ɑ: is the significance level which is 95% confidence
      level (ɑ=1-0.95=0.05=1.645), ß: is 80% power (ß=1-0.8= 0.2 = 0.845, and adding Then,
      considering 10% for potential non-achieved rate compensation. The calculated sample size for
      a group is 364. Eventually, as a result of the complex sampling design (multistage,
      stratified and systematic sampling), design effect is considered increase power and precision
      of the study. Design effect was computed using a finding from complex sampling design study
      conducted in Ethiopia (Fagitalekoma district) reported that the prevalence of DVAW was 78%,
      and a clustered randomized control trial done in Uganda indicated that 22% of women
      experienced physical IPV in the standard intervention group. The final sample size for the
      three arms was 1,758 women that mean 586 for each group. The number of participant in the
      qualitative study will be determined by information saturation during interviews and or
      focused group discussions (FGD). A minimum of two FGD (one male group and one female group)
      which comprise 8 to 10 discussants will be held at each selected kebeles. The local leaders
      or other person who are in-charge will be participated on the selection of qualitative study
      participants until information saturation.

      Sampling Procedure

      Multistage, stratified and systematic sampling will be used to select study participant to
      this study. First, contextual assessment will be employed among purposefully selected study
      participants from Awi zonal admisntration, district offices and community representatives.
      Stakeholders such as local politicians, health office, women and children affair office
      in-charges, local leaders, police, health care providers, non-governmental organization
      representatives and other concerned bodies will be participated to involve on advocacy
      meeting and contextualization. Then, multi-stage stratified probability sampling methods will
      be used to select study sites (kebeles) in the three districts among nine districts in Awi
      zone. Three districts will be selected for three experimental group. One district will be
      selected for comprehensive intervention. The second district will be assigned for partial
      intervention group, and the third district will be taken as comparison (control). Then, six
      kebeles (two kebeles from each district) will be selected from three districts purposefully
      considering appropriateness for intervention, resource, and geographical proximity to control
      information contamination between intervention and control group.

      Then, kebeles will be stratified into urban and rural Kebele in respective district.
      Stratification will use to control the awareness level, access to information, and community
      tradition gender norm variability between urban and rural dwellers. After that, proportional
      to size allocation (ni) of the sample size will be done to each stratum. Eventually,
      systematic sampling will be employed to select actual study participants at household level
      based on kth interval. Confidential code will be given strictly to households that will be
      selected for interview for intervention monitoring and endline evaluation purpose. In the
      meantime, if two married women present in one household with one husband (polygamy), only one
      woman will be selected using lottery method for interview.

      Regarding to qualitative study, purposive sampling method will be used to select study
      participants for in-depth interview, key informant interview (KII) and FGD. The community
      leaders will be consulted and actively involved on the recruitment of the most knowledgeable
      and respected community representatives for in-depth interview, key informant interview (KII)
      and FGD. The purpose of the study will be explained in detail to the community leaders who
      will participate on the recruitment of qualitative study participants. It will be conducted
      to assess individual perception towards DVAW mainly focused on sex negotiation, decision
      making, community gender norm, and wife beating attitudes with in the community. In addition,
      community sanction (response) against DVAW will be assessed qualitatively. It will mainly
      involve by taking from people who are in position (authority) such as local leaders,
      religious fathers, elders, police, women affair office, women association, health
      professionals, health extension workers, and women lawyers.

      Data Collection

      Mixed data collection method will be carried out using structured and semi structured
      questionnaires, that adapted from various literature. The tool will be pretested, modified to
      the local context and suite to the study objectives. The tool will consisted of demographic,
      socio-economic characteristics of couples (women self-reported profile), relationship level,
      community level and societal level factors of domestic violence. In addition, the tool will
      comprise questions about the experience of psychological, physical, sexual violence. In
      addition, semi structured questionnaire will be designed for qualitative study. Similarly,
      interview guide will be used to assess and dig-out the underlying bottlenecks in the
      community that hinder implementation of preventive interventions.

      Data Collection Procedure

      Data will be collected using sequential explanatory mixed method for baseline, intervention
      monitoring/tracking and endline implementation evaluation. Here below is the flow chart of
      the mixed data collection process adapted from other study. Two quantitative (1 and 2) and
      qualitative (1 and 2) process will be sequentially implemented to gather necessary data .
      Face-to-face interview method among married or cohabited women, key informant interview,
      in-depth interview, focus group discussion, meeting and training time data capturing will be
      carried out to have relevant information. In addition to the domestic violence assessment
      tool, the alternative questionnaire will be prepared and provide to data collectors to secure
      confidentiality issue if incase of third person might come suddenly during interview time.
      Very confidential place for women will be arranged by data collectors as per the training and
      WHO VAW research ethics recommendation.

      Then qualitative data collection (KII, in-depth interview and FGDs) will be held to explore
      community perception, attitudes, norms and beliefs about domestic violence. However, mini
      (quick) qualitative data collection for contextualization has been done among officially in
      the districts and zone administrative level. On the other hand, it will use to find out
      community mobilization strategies, existing legal sanctions, available training guidelines,
      collaboration and integration of implementation activity. This will also help to design
      appropriate tool for main study, to design correct and culturally compatible intervention
      materials to tackle the problem. The KII will be held among women representative, district
      council members, women affair office, police officers, lawyers, elders, local
      politicians/leaders, health care providers, nongovernmental organization, and religious
      leaders.

      Gender specific focused group discussion will be held on group of men and women to assess
      societal perception about domestic violence against women. Each focus group discussion will
      consisted of eight to ten participants. All participants' sociodemographic data will be
      captured using anonymously coded structured questionnaire. The FGDs will be facilitated by a
      group of three people (moderator, note taker and principal investigator). Voice recorder,
      note taking and nonverbal communication (physical gestures) during the discussion will be
      recorded as much as possible to capture necessary information. An estimate of 60 to 90
      minutes will be taken to conduct one FGD. Moreover, implementation of domestic violence
      against women preventive intervention activities will be monitored/tracked using ongoing
      qualitative study method. Eventually, intervention implementation endline evaluation will be
      carried out using as same structured questionnaire, data collectors and supervisors as of the
      formative assessment. Data will be collected by exclusively twelve female health
      professionals (Nurse, Midwifery or public health).

      Data Quality Assurance

      Participants Allocation: Allocation of study participants in the intervention and control
      group will be considered geographic proximity to minimize information contamination.
      Representative sample will be taken using scientifically sounded procedures.

      Appropriate Data Collectors recruitment: Data will be collected by twelve trained Diploma and
      above qualification female Nurses, Midwives and or public health officers who are not local
      resident in the community for trustworthiness and ethical concerns. Four supervisor who have
      Master of Public Health (MPH) with good previous field survey experience will be recruited.

      Data Collectors Training: A five days training will be given for research assistants by the
      principal investigator. The training will mainly focus on the purpose of the study, data
      collection procedure, interview techniques, sampling methods, strict protection of
      confidentiality, ethical issues of VAW research and data quality assurance. Ethical
      sensitiveness of VAW will be explained to research assistants to maintain confidentiality and
      also quality of data. Brief explanation will be provided on biomedical research ethical
      principles and WHO (2001) gender based violence research ethical guideline recommendations
      called "women's safety first". Refreshment training and short orientation/debriefing will be
      provided regularly to research assistants during the study period.

      Pretest: Pretest will be done among 5% of the sample size among married women from nearby
      district to check the compatibility of the data collection tool. The pretest will address
      sensitive words in the question, time, data collection procedure, interview techniques,
      sequence of questions, consent taking from study participants, and FGD facilitation skill and
      note taking. Necessary amendment will be taken according to feedback from study participant
      (verbal and non-verbal expression during pretest interview) and comment from research
      assistants.

      Training of Implementers: intensive training and supportive supervision will be given for
      implementers. Two implementation facilitators and 6 community health extension workers will
      be recruited and hired for one year (12 months) contract employment. Implementers will be
      participated on the intervention tool validation to be familiar with the tool. Regular
      discussion and close supportive supervision will be given by principal investigator and
      facilitators.

      Data Processing and Statistical Analysis

      Baseline, monitoring and end-line gathered data will be checked and edited for incompleteness
      and inconsistency at field as well as at office. Explanatory and outcome variables will be
      clearly predefined prior to data entry. During data entry if woman will report at least one
      type of experience of either physical, psychological or sexual violence items coded as "Yes =
      1" and "No = 0". On the other hand, women acceptance to violence or gender inequity norm will
      be measured using six questions/measurements, and also if women respond at least one
      justifies of wife beating. Similarly women autonomy will be measured in four components
      autonomy indicators such as women's economic decision-making autonomy, familial health care
      and family planning decision-making autonomy, extent of freedom of movement autonomy, and
      women's attitudes toward partner's violence. After completing the definition and coding of
      raw data. Data entry template will be designed on Epi data window version 3.5.1, and data
      entry will be carried out.

      Then data will be exported to SPSS window version (23.0) for further analysis. Data cleaning
      will be performed computing frequency using box plot to explore outliers and other data
      anomalies. Multiple imputation will be done to handle missing data. Different statistical
      assumptions will be checked for data distribution and suitability for statistical analysis.
      Descriptive statistics will be computed to determine prevalence (proportion), mean, median,
      and standard deviation of some independent variables as necessary. Cross tabulation
      (chi-square) will be employed. Binary logistic regression will be carried out to confirm the
      association of explanatory variable with DVAW. Explanatory variable which will have score of
      p-value less than 0.25 in binary logistic regression will be included into the multiple
      logistic regression analysis to determine the independent determinants of domestic violence
      by controlling the confounding variable. In addition, Intention to Treat Analysis (ITTA) will
      be carried out to compute the overall changes on the level of DVAW. Moreover, Difference in
      Difference (DID) will be calculated to determine the net intervention effect. The DID will be
      computed as subtracting intervention arm outcomes from baseline data to endline minus
      difference of control arm outcomes from baseline to endline. Finally, statistical
      significance of intervention effect will be measured using adjusted prevalence ratio,
      adjusted odd ratio/adjusted risk ratio at 95% CI and p value less than 0.05.

      Qualitative data will be transcribed through playing and replaying the voice recorder and
      also referring the note taken during interview or FGD. The voice recorder audio will be
      listen multiple times as much as possible at very quiet place. It will be transcribed
      independently by research assistant and principal investigator according to the verbatim of
      participants. Then transcribed qualitative data will be translated from local language
      (Amharic) into English. In the meantime, the qualitative data will be read and reread to
      understand what they want to say. The quotes will be narrated and cited using participant's
      code. All the qualitative data gathered from interview and FGD will be arranged into thematic
      areas. Similar ideas will be color coded, and then merged accordingly. Qualitative Data
      Analysis (QDA) software like Nvivo will be used to arrange or organize manually coded
      qualitative data.
    
  