
    
      Background: Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) refers to narrowing and occlusion of arteries
      supplying oxygenated blood to non-coronary and non-intracranial circulatory systems. This
      term is typically used to describe disease in the legs though it also affects upper
      extremities, renal and mesenteric vessels. Symptomatic patients typically experience leg pain
      with walking or physical activity which is referred to as intermittent claudication (IC). In
      more advanced chronic disease states with severely compromised blood flow to the tissues,
      patients may have leg pain at rest or even non healing wounds that can lead to tissue loss
      which is defined as critical limb ischemia (CLI).

      Risk factor management is critical for PAD patients with the goal of improving symptoms and
      preventing disease progression. This includes smoking cessation as well as appropriate
      management for hypertension, dyslipidemia and diabetes. Antiplatelet therapy should be
      initiated in symptomatic patient or when other risk factors are present. Exercise
      interventions should be encouraged in all patients with PAD. In patients who have progressed
      to critical limb ischemia, treatment goals are to relieve pain, heal wounds and prevent limb
      loss. In addition to risk factor management and medical therapy, these patients require
      revascularization procedures. Depending on the extent and location of disease, the techniques
      used may be endovascular/interventional (minimally invasive), surgical, or a hybrid
      combination of the two.

      There has been minimal research examining exercise rehabilitation after revascularization.
      There are no studies that have focused on exercise rehabilitation exclusively in patients
      with CLI.

      Purpose/Objectives: The aim of this study is to develop a better understanding of the role
      for supervised exercise rehabilitation programs (SEP) in PAD-CLI patients after
      revascularization. This pilot study will assess the feasibility for expanding this research
      to a larger randomized controlled trial.

      Study Design:

      This is a two-phase, single-center, non-blinded randomized controlled trial.

      Objectives:

      In phase 1, the investigators will assess feasibility. Specifically, the investigators will
      assess rate of enrollment, barriers to participation and any methodological challenges that
      may require changes. If phase 1 of this study shows reasonable rates of enrollment and no
      methodological challenges, we will proceed to phase 2.

      Key objectives for phase 2 are as follows:

        1. The primary objective is to show how SEP affects functional capacity and quality of life
           in patients with PAD-CLI after revascularization.

        2. The secondary objective is to show how SEP affects the rate of major adverse limb events
           (MALE) and improve survival in patients with PAD-CLI after revascularization.

      Hypotheses: 1) PAD-CLI patients who have undergone revascularization will have a greater
      improvement in functional capacity and quality of life compared with patients treated with
      best medical therapy alone.

      2) PAD-CLI patients who have undergone revascularization will have fewer MALE and improved
      survival compared with patients treated with best medical therapy alone.

      Methodology: Patients included in the study will be identified in the vascular surgery
      outpatient clinic or through emergency department as requiring revascularization secondary to
      critical limb ischemia. Patients will be approached regarding study participation prior to
      the revascularization procedure. After eligibility is confirmed and patients have signed
      informed consent, patients will be randomized to one of two groups:

        1. Best Medical Therapy (BMT): Appropriate risk factor management, encouragement to
           mobilize.

        2. Supervised Exercise Program (SEP): consist of BMT plus a supervised exercise program.

      Patients will undergo evaluation of functional capacity assessment using a graded treadmill
      test at the outset of the study and after 12 weeks of either BMP or SEP. The investigators
      will also administer a validated quality of life (QoL) questionnaire to the two different
      groups at the outset and completion of the study. Patients will be followed annually to
      monitor for MALE and survival.

      Statistics: Normally distributed data will be presented as mean ± SD. Results at baseline and
      12 weeks will be compared using a paired t-test. For data that is not normally distributed,
      comparisons will be performed using a non-parametric Mann-Whitney test. Comparisons will be
      accepted as statistically significant at 95% confidence level (p≤0.05). STATA software will
      be used for statistical analysis.
    
  