
    
      Objectives:

      This is a composite study consisting of Study 1 and Study 2:

      Study 1 evaluates the efficacy of two mobile phone applications, Promillekoll and
      PartyPlanner among university student union members at two or more universities in Sweden.
      The design is a three-armed randomized controlled trial, and outcomes are measured in terms
      of changes in problematic alcohol use at followup 6,12 and 18 weeks after baseline data
      collection. Both Promillekoll and PartyPlanner apps feature real time registration of alcohol
      consumption and feedback of estimated blood alcohol concentration (eBAC) levels. Both apps
      show the user when the estimated alcohol level is above 0.6%, a level that can lead to
      negative health consequences. PartyPlanner additionally provides the possibility of
      simulating and planning an alcohol consumption event in advance and later on comparing it
      with consumption at the actual event.

      Study 2: At the 6 week followup participants reporting an alcohol consumption above the
      weekly recommended level in Sweden will be redirected into Study 2. They will be asked to
      stop using any prior app for alcohol use. Half the group will be randomized to the TeleCoach
      app intervention, which offers the user different exercises for reducing or abstaining from
      alcohol use, depending on the user's goal (reduction or abstinence). This group will have
      access to the app for 6 weeks. The other half of the participants will be randomized to a
      waitlist control group for 6 weeks. Six weeks into the study, the TeleCoach intervention
      group will lose access to the app, and the waitlist control group will be given access to the
      TeleCoach app for 6 weeks.

      All participants (in both Study 1 and Study 2) will be followed up at 6, 12 and 18 weeks from
      initial baseline recruitment.

      Method: Study 1:Participants with problematic alcohol use (AUDIT >7 for men and >5 for
      women), having access to a smartphone running either the Android or the iOs operating
      systems, are randomized into one of three groups: 1. Access to Promillekoll, 2. Access to
      PartyPlanner and 3. Waitlist control group (gains access to both apps week 12). Alcohol use
      outcomes are collected 6,12 and 18 weeks after recruitment to the study.

      Study 2: At week 6 of Study 1, participants with risky weekly consumption, i.e. over 9 and 14
      Swedish standard glasses (Swedish standard glass = 12 g of alcohol) for women and men
      respectively are randomized into one of two groups: 1. Access to TeleCoach for 6 weeks,
      followed by 6 weeks without the app. 2. Six weeks as waitlist controls followed by 6 weeks of
      access to TeleCoach. Alcohol use outcomes are collected 6 and 12 weeks after entering Study 2
      (equivalent to 12 and 18 weeks after initial recruitment to Study 1).

      Students without problematic drinking and/or appropriate smartphones also participate in
      followups, in order to control for the regression to the mean phenomenon. All students who
      complete all baseline and followup questionnaires participate in a lottery with the chance of
      winning one of three computer tablets.

      Hypotheses:

      Study 1: 1. The groups receiving the Promillekoll and PartyPlanner interventions will reduce
      their alcohol use to a larger extent than the control group at follow-up compared to the
      baseline level. 2. The planning function in PartyPlanner will be associated with an increased
      decrease in alcohol consumption compared to only real-time use for Promillekoll.

      Study 2: The proportion of participants with risky use above recommended levels will decline
      faster in the group that receives the intervention first, in comparison to controls.
    
  