
    
      In the first phase of this project, we will convene a series of focus groups, whose members
      will be a convenience sample (n = 53) selected from veterans at the Boston VAMC. These groups
      will be used to set forth formal definitions of the PTSD-related functional impairment
      variables, create an item pool, and refine that pool with emphasis on standards of content
      validity, both content relevance and content breadth.

      Using what in psychometrics is called the rational method to instrument construction
      (Edwards, 1970; Hulin, Drasgow, & Parsons, 1983; Nunnally, 1978), the first step will be to
      carefully delineate complete and clearly expressed written definitions of the PTSD-related
      dimensions of functioning and quality of life. Another important source of information will
      be veterans of various conflicts with military-related PTSD in four focus group sessions. The
      intent will be to pose a series of structured questions aimed at eliciting group members'
      functional impairments and quality of life issues related to their PTSD. Next, a table of
      specifications (Aiken, 1994) will be employed to aid in the orderly construction of items
      across content areas. In this regard, for each of the functional impairment dimensions,
      separate aspects of the definition will be identified, and items will be written so as to
      systematically represent these aspects.

      The end result of these steps should be an initial pool of 30 to 35 items for each construct.
      Consistent with classic psychometric guidelines (e.g., Nunnally, 1978), this number of items
      should be adequate to produce individual scales with 15 to 20 items each, which, in turn (if
      the rational approach described above has been faithfully followed), should be a sufficient
      number to exhibit acceptable psychometric characteristics.

      Phase 2 has the objective of selecting the best final sets of items to measure the identified
      dimensions of PTSD-related functional impairment as well as to assess criterion-related
      validity. Using empirically derived item and scale characteristics, we will trim the item
      pool to arrive at smaller, higher-quality, and more parsimonious sets. For all scales,
      content relevance and content breadth, in line with the formal definition of each factor,
      will be maintained.

      Data collection and additional instrumentation. The test development sample will be selected
      in accordance with the sampling plan. Two hundred and eighty six consenting veterans at the
      Boston VAMC will participate in interviews, each lasting approximately two hours. Eighty-five
      percent of participants will be male and 15% will be female. We aim to collect data from
      veterans who meet criteria for current PTSD (one-third of sample) as well as those who meet
      criteria for lifetime but not current PTSD (one-third of sample) and those who have been
      traumatized but do not meet criteria for current or lifetime PTSD (no PTSD; one-third of
      sample). Further, we will collect data on a diverse sample of veterans, with representation
      from Vietnam, Persian Gulf, and OEF/OIF conflicts.

      Historical/demographic information will be obtained during the interview as well as through
      chart review concerning the following variables: age, race, socioeconomic status, current
      annual income, employment, education, and marital status. In addition, historical data
      regarding illegal behaviors, suicide attempts, psychiatric hospitalizations, prescription
      medications, interpersonal conflicts, and service connection disability status will be
      collected. We will also obtain pertinent information from veterans' DD-214, including
      declaration of combat theatre duty, military occupational specialty, and combat medals
      awarded.

      PTSD diagnosis will be assessed using the Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale for DSM-IV
      (CAPS). The CAPS was designed to improve the reliability and validity of PTSD assessment.
      Since its development, the CAPS has become the gold standard for arriving at a PTSD
      diagnosis, either current or lifetime, and has been used in more than 200 published studies.

      Functional impairment will be assessed using several established measures. The Medical
      Outcomes Study 36-item Short Form Health Survey-veterans version (SF-36V; Ware & Sherbourne,
      1992) provides eight domain scores indexing physical functioning, physical role, bodily pain,
      general health, vitality, social functioning, emotional role, and mental health; in addition,
      summary physical and mental health scores may be computed. The reliability and validity of
      the SF-36 are well documented (e.g., McHorney, Ware, & Raczek, 1993).

      The World Health Organization Disability Assessment Schedule II (WHODAS II) is a measure of
      functional disability which assesses a wide-range of impairment and disability dimensions
      using multi-item scales including pain, concentration, understanding and communicating,
      mobility, self care, family burden, getting along with others, household and work activities
      and work loss, and participation in society (Appendix A:WHODAS). The WHODAS-II is becoming
      widely used in investigations of functional disability across wide-ranging populations,
      including the physically ill (i.e. rheumatology, pulmonary, primary care cohorts) and
      severely mentally ill (schizophrenic cohorts). Although patients with PTSD and related
      anxiety disorders were included in the original multi-center development of the instrument,
      the WHODAS-II has not been employed specifically with trauma survivors. For this study, we
      will use the 36-item self-report version of this scale. Scores for each of the 6 individual
      domains, as well as an overall score of global functional disability can be calculated.

      The Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF) is the standard method for representing a
      clinician's judgment of a patient's overall level of psychosocial functioning. As such, it is
      probably the single most widely used method for assessing impairment among patients with
      psychiatric or substance use disorders or both. The GAF requires a clinician to make an
      overall judgment about a patient's current psychological, social, and occupational
      functioning. In DSM-IV-TR, this rating is made on a scale from 1 to 100, with ratings of 1 to
      10 indicating severe impairment and ratings of 91 to 100 indicating superior functioning. GAF
      ratings of impairment are modestly associated with some indexes of social functioning, such
      as the extent of social networks and the need for support, and with residential instability,
      lack of employment, and poor work adjustment. In general, however, these relationships are
      relatively weak; GAF ratings tend to be more closely associated with diagnoses and
      psychiatric symptoms than with social and occupational functioning.

      General life satisfaction, defined as "an individual's evaluation of the degree to which his
      or her most important needs, goals, and wishes have been fulfilled" (Frisch, Cornell,
      Villanueva, & Retzlaff, 1992, p. 93) will be measured using the Quality of Life Inventory
      (Frisch, 1992), a 16-item instrument employing a Likert-type response format and producing a
      weighted summative score across multiple facets of life satisfaction (e.g., standard of
      living, work, home, and relationships with relatives). The psychometric qualities for this
      measure are strong, with high test-retest and internal consistency reliability and strong
      validity coefficients for clinical and community samples, including veterans.

      To assess malingering, participants will be completing the M-FAST (Miller, 1995). The M-FAST
      is a brief 25-item screening interview for individuals ages 18 years and older that provides
      preliminary information regarding the probability that he/she is feigning psychiatric
      illness. Most malingering and symptom validity instruments assess malingered cognitive and/or
      neuropsychological deficits. The M-FAST focuses exclusively on malingered psychiatric illness
      including Depression, Schizophrenia, Hypervigilance, Personality Disorder, Nightmares, and a
      Suggestibility Interview.

      Analytic procedures and interpretation. Classical test theory-oriented item characteristics
      will be computed (Aiken, 1994; Anastasi, 1982; Nunnally, 1978). For the items that are
      accompanied by multipoint Likert-type response formats ("strongly disagree" to "strongly
      agree"), frequency distributions and descriptive statistics first will be calculated. Items
      having a symmetric response distribution will be preferred over items having a skewed
      distribution. Finally, corrected item-total correlations, the correlations of each item's
      score with the sum of scores on all other items measuring that construct, will be computed,
      where appropriate to the construct. Item-total correlations are indices of an item's ability
      to distinguish among those high and low on the attribute and thus are indicative of the
      item's precision of measurement. Items with higher item-total correlations typically take
      precedence over those with lower item-total correlations. Using judgments of content
      validity, distributional and endorsement patterns and statistics, and item-total
      correlations, a final set of items for each construct will be chosen. Estimates of internal
      consistency reliability (Cronbach's alpha) will then be calculated. At the close of Phase 2,
      the product will be a refined inventory of PTSD-related functional impairment.

      Phase 3 involves the collection of data from a second-stage test sample to support cross
      validation and criterion-related validity. Refined measures of the previously identified
      dimensions of PTSD-related functional impairment, along with measures of PTSD and other
      health outcomes will be administered to an active duty sample and another veteran sample.

      Data collection and additional instrumentation. Seventy-five percent of participants will be
      male and 25% will be female. Participants will be administered the refined and shortened
      version of the inventory as well as scales intended to assess physical and mental health,
      health-related quality of life, functional impairment, and social desirability. Data
      collection is expected to last 60-75 minutes for each participant.

      With the exception of the CAPS and MFAST, all of the measures used in Phase 2 will be
      employed in Phase 3. In place of the CAPS, we will use the PTSD Checklist (PCL; Weathers et
      al., 1993) to assess PTSD symptoms. The PCL has good sensitivity and specificity and is
      positively correlated with standard measures of PTSD. In place of the MFAST, we will the
      SIMS.

      Analytic procedures and interpretation. Data from this test validation phase will offer a
      second opportunity to compute internal consistency reliability (Cronbach's alpha) for the
      measures of functional impairment. It is important to re-estimate and reexamine internal
      consistency on a fresh sample since the estimates derived on the same sample from which the
      items were selected (Phase 2) take advantage of sample-specific covariation and may be
      somewhat inflated. It is also critical to cross-validate the initial findings with an
      independent sample in order to ensure that the items which comprise the developed functional
      impairment scale are optimal.
    
  