
    
      This is a post-market, single-arm, prospective clinical study to evaluate fusion status and
      patient reported outcomes using the Spira-C titanium interbody cage for degenerative disc
      disease where single-level ACDF surgery is indicated. The treatment group will consist of 40
      subjects treated with the Spira™-C interbody device at one level. Patients with a diagnosis
      of cervical degenerative disc disease and/or spinal stenosis, radiculopathy or myelopathy and
      planning to undergo a 1-level ACDF surgery between C3-C7 will be screened and consented, if
      eligibility requirements are met. Once the subject has been enrolled and the surgery has
      taken place; data will be collected regarding the surgical details will be collected.
      Subjects will be followed up postoperatively at 6-weeks, 3-months, 6-months, and 12-months as
      per standard of care, at the private practice or clinic. Subjects will be asked to complete
      questionnaires regarding pain, function, and quality of life before and after surgery during
      the postoperative follow-up visits. Radiographic assessments will be performed at all
      postoperative visits; fusion status will be measured using cervical x-rays and CT scan at 12
      months. Radiographs will also be utilized to assess for device-related complications,
      including implant failure. Any clinically significant complications related to the device
      will be recorded as an adverse event. This study design reflects the current standard of care
      for cervical degenerative disc disease and spinal stenosis with symptoms of radiculopathy or
      myelopathy. Data collected from subjects treated with the Spira™-C Interbody Device will be
      compared to historical data based on literature review of PEEK cage fusion rates and patient
      reported outcomes. Anterior cervical discectomy and fusion using an interbody device with
      plate and screw fixation is the treatment of choice after conservative therapies
      (non-surgical, i.e., physical therapy, epidural steroid injections, pain medications) have
      been exhausted.
    
  