
    
      Myocarditis is a serious social problem, usually affecting young or middle-aged people.
      Making of the diagnosis of myocarditis, due to the varied course of the disease, is a
      significant challenge, therefore clinical suspicion of myocarditis is based on symptoms and
      abnormalities in additional tests (ECG, echocardiography, magnetic resonance of the heart,
      biomarkers), which should be confirmed by cardiac biopsy. Despite the fact that in the
      majority of patients myocarditis occurs in a mild and uncomplicated manner, in some patients
      the inflammatory process progresses leading to dilated cardiomyopathy, end-stage heart
      failure and often to the need for heart transplantation. Myocarditis also promotes the
      occurrence of severe arrhythmias and conduction which may lead to sudden cardiac death
      (myocarditis is confirmed in autopsy even in 2-42% of cases), the need for percutaneous
      ablation of arrhythmia, cardioverter-defibrillator implantation or cardiac stimulator.

      In order to better identify the causes and improve the diagnosis and treatment of
      myocarditis, new data are needed including biomarkers (including biochemical, genetic,
      immunohistochemical biomarkers) responsible for the process of necrosis, fibrosis,
      haemodynamic stress of myocardium in the course of myocarditis, as well as studies aimed at
      identifying pathogens that cause myocarditis and factors predisposing to the onset of
      myocarditis. In addition, there is no systematic information on the type and burden of
      arrhythmias and their variability over time. A significant deficiency of research in the
      field of the above biomarkers and the severity of arrhythmia in the course of myocarditis
      translates into the lack of clear recommendations on the myocarditis management from the
      scientific societies and often leads to wrong therapeutic decisions.

      The aim of the study is to fill the evidence gap regarding the diagnostic and prognostic
      value of biomarkers, as well as the type and burden of arrhythmias in patients with
      myocarditis.

      This will be a non-interventional, observational study. The study will include 100 adult
      patients with confirmed (based on clinical findings, in accordance with applicable
      guidelines) first myocarditis episode, who agree to participate in the study.

      During the multicenter observational study will be collected basic demographic data, current
      diagnosis, current disease history and clinical presentation of symptoms, laboratory tests
      results and all other additional tests carried out during or after index hospitalization.
      During the index hospitalization peripheral venous blood (10 ml) will be collected to obtain
      serum for further diagnostic tests (i.e. biochemical, genetic). The obtained material will be
      stored frozen until analysis. The tested biomarkers will include those that have a confirmed
      role in the diagnosis of myocardial necrosis, in inflammatory processes and fibrosis of the
      myocardium, participate in the pathophysiology of arrhythmia and heart failure development,
      i.e. high sensitive troponin, N-terminal-pro Brain Natriuretic Peptide (NT-proBNP),
      Galectin-3, (Suppression of Tumorigenicity 2) ST2.

      Additionally, in selected cases, when a biopsy of the heart is performed in the course of the
      independent diagnostic procedure, the heart muscle biopsies will be analyzed. In the
      collected material (both in blood and biopsy samples) immunohistochemistry, virology and
      genetic research will be performed for specific antibodies and genetic material of pathogens
      causing myocarditis (mainly viruses, i.e. parvovirus B19, coxsackie, adenovirus).

      The immunogenetic predisposition, as well as gene profiling of people who have become ill
      with myocarditis will also be sought.

      In addition, patients will undergo prolonged ECG Holter monitoring for up to 7 days from the
      moment of consenting to participate in the study. Registered ECG recordings will be evaluated
      after the completed follow-up period. Then, after 3-months form inclusion in the study, a
      control visit will be made assessing the clinical condition of patients, clinical
      examination, collection of blood samples, standard resting 12-lead ECG, and 7-day ECG-Holter
      monitoring. Other study endpoints will be assessed after 1-year observation. The next stage
      will be the analysis of clinical history, obtained results of ECG monitoring, biomarkers and
      additional tests.
    
  