
    
      The study is using a randomized double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled design. 30
      patients per treatment group will be included into the study and randomized to the treatment
      groups using a computer program. Psychotic features of depression will be excluded by a score
      of 2 or less in the PANSS subscales P1, P3 and P6. Treatment resistance as defined by history
      of non-response to two antidepressants from different classes at an acceptable dose and
      period is confirmed retrospectively. If possible, treatment compliance should be confirmed by
      plasma level examination. After informed consent, visit 1 is performed on day 0 (inclusion
      criteria, history, demographics, physical examination, vital signs, HAMD, MADRS, CGI, lab).
      Study medication is started on day 1, the antidepressive therapy is continued at stable dose
      until the end of the study. Patients will receive a double-blind therapy of either 10 mg/d
      olanzapine or placebo. Study visits will be performed on days 4, 7, and 14 (visits 2-4: vital
      signs, HAMD, MADRS, CGI, lab).

      After 14 days, the patients will be classified as responders or non-responders. A responder
      is defined by a reduction of the initial HAM-D score of more than 50%. Study treatment will
      be stopped in non-responders and continued in a double-blind manner in responders for further
      60 days. Thereafter, the the study medication is stopped and the patients are observed for
      further 14 days. Study visits will be performed every 14 days. This extension phase was added
      to examine if a prolonged treatment with olanzapine could ensure a sustained treatment
      effect. It should be excluded that olanzapine has a short-term tranquillizer-like effect or
      leads to unfavourable medium- to-long-term depressiogenic effects as observed with other
      neuroleptics used in depression ( e.g. fluspirilene). Moreover, withdrawal effects should be
      excluded.
    
  