
    
      At a time when gene therapy is becoming a reality for individuals with hemophilia A and B,
      little is known about long-term cures. Yet, there are few data to provide real life testing
      of the impact of long-term cures. Specifically, little is known about the relationship
      between factor level achieved with gene therapy and clinical outcomes or quality of life. The
      analogy to liver transplant is clear. There has been no systematic method to collect and
      analyze the long-term outcomes of liver transplantation in individuals with hemophilia.
      Previous efforts to access data through the United Network for Organ Sharing national
      database have been complicated by lack of identification of those with hemophilia. As most of
      the individuals with hemophilia who undergo liver transplantation receive care at a
      hemophilia treatment center (HTC), ATHN proposes to leverage its existing relationship with
      the HTCs to support HTC execution of this study.

      ATHN, in collaboration with US Hemophilia Treatment Centers (HTCs), can provide the
      infrastructure and organization to support a longitudinal cohort study of subjects with
      congenital hemophilia who have and have not undergone liver transplantation. This cohort
      study will compare quality of life outcomes between cases that have undergone liver
      transplantation and controls that have not undergone liver transplantation. The study will
      determine if factor levels attained post-transplantation correlate with or predict
      improvement in quality of life measures.

      The existence of ATHN and the ATHN System for clinical care and research provides an
      opportunity to observe a cohort of subjects after liver transplantation with facility. During
      the study period, it is predicted that sustained normalization in factor VIII or IX levels
      following liver transplantation improves clinical functioning and quality of life in adults
      with hemophilia A and B.

      All study related contact will be timed to coincide with routine, scheduled care whenever
      possible. The study schedule will include:

      Study enrollment - Study activities will begin after participant consent. Activities include
      the documentation of relevant medical history and the administration of quality of life (QoL)
      questionnaires.

      Participants will be asked to complete health related (QoL) questionnaires and provide
      medical history. These questionnaires include:

        1. Hemophilia Quality of Life Questionnaire for Adults (Haem-A-QoL): A quality of life
           questionnaire designed to asses health-related quality of life in adult patients with
           hemophilia. Domains include physical health, feelings, view of self, sports and leisure,
           work and school, dealing with hemophilia, treatment, future, family planning, and
           partnership and sexuality.

        2. Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS-29): A quality of life
           questionnaire designed to assess physical function, anxiety, depression, fatigue, sleep
           disturbance, ability to participate in social roles and activities, pain interference,
           and pain intensity.

        3. Hemophilia Orthotopic Liver Transplantation QoL Questionnaire (HOT): A quality of life
           questionnaire, adapted from a cancer survivorship tool, designed to assess adults with
           hemophilia who have received a liver transplant. Domains include physical well-being,
           psychological well-being, stress, anxiety, fear, work, family, relationships, and
           spiritual well-being.
    
  