
    
      The prevalence of diabetes mellitus (DM) is very high in Spain, being nearly 14% according to
      oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) results . The management of DM requires a significant
      consumption of healthcare resources, mainly in relation to the care of vascular
      complications. Among the late microvascular events which may develop in patients with DM,
      polyneuropathy (PN) is the most common and disabling, and is the leading cause of morbidity
      and mortality in these patients. Indeed, in Spain, the leading cause of neuropathy is DM,
      with its prevalence increasing with the presence of DM and other risk factors such as
      obesity.

      PN is defined as the presence of symptoms and/or signs of peripheral nerve dysfunction in
      people with DM after the exclusion of other possible causes. The Toronto Panel Consensus on
      PN defined this disorder as "symmetrical, depending on large fibers, sensory-motor
      attributable to metabolic and micro vessel disorders, as a result of chronic hyperglycemia
      and other risk factors". In patients with PN, thin fibers (autonomic system - sweating) and
      thermal and tactile sensitivity are first affected, followed by the involvement of large
      fibers, presenting an altered vibrating sensation which eventually alters electromyography
      (EMG) patterns. Therefore, dysfunction of sweat reflex in small distal fibers is one of the
      earliest changes to be detected in these patients.

      The most common clinical presentation of PN is distal symmetric polyneuropathy (DSPN), being
      predominantly sensory in 80% of cases. Pain is the most important symptom, being described as
      burning or flashing, lancinating, deep, and with frequent exacerbations during rest (4). Pain
      often affects the quality of life of these patients, and it is a frequent cause of depression
      and/or anxiety. Moreover, some patients may develop hypoesthesia, which may lead to severe
      foot lesions.

      The prevalence of DSPN varies greatly according to the population, definition and detection
      method. The Rochester study, including more than 64,000 patients, reported the prevalence of
      PN to be between 66% and 59% for type1 DM and type 2 DM, respectively. The 3rd report of the
      Technical Study Group of Diabetes of the World Health Organization (WHO) described a
      prevalence of 40% (8), and 50% in patients with more than 25 years of DM evolution. Pirart et
      al. reported a prevalence ranging from 25 to 48% (7,10-17), while in Spain, Cabezas-Cerrato
      et al. published a figure of 24.1%. DSPN-related factors are: age, DM duration, metabolic
      control, male gender, acute myocardial infarction, hyperlipidemia (especially
      hypertriglyceridemia), smoking, and general cardiovascular risk factors . Puig et al. also
      included urinary albumin excretion as a risk factor of presenting DSPN.

      The diagnosis of DSPN is commonly made based on signs and symptoms and usually includes the
      use of several questionnaires such as the Neuropathy Disability Score (NDS), the Neuropathy
      Symptoms Score (NSS) and the Michigan Neuropathy Instrument (MNI). These questionnaires are
      easy to perform and are reproducible, sensitive and adequate for use in a screening program.
      Additionally, It was included a short scale (UENS - Utah Early Neuropathy Scale) to screen
      early neuropathy . This sensitive, fast and practical test, has 5 items and their score
      ranges from 0 to 42 points.

      There are many confirmatory tests, including measurements of nerve conduction velocity (EMG)
      and bio-thesiometry or skin biopsy. However, those most commonly used are the measurement of
      altered sensations using a vibrating tuning fork with 128 Hz and/or pressure with
      Semmes-Weinstein 5:07 monofilament. Monofilament testing (MFT) is widely accepted and
      recommended by all scientific societies because of its validity, predictive risk, efficiency
      and simplicity. Feng et al. reported that MFT has a sensitivity of 57-93%, a specificity of
      75-100%, a positive predictive value of 36-94% and a negative predictive value of 84-100%
      compared to the measurement of nerve velocity by EMG. Although electrophysiological measures
      are more objective and reproducible, they are limited in that they only detect dysfunction
      based on the presence of thicker and faster (myelinated) fibers and show their involvement
      later. Consequently, EMG is a specific, albeit very insensitive, test.

      Recently developed noninvasive techniques are more reproducible and reliable for the
      detection of early dysfunction of small fibers. One of these new techniques involves the
      measurement of dermal electrochemical conductance (DEC) or sudomotor dysfunction index and
      has been evaluated by well-designed studies (Calvet, Dupin, Winiecki, Black, 2013; Casellini
      2013; Devigili 2008; Peltier 2009) which support its use as a screening test .

      Ramachandran et al studied the use of DEC to detect diabetes and other disorders of glucose
      metabolism. In a study on the use of DEC Casellini et al (5) applied a PN test which showed a
      low sensitivity of 78% and a specificity of 92% in diabetic patients without neuropathy
      compared to other subjects with neuropathy and a control group. In this latter study,
      correlation with clinical parameters showed adequate reproducibility of the results,
      particularly in regard to the measurements of the feet . Several other studies also obtained
      significantly lower DEC values on comparing diabetic patients and controls. In a study of
      patients following a 12-month program of intense physical activity, Raisanen et al (23)
      observed a greater improvement in DEC compared to weight, waist circumference or maximum
      oxygen volume (VO2 max).

      Therefore, taking into account the large number of methods used and the learning curve
      required to correctly implement these techniques as well as the absence of consensus as to
      which method is the most adequate to diagnose DSPN, the aim of this study is to validate the
      usefulness of DEC measurement in the early diagnosis of DSPN compared with traditional
      techniques in the Primary Care setting.
    
  