
    
      This is a single center, before-after, matched cohort study in a ICU of a non-university
      hospital. It puts the focus on neurocritical care patients as they are prone to infectious
      complications and these cases are often less straightforward in terms of diagnosis and
      management. The investigators hypothesise that such an algorithm, in addition to clinical
      judgement of the ICU physician, will reduce the duration of antibiotic treatment and the
      overall antibiotic use, could reduce selective pressure, without increase of mortality or
      recurrent infections.

      All patients admitted to ICU with a primary non-infectious neurologic pathology will be
      screened for eligibility. Eligible patients can be enrolled if they meet all the inclusion
      criteria, there are no exclusion criteria, a matched control is available and an informed
      consent has provided by the patient or his or her legal representative. Patients included in
      the intervention group will be 1:1 matched with a patient out of the historical control
      group. Therefore, three fixed and two variable criteria for matching will be used. The fixed
      ones are: 1. pathology (traumatic brain injury; intracerebral/subarachnoid hemorrhage due to
      cerebral aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation; ischemic stroke; hemorrhagic stroke or other
      intracranial hemorrhage from; and the whether or not need for intervention (none,
      endovascular or neurosurgical intervention) . 2. need for mechanical ventilation within the
      first 12 hours after admission and 3. Glasgow coma scale (GCS) < 8 versus ≥ 8 at ICU
      admission or before starting sedation or anesthesia.

      The two variable criteria are age (with a range of plus or minus 10 years) and the Acute
      Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE)-II score (with a range of plus or minus 15
      points).

      Matching will be manually, blinded for the outcome. A control group has been composed by
      analysing retrospectively patients admitted to our ICU from January 2016 on.

      In the intervention group, doctors are additionally provided with PCT levels on regular base
      and with a non-binding advice on continuation or discontinuation of antibiotic therapy by
      electronic patient data management system feedback and by the involved microbiologist. The
      first PCT value will be used just as base-line, without any therapeutic consequence.
      Measurements will be repeated every 3-4 days, the last one is scheduled at day 27.

      Patients in both groups are followed until hospital discharge, allowing assesment of hospital
      length of stay, hospital mortality and prevalence of multidrug resistance during
      hospitalisation.

      Following data were collected at initiation of the trial : age, sex, BMI, pre-existing
      comorbidities including presence of known multidrug resistant bacteria before ICU admission,
      previous location before admission, reason for admission, GCS at admission to ICU,
      intervention, reason for antibiotic start, day of ICU admission at starting point of the
      study, APACHE II, the presence and type of organ dysfunction using the sequential
      organ-failure assessment (SOFA) score and use of mechanical ventilation.

      Subsequently, following parameters will be recorded during ICU stay: SOFA score and type of
      organ or system failure at every PCT measurement, daily need for mechanical ventilation,
      source of infection when known and results of microbiological cultures. Additionally, the
      inflammatory biomarkers crp and leucocytosis as well as maximum temperature will be daily
      registered.

      At the end of follow-up, every suspected infectious episode will be sorted by the
      investigator into four groups: 1. microbiologically documented infection (presence of a
      clinical and/or radiological infectious focus and pathogen identification); 2. clinically
      documented infection (presence of a clinical and/or radiological infectious focus, without
      causative pathogen identification); 3. absence of infection (absence of a clinical or
      radiological infectious focus) 4. possible infection (all other situations).

      Data management will be performed by the investigators or research nurses. Patient's
      anonymity will be maintained by identifying enrolled patients of both groups with a trial
      identification number. The list containing the subjects name and allocation numbers are kept
      in strict confidence. Electronical clinical research files (CRF) or other subject related
      data will be protected by a password and will be put on a secured server within the hospital.
      Similarly, written papers (including CRF on paper) containing privacy sensitive information
      will be kept behind locked doors.

      For the power analysis, the ICU databank has been queried, analysing the antibiotic duration
      of the first, uninterrupted antibiotic course of 74 patients who stayed at least 10 days in
      ICU in 2016 and got empirical and/or directed antibiotic therapy. A lognormal distribution
      with a peak value at 11.78 days has been found. After log-transformation, a mean of 2.466
      with standard deviation of 0.433 was found.

      The investigators aim for 20% antibiotic reduction, supported by the results of the PRORATA
      and the SAPS trial. This goal is ambitious, but is not unrealistic, taking into account that
      the study population group is traditionally characterized by high figures of antibiotic
      consumption. Based on these assumptions, a number of 60 patients in both groups is required
      for obtaining a power of 80%. This number has been increased with 10%, anticipating for
      patients who will die due to non-infectious reasons (pe. expected poor neurologic outcome
      with therapy restrictions or withdrawal) between day 7 and the end of the intervention period
      (day 28). In conclusion, a total of 66 patients will be included in the intervention group
      and will be matched with 66 patients out of the historical control group.
    
  