
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of adjuvant cyclophosphamide, epirubicin, and fluorouracil vs
           adjuvant docetaxel and epirubicin, in terms of 5-year survival without relapse, in women
           with nonmetastatic adenocarcinoma of the breast with lymph node invasion.

        -  Determine survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the tolerability of trastuzumab (Herceptin) in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Determine the efficacy and tolerability of trastuzumab in patients with hormone
           receptor-positive tumors.

        -  Evaluate the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to participating center. Patients are treated in 2 parts.

        -  Part I: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive fluorouracil IV, or epirubicin IV, and cyclophosphamide IV
                on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 6 courses. Patients then undergo
                radiotherapy 5 days a week for 5 weeks.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive epirubicin IV over 10 minutes and docetaxel IV over 1 hour
                on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 6 courses. Patients then undergo
                radiotherapy as in arm I.

      Patients with HER2/neu-positive tumors then proceed to part II. Patients with
      HER2/neu-negative tumors receive no further treatment.

      Patients with hormone (estrogen or progesterone) receptor-positive tumors also receive oral
      tamoxifen daily beginning after chemotherapy is completed and continuing for 5 years.

        -  Part II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive trastuzumab (Herceptin) IV over 30-90 minutes every 3 weeks
                for 1 year.

             -  Arm II: Patients are followed without treatment. Patients not receiving trastuzumab
                are followed at 4 months, 6 months, every 4 months for 1 year, and then every 6
                months for 3 years. Patients receiving trastuzumab are followed at 4 months and
                then every 6 months for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,600 patients will be accrued for this study within 3 years.
    
  