
    
      Study Objectives:

        1. Enhance the Screening Brief Intervention Referral to Treatment (SBIRT) with a digital
           tool that aims to save physicians time and improve patient adherence to treatment goals,
           through extensive use of shared decision making, patient self-monitoring, and goal
           tracking, and real-time tailored patient feedback via texting and phone follow up.

        2. Increase the screening and referral of patients at risk for substance use disorder
           (SUD), thereby increasing the number of patients receiving higher levels of substance
           use treatment.

      Study Design:

      This Randomized Controlled Trial will recruit a total of 500 patients with SUD from a primary
      care clinic. The patients will be randomized into one of two groups of 250 patients each. The
      Tobacco, Alcohol, Prescription medication, and other Substance use (TAPS) screen will be the
      risk stratification screen, as defined below in the inclusion criteria. The control group
      will receive the usual SBIRT care and the intervention group will receive the
      technology-enhanced SBIRT care. The high-risk SUD patients will be referred to Washington
      State University (WSU) affiliated specialty providers in the area.

      The investigators' primary hypotheses are that compared with the control group, participants
      at 30 days:

        1. significantly more intervention group patients will receive specialty SUD care.

        2. intervention group patients will report a greater reduction in substance use and a
           greater drop in SUD risk scores.

      The investigators' secondary hypotheses include that the intervention group patients will
      receive more referrals at the primary care clinic and during the 30-day follow-up.

      The investigators estimate that the SBIRT intervention could result in 10% to 30% of patients
      receiving specialty care.

      Study Population:

      Participants age 21 and older who provide any answer except "Never" on a brief assessment
      tool, the TAPS-1 (indicating that they may be misusing or abusing prescribed or illicit
      substances). The investigators will enroll 500 eligible adults; 250 into the control group,
      250 into the intervention group.

      Control group: Treatment, as usual, will be provided.

      At the Clinic (~30 minutes):

      The Washington State University (WSU) Research Coordinator (RC) will provide the clinician
      with TAPS-1 scores if requested by a clinician trained in SBIRT. This is the only additional
      measure for this study beyond what patients routinely fill out.

      Data from the AUDIT and PHQ-9 is collected to inform the clinician during the visit after
      check-in in the control process. This is a fundamental aspect of SBIRT (Screening, Brief
      Intervention, Referral Treatment) implementation. This data is collected in the exam room by
      either a paper form or iPad (this will be based on CHAS' discretion). The RA/RC will not be
      present during the clinician visit as the Brief Intervention is designed to allow the
      Clinician to utilize motivational interviewing and other techniques to establish the correct
      recommendations for the patient. The clinicians have been specifically trained in the SBIRT
      process regarding skills to utilize and a third party is not present under normal care.
      Having the RA/RC would alter the control process and interfere with the clinician duties
      under SBIRT.

      The clinician will deliver a brief intervention to participants who are scored moderate to
      high risk in any substance and will refer them accordingly.

      Participants will then complete a survey about their experience with the process and their
      knowledge about substance use disorders (SUDs; i.e., Patient satisfaction, Short Inventory of
      Problems-Revised (SIP-R), and the 30-day Timeline follow-back instrument (TLFB)).

      Participants will be thanked and receive a $50 Walmart gift card (that is not good for
      tobacco, alcohol, or firearms) after completion of the surveys. The control arm participants
      will receive no additional follow-up beyond usual care until the 30 days' end.

      30 Day Follow-up:

      The 30-day follow-up is based on a duration that is likely to generate a response from the
      mobile interactions, and it allows adequate time for any referral and follow-up clinical
      visits to take place. It has also been identified as a standard window in several similar
      studies.

      At the end of the 30-day follow-up period, participants will be asked to answer the screening
      questionnaires, the SIP-R, and the TLFB. They will also be asked to report any healthcare
      service(s) they received during the 30 days, including any emergency department visits,
      inpatient hospitalization, and specialty SUD services. This can be completed in person or
      over the phone. Participants will be thanked and receive a $50 Walmart gift card (that is not
      good for tobacco, alcohol, or firearms) after completion.

      The investigators will also follow-up with SUD treatment providers for an independent check
      of SUD treatment receipt.

      Technology-Augmented Treatment (TAT) group (intervention group): Technology-augmented
      treatment, as usual, will be provided.

      At the Clinic (~30 minutes):

      The WSU (RC) will load data from the Electronic Medical Records (EMR) which will include
      patient demographics and TAPS-1 scores, like the control group.

      Patients will complete additional screening questions (My Own Health Record (MOHR), Patient
      Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9), and TAPS-2 including questions related to readiness to
      change).

      For the substance he or she is most likely to quit, the iPad application conducts a
      computerized brief intervention that consists of watching a brief 2-3 minutes video about the
      substance and its risks, and completing an exercise to name the pros and cons of quitting
      this substance.

      Next, the clinician will enter, request the iPad, and after entering a password, will review
      1) screening results, 2) readiness to change, and 3) participant's personal pros and cons.
      The clinician will conduct a brief intervention in person. The clinician will then ask the
      participant to rate readiness for change again. They will work together to set up
      quitting/reducing use goals for at least one at-risk substance. In the end, the participant
      will sign and commit to the goal(s). (Readiness to change is a key component in intentional
      behavior change theories: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15204662)

      If the participant is screened at high risk of any substance and the clinician and
      participant mutually agreed to specialty follow-up treatment, the clinician will refer the
      participant to a specialty treatment program from the iPad.

      Participants will be asked to complete the following surveys: Computer System Usability
      Questionnaire, Unified Theory of Acceptance, and Use of Technology (UTAUT), Patient
      Satisfaction, SIP-R, and TLFB.

      Participants will be thanked and receive a $50 gift card after completion of the surveys and
      returning them.

      After the Clinic Visit (~10 minutes, up to four times per day for 30 days):

      Participants will receive messages via text or email (pending their preference), up to four
      times a day, to answer daily follow-up questions for 30 days. The questionnaire will collect
      participant responses to goal setting questions and associated Ecological Momentary
      Assessment (EMA) data. A risk score will be computed for participants every day based on
      these responses. If a participant's risk is high, he or she may be offered to watch the
      "computer brief intervention" video again or may receive a phone call to follow up or suggest
      an in-person visit.

      The risk score and individual participant summaries will be made available via a web-based
      dashboard to the participant's clinicians, including a primary care physician and RC. If the
      clinicians determine that the participant's follow-up pattern or answers show high-risk
      substance use behavior, they may make additional referrals, and they would normally through a
      non-augmented SBIRT experience.

      The messaging provides feedback on patient progress toward meeting the goal of getting
      higher-level care. Once-daily, a statement regarding goals of getting to treatment and other
      Shared Decision Making (SDM) established goals is sent to the patient. Additional messages
      may be sent 2 to 4 times per day.

      The status of the survey responses in a) through c) above is summarized in two web-based
      dashboards: one for the patient to access via their follow-up mobile app to track their own
      progress and learn about personal risk factors; the other one for the clinician to review all
      patients in the study cohort.

      The clinician dashboard is also designed to notify the clinician regarding patient progress
      and triggering additional interventions. The investigators will automatically send the
      designated clinician a weekly email identifying any non-adherent intervention arm patients.
      Clinicians will contact any intervention patients with risk scores that indicate substance
      use within the prior week. The medical assistant or clinician will be notified of patients
      with continued substance use weekly for days 1 through 15 and daily for days 16 through 30
      during the 30-day follow-up.

      30-Day Follow-up:

      Participants will be asked to complete questionnaires on an iPad and potentially also on
      paper, depending on the treatment arm. They will complete these at 2 appointments with the
      research staff.

      REGULATORY ISSUES:

      The trial will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, the International Council for
      Harmonization (ICH), the Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines, and applicable regulatory
      requirements.
    
  