
    
      Conventional thrice-weekly HD for 3 to 5 hours in a health center in an outpatient basis is
      the most used renal replacement therapy (RRT) regimen (1). However, it has an unacceptable
      high mortality rate (10%-20% a year). In order to try to improve those results, new regimens
      have been proposed. They are based on an increase of the HD dose and/or a higher number of
      sessions (2). Nevertheless, inconsistent results in terms of clinical benefits with such
      programs have been shown in recently published randomized and controlled trials (3,4),
      together with a lower rate of vascular access success (5) and a lower maintenance of the RRF
      (6) The National Kidney Foundation-Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiate (NKD KDOQI
      2015)(1) 2015 guidelines allow the reduction in the weekly HD dose for patients with a
      residual kidney urea clearance (KrU) higher than 3ml/min/1.73m2. In these cases, the renal
      clearance (Kr) is added to the dialysis clearance (Kd) obtained in 2 sessions per week, thus
      obtaining the adequate dialysis dose (7,8) Surprisingly enough, few centers follow this
      recommendation when over 50% of patients start HD with KrU >3 mL/min (9).

      Authors like Kalantar-Zadeh et al (9,10) in the U.S.A. or Teruel et al (11) in Spain have
      published their experience with 2 HD sessions per week in incident patients. Through this
      regime they have shown that the RRF is preserved and the survival rate is similar to the one
      obtained with the conventional HD. This is due to the fact that the Kr has much greater
      clinical weight than Kd7, since the RRF contributes to the production of vitamin D and
      erythropoietine (12,13), and eliminates the protein-bound uremic toxins that are poorly
      dialyzed (13,14). In other words, the RRF plays a fundamental role both in the dialysis
      adequacy and in survival (15,16).

      Currently, some authors are questioning the number of HD sessions with which a patient should
      start the renal replacement therapy (RRT) (7, 17-19). Progressive HD is an initiation regimen
      adapted to the patient's RRF. The frequency increases as the daily diuretic level declines
      (7, 17-19).

      The IHDIP trial20 aims at determining whether or not starting with one HD session per week
      reduces mortality in incident patients and its influence in morbidity (hospital admissions),
      clinical parameters, quality of life and efficiency with regard to the patients who start RRT
      with the conventional method.
    
  