
    
      General objective: To assess whether inhaled corticosteroids alone or in combination with
      long-acting beta-2 agonists are an effective treatment in non-eosinophilic asthmatic
      subjects.

      Specific objective 1. To compare the change in clinical and functional outcomes after
      treatment with fluticasone or placebo in non-eosinophilic asthmatic subjects.

      Specific objective 2. To assess whether the combination of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and
      with long-acting beta-2 agonists provides an improvement of asthma control compared to the
      treatment with ICS or placebo in non-eosinophilic asthmatics.

      Hypothesis: Treatment with ICS induces a significant clinical and physiologic improvement of
      non-eosinophilic asthmatic subjects. ICS/Salmeterol also provides a clinical and physiologic
      benefit compared to placebo.

      Primary end point: Asthma Control Questionnaire (ACQ) score after 4 weeks of treatment with
      ICS or placebo.

      The Asthma Control Questionnaire has been chosen as a primary outcome since it is the most
      relevant clinical measure to assess asthma control over a short period of time. In patients
      whose asthma is stable between clinic visits, reliability of the ACQ is high (intraclass
      correlation coefficient (ICC)=0.90). Furthermore, the questionnaire is also very responsive
      to changes in asthma control(7). Therefore, this is the ideal tool to assess and compare the
      changes in asthma control over a short period of time. This instrument has the advantage of
      including both asthma symptoms as well as forced expiratory flow in one second (FEV1). A
      change of ACQ of 0.5 has been shown to be clinically significant. Therefore, we will be able
      to assess whether or not a treatment with ICS has the ability to significantly improve asthma
      control in non-eosinophilic asthmatic subjects. The questionnaire is provided in appendix
      III. Other functional and clinical outcomes such as quality of life, FEV1, provocative
      concentration of methacholine inducing a 20% fall in FEV1 (PC20), number of rescue medication
      and number of asthma exacerbations will also be assessed as secondary outcomes.

      The study has two steps: The first step will be a randomized double-blind,
      placebo-controlled, multicenter study comparing the efficacy of ICS and placebo for 4 weeks
      in asthmatic subjects without sputum eosinophilia followed by an open ICS/salmeterol 4-week
      treatment for all subjects. (See study design in appendix III).

      Inclusion criteria One hundred subjects will be enrolled.
    
  