
    
      The aim is to recruit 20 participants with COPD, who will be compared to 10 age and gender
      matched controls who also have a smoking history. The investigators aim for this number to
      complete the components of the study and therefore may have to over-recruit if some people
      drop out or are not eligible. The study elements are feasible, as the work extends a previous
      research study in healthy volunteers.

      This research trial will consist of a medical screening visit and three investigation study
      visits spaced ideally one week apart. The investigation visits will begin within 6 (ideally
      within 4) weeks of the medical screening visit. The total duration of the study and screening
      visits should be 12 weeks maximum for each participant.

      Screening visit:

      If the participant expresses an interest in the clinical trial and wants to take part they
      will be invited (at a convenient time for them) to attend a medical screening visit located
      at the Nottingham City hospital. Here the investigator will discuss the research trial and
      answer any questions or concerns they might have regarding the research trial. The
      participant, if willing, will then be required to sign a consent form so that the screening
      procedures can begin, which include:

        -  Blood sample: Approximately a 20ml sample (4 teaspoons) taken from their arm, for
           further investigation including full blood count (FBC), brain natriuretic peptide (BNP)
           and kidney function.

        -  Questionnaires: 5 different questionnaires that ask about symptoms and how they affect
           daily life, a physical activity questionnaire, quality of life questionnaire and a MRI
           safety questionnaire.

        -  Spirometry: A simple blowing test to assess the participants' breathing which is
           performed three times.

        -  12 lead ECG.

        -  a hand grip dynamometer to assess muscle strength

        -  timed up and go test: a test used to measure gait speed, where participants are asked to
           get up from a chair and walking to 3 meters and back, whilst being timed.

        -  to wear a step counter (Sensewear armband) for a week during waking hours to record
           steps.

      Provided the ECG, step count (<10,000 steps) and other screening elements are ok, the
      participant will proceed to Study visit 1.

      Strength and exercise test protocol:

      The participant will be required to abstain from strenuous exercise for the 48 hours prior to
      the visit and also from alcohol and caffeine for 24 hours prior. Upon arrival they will
      perform a knee extension exercise so we can establish the muscle strength in the legs,
      specifically 3 maximal knee extensions with a 30 second rest in between. We will also measure
      fatigue by dong 20 extensions after a short break.

      After a break they will then undergo an exercise test using an MRI compatible stepper device
      (Ergospect Cardiostepper) whilst in a supine position. This has been adapted to be similar to
      how they will exercise in the MRI scanner. Volunteers will start off stepping at a frequency
      of 65-70 steps a minute at the minimum workload and every 3 minutes get gradually a little
      harder until exhaustion is reached. Heart rate at rest and in response to exercise will be
      measured using a heart monitor. Participants will be given the option to have their expired
      gases also measured during exercise using a face mask, though this is not necessary if not
      tolerated. In the final minute of each workload we will take a finger prick test to measure
      the gases in the patients blood. A 3 lead ECG and oxygen saturation probe will be attached
      during exercise as safety measures and the protocol will be halted if oxygen saturation falls
      below 80% or if any relevant rhythm abnormalities are seen on the ECG trace.

      The second study visit will be used to confirm the exercise and strength parameters measured
      in the first study visit.

      MRI protocol:

      A series of scans of the brain and heart will be taken at rest and then whilst stepping on
      the stepper machine within the MRI. The exercise will be at a steady state low level
      intensity determined by calculating the workload at which a fraction of maximum heart rate
      was achieved during first 2 study visits.

      The MRI scan itself will take about ¾ hour but upto 2 hours is allowed for preparation and
      introducing the scan to the participant. The scanner is quite noisy and so the participant
      will wear ear defenders during the scan. Because the scanner is built around a large magnet,
      the participant will be instructed to remove all metal from their body, including jewellery.
      There is no radiation involved.
    
  