
    
      The participant involvement in study 1 & 2 will last 15 & 9 weeks respectively. Study1 has a
      cross over design so each participant will receive two 2 week treatment periods (1 of placebo
      and 1 of active) with a 4 week washout period in between. The order with which they receive
      the treatment will be decided randomly. The study starts with a screening period lasting 1
      week. If, at the end of screening, they are still eligible they will be enrolled and start
      randomised treatment. Once the participant has received both treatments the study finishes.

      Study 2 is a parallel group design. Subjects who submit a stool sample which proves to be
      positive for Campylobacter will be sent an invitation to take part. All subjects will be
      asked to complete a bowel symptom questionnaire and attend to provide a stool sample
      (enrolment visit). A blood sample will be taken at this visit.

      After a further 4 weeks subjects will attend again, bringing with them a stool sample and
      stool symptom diaries. A blood sample will be taken. At this time, if they are still
      symptomatic they will be invited to take part in the randomised placebo controlled trial
      taking yeast or placebo for 5 weeks, after which they will again attend with stool diaries
      and provide a final stool and blood sample. The blood sample will be used to see, if
      antibodies to C. jejuni antigens predicts recovery and whether this is altered by yeast
      treatment. Those that are asymptomatic will not take part in the RCT but will return at 9
      weeks with a further stool and blood sample.

      We will also invite 15 healthy volunteers, free from gastrointestinal complaints to attend on
      3 occasions mimicking visits 1-3 by providing stool and blood samples so we can define the
      normal variability in stool composition in health. As with the other subjects they will be
      required to avoid antibiotics and probiotics during the study.

      End of Studies The last visit of the last subject.

      SELECTION AND WITHDRAWAL OF PARTICIPANTS Recruitment Study 1 Participants for study 1 will be
      recruited from Professor Spiller's patients who have previously taken part in research
      studies and have indicated that they would like to be contacted about future relevant
      research projects. This secure password protected database is held within the Nottingham
      Digestive Diseases Centre and contains patient's names and addresses to allow mailing of
      invitation letter.

      The investigator or their nominee, i.e. a member of the participant's usual care team, will
      make the initial approach to the patient by letter to the patient using a ethically approved
      invitation letter enclosing a copy of the information sheet and inform the participant of all
      aspects pertaining to participation in the study.

      Study 2 Currently all patients who submit a stool sample positive for C jejuni to the Public
      Health laboratory receive a letter form Professor Neal asking for details about eating out
      and pet's illnesses as part of routine surveillance. This letter will have an information
      sheet enclosed and an invitation to take part in Study 2 We will also recruit 15 healthy
      volunteers who have responded to an advert displayed on public notice boards at University
      Hospital Nottingham. On responding, they will then be sent an information sheet and details
      of the study and who to contact if they are interested in taking part.
    
  