
    
      Schizophrenia is a chronic brain disorder that affects about 1% of Americans. People with
      schizophrenia experience extreme paranoia, often claiming that they hear voices not heard by
      others and that others are invading or controlling their minds with the intent to hurt them.
      More specific symptoms include hallucinations, delusional behaviors, disordered movements,
      and decreased ability to comprehend and apply information to everyday activities. The
      severity of these symptoms makes self-care and regular exercise difficult for people with
      schizophrenia. The fatality rate from diabetes, heart disease, and other obesity-related
      illnesses is significantly higher in people with schizophrenia. Exercise is known to reduce
      health problems associated with obesity, yet few studies have encouraged exercise as a
      treatment method for improving the health of those with schizophrenia. Furthermore, the
      long-term physical and mental effects of consistent exercise on people with schizophrenia are
      not well-known. This study will evaluate the impact of motivational guidance to exercise on
      people with schizophrenia, based on their attendance, persistence, and compliance to a
      walking program.

      Participants in this study will be randomly assigned to one of two groups. Both groups will
      continue their regular medications and treatments throughout the study. Upon entry, members
      of both groups will complete the same two forms concerning attitudes toward exercise. Group 1
      participants will attend weekly 1-hour exercise information sessions for 4 weeks. Group 2
      participants will attend weekly 1-hour general health information sessions for the same 4
      weeks. Participants of both groups will then take part in identical 16-week walking programs.
      The walking program will consist of three 30- to 50-minute walks per week, including 10
      minutes of warm up and 10 minutes of cool down stretching. All participants will gradually
      increase their walking time from 5 minutes to 30 minutes during the program. At the
      completion of the walking programs, participants of both groups will complete repeat forms
      about their attitudes toward exercise. There will be no follow-up visits for the
      participants.
    
  