
    
      Methodology: Evaluation the event-related potentials elicited among alcohol-dependent and
      healthy participants while performing an emotion-detection task on unimodal (visual or
      auditory) or crossmodal (visuo-auditory) stimulations presented centrally or peripherally.
      Event-related potentials allow to monitor the electrical activity of the brain with high
      temporal resolution and to detect even minor neurocognitive restrictions. This cerebral
      measures will be completed by behavioral (reaction times and accuracy) and psychopathological
      measures.

      No specific interventions assigned to the subjects of the study.

      Evaluations: The room contains a panoramic screen (2.4 X 4 meters) covering a 180 degrees of
      visual angle. Participants will seat in a chair situated two meters away from the screen, in
      front of a table on which the response pad will be placed. Three projectors will display the
      visual stimulations, either centrally or lateralized (-12°, -24°on the left or +12°, +24° on
      the right). Headphones will be placed on participants' ears in order to display the auditory
      stimulations, either on both ears or lateralized (left or right ear), and presented
      separately (unimodal conditions) or simultaneously (crossmodal condition) with the visual
      stimuli. Visual stimuli, constructed using FaceGen 3.4 program, will be emotional faces (two
      males, two females) depicting happiness, anger or a neutral expression. Auditory stimuli (two
      males, two females), from a validated battery, will be emotional voices depicting happiness,
      anger or a neutral prosody and presented at a 70 decibels level. Crossmodal stimulations will
      be a combination of visual and auditory stimuli, congruent for gender and emotion. Experiment
      will be composed of 39 conditions: 3 stimulations (visual, auditory, visuo-auditory) X 3
      emotions (anger, happiness, neutral) X 3/5 lateralisation (-24°, -12°, 0°, 12°, 24°). Each
      condition will be evaluated on the basis of 50 stimulations. Event-related potentials will be
      recorded during the whole experiment by means of a 128 electrodes cap placed on participant's
      head and connected with an amplifier (Advanced Neuro Technology, ANT) and a recording
      computer, synchronised with the stimulation system. Behavioral responses will be recorded by
      means of a response pad. Psychopathological measures will be conducted using validated
      questionnaires: State and trait anxiety (STAI A and B, Spielberger et al., 1983), depression
      (BDI, Beck et al., 1987), interpersonal problems (Horowitz et al. (1988)), evaluating the
      quantity and quality of the social interactions, and the integration in the family and
      relationship background and alexithymia (Bagby et al., 1994).
    
  