
    
      Objective:

      The goal of this study is to see whether patterns of cerebral cortex dysfunction differ in
      Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The function of
      several regions of the cerebral cortex will be assessed by clinical, physiological, and
      neuropsychological tests. Magnetic resonance imaging will be carried out in a subset of
      patients to explore the correlation between functional and anatomical measures of these
      cortical areas.

      Study Population:

      30 patients with Primary lateral sclerosis who meet the diagnostic criteria for PLS proposed
      by Pringle and 30 patients with ALS who fulfill the revised El Escorial criteria for probable
      or definite ALS.

      30 healthy volunteers will be studied to provide training and practice in using the rating
      scales and to provide age-matched controls for EEG and imaging studies.

      Design:

      A screening examination will be carried out under protocol 01-N-0145 to determine
      eligibility. Patients and caregivers will return for two or three visits for sessions of
      neuropsychological testing, a structured clinical neuropsychiatric evaluation, ratings of
      motor and clinical function, and measurement of movement-related cortical potentials with
      EEG. A subset of patients will undergo MRI scans for quantitative anatomical measures of
      cortical regions.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome will be the classification of patients as normal or abnormal on
      neuropsychological testing of frontal cortex function. Correlations of the primary outcome
      with other variables - clinical measures of motor function, neuropsychiatric assessment will
      be examined. EEG measures of movement related cortical potentials and MR imaging findings
      will be analyzed in an exploratory fashion to determine whether these measures differ between
      PLS and ALS patients.
    
  