
    
      Protocol Patients will be included in the study if they meet the following conditions: no or
      minimal sedation (Propofol ≤1miligram per kilogram per hour (mg/kg/h) o Midazolam ≤0,1mg/
      kg/h), with a spontaneous ventilatory stimulus, absence of intracranial hypertension, Glasgow
      Coma Score > 9 (with a motor score > 4 points), Noradrenaline ≤ 0,2mcgr/kg/min, fraction of
      inspired oxygen ≤ 0.5, positive end-expiratory pressure of 5 centimeters of water (cmH20), no
      scheduled surgery in the next 48 hours, maximal inspiratory pressure < -20 cmH20 (means
      occlusion pressure test) and a airway occlusion pressure at 0.1 sec (P0.1) >6 millimeters of
      mercury (mmHg) with a support pressure of 7 cmH20 and 0 cmH20 of positive end-expiratory
      pressure.

      Protocol study (study group). Spontaneous Breathing Trial (SBT). The patient will be
      connected to mechanical ventilation in a pressure support ventilation mode, which one will be
      gradually reduced (until a level de pressure support of 10 cmH20 above 5 cmH20 of positive
      end-expiratory pressure). After, the patient will be disconnected from the ventilator and a
      spontaneous breathing trial will begin through the connexion of the patient to a T-tube and a
      source of oxygen. Hemodynamic parameters [systolic blood pressure, heart rate], and breathing
      parameters [respiratory rate, partial pressure of oxygen, partial pressure of carbonic
      anhydrid, partial pressure of oxygen to fraction of oxygen ratio, and pH through blood gas
      analysis and saturation of oxyhemoglobin by pulse oximetry], and neurological (means by
      Glasgow Coma Score) will be collected during final period of pressure support ventilation
      (before disconnection) and at onset (5 minutes) and final (between 30 to 120 minutes) of
      spontaneous breathing trial. A once daily spontaneous breathing trial will be stablished in
      all the patients until they were extubated. Unsuccessful spontaneous breathing trial will be
      considered with more than 2 criteria: partial pressure of arterial oxygen of 50-60mmHg with
      fraction of inspired oxygen ≤ 0.5 (or transcutaneous pulse oximetry <90%), partial pressure
      of carbonic anhydride > 50 mmHg, pH <7.35, respiratory rate > 35breath per minute, heart rate
      > 140 beats per minute, systolic blood pressure > 180mmHg, cardiac arrhythmias during
      spontaneous breathing trial, dyspnea, and increased use of accessory muscles. If the SBT
      fails, the patient will reconnect to mechanical ventilation. A successful spontaneous
      breathing trial is defined as absence of whatever of variables above defined.

      Airway Patency. Otherwise, if the spontaneous breathing trial is successful, the ability to
      maintain airway will be analyzed by the following variables: Number of aspirations of
      secretions/ nursing shift (No aspiration-0, 1 aspiration-1, 2 aspiration-2, ≥ 3
      aspiration-3), cough capacity (Strong -0, Mild-1, Weak-2, Absent-3), Appearance and color of
      secretions: [Viscosity (liquid-0, frothy-1, thick-2, dry-3) and color (clear- 0, brown- 1,
      yellow-2, green-3)] and the presence of gag reflex (strong- 0, moderate- 1, weak- 2, absent-
      3). A score ≤8 is considered as adequate to keep the permeability of airway. Then the patient
      will be extubated and connected to oxygen mask with fraction of inspired oxygen of 0.4. In
      case of extubation failure, the patient will be reintubated. The use of non-invasive
      ventilation is not considered in this study (neither prevention of extubation failure nor in
      case of extubation failure).

      Conventional weaning (control group). Patients in the control group will receive weaning from
      mechanical ventilation according to the usual procedure, by reducing level of pressure
      support ventilation. Then a spontaneous breathing trial will be performed through a T-tube
      (the same parameters as protocol study will collected) and subsequent extubation of the
      patient if there is a successful spontaneous breathing trial. The criteria for spontaneous
      breathing trial failure and for extubation failure are the same than in the study group. In
      case of extubation failure, non-invasive ventilation will be not considered, but it left to
      the discretion of the attending physician.
    
  