
    
      The primary objective of this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study is to
      determine the onset of analgesia following the administration of a single dose of 1000 mg of
      acetaminophen, 400 mg of ibuprofen or placebo in subjects experiencing acute postoperative
      dental pain secondary to the surgical extraction of at least three molars, with at least one
      being a partial or complete bony mandibular third molar impaction. After reporting moderate
      to severe pain following dental surgery, subjects record their baseline pain intensity and
      are treated with a single oral dose of acetaminophen, ibuprofen, or placebo. Subjects
      evaluate their pain intensity and pain relief relative to baseline at various timepoints up
      to 4 hours after taking study medication. Pain intensity is assessed using a five-point scale
      consisting of none (0), mild (1), moderate (2), moderately severe (3), and severe (4). Pain
      relief from baseline is evaluated on a five-point scale consisting of none (0), a little (1),
      some (2), a lot (3), and complete (4). At the end of the first hour of the observation period
      or at the time of taking supplemental analgesic medication (rescue treatment), whichever
      occurs first, subjects make an overall (global) assessment of the study medication, based on
      a five-point scale consisting of poor (0), fair (1), good (2), very good (3), or excellent
      (4). Subjects are required to remain at the study site for the duration of the four-hour
      observation period. The primary efficacy assessments are pain intensity differences from
      baseline and pain relief at each measurement time. Safety is assessed by monitoring adverse
      events occuring throughout the study. The primary hypotheses are that there is a difference
      between acetaminophen and placebo and between ibuprofen and placebo at some time point for
      the proportion of subjects reporting non-zero pain relief. The patients receive a single oral
      dose of one of the following three treatments: Two acetaminophen 500 mg caplets and two
      placebo ibuprofen capsules, two placebo acetaminophen caplets and two ibuprofen 200 mg
      capsules, or two placebo acetaminophen caplets and two placebo ibuprofen capsules.
    
  