
    
      Standard Blood Draw or Leukapheresis (to collect T cells):

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will have T cells collected
      from your blood. This will be done by a standard blood draw or a procedure called
      leukapheresis. Your doctor will determine which is the best method is to collect your T
      cells.

      If blood is collected through a standard blood draw, blood (less than 7 tablespoons) will be
      drawn over 1-2 days using one or more needle sticks in your arm.

      If you are going to have leukapheresis, you may visit the Apheresis Clinic at MD Anderson.
      For the leukapheresis procedure, you will need to stay seated in a chair and keep both arms
      still for about 3 hours. Blood will be drawn from 1 arm, white blood cells will be separated
      from the rest of the blood cells in the leukapheresis machine, and the red cells, platelets,
      and plasma (liquid part of the blood) will be returned through your other arm. The
      leukapheresis procedure may require a total of 4-6 hours each day for up to 2 days.

      Your white blood cell sample will be sent to a lab at MD Anderson so the genetically-changed
      T cells can be grown in the lab.

      It will take up to about 4 weeks to change and grow enough genetically-changed T cells. If
      researchers are unable to create a high enough dose of T cells for you in the lab, you may
      have more blood collected or you will be taken off study. You may have other treatment for
      CLL/SLL while you wait for production of the genetically-changed T cells. The study doctor
      will discuss other possible methods of treatment with you.

      Study Groups:

      You will be assigned to a level of genetically-changed T cells based on when you join this
      study. Up to 3 levels of genetically-changed T cells will be tested. Up to 6 participants
      will be enrolled at each level. The first group of participants will receive the smallest
      number of T cells. Each new group will receive a higher level than the group before it, if no
      intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue until the highest tolerable level of
      genetically-changed T cells is found, or the highest level being tested is reached (whichever
      happens first).

      When the highest level is found, an additional 12 patients will receive genetically- changed
      T cells at that level.

      Chemotherapy:

      Within 4 or 5 days before you receive your T cell infusion, you will receive 1 of 3 different
      FDA approved, standard combinations of chemotherapy, chosen by your doctor for you. These
      combinations are each given over 2-3 days, and must be completed before you receive your T
      cells. The days before you receive your T cells will be referred to as negative days (for
      example, 5 days before you receive your T cells will be called Day -5). The drug combinations
      are known as FCR, FBR, and BR.

      If you receive FCR, you will receive fludarabine and cyclophosphamide by vein, both over at
      least 30 minutes each day on Days -5, -4, and -3. You will also receive rituximab by vein
      over at least 4 hours on Day -5.

      If you receive FBR, you will receive fludarabine and bendamustine by vein, both over at least
      30 minutes each day on Days -5, -4, and -3. You will also receive rituximab by vein over at
      least 4 hours on Day -5.

      If you receive BR, you will receive bendamustine by vein over at least 30 minutes each day on
      Days -4 and -3. You will also receive rituximab by vein on Day -4.

      No matter what you receive, you will then rest 2 days in which you receive nothing before
      your T cell infusion.

      T cell Infusion(s):

      Before your infusion of genetically-changed T cells, you will be given standard drugs to help
      decrease the risk of side effects. You may ask the study staff for information about how the
      drugs are given and their risks.

      You will receive your genetically-changed T cells over about 30 minutes on Day 1. During the
      infusion, your vital signs (including your temperature, heart rate, blood pressure, and
      breathing rate) will be measured every 15 minutes for the first hour, then every 30 minutes
      for the second hour, and then about 1 hour after that.

      If there are still T cells left over after your infusion, and no intolerable side effects are
      seen during the first 4 weeks after your infusion, you may receive a second infusion. If you
      do, you may also receive another course of chemotherapy (as described above).

      Study Visits:

      About 14 days (+/- 7 days) before receiving your T cell infusion:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests. This routine blood draw
           will include a pregnancy test if you can become pregnant.

        -  Because the gene transfer process uses mouse antibodies, this may cause your body to
           make human antibodies to the mouse-based antibody. These antibodies are called HAMA.
           Part of the routine blood sample described above will be used to compare against a
           sample of your blood collected after the treatment is complete, to check if you
           developed an immune system reaction against these mouse protein antibodies.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for baseline research tests to study how your
           immune system responds after receiving the T cell infusion.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have computed tomography (CT) scans,
           positron emission tomography - CT (PET-CT) scans, and/or a bone marrow biopsy to check
           the status of the disease.

      The following tests and procedures will be performed within 24 hours after your T cell
      infusion, daily (not including weekends or holidays) for the first week after the infusion,
      then 1, 2, and 3 weeks (+/-3 days), as well as 1 month (+/- 5 days), and 3, 6, and 12 months
      (+/- 14 days) after the infusion:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests. Part of this blood sample
           will be used to check for HAMA immune system reactions 1, 2, and 3 weeks, as well as 1,
           3, 6, and 12 months after your T cell infusion. If you leave the study early, then your
           blood will be checked for HAMA at that time.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for research tests to study how your immune
           system is responding to the T cell infusion.

        -  If your doctor thinks it is needed, you may need CT scans, PET-CT scans, and/or a bone
           marrow biopsy to check the status of the disease (3, 6, or 12 months after the last T
           cell infusion only).

      Length of Study:

      You may receive up to 2 T cell infusions, depending on how many T cells are produced. You
      will not receive a second T cell infusion if the disease gets worse, you have intolerable
      side effects, or you have difficulty following the study directions. Your participation on
      this study will be over when you have completed the study visit at 12 months after the last T
      cell infusion.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      For safety reasons, the FDA requires that patients who receive infusions of stem cells
      treated with a gene transfer procedure must have long-term follow-up for at least 15 years
      after receiving the gene transfer. After you have received an infusion of the T cells you
      will be asked to sign a separate consent form for a long-term follow-up named "Long-Term
      Follow-Up Study of Recipients of Gene Transfer Research Protocols" (Protocol 2006-0676).

      This is an investigational study. The chemotherapy drugs in this study are commercially
      available and FDA approved. The gene transfer and infusion with genetically-changed T cells
      are not commercially available or FDA approved for use in this type of disease. Their use in
      this study is investigational.

      Up to 48 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  