
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the duration of response in patients with newly diagnosed pure and mixed
           anaplastic oligodendrogliomas treated with intensive chemotherapy supported by
           autologous transplantation.

        -  Determine the neurological and systemic toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the relationship of 1p loss of heterozygosity on radiographic response,
           progression-free survival, and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Mobilization and stem cell harvest: Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously
           daily for up to 7 days followed by peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) or bone marrow (BM)
           harvest.

        -  Induction therapy: All patients then receive induction therapy (PCV) comprising of oral
           lomustine on day 1, vincristine IV on days 8 and 29, and oral procarbazine on days 8-21.
           Treatment repeats every 42 days in the absence of progressive disease or unacceptable
           toxicity. Patients with prior complete resections receive 3 courses of PCV then proceed
           to high-dose chemotherapy and transplantation as described below, provided tumor has not
           recurred. Patients with prior partial resections or biopsies receive 2 courses of PCV
           and are assessed for response; those who achieve complete response (CR) or major partial
           response (PR) receive 1 more course of PCV. Patients who achieve partial response or
           have stable disease receive 2 more courses of PCV and are reassessed.

        -  High-dose chemotherapy and transplantation: Patients who achieve CR or PR receive
           thiotepa IV on days -8 to -6 and busulfan IV over 2 hours on day -5 to -3. Patients
           undergo autologous BM or PBSC transplantation on day 0.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60 patients will be accrued for this study within 3-5 years.
    
  