
    
      The primary objective of this study is to assess the internal and external responsiveness of
      the ESM-PROM in examining changes in symptom scores between baseline and post-treatment.
      Secondary objectives are to identify differences in characteristics between responders and
      non-responders to linaclotide and to assess for side effects of linaclotide treatment, using
      the ESM-PROM. This is a prospective, observational, single-group, open-label study, initiated
      and performed in Maastricht University Medical Center (MUMC+). The study population will
      conclude 30 IBS-C subjects that are newly prescribed with linaclotide by their treating
      physician at the outpatient department of gastroenterology and hepatology in the Maastricht
      UMC+. Primary study outcomes are the weekly average of the mean and maximum abdominal pain
      scores per day on the ESM-PROM per period (i.e. baseline, after 4 weeks and after 12 weeks).
      The ESM-PROM is completed during 7 consecutive days at each period and therefore, the
      measurements start one week before linaclotide treatment (baseline) and end one week after
      finishing linaclotide treatment (after 12 weeks). Further endpoints are the change scores of
      abdominal pain between pre- and post-treatment, measured using the ESM-PROM. Additionally,
      the proportion of overall responders to linaclotide treatment after 4 and 12 weeks assessed
      using the conventional end-of-day diary will be used to evaluate external responsiveness.
      Further endpoints are symptom scores as reported using the ESM-PROM, concerning abdominal
      pain, bloating, abdominal fullness, fecal urgency, stool consistency, straining, CSBM
      frequency and SBM frequency. Secondary outcomes are other factors measured using the
      ESM-PROM, i.e. non-GI physical symptoms, psychological status at the moment of symptom
      assessment, contextual information regarding the moment of symptom assessment as well as
      information on food and substance intake.
    
  