
    
      Subjects

      The volunteers were recruited residents from the Shi Cha Hai community of Beijing, China. The
      inclusion criteria included individuals aged ≥40 years who had stayed in the community for at
      least 3 years and who had provided informed consent.

      In contrast, the exclusion criteria were patients with known severe diseases who could not
      cooperate with the study, such as severe psychiatric diseases, chronic liver disease, heart
      failure, autoimmune disease, and chronic kidney disease; a history of pulmonary lobectomy or
      lung transplantation; and drug abuse or alcohol addiction.

      Questionnaire survey and physical examination Community volunteers were surveyed for general
      information (name, sex, age, height, weight, etc.), history of previous common diseases,
      medication use, history of smoking, history of alcohol consumption, and occupation. All
      surveys were filled in the case report form of the study. A Chinese translation of the BQ was
      used to classify participants as high risk and low risk for OSA. COPD were diagnosed by a
      portable spirometer (Vitalograph copd-6). Other investigated diseases were self-reported by
      participants based on previous diagnosis. Physical examination included blood pressure,
      height, and weight measurements.

      Sample collection and storage Venous blood and EBC were collected between 9 AM and 12 AM
      after fasting for >10 hours. The plasma collected in EDTA anticoagulated blood collection
      tubes was separated by centrifugation at 2,000 g for 15 min and stored at -80℃. The EBC
      collection was performed using an EBC collector (model number, EBC-5; patent number, ZL 2019
      2 1297152.7, China).

      The EBC collection was conducted as follows: After resting for 15 minutes and cleaning the
      oral cavity with water, participants were instructed to wear a nose clip and breathe calmly
      through a mouthpiece with a one-way valve, which was connected to an electrical condenser.
      Participants were asked to breathe through the device for 15 minutes to obtain between 0.5
      and 1.5 ml of condensate. After being pre-processed with argon flow of 0.25 L/min for 10
      minutes, the condensate was immediately fractional packed and transferred to special tubes
      and stored at -80℃. EBC equipment, collection procedures, and preservation complied with
      European Respiratory Society standards on breath analyses .

      Measurement of biomarkers Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kits were used to measure
      the biomarkers in both EBC and plasma.
    
  