
    
      Experimental Design

      The investigators will enroll, implant and complete the interventions in 36 research
      participants who have sustained a SCI in the proposed experiments. The investigators
      anticipate they will need to screen 108 potential research participants to enroll 36
      individuals who will complete the study. This sample size will provide sufficient replication
      per study group (n=4) from which variance and effect size estimates for each study hypothesis
      can be calculated, and hypothesis tests conducted. The investigators will also select
      individuals to assure that there are a minimum of 25% (n=9) women to adequately represent the
      percentage in the SCI population. The investigators will study each cohort of patients
      comprehensively, and each individual will be allocated to the group interventions based on
      the method of minimization. Research participants will be randomized into group
      interventions. This novel approach of conducting repeated experiments with comprehensive
      assessments in a smaller cohort of patients, rather than a more traditional approach of
      including a large number of patients and focusing on a single outcome, will advance both
      clinical and scientific knowledge in this highly complex population. The investigators have
      found success with the smaller cohort approach because they can employ more rigorous,
      quantitative and sensitive outcomes that not only inform them about the potential clinical
      efficacy, but also provide further knowledge of the mechanisms of neural control of movement
      and other physiological mechanisms related to cardiovascular, respiratory, bladder, bowel and
      sexual function.

      Group A:

        -  Vol-scES during voluntary leg movement training while sitting or lying supine (A1).

        -  CV-scES during sitting or lying supine (A2).

      Group B:

        -  Vol-scES during voluntary leg movement training + Stand-ES during stand training (B1).

        -  CV-ES during sitting or lying supine + Stand-ES during stand training (B2).
    
  