
    
      Background and significance: Recent studies have shown that nitrous oxide (N2O) anesthesia
      may be associated with an increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes. It is well-known
      that N2O inhibits vitamin B12-dependent enzymes and as a result increases plasma homocysteine
      concentrations. Homocysteine has been identified as risk factor for cardiovascular disease.
      Therefore elevations in homocysteine after N2O may be a causative factor in N2O toxicity. In
      a previous investigation, we found that patients who carry a homozygous mutation in the MTHFR
      gene develop higher homocysteine levels after N2O anesthesia than non-carriers. These
      patients might be at higher risk for adverse cardiac outcomes from N2O. Thus, there may be a
      pharmacogenetic mechanism to account for the adverse cardiac outcomes from N2O. Moreover,
      prevention of N2O-increased homocysteine concentrations in these high risk patients by
      perioperative vitamin B12 and folate supplementation might decrease the incidence of adverse
      cardiac outcomes.

      Hypothesis: Patients carrying a homozygous MTHFR 677C>T or 1298 A>C variant allele will have
      a higher incidence rate of postoperative myocardial ischemia after N2O anesthesia [detected
      by serial TnI measurements] due to elevated homocysteine levels than normal "wild-type"
      non-carriers, and that the incidence rate will be reduced if they receive perioperative
      vitamin B12/folate supplementation.

      Primary outcome: Myocardial ischemia in the first 72 hours after surgery (measured by serial
      troponin and ECGs).

      Secondary outcome: Composite endpoint of 30-day mortality and major cardiac morbidity
      (non-fatal MI)

      Design: Randomized controlled trial. 500 patients will receive N2O during surgery and will be
      randomized to receive B-vitamins or placebo. 125 patients will receive no N2O and no
      B-vitamins (control arm). Mendelian randomization of MTHFR genotype.

      Intervention: IV vitamin B12 (1 mg) and folate (5 mg) pre- and postoperatively

      Study setting: Barnes-Jewish-Hospital, St. Louis, MO

      Patients: Patients scheduled for major surgery with or at risk for coronary artery disease
    
  