
    
      Premedication will be given, after complete fasting hours after applying standard monitors
      (noninvasive blood pressure, pulse oximetery, ECG, temperature and capnography), an
      intravenous cannula will be placed and secured.

      Ultrasound guided Erector spinae plane (ESP) block will be given with patient in sitting
      position depending on surgical site (left or right) ESP block will be given using high
      frequency linear u/s transducer, the probe is placed in longitudinal orientation lateral to
      thoracic fifth spinous process, then Trapezius muscle, Rhomboidus major muscle, and erector
      spinae muscle, are identified from surface, we deposite20 ml of 0.25% levobupivacaine into
      interfacial plane below erector spinae muscle.

      General anesthesia will be induced with fentanyl l μg /kg, propofol 2mg /kg, muscle relaxant
      (atracurium 0.5 mg/kg) inhalational anesthesia (isoflurane or sevoflurane) No other narcotic,
      analgesic or sedative will be administrated during operative period.

      Standard monitor (mean arterial blood pressure, heart rate , oxygen saturation & end-tidal
      Co2) will observed and recorded every 30 min till end of surgery

      Post-operative:

      The patient will be transferred to the post anesthesia care unit (PACU) and will be monitored
      for:

        1. Vital signs (heart rate, noninvasive blood pressure, and oxygen saturation).

        2. RASS score (Richmond Agitation & Sedation scale) with its +4:-5 score range will be used
           to assess sedation post-operative, considered sedation ≥-2 table (1)

        3. Numerical Rating Score (NRS) pain score with its 0-10 score range will be used to assess
           pain immediately post-operative and then at 2, 4, 6, 8, 12,18and 24hour in the
           post-operative period figure (1). (4)Time and amount to request analgesia (PCA patient
           controlled analgesia morphine (demand dose 1-2 mg, lock out 6-10 min)) at NRS≥3. (5)
           Side effect of studied drugs as (hypotension, sedation , respiration depression and
           vomiting ) and complication of the block for 24h post- operative.
    
  