
    
      A single-center, single blind longitudinal randomized controlled naturalistic trial comparing
      a 12 week Sudarshan Kriya Yoga Trauma Relief Program (SKY) intervention to a wait list
      control (WLC) group.

      Research participants will be men and women, 18-75 years of age, who have PTSD. The study
      will recruit from the general adult ambulatory mental health clinics as well as the geriatric
      mental health program in London.

      Potential participants will be screened as per inclusion and exclusion criteria by trained
      research staff. These patients will already have clinically diagnosed PTSD by a psychiatrist
      and any other comorbid diagnoses would have already been confirmed. However, for research
      purposes a diagnosis of PTSD will be confirmed through a structured clinical interview
      specifically the MINI (Mini International neuropsychiatric Interview) and the
      Clinician-administered PTSD Scale for DSM5- past month version (CAPS5). CAPS5 will also be
      used to rule out exclusion criteria of severe depersonalization and derealization. The scales
      will be administered by a trained research staff and confirmed by a psychiatrist.

      The MINI will also be used to assess for suicidality. If the total score on Questions C1 and
      C2 is more than 5 at any time during the study then this will be reported to the PI who will
      further assess the patient for safety and risk assessment.

      If the participant is above the age of 65 years of age they will also be asked to complete a
      cognitive screening test (Mini Mental State Examination, MMSE) to ensure they are not
      suffering from any memory impairments.

      Participants who meet the inclusion criteria will be randomized to either SKY or WLC with
      equal probability (1:1) using computer generated randomisation numbers. Concealment of
      randomisation to outcome assessors and investigators will be ensured by an independent staff
      member who will perform the randomisation using a third party web based provider.
      Computerised randomization will take place in the Geriatric Mental Health Program outpatient
      unit in London Health Sciences, London, Ontario. A telephone number will be available for
      study concerns/queries. Pre-randomized information will be stored using unique de-identifiers
      and downloaded on a secure database. It will not be possible to blind participants to
      intervention status hence the single-blind design.

      SKY training involves attending a week-long (6 days) course that teaches the basic principles
      of SKY over 2.5-3 hour daily sessions. This will be followed by once weekly follow up
      sessions (90 min/wk) for 3 weeks and then bimonthly sessions (every 2 weeks) for the next 8
      weeks. In addition, participants will be asked to practice SKY at home daily (25 min/day)
      throughout the duration of the study period and log practice frequency and any other
      noteworthy observations in a log sheet that will be provided to them (please see attached log
      sheet). Meals will be provided for 2 days during the initial SKY training course and
      nutritional snacks on the other 4 days.

      Participants randomized to the control arm of the study will continue to receive their
      treatment as usual, including pharmacotherapy and/or psychotherapy. They will follow
      assessment and study procedures as listed below. Upon completing the initial 12 weeks of the
      study, participants in the WLC arm will also be offered the opportunity to learn SKY and
      attend follow up therapy sessions; that is, WLC participants will be offered the same
      intervention as the SKY group received in the first 12 weeks of the study. No study
      procedures will be applied or any other information collected during this period except for a
      final assessment that will take place at 24 weeks (see below).
    
  