
    
      The investigators will include 80 patients in a prospective cohort study .

      For all patients the following study tools will be done:

        1. Written consent.

        2. Detailed history including Age, sex, symptoms (NYHA class).

        3. Clinical examination.

        4. Electrocardiogram (ECG) (to detect baseline rhythm).

        5. Two-dimensional transthoracic echocardiography (2D TTE):

           All patients will undergo 2D TTE before device closure to assess:

             -  ASD (type, size, shunt direction).

             -  Pulsed Doppler quantification of the pulmonary (Qp) to systemic (Qs) blood flow
                ratio

             -  Right ventricle (RV) enlargement: RV linear dimensions are best measured from a
                RV-focused apical four-chamber view.

             -  RV systolic function by :

                  1. Tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion(TAPSE) ,

                  2. 2D RV fractional area change (FAC)= 100 X [(end-diastolic area - end-systolic
                     area)/end-diastolic area)].

             -  Pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PASP).

             -  Grade of MR by Color Doppler: The color Doppler jet area of MR and left atrial area
                at the time of midsystole will be measured by the area trace method in the apical
                4-chamber view, and the ratio of MR jet area to left atrial area will be
                calculated. The grade of MR will be determined by the ratio, where 0% to 10%>>
                none/trivial, 10% to 20% >> mild, 20% to 40% >>moderate, and >40% >> severe.

             -  Left ventricle (LV) systolic function by m-mode,

             -  LV diastolic function :

                  1. Pulsed wave (PW) Doppler of trans-mitral flow during diastole.

                  2. Tissue Doppler imaging (TDI).

        6. Three-dimensional transesophageal echocardiography (3D-TEE):

           All patients will undergo 3D-TEE before device closure of secundum ASD to assess:

             1. The number of defects.

             2. Defect size: The maximum dimension (length), minor dimension (width), and area by
                planimetry will be measured from the 3D en face view.

             3. ASD morphology will be categorized by the shape seen in the en face view. ASD will
                be defined as circular when the minor dimension is >75% of the maximum length. If
                the minor dimension is <75% of the maximum length ASD will be defined as having an
                oval shape. Asymmetric, irregularly shaped defects that are not elliptical will be
                defined as having a complex shape.

             4. The surrounding rims: aortic rim, atrioventricular (AV) rim, superior vena cava
                (SVC) rim, inferior vena cava (IVC) rim and posterior rim.

           According to recent study, the optimal ASD device size will be calculated as :

           Device size = 0.964 x 3Dmax - 2.622 x circular index +7.084 Where maximal ASD diameter
           on 3D-TEE (3Dmax) and the circular index is defined as the ratio of the maximal to
           minimal diameters on the 3D-TEE image.

        7. Transcatheter secundum ASD device closure procedure:

           All patients suitable for device closure will undergo transcatheter device closure
           procedure in cath lab under general anesthesia. After venous access is gained following
           local anesthesia via the right femoral vein, the ASD is crossed using a Multipurpose
           catheter. The Multipurpose catheter is then exchanged for a device-specific delivery
           system. Its tip is placed into the left atrium. The left-sided disk is then deployed and
           gently pulled back against the atrial septum under fluoroscopic guidance in a left
           anterior oblique projection. To deploy the right atrial disc, tension is maintained on
           the delivery cable while the delivery sheath is further withdrawn.

           The whole procedure will be under fluoroscopic and 3D-TEE guidance. Device size that
           will be used in ASD closure according to the previously mentioned formula based on
           3D-TEE measurements.

        8. Follow up:

             -  Clinical follow up for 24 hours to detect post-ASD closure acute heart failure.

             -  2D-TTE will be performed 24 hours post-procedure to visualize the device position
                and to look for residual shunting and MR grade using color Doppler.

             -  Clinical follow up, ECG and 2D-TTE at 6-month follow up to detect new onset AF,
                residual shunt and MR deterioration.

        9. After 6 months of device closure :

      Patients will be divided into two groups according to occurrence of adverse outcomes
      (residual shunt , MR deterioration and new onset AF ) and the following predictors will be
      evaluated in each group and their influence on occurrence of these adverse outcomes:

      Echocardiographic data:

        -  RV systolic function by TAPSE and FAC on 2D-TTE.

        -  LV systolic function by m-mode on 2D-TTE.

        -  LV diastolic function on 2D-TTE.

        -  Estimated PASP on 2D-TTE.

        -  ASD shape on 3D-TEE.

        -  ASD maximal diameter on 3D-TEE.

        -  ASD minimal diameter on 3D-TEE.

        -  ASD area on 3D-TEE.

        -  Size of implanted device.
    
  