
    
      This study is a single center retrospective observational study designed to to develop and
      validate a clinical score that predicts AKI after heart valve replacement surgery。 To achieve
      this goal, patient underwent heart valve replacement surgery will be screened for enrollment
      eligibility. For the purpose of this analysis, only the first surgical episode was
      considered. Patients required preoperative dialysis, with any degree of renal insufficiency
      (acute or chronic) and patients who had end-stage renal disease (estimated glomerular
      fltration rate [eGFR] < 15 mL/min /1.73m2 )are not included in study.

      AKI was classified according to the KDIGO definition[10]. Stage-1 AKI: increase in serum
      creatinine of more than or equal to 0.3 mg/dl (≥ 26.5μmol/l) or increase to more than or
      equal to 150% to 200% (1.5≤x<2) from baseline within 7 days. Stage-2 AKI: Increase in serum
      creatinine to more than 200% to 300% (2≤x<3) from baseline. Stage-3 AKI: Increase in serum
      creatinine to more than 300% (3≤) from baseline (or serum creatinine of more than or equal to
      4.0 mg/dl (≥ 353.6μmol/l) or when the patient commenced RRT.

      We selected demographic, preoperative, intra-operative and early postoperative variables
      considered predictors of AKI.

        1. The demographic and preoperative factors included age, sex, weight, height; history of
           smoke, drink, angina, cerebrovascular disease, COPD, peripheral vascular disease,
           hypertension, valve infection , arrythmia , diabetes mellitus, MI , atrial fibrillation,
           pulmonary hypertension, previous cardiac surgery; NYHA stage, surgery type , Operative
           approach and emergency surgery。The latest value before operation: serum creatinine
           level, haemoglobin, capillary glucose, hemoglobin，WBC, EF, LDL-C , urinary protein, CRP,
           PCT, ALB, TBIL, PT and Glomerular filtration rate (GFR). History of taking the following
           drugs before surgery: contrast, nephrotoxic antibiotics, β-blocker, calcium channel
           blocker, lasix, ACEI, ARB, immunosuppressive, heparin, aspirin, clopidogrel, ticagrelor,
           digoxin, levosimendan, dopamine, dobutamine, cedilanid, isosorbide dinitrate, isosorbide
           mononitrate, isoprenaline and NASID.

        2. The intra-operative factors included cardiopulmonary bypass time, cross-clamp time,
           transfusion, FFP, VFP, CFP，output and input ; the highest blood glucose, minimum
           hematocrit, minimum mean arterial pressure, minimum temperature and fluid balance during
           CPB.

        3. The postoperative factors included time to extubation, mean ICU and hospital stay and
           mortality. First measured value after entering ICU: CVP, PH, HB.

      We also considered postoperative complications during the intensive care unit included IABP,
      ECMO, cardiac arrest, arrhythmia, re-intubation, return to ICU，tracheotomy.
    
  