
    
      DESIGN

      Randomized, placebo controlled, double blind study to determine the safety and antiviral
      activity of aprepitant by comparing the change in HIV RNA viral load after 2 weeks of
      aprepitant monotherapy.

      DURATION

      42 days.

      SAMPLE SIZE and POPULATION

      18 HIV infected males and females ≥ 18 years old who have early infection with CD4 cell
      counts ≥ 350 cells/mm3.

      REGIMEN

      Subjects will be randomized 1:1 to receive aprepitant (Emend®) or placebo.

      Arm A: Aprepitant placebo Arm B: Aprepitant 375 mg QD

      HYPOTHESIS AND STUDY OBJECTIVES

      Hypothesis : Aprepitant is safe, tolerable, and has antiviral activity in HIV infected
      individuals.

      Primary Objectives:

      To assess the safety and tolerability of 375 mg aprepitant for 2 weeks To assess the response
      of plasma HIV-1 RNA to 375 mg of aprepitant compared with baseline.

      Secondary Objectives:

      To investigate the course and duration of antiretroviral response 375 mg of aprepitant given
      over a 14-day period.

      To evaluate the dose-response and pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic relationship between
      viral RNA change and aprepitant plasma levels.

      To evaluate aprepitant effects on CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell counts, circulating SP levels, natural
      killer cell number and function and CCR5 expression in peripheral PBMCs.

      To evaluate the effects of aprepitant in the viral tropism and envelope sequence of the main
      HIV-1 population of the participants.

      To assess viral drug susceptibility in conjunction with baseline coreceptor tropism phenotype
      and changes in coreceptor phenotype after the exposure to aprepitant.

      To evaluate aprepitant effects on fasting plasma glucose, insulin, HDL, free fatty acids, and
      triglyceride concentrations after 14 days of treatment.

      To provide preliminary description of any change from baseline in sleep quality, anxious
      mood, depressed mood and neurocognitive measures after 2 weeks of aprepitant therapy.
    
  