
    
      Adjuvant treatment of resected head and neck cancers The incidence of locoregional failures
      and distant metastasis is high after primary resection of squamous cell carcinoma of the head
      and neck (HNSCC), especially in patients with unfavorable prognostic factors such as residual
      disease, histological evidence of extracapsular spread, and/or multiple neck nodes. RT is
      indicated as an adjuvant therapy to surgery. In the past 2 decades, RT was mainly delivered
      post-operatively, and the therapeutic gain with this combination is now well documented.
      Despite an overall 2-year freedom of recurrance of approximately of 70-75%, survival rates
      are usually poor in the whole HNSCC patient population, and they usually do not exceed 30 to
      35% at 5 years. The incidence of metastases in locally advanced but resectable head and neck
      cancer can reach 15 to 20%. The role of systemic chemotherapy has been tested in clinical
      trials to determine if the addition of chemotherapy can decrease locoregional and distant
      failure and improve survival.

      Oxaliplatin and radiation in solid tumors Oxalipaltin-containing regimens have been safely
      and successfully used in combination with concurrent radiation in treatment of solid tumors
      such as rectal and esophageal cancers. Results of previous trials indicated that combination
      of oxaliplatin and radiation is safe and efficacious and dose not compromise surgical wound
      healing, repair and clinical outcome.

      Oxaliplatin and radiation in head and neck cancer Oxaliplatin and radiation has been used in
      a randomized phase II study comparing standard radiation with or without weekly oxaliplatin
      in the treatment of locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Radiation was administered at
      70-74 Gy to the primary tumor site, 60-64 Gy to the involved areas of the neck and 50 Gy to
      the uninvolved area of the neck. Chemotherapy with oxaliplatin at 70 mg/m2 was given weekly
      for 6 courses with standard radiation in the investigational arm. Interim results concurrent
      radiation with weekly oxaliplatin resulted in a higher complete response in the primary tumor
      site and in the cervical lymph nodes. There was no difference in the incidences of dry mouth,
      stomatitis, skin reaction, peripheral neuropathy or hematological toxicities between the 2
      treatment arms. Patients receiving the concurrent radiation and oxaliplatin treatment did
      experience more gastrointestinal toxicities mostly nausea and vomiting. The only grade 3
      toxicities are thrombocytopenia (5.1%), nausea/vomiting (12.8%) and skin reaction (25.6%).

      Microscopically involved margins, involvement of two or more nodes, extracapusular spread,
      presence of perineural involvement, and vascular embolisms are associated with an
      approximately 25% to 30% probability of developing locoregional failure. The addition of
      cisplatin to radiation reduces the locoregional failure and distant metastasis. We propose to
      investigate the toxicities of using weekly oxaliplatin with radiation in the treatment of
      high risk resected head and neck patients since oxaliplatin has a better side effects
      profile. The high risk factors will be the same criteria utilized in both RTOG 9501 and EORTC
      22931. They include microscopically involved margins, involvement of two or more nodes,
      extracapusular spread, presence of perineural involvement, vascular embolisms, and oral
      cavity or oropharyngeal carcinoma with lymph nodes metastasis at level IV or V.
    
  