
    
      Patients undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplantation may develop non-infectious
      respiratory complication related to chronic graft versus host disease and called
      bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS). The occurrence of BOS is associated with a decreased
      survival reaching 13% at 5 years (Dudek et al, BBMT 2003). Thus, screening and diagnosis of
      BOS appear as a priority of post-transplant patients monitoring, in order to begin early
      therapy if needed. To this end, patients undergo systematic and regular screening using
      pulmonary function tests (PFTs). In case of abnormal PFTs, tests are completed the screening
      of respiratory infections and chest computed tomographic scan (CT-scan) is performed. A
      report from the National Institute of Health described the following criteria required for
      the diagnosis of BOS : FEV1/vital capacity < 0.7, FEV1 < 75% or a decline >/= 10% from
      baseline, residual volume > 120%, absence of documented infection, and the presence of
      CT-scan signs suggestive of BOS : air trapping by expiratory CT or small airway thickening or
      bronchiectasis.

      BOS severity depends on the development of fibrotic and fixed damages, poorly responding to
      therapies. New tools are needed in order to favor early BOS diagnosis.

      A recent study from our center showed that repeated CT-scans in stem cell transplant patients
      is associated with increased risk of neoplasia. In addition, recent studies from our center
      evaluated the use of pulmonary MRI providing good performance without X-ray exposure (Dournes
      G et al, Radiology 2015 et Dournes G et al, Eur Radiol 2015).

      More recently, Renne et al (Radiology 2015) studied the performance of pulmonary MRI coupled
      with oxygen transfer analysis for the diagnosis of chronic lung allograft dysfunction. This
      study showed altered imaging parameters in patients developing BOS, including patients with
      early BOS stage (0p stage).

      As pathogenic mechanisms seem to be shared between post-stem cell transplant and post-lung
      transplant BOS, we hypothesize that pulmonary MRI with oxygen transfer analysis and ultra
      short echo time may represent a non-invasive, non-irradiating and sensitive research tool for
      the detection and quantification of pulmonary lesions in patients screened for post-stem cell
      transplant BOS.

      Thus, 20 patients who underwent allogeneic stem cell transplantation and show abnormal
      respiratory function over a 2 year period study are expected. They will be included according
      to the following criteria : age > 18 yo, > 3 months post-transplant, absence of documented
      pulmonary infection, or with a minimum of 6 weeks after a documented pulmonary infection, and
      the following BOS criteria : abnormal PFTs (FEV1/VC < 0.7, FEV1 < 0.75, residual volume <
      120% of expected value) and/or chest CT-scan showing air trapping or small airway thickening.
      Similarly to lung transplant criteria, stage 0p BOS defined according to FEF25-75 values
      (Estenne et al, JHLT 2002), for which pulmonary MRI with oxygen transfer may guide to early
      BOS diagnosis, will be added.

      Patients who give their consent will perform a pulmonary MRI, in the absence of
      contraindication, using different sequences to evaluate morphologic and functional
      performances of pulmonary MRI. We will compare CT-scan and MRI performances using blinded
      analysis from two radiologists.
    
  