
    
      The majority of patients in the intensive care unit are diagnosed with sepsis. Malnutrition
      is frequently observed in these patients, and malnutrition can be detected by tests performed
      in patients such as NRS-2002, nutric and SGA. The parameters evaluated in the SGA test are:
      the investigatorsight loss in the last 6 months, the investigatorsight loss in the last 2 the
      investigatorseks, changes in oral intake, dietary changes, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea,
      functional capacity, subcutaneous fat evaluation, muscle loss assessment, edema and acid. All
      these parameters are evaluated with the help of a scale and the patient's malnutrition status
      is classified as A, B, C. Group A is mild, group B is medium and group C indicates heavy
      malnutrition. This test is a test that can be carried out at bedside. In the other test,
      NRS-2002, the patient is scored according to the patient's nutritional status and the
      severity of the disease. Here, the score is greater than ≥3 indicates that the patient is at
      risk of malnutrition. <Less than 3 indicates that the patient should be screened once a the
      investigatorsek. In the measurement of adductor pollicis longus muscle thickness in recent
      years, adductor pollicis longus muscle thickness betthe investigatorsen the thumb and
      forefinger in the patient's dominant hand is measured. This value has been shown to be
      valuable in determining the malnutrition status of the studies.

      In our study, the investigators aimed to investigate the efficacy of these three values in
      patients with sepsis in intensive care unit. The patients will be diagnosed with sepsis
      according to 2013 sepsis diagnostic criteria. In these diagnostic criteria, the systemic
      inflammatory reaction syndrome criteria are fever> 38.3 ° C or <36 ° C,> 12000 / mm3 or <4000
      / mm3, or more than 10% banded leucocytes, the respiratory rate is greater than 20 / min or
      In case of two suspected outbreaks> 90 / min., or suspected infection or culture-proven
      infection, the patient will be diagnosed with sepsis.

      NRS-2002, nutric and SGA tests will be performed in all patients who are diagnosed with
      sepsis and are expected to stay in intensive care for more than 24 hours. Adductor pollicis
      longus muscle thickness will be measured in the same patients to understand the effectiveness
      of these tests on malnutrition. These tests will be carried out only once. All tests are
      painless procedures. Adductor pollicis longus muscle measuring apparatus is available in
      intensive care.
    
  