
    
      Background:

        -  Approximately 50% of patients with advanced p16-negative head and neck squamous cell
           carcinoma (HNSCC) will develop locoregional or distant relapse within two years of
           completing definitive standard-of-care treatment.

        -  Two ongoing clinical trials investigating neoadjuvant PD-1 blockade before surgical
           resection of HNSCC suggest that immunotherapy can both cytoreduce existing disease
           before surgery and reduce the risk of locoregional or distant disease relapse after
           surgery.

        -  Preliminary data from these studies suggest neoadjuvant treatments can be administered
           without delaying planned surgical intervention.

        -  Experiments conducted by the Laboratory of Tumor Immunology and Biology (LTIB)
           demonstrated synergistic activity with tumor-targeted adenoviral vaccine plus M7824 plus
           N-803 in humanized mice bearing human carcinomas and in vitro studies.

        -  M7824 is a bifunctional fusion protein consisting of an anti-programmed death ligand
           1(PD-L1) antibody and the extracellular domain of transforming growth factor beta
           (TGF-beta) receptor type 2, a TGF-beta trap.

        -  Adenoviral vaccines targeting known shared tumor antigens can generate antigen-specific
           T cells.

        -  N-803 is an IL-15/IL-15R alpha super agonist complex that can enhance both NK cell and T
           cell anti-tumor activity via expansion and activation.

        -  Activity observed with neoadjuvant anti-PD-1 agents alone provides rationale for testing
           of M7824 alone and in combination with other immune oncologic agents that have been
           shown to work in concert with M7824 in preclinical studies.

        -  Analysis of pre- and post-treatment tissues from HNSCC patients presents a unique
           opportunity to interrogate the effects the above treatment(s) on tumor.

        -  A dose escalation of N-803 in combination with a flat dose of M7824 was conducted at the
           National Cancer Institute. Thirteen patients have been treated with the combination. No
           DLTs were observed.

      Objectives:

      -Determine the rate of pathologic complete response (pCR) or clinical-to-pathological
      downstaging in patients with previously untreated intermediate/high risk, non-HPV associated,
      squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (T1-T4, N0-N3, M0 stage II, III or IV) who
      receive any of the three proposed treatments: M7824 alone, M7824 plus TriAd vaccine, or M7824
      plus TriAd vaccine plus N803 prior to definite surgery.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients must have histologically or cytologically confirmed, previously untreated
           intermediate/high risk, p16-negative (if oropharyngeal), squamous cell carcinoma of the
           head and neck (T1-T4, N0-N3, M0 stage II, III or IV)

        -  Men or Women; Age greater than or equal to 18 years

        -  ECOG performance status less than or equal to 1

      Design:

        -  This protocol is a sequential window of opportunity trial of Anti-PD-L1/TGF-beta trap
           (M7824) alone and in combination with TriAd Vaccine and N-803 for non-HPV associated
           resectable Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (HNSCC).

        -  Patients will be referred to the NIH for this immunotherapy treatment from surrounding
           academic medical centers and private physicians.

        -  Upon referral to the NIH, patients will be rapidly screened, and enrolled on the
           protocol, if appropriate.

        -  This trial will enroll patients in three arms sequentially to permit safety evaluation
           before adding the next agent.

        -  In the first arm of 12 patients, M7824 (1200 mg) will be administered intravenously on
           day 1 and 15.

        -  If no safety concerns, accrual will proceed to the 2nd arm, and 12 patients will enroll
           with M7824 (1200mg; intravenous) treatment on day 1 and 15 and TriAd vaccine (5 x 10
           (11) VP; subcutaneous) treatment on day 1 only.

        -  If no safety concerns, accrual will proceed to the 3rd arm, and 12 patients will enroll
           with M7824 ((1200mg; intravenous) treatment on day 1 and 15 plus TriAd vaccine (5 x
           10(11) VP; subcutaneous injection) and N-803 (15mcg/kg, subcutaneously) treatment on day
           1.

        -  After obtaining pre-treatment biopsies, imaging and blood collection, patients will
           receive the neoadjuvant immunotherapy at the NIH Clinical Center.

        -  Patients will then be sent back to their referring providers for their definitive
           standard of care surgery and adjuvant therapy as indicated based upon pathologic
           analysis of the surgical specimen. NCI investigators will have no role in directing the
           ensuing standard of care surgeries performed at outside institutions.

        -  For consistency in pathologic analysis of resection specimens, tissue blocks and/or
           slides will be obtained from outside institutions and be reviewed by the NCI Laboratory
           of Pathology.

        -  It is expected that up to 20 patients may enroll in one year. Thus, with 3 arms of 12
           patients apiece, up to 36 evaluable patients may enroll. Accrual is expected to be
           completed within 2 years.
    
  