
    
      BACKGROUND: Degenerative Lumbar Spinal Stenosis (DLSS) is a serious health problem for
      patients over 65 years of age. It is assumed that in the United States alone, it affects
      about 200 thousand patients causing significant impairment of their quality of life. Although
      it is relatively easy to confirm the nature of spinal canal encroaching (disc protrusion,
      facet hypertrophy, ligamentous folding) by several methods of imaging, the golden standard of
      DLSS management, especially in the group of older patients, is still the matter of debate.
      Three main concepts of conservative treatment are considered: 1) pharmacological care -
      symptom-oriented systemic anty-inflammatory and analgesic agents or local steroid injections,
      2) rehabilitations protocols and mechanical devices like traction facilities or corsets to
      decompress spinal canal or support in case of instability, 3) biological - stimulation of
      anti-inflammatory action and regeneration capacity by biologically active substances. All
      methods are offered without strong evidence of its efficacy.

      AIM: Comparison of the effectiveness of three treatment protocols in DLSS: epidural
      injections of autologous serum (Gold Induced Cytokines, Goldic), epidural steroid injections,
      manual therapy in the concept of spinal canal venous drainage.

      Research hypothesis: The use of Goldic serum in epidural injections improves the condition of
      patients with DLSS during the observation period longer than steroid injections and the
      rehabilitation protocol.

      DESIGN: Randomized prospective trial without blinding. SETTING: Open study for outpatients,
      single-centre study. POPULATION: the local adult population METHODS: Three groups of patients
      (A, B, C) with confirmed DLSS in MRI, without limiting sex, age, meeting health conditions
      according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. There will be 30 people in each group (90
      people in total).

      Group A - Goldic serum therapy - 4 injections at 3-day intervals containing single doses of
      serum (4 doses of 3 ml in total), injections performed into the epidural space under
      ultrasound control by the same operator.

      Group B - steroid therapy with Dexaven 4 mg / 1 ml - 2 injections at weekly intervals
      containing single doses of dexamethasone (total dose of 8 mg), injections will be performed
      into the epidural space under ultrasound control by the same operator.

      Group C - manual therapy according to the concept of venous drainage - a repeatable treatment
      scheme for each patient; decompression of the thoracic outlet, diaphragm release, sacroiliac
      joints (SI) mobilizations, rib-sternum release, rib raising technique - 4 sessions (1 x
      weekly - approx. 40 min).

      Control tools: NRS Pain Scale (0-10), Oswestry Disability Index, Zurich Claudication
      Questionnaire (ZCQ), EQ-5D-5L, Control points: Initial Assessment (IA), 4,12, 24 weeks after
      last intervention.
    
  