
    
      The alpha feto protein level showing liver function is lower in babies with Down syndrome and
      this biochemical marker is one of the basic parameters of triple screening.

      If these babies have insufficient liver function, then it is likely that there is a decrease
      in hepatocyte growth factor in these babies. Free E3 is higher in Down syndrome than normal
      pregnant women. Placental hyperfunction, fetal hypofunction (especially based on fetal liver)
      is accepted as the hypothetical cause of these two conditions in Down syndrome. In this
      study, the investigators think that the real cause of this condition is secondary to fetal
      partial hypoxia. For this purpose, the investigators plan to look at the level of IMA in
      amniotic fluid. However, Güven et al. In his study, an increased rate of ischemia-modified
      albumin was found in the amnion levels of mothers who had high triple screening tests but had
      no down syndrome in their babies. In this study, it is aimed to find a change in amniotic
      fluid that can help in the diagnosis of down syndrome. In our opinion, in cases of down
      syndrome, there will be an increase in IMA in the amniotic fluid secondary to ischemia, which
      is more severe than the false triple test positivity.

      In our university, chromosome analyzes are made from amnion fluids sent to the Duzen
      laboratory. This laboratory hides amniotic fluid of patients with down syndrome (in the
      context of an agreement between our university and the laboratory). Within the scope of the
      research, amniotic fluids of 20 cases diagnosed with down syndrome in the Department of
      Obstetrics and Gynecology of KTU Faculty of Medicine will be obtained from the regulation
      laboratory and necessary biochemical evaluations will be performed. As the control group,
      amniotic fluids will be provided by 60 patients with normal amniocentesis results. The
      demographic factor, obstetric history and gynecological history information of all cases will
      be recorded in the questionnaire prepared by one of the researchers. 2 cc amnion sample of
      the patients with Down syndrome diagnosis and control group will be taken into the
      biochemistry tube and serum IMA and HGF values will be measured in KTU Faculty of Medicine,
      Department of Biochemistry. As a result, amnion IMA, HGF values of 20 cases diagnosed with
      down syndrome and amnion IMA, HGF values of 60 cases with down syndrome will be entered into
      SPSS 10.5 for Windows environment and their mean values will be compared.

      According to the results, amniotic fluid IMA values of the study group and control group will
      be compared. Thus, it is aimed to eliminate the burden that the chromosome culture will bring
      to the national economy with an evaluation made in a routine laboratory in cases diagnosed
      with down syndrome.
    
  