
    
      Severe obesity, afflicting ~8% of adolescents in the U.S., is a serious and challenging
      medical and public health problem. The number and levels of cardiovascular risk factors are
      considerably higher in the context of severe obesity compared to milder forms of obesity.
      Approximately 85% of youth with severe obesity have ≥1 cardiovascular risk factor.
      Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is highly-prevalent among adolescents with severe obesity
      with estimates nearing 60%. Subclinical atherosclerosis and arterial stiffening is present in
      youth with severe obesity at levels similar to those with type 2 diabetes. Youth with severe
      obesity have high levels of inflammation and oxidative stress, adverse adipokine profiles,
      and arterial endothelial activation. Moreover, longitudinal data implicate obesity in
      childhood as a strong predictor of future risk factor clustering and sub-clinical
      atherosclerosis in adulthood. Risk of developing type 2 diabetes is high in youth with severe
      obesity. Severe obesity in adolescence is associated with chronic disability from a wide
      range of causes later in life. Perhaps most disturbing is the poor long-term prognosis for
      these youth. Approximately 90% will have a BMI ≥35 kg/m2 in adulthood. Disturbingly, severe
      obesity in adulthood reduces life expectancy by 7-14 years.

      In the field of obesity management, weight loss maintenance has proven to be an arduous
      challenge. Indeed, long-term weight loss maintenance is seldom achieved owing to numerous
      biological adaptations occurring in the post-weight loss setting. These include, but are not
      limited to, neuroendocrine changes in the gut-brain axis influencing appetite and satiety and
      reduction of energy expenditure. Following weight loss, peripheral and central mechanisms
      respond in a way similar to starvation by conveying a sense that energy reserves have
      dwindled, activating a strong and persistent counter-response to increase caloric intake.
      Moreover, metabolic rate decreases, further compounding the propensity for weight rebound.
      These counter-regulatory adaptations persist for many years following initial weight loss,
      and in fact might be permanent.

      Adolescents with severe obesity (BMI ≥120% above the 95th percentile or BMI ≥35 kg/m2) are
      not immune to the vexing issue of weight regain as evidenced by the poor outcomes of
      interventions using lifestyle modification alone.22-25 Indeed, large clinic-based studies
      from Europe and the U.S. reported that only a small fraction of patients were able to achieve
      and maintain clinically-meaningful weight loss with lifestyle modification therapy.
      Metabolic/bariatric surgery is an effective treatment but uptake is very low and many
      pediatricians and parents are concerned about the irreversible nature of this treatment and
      worry about the possibility of long-term (decades) risks, which are currently unknown.
      Therefore, a large treatment gap exists between lifestyle modification therapy and
      metabolic/bariatric surgery that remains unfilled.

      Pharmacotherapy has the potential to prevent weight regain by targeting counter-regulatory
      mechanisms in the post-weight loss setting, with various agents demonstrating improved
      long-term weight loss durability in adults. Unfortunately, pediatric options are limited as
      only one obesity medication is approved for use among adolescents for long-term use
      (orlistat), and is rarely prescribed because of modest efficacy and notable side effects.
      Among the most promising candidates in the pediatric pipeline, owing to its relatively high
      degree of efficacy compared to other medications, is the combination of phentermine and
      topiramate, which is the most effective FDA-approved adult obesity medication currently
      available. Placebo-subtracted weight loss at one and two years with phentermine/topiramate is
      9% at the top dose in adult trials. The mechanisms of action of phentermine/topiramate, which
      together are thought to reduce appetite, enhance satiety, and potentially increase energy
      expenditure, are well-suited for the purpose of weight loss maintenance since they target
      many of the biological adaptations known to induce relapse and subsequent regain.

      The rationale for specifically focusing on phentermine/topiramate (vs. other medications) to
      prevent weight regain is supported by its multiple mechanisms of action, which are thought to
      target many of the post-weight loss counter-regulatory biological adaptations known to induce
      relapse. These mechanisms include: 1) reducing appetite through inhibition of norepinephrine
      reuptake (phentermine) and reduction of hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission (topiramate)
      and lowering the levels of neuropeptide Y (topiramate); 2) enhancing satiety by slowing
      gastric emptying (combination of phentermine/topiramate); and 3) increasing energy
      expenditure (both phentermine and topiramate independently). Through these mechanisms of
      action, sustained weight loss has been demonstrated with phentermine/topiramate treatment in
      adults. While other obesity medications target some of these pathways, their respective
      mechanisms of action are generally less comprehensive, and accordingly have lower efficacy,
      ranging from 3-5% placebo-subtracted weight reduction at 1 year.

      In terms of safety, topiramate is FDA-approved in children and adolescents for the treatment
      of seizures and migraine headaches with a reasonable safety track-record. Importantly, the
      investigators observed no signal of cognitive problems in a pilot clinical trial of
      topiramate for the treatment of obesity. Phentermine is FDA-approved for short-term use in
      ages >16 years old for treatment of obesity and is the most widely-prescribed adult obesity
      medication in the U.S. Although in a distinct medication class, phentermine is not dissimilar
      in mechanism of action and side effects to many of the stimulant medications
      widely-prescribed for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in
      youth. Adult data suggest no adverse cardiovascular effects or increased risk of addiction
      potential or withdrawal symptoms associated with phentermine use and the investigator's
      clinical experience with phentermine in adolescents with obesity demonstrated an acceptable
      safety profile.
    
  