
    
      1. LOW RISK STUDY

      The low risk group of patients includes NB patients without MYCN amplification with or
      without life threatening symptoms in the following clinical situations:

        -  Children aged ≤ 18 months with localised neuroblastoma associated with image defined
           risk factors precluding upfront surgery (stage INRG L2).

        -  Children aged ≤ 12 months with disseminated neuroblastoma without bone, pleura, lung or
           CNS (Central Nervous System) disease (stage INRG Ms)

           2) INTERMEDIATE RISK STUDY

      The intermediate risk group of patients includes NB patients in the following clinical
      situations:

        -  Children aged >18 months with localised neuroblastoma without MYCN amplification,
           associated with image defined risk factors precluding upfront surgery (stage INRG L2).

        -  Children aged ≤12 months with disseminated neuroblastoma involving bone, pleura, lung
           and/or CNS (stage INRG M), without MYCN amplification.

        -  Children with localised resected NB (stage INSS I) with MYCN amplification. NEONATAL
           SUPRARENAL MASSES

      The incidence of suprarenal tumours/masses has increased in the last decade due to the
      expanded use of prenatal ultrasonography in routine obstetric care and in the neonatal and
      early infancy care. The differential diagnosis of these masses ranges from benign (adrenal
      haemorrhage) to malignant processes (neuroblastoma, adrenal carcinoma). Knowledge on
      perinatal suprarenal masses, although based on a relatively large literature, is scattered
      amongst studies on very few cases with no methodical approach and often short follow up.
      Therefore, the optimal management of these masses has not been clearly defined. Neuroblastoma
      at this age is an intriguing entity with a very good prognosis in most cases. The SIOPEN
      Group, based on their results in the first multicenter European Trial for infants with
      neuroblastoma (INES) and the world-wide experience provided in the literature, is launching
      this European surveillance study (Multi-centre, non-blinded, one armed prospective trial) for
      these masses. Treatment: Observation
    
  