
    
      This is a prospective study designed to examine the role of transient elastography as a
      predictor of clinical decompensation in patients with early cirrhosis. The study objective is
      to determine if changes in measurements of liver stiffness with transient elastography can
      identify patients that will have a more rapid progression of cirrhosis and the development of
      clinical decompensation. The target population is patients with early stage, well-compensated
      cirrhosis.

      This study will attempt to determine if serial measurements of liver stiffness with transient
      elastography in patients with early cirrhosis can identify patients at risk of morbidity or
      mortality associated with hepatic decompensation.

      For the Screening Visit, the following procedures will be performed:

        1. Patient will read and sign informed consent. Subjects will be given sufficient time to
           consider, ask questions, and sign the consent forms.

        2. Patient will be assigned a subject number

        3. Patient will be asked to provide demographic information

        4. Patient will be asked to provide a complete medical history and laboratory evaluation

        5. Physical examination including blood pressure, heart rate, height, and weight.

        6. The following assessments will also be performed:

             -  Calculation of modified Child Pugh Score: Using the following biochemical
                variables: Serum Albumin, Total Bilirubin, Serum Creatinine, and INR.

             -  MELD Score: Based on a continuous function of Bilirubin, INR, and Creatinine, which
                uses a continuous variable ranging from 6-40.

        7. 30cc of blood will be obtained, and serum frozen at -80C (freezer located in Dr. Sigal's
           office) for up to 5 years. The blood will only be accessible to Dr. Sigal and his
           research team. This blood may be analysed for known markers of liver disease, markers
           that may be discovered in the future, and/or to identify new markers of liver disease.

      For the Follow-Up Visits the following procedures will be performed every 3 months for up to
      2 years:

        1. An interim medical history will be obtained, with particular attention to the
           development of clinical decompensation (ascites, variceal bleeding hepatorenal syndrome,
           overt hepatic encephalopathy).

        2. Physical examination.

        3. Measurement of liver stiffness using hepatic elastography.

        4. 30cc of blood will be obtained, and serum frozen for future analyses as above.
    
  