
    
      Background:

        -  Neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) of the gastrointestinal tract and pancreas are a rare and
           heterogeneous group of neoplasms with unique tumor biology, natural history, and
           clinical management issues.

        -  Most NETs are sporadic, but they can be part of familial cancer syndromes such as
           multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1), neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) or Von
           Hippel-Lindau (VHL) syndrome.

        -  Well-differentiated, low or intermediate grade NETs have a heterogeneous natural
           history.

        -  Surgery is the only curative treatment option in patients with localized early stage
           NETs.

        -  The optimal management strategy for patients with advanced NETs is unknown.

        -  The majority of NETs have somatic mutations in MEN1 and cyclin dependent kinase
           inhibitor 1B (CDKN1B), and genes involved in the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase
           (PI3K/AKT/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway, and/or overexpression
           of growth factors and their receptors such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF),
           vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (VEGFR), platelet-derived growth factor
           (PDGF), and platelet-derived growth factor receptors (PDGFR) that can be targeted for
           therapy.

        -  Survival in patients with NETs and somatic mutations is better than patients with wild
           type NETs.

        -  Sunitinib (multi-tyrosine kinase inhibitor) and Everolimus (mTOR signaling pathway
           inhibitor) are currently approved for the treatment of progressive, unresectable,
           locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic NETs.

        -  However, mutation targeted therapy with Sunitinib or Everolimus has not been studied in
           this patient population.

        -  The present proposal aims to determine if mutation targeting therapy for patients with
           advanced low- or intermediate grade NETs is more effective than historically expected
           results.

      Objectives:

      -To determine the progression-free survival in patients with NETs of the gastrointestinal
      tract and pancreas treated with Sunitinib or Everolimus based on tumor genotyping.

      Eligibility:

      -Patients with:

        -  progressive, histologically or cytologically diagnosed low or intermediate grade locally
           advanced or metastatic NETs.

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years

      Design:

        -  Phase II open labeled clinical trial.

        -  Tumor biopsy for tumor genotyping will be performed if the patient does not have
           archival tissue available and does not have MEN1, VHL or NF1.

        -  Patients with somatic or germline mutations in MEN1/PDGFR/KIT/FMS-like tyrosine kinase-3
           will be treated with Sunitinib. (Arm 1)

        -  Patients with somatic/germline mutations in NF1/PTEN/PI3K/AKT/mTOR/VHL will be treated
           with Everolimus. (Arm 2)

        -  Patients with wildtype tumor will be treated with Sunitinib. (Arm 1)

        -  Patients who have disease-progression on either Sunitinib or Everolimus will cross-over
           to the other drug.

        -  Treatment will continue until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or consent
           withdrawal.

        -  Up to 120 patients will be accrued to the study. It is anticipated that 20-30 patients
           per year may enroll into this trial; thus accrual may be completed in 4-5 years.
    
  