
    
      This study is designed as a post-market, single arm, non-randomized multi-center
      investigation.

      Male and female subjects, at least 18 years of age, with at least one subchondral bone defect
      in the form of a cyst and/or bone marrow lesion (BML), insufficiency fracture or bone defect
      associated with early stage avascular osteonecrosis (AVN) in the femoral head, femoral neck
      and/or acetabulum who are suitable candidates for use of AccuFill during the Subchondroplasty
      Procedure are eligible for enrollment in this study.

      A maximum of 15 study sites, in the United States of America, will enroll a target of 100
      subjects.

      Each Investigator must obtain IRB approval, or favorable opinion by an EC, prior to consent
      of the first subject; no study-related procedures can occur without the approval and
      oversight of a registered IRB or EC. If the study site does not have an IRB of record, a
      central IRB may be utilized upon approval by Zimmer Biomet.

      Demographics, medical history, hip history and use of pain medication and therapy will be
      recorded at the time of subject consent. Additionally, patient reported outcomes measures
      will be obtained pre-operatively. Operative details including the SCP Procedure, concomitant
      surgical procedures and intraoperative safety events will be recorded at the time of surgery.
      Prospective subjects will be considered enrolled in this study once their Subchondroplasty
      Procedure has been performed.

      Subjects will complete only the Numeric Pain Scale at 2 weeks post-operatively. Thereafter,
      subjects will complete self-reported outcomes measures post-operatively at 6 weeks, 12 weeks,
      6 months, 1 year and 2 years. These measures include information on pain medication and
      therapy, pain levels, function, activity and subject satisfaction. A member of the study
      staff will contact subjects post-operatively at 3 years, 4 years and 5 years by telephone to
      verify completion of the Numeric Pain Scale and a Subject Global Satisfaction Survey.
      Screening for adverse events and conversion will occur throughout the study.

      Subjects will complete the study at 5 years or will be withdrawn if they undergo conversion
      of the Subchondroplasty site. For the purposes of this protocol, a conversion will be defined
      as total hip arthroplasty or any procedure involving removal of the AccuFill material on the
      index hip.
    
  