
    
      Being able to walk safely, to go up and down stairs and to recover from an unexpected gait
      perturbation are vital for older adults' autonomy, home maintenance and life quality. It is
      therefore of major interest to understand the mechanisms responsible for older adults (OA)
      decreased functional abilities. This study aims first to understand the links between muscles
      and tendons characteristics and functional capacities of OA, and second to evaluate whether a
      4-month collagen supplementation can improve OA musculotendinous properties, thereby
      improving their function.

      Trips are caused by an unexpected perturbation during the swing phase of gait (i.e. when the
      foot is not in contact with the ground). Recovering from a trip requires the production of
      fast and large muscle torques at the hips, knees and ankles joints to counteract the forward
      rotation of the body, and the propulsion of the forward leg anteriorly to the centre of mass.

      For OA, falling when walking on a flat surface is potentially damaging, and falling while
      using stairs is even more dangerous. Indeed, over 65% of falls leading to brain injury in OA
      happen in stairs and 10% of fall death in the US happen in stairs. Older adults with joints
      problem are more susceptible to report difficulties when using stairs than those without.
      Those with multiple joints problems are also up to 20 times more likely to have difficulties
      in stair climbing than OA without joint problems. Mechanically, older adults operate closer
      to their maximal joint moment capacities at the knee (ascent and descent) and ankle (ascent).
      They thus have less reserve to adjust to any perturbation that could happen and are at more
      risks of falling than young adults (YA).

      Normal gait, but also trip recovery and stair climbing are dependent on the muscles and
      tendons capacities to produce and transmit adequate forces in a short amount of time.

      With age, muscular and tendinous properties decline: muscles, that are responsible for the
      production of forces, become weaker and smaller, and tendons, that are responsible for the
      transmission of forces from muscles to the skeleton, become less stiff. It has been shown
      that changes in the gastrocnemius tendon's properties affect the ability of elderly to
      maintain balance during dynamic and demanding postural tasks, complicating OA daily living
      activities. This may especially be so when the individual is not only required to generate
      large joint moments, but to do so quickly, as is the case when trying to avoid a fall. OA
      with decreased muscle and tendon properties do not generate and transmit adequate forces in
      magnitude and velocity, which may be responsible for their decreased ability to recover from
      a trip and in some cases may lead to falls. Therefore, interventions that improve
      muscle-tendon properties of OA are likely to have benefits for recovering from a trip and
      preventing a fall occurring.

      Training interventions have been developed to minimise the effect of age on OA physical
      condition but although strength training can improve tendon stiffness and muscle strength,
      participants' adherence to these protocols can be low. Developing interventions with similar
      effects and which are easier to follow (that do not require modification of participants'
      routine) is thus of major interest.

      It has been shown that collagen supplementation improves the blood collagen synthesis and the
      resistance to tension of collagenous tissues in the body. In this study, the investigators
      will test a collagen supplement designed to improve joint, muscle and whole-body function.

      Although the investigators understand that the structure of muscles and tendons determines
      their function and has key roles in overall physical function and ability to recover from a
      trip, the investigators do not yet fully understand these mechanisms and how best to improve
      them. The research area will be centred upon the muscle-tendon properties and interactions
      that determine physical function in two different conditions (stair climbing and trip
      recovery), and whether these can be improved by collagen supplementation.

      The investigators will therefore evaluate changes in bone mineral density, lean mass, tendon
      stiffness, muscle strength, stair climbing and tripping recovery capacities before and after
      a 4-month supplementation period in 80 OA allocated either to the active product or to the
      placebo group.
    
  