
    
      FAIR-O is a single-arm, multi-center, phase II intervention trial of a geriatric assessment
      in older patients (≥ 70 years old) diagnosed with epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or
      primary peritoneal cancer. Patients will be approached if they are being considered for
      systemic chemotherapy either as neoadjuvant / front-line chemotherapy in the first-line
      setting OR for chemotherapy at first relapse.

      Two cohorts of patients will be recruited and run in parallel (no comparison will be
      performed between them):

        1. First-line cohort: patients with newly diagnosed advanced (stage III/IV) ovarian cancer
           who have received no prior treatment for ovarian cancer including surgery.

        2. First relapse cohort: ovarian cancer patients with first relapse

      On consenting to the trial, a comprehensive medical and treatment history will be obtained
      including blood tests, tumour markers and a CT scan. The CT scan will be assessed for extent
      (volume) of muscle mass and compared to reference standards to identify patients with low
      muscle attenuation and sarcopenia (i.e. loss of muscle mass).

      In addition, consented patients will be asked to undertake a comprehensive Geriatric
      Assessment which comprises a collection of 8 tests - all of which are non-invasive. These
      test comprise validated questionnaires and functional assessments including the G8
      questionnaire, independent activities of daily living (IADL), activities of daily living
      (ADL), Charlson co-morbidity score, Hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS), mini
      nutritional assessment (MNA), a timed up-and-go test and a mini cognitive assessment.

      The Geriatric Assessment will enable the treating clinical team to determine whether the
      patient has specific deficits or problems which need further specialist attention with the
      aim of ensuring maximum tolerance to chemotherapy treatment. A Study Algorithm will guide the
      clinician to the most appropriate actions. These actions may include referral to other
      specialist services or referral for specific diagnostic tests. The number and type of
      referrals and the time taken for that referral to be performed will be captured.

      Following the initial assessment in clinic, patients will will continue to attend standard
      treatment chemotherapy clinics. Their response to treatment will be recorded including the
      emergence of symptoms of study interest. Throughout the study decisions regarding systemic
      chemotherapy including regimen choice, dose modifications and supportive medications will be
      the responsibility of the treating oncologist and will not be determined by the outcome of
      the Geriatric Assessment.

      Patients will be recruited until 60 patients have been recruited to each cohort. Patients
      will be followed-up until the end of the study which will be defined as 12 months from study
      entry or disease progression or death, whichever comes soonest.

      The feasibility of introducing the Geriatric Assessment into the standard of care
      chemotherapy pathway is the primary end point of the study and will be statistically
      assessed. The number of fully completed assessments that the Research Team are able to
      conduct in the predicted target of 120 patients recruited to the trial will determine the
      feasibility on introducing the Geriatric Assessment to routine oncology clinics for this
      patient cohort.
    
  