
    
      In the ICU, fever is commonly treated with 650 mg acetaminophen every 4 hours with the hopes
      of reducing fever burden, thereby also reducing metabolic demand. Acetaminophen is thought to
      be a safe and effective antipyretic. This assumption has not been tested in the critically
      ill despite its widespread use. Observational studies report critically ill patients
      experience hypotension, sometimes severe enough to require treatment; other studies indicate
      acetaminophen may not be as effective at reducing fever burden in the critically ill.

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To see if 650mg acetaminophen, given to febrile critically ill patients affects blood
           pressure; by comparing the incidence of hypotension severe enough to require treatment
           in the way of a fluid bolus (500cc or greater) or increase in vasoactive drugs (increase
           in norepinephrine by 5mcg or greater); by assessing for changes in mean arterial
           pressure and systolic blood pressure.

        -  To quantify the degree of fever suppression achieved by 650mg acetaminophen in the
           febrile critically ill population.

      RESEARCH PROPOSAL:

      Patients admitted into Vancouver Hospital's ICU are eligible for this study if they have a
      new fever and meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria. Study participants will be randomly
      assigned into one of 2 study arms, the control group and the 650mg group. Study participants
      in the control group will receive 2 capsules of placebo and the 650mg group will receive 2
      capsules of 325mg acetaminophen. Data (continuous measures of temperature, heart rate and
      blood pressure) will be collected from the time of the study drug administration until 6
      hours post. All patients, health care workers, and researchers will be blinded to which arm
      the patient is enrolled in until the end of the study. The incidence of fluid bolus
      administration, increases in vasoactive drug use, will be recorded and compared. We will also
      compare blood pressure data, and fever burden between the 2 groups.

      INCLUSION/EXCLUSION CRITERIA To be included the subject must be admitted to the ICU; have an
      arterial line as standard of care; have at least 2 hours of a temperature greater than
      38.3°C; within 24 hours of fever onset or ICU admission; be hemodynamically stable, and not
      received any drugs with known antipyretic effects at least 6 hours prior to initiating the
      study. Patients are excluded if they have an acute brain injury, liver dysfunction, cardiac
      dysfunction, requiring greater than 50% fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO); mechanical
      ventilation is permitted, any extracorporeal blood treatments (dialysis, plasmapheresis,
      etc.), injury to more than 20% of the skin (i.e. burn patient), or the responsible physician
      is opposed to enrolment.
    
  