
    
      At present, there is no cure for multiple sclerosis and the management of MS-patients
      requires treatment with disease-modifying agents such as interferon-beta or glatiramer
      acetate, monoclonal antibodies such as natalizumab or immunsuppressants such as mitoxantrone,
      azathioprine or methotrexate. Acute relapses are usually treated with corticosteroids.
      Natalizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody directed against α4-integrin, a component of
      VLA-4 (very late antigen-4) present on leukocytes. Following submission of additional safety
      data, the agencies such as Swissmedic or EMEA have issued approval of natalizumab for
      treatment of relapsing MS with a number of restrictions. The preparation has been available
      in Switzerland since 2006. According to the current scientific information, natalizumab
      (Tysabri®) is indicated as a "disease-modifying monotherapy of highly active relapsing MS"
      for the following patient groups: 1) patients showing high levels of disease activity despite
      treatment with an IFN-β preparation, or 2) untreated/treatment-naive patients with rapidly
      progressing relapsing-remitting MS (at least two serious relapses per year).

      The primary objective of this pilot study is to generate first data and hypotheses on the
      concept of de-escalating natalizumab-treated relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis patients
      to interferon-beta-1b e.o.d compared to continuous treatment on natalizumab for planning of
      further clinical studies regarding safety and efficacy.

      As secondary objectives, clinical, neuropsychological parameters, MRI and laboratory
      parameter and safety aspects will be assessed in accordance to the protocol available for the
      management of patient on natalizumab at our service.

      This is a prospective, controlled, randomized, rater-blinded, parallel-group, monocentric,
      two arm, phase IV pilot study. Patients with relapsing-remitting forms of MS, respecting all
      inclusion/exclusion criteria, will be randomized into two equal-size parallel arms for
      de-escalation to interferon beta-1b (after a month wash-out) or for continued treatment on
      natalizumab.

      it is planned to enrol 20 patients (1/2 in the natalizumab group, 1/2 in the interferon
      beta-1b group. Patients providing written informed consent will be treated for 12 months;
      pre-planned follow-up of further 12 month
    
  