
    
      The study includes 8 Toronto area hospitals consisting of 7 community hospital and one
      academic health sciences centre.

      Three patient groups at each site are included in the study: patients admitted for: Acute
      Medical Illness (AMI), Major General Surgery (MGS) and Hip Fracture Surgery (HFS). Patients
      had to be at least 18 years old and be considered at risk for VTE according to the American
      College of Chest Physicians (CHEST) guidelines.

      The study design is a cluster randomized trial where each patient group at each site is a
      cluster.

      A baseline chart audit of approximately 50 patients in each group at each site was conducted
      to determine an intraclass coefficient and proportion of adherence.

      The main outcome measure was the rate of prescribing appropriate prophylaxis in patients at
      risk. This was calculated as the number of at risk patients receiving appropriate prophylaxis
      / the number of at risk patients for whom prophylaxis is indicated.

      Based on the baseline results, it was estimated that a sample size of 432 would be needed for
      the intervention phases. A sample of 720 patients (15 in each cluster at each site) was
      included.

      The study is broken down into three phases: baseline, phase 1 and phase 2. At baseline, all
      groups received usual care. At phase 1, one cluster at each site was randomized to
      intervention while the other two served as control. In phase 2, 2 groups received
      intervention while one continued to serve as control. Each of the phases, phase 1 and 2 had
      360 unique patients. Patients in baseline were not included in phase 1 or 2 and patients in
      phase 1 were not included in phase 2.

      The main outcome measure was prescribing of appropriate VTE prophylaxis. A chart audit was
      used to collect data at baseline, end of phase 1 and end of phase 2.

      Each phase is approximately 1 year in length. Analysis involves descriptive statistics using
      counts and proportions to capture rates of appropriate VTE prophylaxis and rates of
      non-adherence. A logistic regression model will be used to compare rates of appropriate VTE
      prophylaxis over time within groups adjusted for clustering.
    
  