
    
      This is an open-label, multicentre, Phase IB, dose escalation study with dose expansion
      designed to assess the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of the encorafenib,
      binimetinib and palbociclib combination. Patients with untreated or previously treated
      BRAFV600 mutation-positive, locally advanced/unresectable or metastatic melanoma are
      eligible. There will be 3 dose levels:

      Table 1: Dose Level Description Dose Level Encorafenib Binimetinib Palbociclib D1 450mg daily
      45mg BID 75mg daily 21/7* D2 450mg daily 45mg BID 100mg daily 21/7* D3 450mg daily 45mg BID
      125mg daily 21/7*

      * 21 consecutive days on treatment, followed by 7 consecutive days off treatment in a 28 day
      cycle.

      Alternate dosing regimens and schedules may be interrogated depending on the nature and
      timing of the toxicities encountered.

      The first dose to be evaluated will be dose level D1 and dose escalation will follow using a
      standard 3 + 3 design (refer to Figure 6). Dose escalation/de-escalation decisions will be
      made by the Trial Management Committee.

      Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) will be monitored over the first 28 days of treatment. After
      each dose level of 3 patients complete the DLT observation period, the TMC will meet and
      review the available toxicity and dosing information and determine the dose regimen for the
      next dose level of 3 patients and/or identify the RP2D for the dose-expansion phase.

      Approximately 30 additional patients will be enrolled into each of the two cohorts during the
      dose-expansion phase. One cohort will consist of previously untreated patients or treated
      patients without prior exposure to any BRAF and MEK inhibitor therapy. The second cohort will
      consist of patients who have progressed on BRAF and MEK inhibitor therapy.

      A minimum of 10 patients in each cohort must have newly obtained tumour sample at baseline.
      Accrual may be restricted to achieve this. Treatment of patients in both phases will continue
      until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or any other discontinuation criterion is
      met.

      For the purpose of the final analyses, the study will be considered completed when 12 months
      have passed since the first day of treatment of the last patient enrolled in the expansion
      phase.

      Adult patients with a diagnosis of BRAFV600 mutation positive, locally advanced/unresectable
      or metastatic melanoma who meet all the inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria will be
      eligible for participation in this study.

      Recruitment will occur from all activated sites into the currently open phase and dose level
      of the study. Dose Level 1 will be the first to open and will enroll 3 patients at a minimum.
      The TMC will assess and determine the dose level for the next patients to open to recruitment
      accordly. Participants in the dose escalation phase will be evaluable for assessment if they
      complete 80% of their first cycle of combined treatment or they experience a DLT.

      Once the RP2D has been determined by the TMC, recruitment will continue to occur from all
      activated sites into the dose expansion phase of the study. All patients in this phase will
      receive the RP2D. Patients in the dose expansion phase will be assigned to one of the 2
      cohorts according to their treatment status (either BRAF/MEK-inhibitor naïve, or previously
      treated).

      A number of assessments will occur while the patient is on treatment as well as the
      following:

      PK sampling will be collected as part of the safety assessments according to the Schedule of
      Events in Section 3. On PK sampling days for trough levels (cycle 1 day 15 and cycle 2 day
      1), study visits should be scheduled in the morning so a pre-dose PK blood sample can be
      collected. On these visit days, the morning dose of encorafenib, binimetinib and palbociclib
      will only be administered by the investigator (or designee) at the study site, after
      collecting the pre-dose PK sample. For PK visits, patients will be required to be fasting 2
      hours before and 1 hour after the dose. Exact dates of drug administration (and actual PK
      blood draw) will be recorded on the appropriate eCRF. Any sampling problems (e.g. patient
      took study drug before draw took place) must be noted in the eCRF and on appropriate source
      documentation.

      Tumour and blood samples collected for PD and biomarker assessments will be analysed with the
      objectives of understanding mechanisms of action and PD of the encorafenib, binimetinib and
      palbociclib combination, identifying biomarkers that are predictive of response, and
      explaining mechanisms of innate/acquired resistance.

      Specimens for dynamic (non-inherited) and genetic (inherited) biomarkers will be collected
      from all patients on the trial.

      Mandatory plasma samples will be collected from all patients, as described in the Schedule of
      Events. Circulating tumour DNA will be extracted and analysed for BRAF V600E and V600K
      mutation status. The mutation profile obtained from the circulating DNA will be compared with
      the mutation profile obtained from the tumour biopsy collected at baseline, during treatment
      and on progression. Plasma-circulating DNA carrying BRAF V600E mutation (BRAF-mutated
      alleles) will be detected and measured over time by determining percentages of total DNA and
      BRAF V600E concentration, either as relative percentage or absolute values. This may be
      useful to predict either disease progression at an early stage or response to therapy. The
      plasma samples may also be used to identify other potential predictive markers of clinical
      response to the encorafenib, binimetinib and palbociclib combination.

      Whole blood sample will be analysed for mutations detected in tumour tissue, in order to
      verify the somatic nature of the mutations.

      All patients will be required to provide newly collected tumour biopsies at baseline (unless
      inaccessible), on day 15 of cycle 1 and at the time of disease progression.

      At least 2 cores per collection time point should be obtained (minimum of 1 core for FFPE,
      and if feasible, 1 core for fresh frozen biopsy). Excisional biopsies, punch biopsies and
      14-gauge core needle biopsies are all acceptable. Fine needle aspiration biopsies will not be
      accepted.

      Lesions with the greatest change in dimensional size, based on interval evaluation, are the
      lesions to be biopsied, if possible.

      Scheduling of the on-treatment tumour biopsies should not interfere with the scheduling of
      the first, post-baseline FDG-PET scan. Ideally, tumour biopsies at screening and during Cycle
      1 day 15 should be performed after the mandated FDG-PET scan.

      The biopsy at disease progression should be taken from an enlarging lesion. Biopsies at
      progression should be obtained within 3 days of study drug discontinuation (i.e. continue
      study treatment for several days beyond documentation of progression, if necessary, in order
      to coordinate the timing of biopsy to occur within 3 days of study drug discontinuation).

      FFPE tumour from baseline, on-treatment (Cycle 1 Day 15) and disease progression biopsies
      will be used to perform the following biomarker analyses:

        -  Immunohistochemistry (IHC) for molecules known to be relevant for activity of the MAPK
           and CDK4 pathways (e.g. ERK and MEK protein phosphorylation, RB1 phosphorylation).

        -  IHC for molecules that are potential PD biomarkers for encorafenib, binimetinib and
           palbociclib.

        -  IHC for molecules potentially related to response/resistance.

        -  Evaluation of the tumour microenvironment by multiplexed IHC and Nanostring gene-array
           technology.

        -  BRAF mutations (including V600E) and other somatic mutations.

      Fresh-frozen tumour (baseline, Cycle 1 day 15, and at disease progression) may be used for
      whole genome analysis; other techniques such as reverse phase protein array or mRNA
      quantitation may also be performed.

      There is increasing evidence that the gut microbiome plays a role in melanoma treatment
      outcome through its immune-modulating effects.

      In this study, microbiome samples will be collected at baseline and at the end of treatment.
      DNA will be extracted from faecal samples. Gene sequencing will be performed to survey
      microbial species in the gut in order to define microbiota as a function of efficacy and
      safety. Overall changes in the gut microbiota will also be characterised in individual
      participants that receive therapy.

      During the study, in addition to the biomarkers specified above, exploratory biomarker
      research may be conducted on any tumour (newly obtained or archival) and/or blood and/or
      plasma samples. These studies would extend the search for other potential biomarkers relevant
      to the effects of the drugs given in combination in this study, and/or prediction of these
      effects, and/or resistance to the treatment, and/or safety. This may also include research to
      help develop ways to detect, monitor or treat cancer. These additional investigations would
      be dependent upon clinical outcome, reagent and sample availability.

      Patients enrolled in all phases of this study will be treated with the encorafenib,
      binimetinib and palbociclib combination until progression and/or experiencing unacceptable
      toxicity, and/or the treatment is discontinued at the discretion of the investigator or
      withdrawal of consent.

      Treatment beyond progression of disease will be allowed only under special circumstances; for
      example: cystic lesions, mixed responses, and new brain metastasis which are treatable with
      stereotactic radiotherapy or surgery, but not requiring whole brain radiotherapy. It is
      judged by the investigator, in agreement with the CPI, whether or not a patient may remain on
      study treatment as long as he/she continues to benefit from the study drug treatment per
      investigator assessment. A treatment beyond progression consent form will not be required.

      Tumour response will be evaluated locally by the investigator according to the RECIST version
      1.1.

      Patients will be evaluated for all potential sites of tumour lesions at Screening/baseline
      and every 8 weeks after starting study treatment until disease progression.

      On-study tumour assessments have a ± 3-day window. There will be a tumour assessment at the
      30 day safety follow-up (± 7 days) if the patient discontinues for any reason other than
      disease progression and the last tumour assessment has been performed > 28 days prior to this
      day.

      Patients who discontinue study treatment due to a reason other than disease progression
      should continue to be followed and undergo tumour assessments every 8 weeks (± 3 days) until
      disease progression or initiation of subsequent anti-neoplastic therapy, or death, whichever
      occurs first.

      Every effort must be made to assess each lesion that is measured at Screening/baseline by the
      same method throughout the study so that the comparison is consistent.

      At all post-Screening/baseline assessments and the 30 day safety follow-up, the following
      should be performed:

        -  All patients are required to undergo chest, abdomen and pelvis CT/MRI scans.

        -  Brain MRI or CT scan, if metastases were documented at baseline

        -  Additional imaging evaluations may be performed at any time if there is symptomatic
           evidence suggesting the possibility of disease progression based on clinical symptoms or
           physical exam.

      Criteria required for determining partial or complete response should be present for at least
      4 weeks. All complete and partial responses must be confirmed by a second assessment at least
      4 weeks later. If unscheduled imaging evaluations are performed (e.g. to confirm response or
      if progression is suspected), every effort should be made to perform subsequent imaging
      evaluations in accordance with the original imaging schedule. If evidence of progressive
      disease is nonequivocal, every effort should be made to keep the patient on study medication
      for at least one additional imaging evaluation as long as it is clinically acceptable.

      CT scans should be acquired with IV contrast. If a patient is known to have a medical
      contraindication to CT IV contrast agent or develops a contraindication during the study, a
      CT scan without IV contrast of the chest and MRI with IV contrast, if possible, of the
      abdomen and pelvis may be performed. A CT scan of the brain, preferably with IV contrast, may
      be performed if MRI is contra-indicated.

      Chest x-ray or ultrasound should not be used for tumour response assessments in this study.

      Any lesions that have been subjected to loco-regional therapies (e.g., radiotherapy,
      ablation, etc.) should not be considered measurable, unless they have clearly progressed
      since the therapy. Previously treated lesions that have not progressed should be considered
      non-measurable and therefore, assessed as non-target lesions.

      PET scan is not adequate for RECIST v1.1 response assessment. If a PET scan is used for
      determination of disease progression, then a corresponding CT and/or MRI scan is required. CT
      and/or MRI scans will be compared against PET scans.

      Each centre should have a designated radiologist responsible for the interpretation of CT/MRI
      scans and response evaluations for study patients. Preferably, a single radiologist should
      perform all evaluations for an individual patient.

      In this study, FDG-PET scans will be used to provide a non-invasive measurement of drug
      activity and a potential early readout of anti-tumour activity in patients on day 15 of Cycle
      1. FDG-PET scans are optional for non-Australian sites. Metabolic response in a lesion will
      be assessed according to the method given in Wahl et al 2009 and will be centrally assessed
      at the Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre. Scans are read visually displayed side by side with
      liver uptake normalised between images. Response categories are defined as follows
      (comparison is with baseline PET scans in each case:

        -  Complete metabolic response (CMR): complete resolution of 18F-FDG uptake within
           measurable target lesion so that it is less than mean liver activity and
           indistinguishable from surrounding background blood-pool levels.

        -  Partial metabolic response (PMR): reduction of minimum of 30% in target measurable tumor
           18F-FDG SUL peak. Absolute drop in SUL must be at least 0.8 SUL units, as well

        -  Stable metabolic disease (SMD): not CMR, PMR, or PMD.

        -  Progressive metabolic disease (PMD): 30% increase in 18F-FDG SUL peak, with .0.8 SUL
           unit increase in tumor SUV peak from baseline scan in pattern typical of tumor and not
           of infection/treatment effect. OR: Visible increase in extent of 18F-FDG tumor uptake
           (75% in TLG volume with no decline in SUL. OR: New 18F-FDG-avid lesions that are typical
           of cancer and not related to treatment effect or infection.
    
  