
    
      Dr.Boris Nemetz and Prof.Joseph Levine M.D., Beer Sheva Mental Health Center,Israel.

      Creatine plays a pivotal role in brain energy homeostasis, being a temporal and spatial
      buffer for cytosolic and mitochondrial pools of the cellular energy currency adenosine
      triphosphate (Wyss & Kaddurah-Daouk, 2000). Recent studies have suggested increased brain
      utilization of oxygen following oral creatine supplementation (Persky & Brazeua, 2001).
      Creatine supplementation is widely used in enhancing sports performance, and has been tried
      in the treatment of neurological, neuromuscular and atherosclerotic disease with a paucity of
      side effects (Persky & Brazeua, 2001).

      Creatine enters the brain via a specialized sodium dependent transporter. Dechent et al
      (1999) studied the effect of oral creatine supplementation of 20g/day for 4 wk demonstrating
      a significant increase of mean concentration of total creatine across brain regions (8.7%
      corresponding to 0.6mM, P < 0.001). Lyoo et al (2003) studied magnetic resonance spectroscopy
      of high-energy phosphate metabolites in human brain following oral supplementation of
      creatine reporting that creatine (0.3 g/kg/day for the first 7 days and 0.03 g/kg/day for the
      next 7 days) significantly increased brain creatine levels.

      Accumulated evidence suggests the possible involvement of altered cerebral energy metabolism
      in the pathophysiology of depression (Mayberg, 1994). Functional brain imaging studies
      (positron and single photon emission tomography) have shown decreased blood flow and
      metabolism in the frontal lobes and basal ganglia in unipolar depression (Kennedy et al,
      2001; Derevets et al, 2002).

      Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies have studied brain levels of
      creatine-containing compounds. Kato et al (1992) reported that phosphocreatine was
      significantly decreased in severely (as opposed to mildly) depressed patients. Dager et al
      (2004) studied depressed or mixed-state bipolar patients using two-dimensional proton
      echo-planar spectroscopic imaging, reporting an inverse correlation between severity of
      depression and white matter creatine levels.

      Finally, several studies suggest that agents with reported antidepressant activity may
      increase brain levels of creatine containing compounds. Sartorius et al (2003) used MRS to
      study metabolic changes in the hippocampus of rats and demonstrated a significant creatine
      level rise induced by electroconvulsive shock treatment occurring specifically in the group
      of animals which had exhibited depression-like [learned helplessness] behaviour before the
      ECT.

      S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM) and acetyl-L-carnitine - both reported to have antidepressant
      effects - have increased brain phosphocreatine levels in healthy subjects (Silveri et al,
      2003) and in geriatric depressed patients (Pettegrew et al, 2002) respectively.

      Taken together, these findings suggest the possibility of using oral creatine supplementation
      to increase brain levels of creatine containing compounds and therefore, most likely by
      modifying high-energy phosphate metabolism in hypoactive brain areas, to treat subjects with
      major depression.

      Open study of creatine in depression: A preliminary open study of creatine monohydrate
      (Roitman S, Green T, Osher Y, Karni N and Joseph Levine, submitted), suggested a
      statistically significant beneficial effect of creatine augmentation to antidepressant
      treatment in resistant major depression, but possible precipitation of a manic switch in
      resistant bipolar depression (see table 1 for results). Adverse reactions were mild and
      transitory and included mild nausea and flatus.

      Ww propose to perform a double-blind, parallel, randomized add-on clinical trial of creatine
      versus placebo added to current antidepressant treatment in the treatment of major depressive
      disorder in the early phase of treatment resistant major depressive episode.

      Early phase of treatment resistant depressive episode is defined where the current treatment
      resistant depressive episode lasts no more than 6 months.

      Based on the results of the open study presented in Tab.1, we hypothesize that such study
      will show a statistically significant and clinically relevant difference between the active
      treatment (creatine) and placebo in the double blind add-on trial design proposed below.

      Study design

      This study is a parallel, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, 4 weeks clinical
      trial examining the effect of creatine versus placebo added to antidepressant treatment of
      subjects with major depression demonstrating lack of adequate response to the current
      antidepressant treatment, administered in adequate dose for at least 3 weeks.

      Creatine will be purchased from Solgar LTD, Israel, where 1 tablet contains 1 gram.

      Forty consenting patients, women and men, 18 - 75 years old will be recruited. All subjects
      will have a primary diagnosis of major depression, and at the time of recruitment will be
      experiencing a major depressive episode with a duration ≥ 3 weeks and < 6 months. Subjects
      will be eligible to enter the study only if they will have a minimum score of 18 points on
      the 24-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAMD) and are receiving conventional
      antidepressant treatment in adequate dose for at least 3 weeks with no more than mild
      improvement Blood cell count, liver and kidney functions will be performed before entering
      the study, only in patients who have not had them performed during the last 6 month prior to
      entering the study.

      Pregnant or lactating patients, those with clinically significant or unstable medical
      conditions, epilepsy, or a history of alcohol or substance abuse will be excluded from this
      study. All participants will be monitored weekly and will have a 24 hours telephone access to
      the researcher, and those who will develop suicidal or aggressive behaviors that may endanger
      themselves or others, will be immediately discontinued from the study.

      The researcher evaluating the HAM-D as well as the other study scales will be blind to the
      add-on treatment (creatine or placebo). Twenty patients will be treated with creatine add-on
      for 4 weeks (up to 10 grams).

      The other 20 patients will be receiving placebo add-on for 4 weeks. Patient's antidepressant
      treatment will not be changed during the study participation.

      Benzodiazepines are allowed, but the dose will not exceed Lorazepam equivalent dose of 4 mg
      daily.

      The following data will be recorded at the beginning of the study:

      Demographic data Psychosocial data History of hospitalizations Comorbid medical conditions
      Family history of affective disorders Previous pharmacological treatments and treatment
      response Seasonal pattern of depressive symptomatology

      The following scales will be completed at the beginning of the study and weekly thereafter
      (weeks 1 to 4):

      Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (24 items) Clinical Global Impression Backwards digit span
      test Scale for the assessment of side effects

      The main outcome measure will be the prediction of a sustained ≥ 50 % decrease of the
      Hamilton Depression Scale (HAM-D) total score versus baseline ('sustained response') and the
      presence of ≥20 % HAM-D total score improvement after 1 weeks of treatment('early
      improvement')and the presence of ≥50 % HAM-D total score improvement after 1 weeks of
      treatment ('very early improvement') .

      References

      Wyss M, Kaddurah- Daouk R. Creatine and creatinine metabolism. Physiol Rev 2000; 80:
      1107-213.

      Persky AM, Brazeau GA. Clinical pharmacology of the dietary supplement creatine monohydrate.

      Pharmac Rev 2001; 53: 161-76.

      Dechent P., Pouwels PJ. Wilken B. et al. Increase of total creatine in human brain after oral
      supplementation of creatine-monohydrate.

      Am J Physiol 1999; 277. R698-798.

      Lyoo IK, Kong SW, Hirashima F. et al. Multinuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy of
      high-energy phosphate metabolites in human brain following oral supplementation of creatine-
      monohydrate.

      Psychiatry Res 2003; 123:87-100.

      Mayberg HS. Frontal lobe dysfunction in secondary depression. J Neuropsychiatry Clin
      Neuroscience 1994; 6:428-442.

      Kennedy SH, Evans KR, Kruger S, Mayberg HS, Meyer JH, McCann S, Arifuzzman AI, Houle S,
      Vaccarino FJ. Changes in regional brain glucose metabolism measured with positron emission
      tomography after paroxetine treatment of major depression.

      Am J Psychiatry 2001 Jun;158(6):899-905.

      Drevets WC, Bogers W, Raichle ME. Functional anatomical correlates of antidepressant drug
      treatment assessed using PET measures of regional glucose metabolism.

      Eur Neuropsychopharmacol 2002 Dec;12(6):527-44.

      Kato T, Takahashi S, Shioiri T, Inubushi T: Brain phosphorous metabolism in depressive
      disorders detected by phosphorus-31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy. J Affect Disord 1992;
      26(4):223-30.

      Dager SR, Friedman SD, Parow A, Demopulos C, Stoll AL, Lyoo IK, Dunner DL, Renshaw PF: Brain
      metabolic alterations in medication-free patients with bipolar disorder.

      Arch Gen Psychiatry 2004; 61(5):450-8.

      Sartorius A, Vollmayr B, Neumann-Haefelin C, Ende G, Hoehn M, Henn FA: Specific creatine rise
      in learned helplessness induced by electroconvulsive shock treatment.

      Neuroreport 2003; 14(17):2199-2200.

      Silveri MM, Parow AM, Villafuerte RA, Damico KE, Goren J, Stoll AL, Cohen BM, Renshaw PF:
      S-adenosyl-L-methionine: effects on brain bioenergetic status and transverse relaxation time
      in healthy subjects.

      Biol Psychiatry 2003; 54(8):833-9.

      Pettegrew JW, Levine J, Gershon S, Stanley JA, Servan-Schreiber D, Panchalingam K, McClure
      RJ: 31P-MRS study of acetyl-L-carnitine treatment in geriatric depression: preliminary
      results.

      Bipolar Disord 2002; 4(1):61-6.
    
  