
    
      Resistant hypertension is defined as blood pressure > 140/90 mm Hg while adherent to three or
      more antihypertensive medications or < 140/90 mm Hg treated with four or more
      antihypertensives. Patients with resistant hypertension may be at risk for elevated nighttime
      blood pressure >120/70 mm Hg and "non-dipping" (night/day blood pressure > 0.9). A higher
      rate of cardiovascular events occur during the "morning surge" partially attributed elevated
      nighttime blood pressure due to increased renin angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS)
      activity. Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) suppress RAAS activity

      This prospective randomized parallel-group pilot study will occur at Memorial Family
      Medicine. Eligible patients will undergo three study visits over a 5-8 week span. After
      providing written informed consent, patients will complete an initial screening visit
      assessing 25 hour blood pressure using ambulatory blood pressure monitors. Patients will
      continue the study if they are found to have a nighttime blood pressure >120/70 mm Hg.
      Patients continuing the study will be randomly assigned to equivalent dose lisinopril or
      enalapril treatment arms and their administration time will be changed to "bedtime." At the
      final visit, patients will complete a final ambulatory blood pressure analysis to reassess
      nighttime blood pressure and dipping status.

      It's expected that patients with enalapril treatment will have superior nighttime blood
      pressure reduction compared to the lisinopril treatment group. If the expected outcome
      occurs, more patients in the enalapril group will meet their nighttime blood pressure goal
      (<120/70 mm Hg) and exhibit a "dipping pattern." Current evidence suggests that patients with
      normal nighttime blood pressure and dipping pattern are at a lower risk for cardiovascular
      morbidity and mortality.
    
  