
    
      Participants After sample size calculation (see statistical analysis session), 40
      hypertensives and 40 normotensive sedentaries will be recruited to this study. All volunteers
      (both sexes) will be adults without osteoarticular disabilities and they will need a medical
      authorization to physical exercise practice. Participants will be recruited from an exercise
      program project linked to the university that offered stretching and functional exercises
      sessions to the external community. The study follow the Declaration of Helsinki and the
      Institutional Ethics Committee approved all experimental procedures and protocols. Each
      participant will be fully informed of all potential risks and experimental procedures, after
      which, informed written consent will be signed. Table 1 shows the basics characteristics of
      the participants.

      Study design A double-blind crossover randomized clinical trial will be conducted. After the
      minimum interval (48 hours), the subjects will be randomly (using a random number table -
      https://www.random.org/) submitted to four experimental situations (exercise/L-citrulline,
      exercise/L-arginine, exercise/placebo, exercise/L-citrulline + L-arginine). The participants
      will ingested a sachet, which contained L-citrulline malate (6 grams) or L-arginine (8 grams)
      or placebo (6 grams of corn starch) dissolved in water.

      The substances will be ingested 120 minutes before the experimental or control session.
      Anthropometric measures will be taken before the rest period. The exercise session consisted
      of 5 min to warm up (50% of 65% HRreserve) and 40 minutes of run/walk at 60-70% HRreserve (or
      12-14 ratings of perceived exertion [RPE](1) if take some beta-blocker medicines) in a
      treadmill. This will be followed by a progressive cooldown (5 minutes). In the control
      session, the participants will be remained seated in a quiet room for 40 min.

      After the exercise/control sessions, the blood pressure will be measured every 10 minutes
      over the course of 60 minutes and the heart rate variability will be recorded continuously
      for 60 minutes (laboratorial phase). Then, 15 minutes will be given to the participants to
      take a shower and change the clothes before the ambulatory blood pressure device be attached
      on their arm. The ambulatory blood pressure will be recorded over 24 hours. In the next day,
      the participants will be asked to return to the laboratory to remove the device.

      Anthropometry The weight will be measured by the digital anthropometric scale (Urano, OS
      180A, Canoas, Brasil), with accuracy of 0.1kg and height will be measured by stadiometer with
      accuracy of 0.1cm, in accordance with the procedures described by Gordon et al (2). The body
      mass index (BMI) will be defined as the body mass (kg) divided by the square of the body
      height.

      Office Blood Pressure (laboratorial phase) The office blood pressure measurements will be
      taken with oscillometric device (Omron MX3 Plus, Bannockburn, EUA) previously validated for
      clinic measures in adults (3). Firstly, the participants remained seated (rest period) in
      calm, quiet and thermoneutral (22°-24°C) environment for 20 min. The blood pressure will be
      measured three times during the rest period (at 10 min, 15 min and 20 min). The rest blood
      pressure value will be considered as the average of these three measurements. Immediately
      following the sessions (exercise or control), the blood pressure will be measured in a quiet
      environment during 60 minutes. The blood pressure measurements will be taken according to the
      American Heart Association recommendations (4).

      Heart rate variability measures The heart rate variability will be monitored during the rest
      period using a cardiac monitor (Polar RS800CX, Kempele, Finlândia) previously validated (5).
      The recorded R-R intervals will be transferred to a computer using a specific software (Polar
      Pro-Trainer software, Kempele, Finlândia). The Fast Fourier Transformation will be applied to
      quantify the low and high frequencies in to normalized units, in accordance with Task Force
      of the European Society of Cardiology and the North American Society of Pacing and
      Electrophysiology (6). The participants will be taking beta-blockers will be excluded of this
      analysis.

      The time domain analisys will be obtained by SDNN (standard deviation of the NN interval),
      RMSSD (the square root of the mean of the sum of the squares of differences between adjacent
      NN intervals), pNN50 (NN50 count divided by the total number of all NN intervals), indexes.
      The range interval analysis will be 5 min (rest, previous exercise) and 30 min (post-exercise
      - laboratorial phase) using the Kubios HRV, version 2.2 (Kuopio, Finlândia).

      Ambulatorial blood pressure measures (ambulatorial phase) The ambulatorial blood pressure
      measurements will be taken with oscillometric device (Dyna-MAPA - São Paulo, Brazil) attached
      on the left arm, always by the same investigator, in accordance with procedures described by
      American Heart Association (4). The participants will be instructioned to keep the arm stand
      during the measures. The device will be calibrated by direct comparison with mercury
      sphygmomanometer, by trained technical person, in agreement with recommendations (4).

      The monitor will be setting to register the systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart
      rate every 20 minutes during "daytime" (08:00am to 11:00pm) and every 30 minutes during
      "night-time" (11:00pm to 08:00am) to reduce sleep disturbs. The device screen will be
      electronically blinded to avoid feedback. All participants will be instructed to register and
      reported their sleep time in a diary on the day after.

      The data will be recorded in the device memory, then they will be send to a computer using
      specific software (Aplicação Dyna Mapa - Version 5.0.382.12) for analysis. The average of the
      valid readings will be above 90% for all participants.

      Statistical analysis Assuming a standard deviation of 5 mmHg(7) for the systolic blood
      pressure, an alpha of 5% and a desired statistical power of 80% for detecting a minimum
      difference of 7 mmHg (7) required 10 subjects in each group.

      The datas will be presented in the text as mean and standard error. The sphericity Mauchly´s
      test will be applied. Greenhouse-Geisser correction will be used if necessary. Then, these
      datas will be compared with a one-factor repeated measures general linear model (GLM). Fisher
      multiple comparisons will be employed to examine differences between pairs of trials.

      The ambulatory blood pressure will be analysed as awake, sleep and 24 hours of monitoring.
      Statistical significance will be defined as P<0.05. The statistical analysis will be
      generated using SPSS, version 20, system for windows.
    
  