
    
      Over the past decade, there have been significant advances toward fighting the progression of
      HIV disease. Current treatment strategies consist of utilization of potent combination
      antiretroviral therapy to suppress HIV replication below detectable limits limiting the
      potential for the emergence of resistant viruses, boosting CD4 cell counts and thereby
      delaying disease progression. Treatment of HIV-1 infection with Highly Active Antiretroviral
      Therapy (HAART) regimens containing a protease inhibitor (PI) and two nucleoside reverse
      transcriptase inhibitor (NRTIs) has been shown to prolong survival and decrease disease
      progression. Despite these potent antiretroviral agents, current available therapies continue
      to fail in some patients. Poor adherence to complex treatment regimens remains a significant
      cause of suboptimal viral suppression leading to emerge of resistant virus. Atazanavir and
      fosamprenavir were recently FDA approved protease inhibitors. The efficacy and safety profile
      of these two drugs have been established in clinical trials enrolling antiretroviral therapy
      naïve and protease inhibitor experienced patients. Atazanavir and fosamprenavir are the only
      protease inhibitors approved for a once a day regimen and this may set a new standard for
      treatment of antiretroviral therapy naïve HIV infected patients. Adherence to the medicines,
      a key component of treatment success, could be significantly improved by using these once
      daily regimens. However, no head-to-head trials comparing the safety and efficacy of
      fosamprenavir and atazanavir have been published. This prospective, randomized, open label
      2-arm study will compare these two protease inhibitors for therapy of antiretroviral
      treatment-naïve HIV-infected patients. Patients who are successfully screened for eligibility
      will be randomized to receive tenofovir and emtricitabine plus either atazanavir (300mg qd)
      and ritonavir (100mg qd) or fosamprenavir (1400mg qd) and ritonavir (200mg qd). Participants
      will undergo assessment on day 1 and attend study visits at weeks 6, 12 and every 3 months
      until the completion of the study on week 96. "Antiretroviral Medication Self-Report" and
      "3-Day HIV Medication Self-Report" questionnaires will be applied at weeks 6, 12 and every 3
      month, thereafter, until week 96. "Changes in Body Appearance" questionnaire will be applied
      at baseline and weeks 24, 48, 72, and 96.
    
  