
    
      Introduction

      Dental caries incidence in adults is similar to that in children and adolescents, but few
      caries preventive agents have been evaluated for effectiveness in adult populations. Magnolia
      bark extract (MBE) is a plant extract obtained from the bark of magnolia that has been widely
      used in traditional Chinese medicine for 2,000 years, Magnolia officinalis has been used for
      the treatment of acute pain, diarrhea, coughs and urinary problems. The two main constituents
      of the bark of this medicinal plant are magnolol and honokiol. They are known to possess a
      variety of pharmacological properties, including therapeutic-related activities central
      nervous system inhibition anti-inflammatory effects, antimicrobial activity, antioxidative
      activity and freeradical scavenging activity. Magnolol andhonokiol have also been reported to
      inhibit the growth of Streptococcus mutans, Streptococcus sobrinus, Porphyromonas gingivalis,
      Fusobacterium nucleatum, Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans, Capnocytophaga gingivalis and
      Veillonella disper in vitro and reduce the dental caries values in rats. Consequently, the
      antimicrobial properties of MBE against cariogenic and plaque bacteria have showed promising
      results. The effect of chewing gums containing MBE and xylitol on different variables related
      to caries and gingivitis in a sample of adult volunteers with a high risk for caries will be
      evaluated. The main result of that double-blind randomized controlled interventional trial
      will be that chewing gum containing MBE was more effective in reducing plaque acidogenicity,
      salivary mutans streptococci concentration and gingival bleeding compared to a xylitol and
      sugar-free chewing gum.

      Materials and Methods A two-year, placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized clinical trial
      sponsored by Perfetti Van Melle that tests the effects on caries lesions development of daily
      use of a chewing gum containing Magnolia Bark Extract and xylitol will be conducted.

      The trial will take place in the dental clinics located in the dental schools of the
      University of Sassari and Milan. The study will be approved by the Ethical Committee of the
      University of Sassari.

      Study Population Principal inclusion criteria will be age range (30-55 years) and the
      presence of at least one cavitated caries lesion, but no more than three. Subjects with
      systemic disease that interfered with the oral ecosystem will be excluded. The caries
      criterion will be designed to include participants who are at risk of forming new lesions.
      Sample size for preliminary screening will be calculated on the basis of previous studies
      regarding caries prevalence (about 26%) in adults [Campus et al, 2011] and relative odds
      ratio 2.88 of incidence, as reported in literature [Ito et al, 2011]. Thus, the theoretical
      sample size for preliminary screening will be set to 1200 subjects.

      In order to get statistical comparison results, the number of subjects per group to be
      included in the analysis will be calculated. Considering a 35% difference among groups to be
      significant, and a 95% probability of obtaining a significant difference among groups at the
      5% level, the resulting number of subjects per group will be set 104.

      To ensure an adequate quantity of surfaces at risk, participants will be required to have a
      minimum of 12 natural teeth.

      Treatment The subjects will be randomly assigned to three groups: a Magnolia and Xylitol
      group (MX group) using a chewing gum containing MBE and xylitol, a Xylitol group (X group)
      using a chewing gum with the same content of xylitol but free of MBE and finally and a
      Control group (C group), using a sugar-free chewing gum without MBE and xylitol. Each subject
      will be instructed to chew 1 or 2 pellets for 5 minutes, 3 times a day (2 in the morning, 2
      after the midday meal and 1 in the afternoon). Thus, the total daily intake of magnolol and
      honokiol in MX group will be 11.9 mg/day. The daily use of the three different chewing gums
      will be carried out for 12 months.

      Three clinical evaluation for caries diagnosis will be performed: one at baseline, a second
      at the end of the chewing period (after 12 months from baseline) and a third after 24 months
      from baseline assessment. A microbiological evaluation for cariogenic bacteria will be
      performed immediately after the clinical assessments. Mutans streptococci and lactobacilli
      counts in saliva will be assessed and categorized using the dip-slide technique (CTR
      bacteria, Ivoclar Vivadent, Germany).

      Following a sugar challenge, measures of interdental plaque pH, using pH indicator strips
      (Spezialindikator, pH range 4.0-7.0; Merck, Darmstadt, Germany), will be performed at 5
      different points: at baseline, after 6 months of chewing gum use, after 12 months of chewing
      gum use, 6 months after the end of chewing gum use (18 months from baseline) and finally 12
      months after the end of chewing gum use (24 months from baseline).

      Randomization Eligible enrolees will be randomized to either the active or control arms.
      Randomization will be carried out using a computer-based program. Staff and participants will
      be blinded to treatment assignment.

      Study Outcomes The primary study outcome will be the cumulative D2 or Filled Surface (D2 FS)
      increment (root and coronal surfaces combined) cumulated from baseline through the two
      follow-up examinations. In addition to the caries increment, data on participant safety and
      same risk factors related to caries development will be collected.

      Expected results The results of this RCT should bring some clarity to the effectiveness of
      MBE as a caries preventive agent.
    
  