
    
      This prospective, randomized study was conducted at Tenwek Hospital in Bomet, Kenya, and was
      approved by the hospital's institutional review board (IRB) as well as the Kenya Medical
      Research Institute's Ethical Review Committee. Participants with dysphagia were recruited and
      provided signed informed consent prior to endoscopy. During endoscopy and after dilation of
      an obstructing esophageal tumor sufficient to permit passage of an endoscope, eligible
      participants were enrolled and randomized to receive either an 18 mm shaft/23 mm flange or 23
      mm shaft/28 mm flange partially covered Ultraflex esophageal stent (Boston Scientific,
      Natick, Massachusets, USA). Stents were either 10 or 12 cm in length, and the endoscopist
      chose a stent length based on the length of the malignant stricture. One stent was placed in
      each subject. Follow-up was then obtained at scheduled intervals after stent placement (7 and
      28 days, 3 months, then every 3 months), until the participant's death. Earlier follow-up
      visits were arranged if participants reported any new health concerns.

      Block randomization was performed using the sealed envelope technique, with 10 participants
      in each block; none of the study personnel at Tenwek Hospital had knowledge of the
      randomization sequence. Allocation was concealed from participants, caregivers, and study
      personnel until randomization occurred during an endoscopic procedure. After randomization,
      stent diameters were known to the endoscopy staff and listed in the medical record. All
      randomized participants correctly received a stent of the allocated diameter, and remained
      blinded to the stent diameter they received.

      At baseline and each follow-up visit body weight was recorded, as well as Karnofsky
      performance status score, dysphagia score (0=normal, no dysphagia; 1=can swallow most foods;
      2=can swallow a soft diet; 3=can swallow fluids only; 4=unable to swallow saliva), current
      medications, and the presence or absence of 15 symptoms and 9 diagnoses (weakness, fever,
      vomiting, vomiting blood, melena, weak voice, difficulty breathing, cough, sputum,
      palpitations, heartburn, chest pain, hiccoughs, recurrent dysphagia, abdominal pain; anemia,
      gastrointestinal bleeding, esophago-respiratory fistula, arrhythmia, pneumonia, metastases,
      stent occlusion, stent migration, gastroesophageal reflux disease). In addition, all interval
      clinic visits, test results, endoscopy reports, and hospitalizations were reviewed.
    
  