
    
      Background

      Knee arthroscopy is the most commonly performed orthopaedic procedure worldwide, with,
      according to the American Society for Sports Medicine, over 4 million procedures performed
      each year. The risk of venous thrombosis following this procedure is considerable with rates
      of symptomatic events varying between 0.9% and 4.6%.

      It is currently unknown how this high risk comes about considering its short duration and
      minimal tissue damage caused by the procedure. A factor that may play a role is the use of a
      tourniquet. A large majority of orthopaedic surgeons prefer to operate within a 'dry field',
      which is obtained by the use of a tourniquet. In the proposed study the investigators will
      investigate the effect of a tourniquet on local and systemic markers of hypoxia,
      inflammation, involvement of endothelium, and coagulation activation.

      Objective

      To investigate the effect of tourniquet application on the coagulation system in patients
      undergoing a knee arthroscopy. A finding of more prominent activation of the coagulation
      system with tourniquet use than with non-use will create an important opportunity to prevent
      thromboembolic events in these patients, as it has been shown that knee arthroscopy can be
      performed adequately without the use of a tourniquet. Furthermore, it will increase the
      understanding of the pathophysiology of thrombosis.

      Study Design

      In a randomized, controlled clinical study the investigators will compare local and systemic
      coagulation and inflammation markers before and after knee arthroscopy between two groups: 25
      patients will be randomized to arthroscopy with tourniquet (Group I) and 25 patients to
      arthroscopy without tourniquet (Group II).

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria

      The patients will be recruited from one hospital in Gouda over a 6 months inclusion period.
      All patients over 18 years, scheduled for a meniscectomy, diagnostic arthroscopy or removal
      of corpora libera will be eligible for inclusion. Patients will be excluded when they suffer
      from any kind of coagulation disorder, use of hormonal anticonception, in case of pregnancy
      or puerperium, when they have a history of venous thrombosis, had major surgery or
      cast-immobilisation of the lower extremity in the past two months, have a neoplasm or
      inflammatory disease, have a BMI>30, or when they use anticoagulant therapy. Patients will
      generally receive spinal anaesthesia. Patients who are nevertheless exposed to any other type
      of anaesthesia will be excluded as well, to keep the effect of anaesthesia equal for all
      participants.

      Intervention

      Patients will be randomized to knee arthroscopy without tourniquet use and to knee
      arthroscopy with tourniquet use. In patients randomized to arthroscopy with tourniquet use,
      exsanguination in the leg in which the knee arthroscopy will be performed will be
      accomplished by raising the leg vertically for one minute. The tourniquet will be inflated to
      100-150 mmHg above systolic blood pressure.

      Data on duration of surgery and duration of tourniquet use will be collected. Blood collected
      from the cubital vein and the great saphenous vein during arthroscopy of the knee will be
      analyzed on outcome parameters that reflect a hypoxic state, an inflammatory reaction,
      involvement of the endothelium, a procoagulant state and thrombin formation.

      Main study endpoints (primary)

      Change in parameters between timepoints; Before surgery (blood drawn approximately 1 hour
      before surgery), directly after surgery (blood drawn within 5 minutes), 1 hour after surgery
      will be analyzed.

      Different patterns will be analyzed to explore the effect of tourniquet application on the
      coagulation system by possible biological mechanism. A change (increase or decrease) of
      markers within one pattern, compared to baseline measurements (before surgery), is considered
      as a relevant shift of that pattern, thereby suggesting the involvement of that specific
      pathway.

      Outcome parameters that reflect a hypoxic state:

        -  pH

        -  pO2

        -  pCO2

        -  Lactate

      Outcome parameters that reflect an inflammatory reaction:

        -  White Blood Cell Count (WBCC)

        -  E-selectin

        -  Neutrophil Extracellular traps (NETs)

      Outcome parameters that reflect involvement of the endothelium:

        -  Von Willebrand Factor (vWF)

        -  Thrombomodulin

        -  E-selectin

      Outcome parameters that reflect a procoagulant state and thrombin formation:

        -  Prothrombin fragments 1+2

        -  D-dimer

        -  Plasmin Activator Inhibitor 1 (PAI 1)

        -  Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA)

        -  Factor VIII

        -  Thrombin and Antithrombin complexes (TAT)

        -  Plasmin and antiplasmin complexes (PAP)

      Secondary study paramaters

      • Visibility during arthroscopy and technical difficulty score.

      Time Schedule

      Month 1-3: Completion of study protocol, procedure for approval by METC. Set up of database
      and randomisation procedure. Instruction of participating clinicians and surgery/anaesthesia
      staff.

      Month 4-6: Inclusion of patients, data collection. Month 7-8: Laboratory tests. Month 9-12:
      Data analysis, writing and submission of manuscript.
    
  