
    
      The intervention will utilize the Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), an evidence-based
      psychotherapeutic approach to addressing mental health issues ranging from anxiety,
      depression, and other mental illnesses. CBT is based on a cognitive model, the way that
      individuals perceive a situation is more closely connected to their reaction than the
      situation itself. The purpose of CBT is to help people focus on how to solve their current
      problems. The therapist helps the patient learn how to identify distorted or unhelpful
      thinking patterns, recognize and change inaccurate beliefs, relate to others in more positive
      ways, and change behaviors accordingly. Participants in the intervention arm will receive 12
      weekly, one-hour, group CBT sessions, and three, one-hour, one-on-one therapy sessions
      throughout the 12-week Father For a LIfetime (FFL) program. We will implement an individual
      and group CBT mental health intervention that will align with the topics addressed in the FFL
      weekly curriculum. For instance, the group CBT intervention will examine methods to build
      resiliency, develop skills to remain calm in stressful situations, learn coping skills when
      separated from their child/children, and learn how to cope with strained relationships. The
      FFL curriculum is adapted from the Wise Guys: Male Responsibility Curriculum, an
      evidence-informed curriculum designed to engage males in the prevention of pregnancies. The
      curriculum topics are broken into three categories: 1) personal responsibility, 2)
      responsibility to your child and 3) responsibility to your family and community. Figure 1
      below displays the topic description covered each week within each category. The intention of
      our proposed therapeutic mental health intervention is to improve mental health status
      utilizing CBT in a group setting and initiating treatment of specific mental illnesses in the
      one-on-one therapy sessions to meet the unique needs of the father that may not be addressed
      in a group setting. Participants will receive the intervention immediately after the FFL
      programming concludes.

      The intervention will be delivered by a gender and culturally-matched Licensed Mental Health
      Professional (LIMHP) who will be trained to deliver the curriculum by the co-investigator and
      Senior Director of Behavioral Health Services at Charles Drew Health Center. In addition, the
      men will receive three one-on-one therapy sessions with a Charles Drew LIMHP that will be
      completed by the end of the FFL program. Participants in the comparison arm will receive the
      standard, 12-week program curriculum. Our proposed study falls within the T3 translational
      spectrum, which includes testing an intervention within a community setting by observing and
      gathering information on implementation to determine feasibility or effectiveness.
    
  