
    
      Vessel calcification is a recognised cardiovascular morbidity risk factor in patients with
      chronic kidney disease (CKD). Recent reports indicate a significant role of Matrix
      Gla-protein (MGP) in decreasing calcification processes. MGP is excretion protein whose
      mechanism of action is not yet fully explained and which to be activated requires
      phosphorylation and carboxylation where cofactor is vitamin K. Immunohistochemical tests
      showed a high level of un-carboxylated MGP in calcified vessels. These observations indicate
      that shortage of vitamin K is a significant risk factor for the development of vessel
      calcification. On the other hand CKD patients often display shortages of this vitamin.
      Another calcification risk factor in CKD patients are calcium-phosphate disturbances and
      insufficiency of vitamin D3 which in physiological concentration stimulates MGP
      transcription. Cranenburg et al. showed a decrease vessel calcification in dialysis patients
      treated with vitamin K2. Vitamin K2 exists in two forms K1 and K2, however only the K2 form
      displays calcification decreasing properties. There are currently no similar studies in
      patients with chronic kidney disease who do not require renal replacement therapy.

      The aim of study. The aim of this study is estimation of influence of vitamin K2
      administration over the period of 9 months on vessel calcification in 3.- 5. stage CKD
      patients.

      Materials and methods. It is a prospective, randomised double-blind study carried out in
      parallel groups. 60 patients with CKD (GFR 15-60 ml/min) whose renal replacement therapy is
      to commence not earlier than in 9 months are planned to be qualified for the study. After
      familiarizing the patients with the aims of the study and obtaining their written consent,
      non-invasive tests will be carried out in order to estimate the presence and degree of vessel
      calcification: common carotid artery intima media thickness (CCA-IMT) by ultrasound
      examination, coronary artery calcium score (CACS) by multiscan CT as well as the presence of
      calcified heart valves by ultrasound examination. Patients with calcium score >10 (Agatston
      scoring system) will be qualified for the study. On the basis of randomised selection,
      patients will be divided into two groups: 30 patients will be given 90 μg vitamin K2+10 μg
      cholecalciferol (Vitamin D)and 30 patients will be given only 10 μg cholecalciferol. After a
      9-month treatment the image diagnostic will be carried out in order to estimate the degree of
      vessel calcification. Patients and their basic laboratory test will be evaluated during the
      study period by a nephrologists on a monthly basis. First, at the commencement of the study,
      then after 3, 6 and finally after 9 months during the last visit, 10 ml of serum and plasma
      will be taken and frozen in order to conduct special marking tests: phosphorylated MGP
      (pMGP), uncarboxylated MGP (ucMGP), 25-OH cholecalciferol, hsCRP.

      Scheduling Study Visits:

      Visit 0 Screening Period

        1. Review of inclusion and exclusion criteria

        2. Obtain informed consent

        3. Obtain weight and height

        4. Obtain CACS, CCA-IMT

        5. Obtain heart ultrasonography

        6. Review concomitant therapy

      Visit 1 - Randomization

        1. Review of inclusion and exclusion criteria

        2. Medical history for concomitant disorders (hypertension, heart ischemic diseases,
           diabetes mellitus)

        3. Collect blood for serum chemistry (creatinine, albumin, intact PTH, calcium, phosphor,
           uric acid, lipids, glucose, kaolin-kephalin time, prothrombin index and blood
           morphology.

        4. Collect blood for pMGP, ucMGP, 25-OH cholecalciferol, hsCRP

        5. Review concomitant therapy

        6. Randomization to: 90 μg vitamin K2+10μg cholecalciferol or 10μg cholecalciferol (Vitamin
           D) during 9 months

      Visit 2,4,5,7,8 Visits every month

        1. Complete physical examination

        2. GFR obtain

        3. Drug dispension

      Visit 3,6 and after 9 months:

        1. Complete physical examination

        2. GFR obtain

        3. Collect blood for serum chemistry (creatinine, albumin, intact PTH, calcium, phosphor,
           uric acid, lipids, glucose, kaolin-kephalin time, prothrombin index and blood
           morphology.

        4. Collect blood for pMGP, ucMGP, 25-OH cholecalciferol, hsCRP

        5. Obtain CACS, CCA-IMT

        6. Obtain heart ultrasonography

        7. Review concomitant therapy
    
  