
    
      TOF test was performed by two routinely used devices, peripheral nerve stimulator and
      intraoperative neurophysiologic monitoring device. TOF monitoring of upper extremity included
      stimulation of ulnar nerve. Negative surface electrode was placed on the wrist in line with
      the smallest digit 1-2cm below skin crease and the positive 2-3cm proximal to the negative
      electrode. Active surface recording electrodes were placed on adductor pollicis muscle. TOF
      monitoring of lower extremity included stimulation of peripheral nerve, posterior tibial
      nerve. Surface stimulating electrodes were placed, negative over inferolateral aspect of
      medial malleolus, and positive electrode 2-3cm proximal to the negative electrode.
      Stimulation current was 20-30 mA for hand and 30-60mA foot TOF by a group of 0.2 millisecond
      pulses, spaced 500 millisecond apart, to deliver four contractions. Surface recording
      electrodes were used for measuring muscle response on foot, active electrode which was
      located on the Flexor hallucis brevis muscle and reference on the big toe. Intraoperative
      monitoring device was used, and software with TOF monitoring programe was installed. EMG
      response was calculated by the peak of amplitude (peak to peak amplitude) presented in
      quantitative value of online measurement. Interpretation was different, visual and
      subjective. Peripheral nerve stimulator was used for subjective TOF test. Output current was
      adjustable from 0 to 70 mA. Repeat stimulation of 4 pulses/0.2 milliseconds repeated every
      500 milliseconds. Surface negative electrodes were placed over the course of ulnar nerve on
      the wrist, in line with the smallest digit, 1-2cm proximal from skin crease, and positive
      electrode 2-3 cm proximal. Response was followed on adductor pollicis muscle. All data were
      kept in electronic medical records and if data are not complete subjects were not included in
      the study. Results were compared between TOF methods on two different body sites, upper and
      lower extremity, by quantitative method and other comparison was made between subjective and
      quantitative method with TOF test located in both methods on the upper extremity.
    
  