
    
      This is a blinded (patients are blinded and all the staff and the nurses who collect data are
      also blinded) randomized controlled trial in living kidney donors who have been approved by a
      multidisciplinary (nephrology, urology, psychiatry, and social work) team to proceed with
      donor nephrectomy. Patients will be approached to participate in the study only after they
      have agreed to kidney donation and have been informed of all of the associated risks.
      Participants are informed that they can withdraw from kidney donation at any time until they
      are in the operating room.

      Patients meeting these criteria, who also consent to participate in the study, will be
      randomized (standard of care pain medication vs TQL block). The ratio of male to female
      patients in each arm will be equal because of the known increased risks for post-operative
      nausea/vomiting (PONV) in females. The study group will receive a liposomal bupivacaine TQL
      block after the induction of general anesthesia and liposomal bupivacaine transverse
      abdominis plane (TAP) block after closure of the midline fascia. All patients including the
      control group will have infiltration of the skin edges with bupivacaine. Control patients
      will have a TAP block with 5 cc of bupivacaine on both sides. A placebo 22g needle will be
      placed at the same site as the TQL block without injection. Intra-operative narcotics will be
      administered by the anesthesia team based on standard criteria. All participants will receive
      intravenous ketorolac and acetaminophen at the end of the procedure. Intravenous ketorolac
      will be continued for 24 hours while hospitalized. Post-operative pain management with
      intermittent parenteral and enteral narcotics as needed will be the same in both groups.

      Liposomal bupivacaine block administration:

      After induction of general anesthesia, surgical team will turn the patient to the lateral
      position (final position for surgery). After prep with and drape, investigators will place
      ultrasound probe in mid- posterior axillary line, just above iliac crest. The investigators
      will identify abdominal wall muscles including external oblique, internal oblique, transverse
      abdominis, and quadratus lumborum as well as thoracolumbar fascia with the help of
      ultrasound. Then, investigators will insert a 22g nerve block needle and advanced it under
      direct guidance of ultrasound until it is below the fascial covering of the quadratus
      lumborum muscle layer or its fascia which forms a continuous fascia compartment with
      thoracolumbar fascia. After aspiration to rule out intravascular location of the needle,
      investigators will be inject 20 mL of liposomal bupivacaine mixed with 10ml of normal saline
      under ultrasound guidance, to monitor spread of the injected fluid . The investigators will
      aspirate repeatedly every 5cc of local anesthetic. The investigators will remove the needle
      upon completion of the injection.

      The following study variables will be collected postoperatively following arrival in the
      post-anesthesia care unit. Current and maximum intensity pain scores will be documented by
      nurses in EHR. Total opiate dose consumed every 24 hours will be collected from the EHR and
      pain diary after discharge. Patient satisfaction will be evaluated using the Revised American
      Pain Society Patient Outcome Questionnaire (APS-POQ-R) 24 hours' post-procedure. Incidence of
      nausea will be extracted from nursing notes

      Complications will be documented by anesthesia pain service that will follow these patients
      while admitted.

      Outpatient use of narcotics, pain assessment, bowel function, sexual function complications
      from the block or the donor surgery, and attitudes toward kidney donation will be evaluated
      with validated survey instruments. Please see the timeline for the collection of the data
      prior to and after kidney donation. The survey data will be collected using secure links to a
      REDCap server 3, 5, 10, 30, and 90 days after surgery.
    
  