
    
      Pulmoton® is an inhaled combination of budesonide and formoterol fumarate dihydrate in doses
      of 100 / 6mcg, 200 / 6mcg, 400/12 mcg, administered by Elpenhaler®, a powder inhaler
      developed in doses developed by the ELPEN. It has been approved as a bronchodilator in the
      treatment of asthma where combination therapy (ICS / LABA) is appropriate in patients who are
      not adequately controlled with inhaled corticosteroids and rely on short-acting inhaled
      β2-stimulants or in patients already satisfactorily controlled with both corticosteroids.
      long-acting β2-stimulants.

      Pulmoton® is not recommended for the initial treatment of asthma. The dosage of the
      individual components of Pulmoton® is separate and must be adjusted according to the severity
      of the condition. This should be taken into account, not only when starting treatment with
      stable combination products, but also when adjusting the maintenance dosage.

      The dose should be adjusted to the lowest possible, by which effective control of symptoms is
      achieved and maintained. Patients should be re-evaluated regularly by their physician so that
      the dose of Pulmoton® they receive remains the best possible. When long-term control of
      symptoms is achieved with the lowest recommended dose, then in the next step only the inhaled
      corticosteroid can be tested.

      There are two alternatives to treating asthma with Pulmoton®:

      A. Pulmoton® Maintenance Therapy: Pulmoton® is taken as a regular maintenance treatment along
      with a separate rapid-acting bronchodilator to relieve symptoms.

      B. Pulmoton® Maintenance and Relief Therapy: Pulmoton® is also taken as regular maintenance
      and invocative treatment for symptoms.

      Further information on the efficacy and safety of the drug under study can be found in the
      Product Characteristics Summary (SmPC).

      Aims of the study The GINA 2020 guidelines recommend, among other things, the symptom-driven
      use of ICS / LABA (as needed).

      This study will record the use of budesonide / formoterol either as maintenance treatment or
      / or as needed according to standard clinical practice and at the discretion of the treating
      physician.
    
  