
    
      All mother (caregiver)-child dyads from the Lulun RCT will be contacted by mobile phone and
      invited to participate. A community meeting will first be held including community leaders
      and Lulun Project participants to present findings and explain the new follow-up study, Lulun
      Project II. This will give mothers (caregivers) the opportunity over at least a one week
      period to decide whether or not to participate and to discuss with family and friends. A
      field study team consisting of two individuals who participated in first trial and two
      students from Washington University will then contact mothers or caregivers and asked to come
      to various community sites used in the Lulun Project. Using processes and protocols from the
      original trial, mothers (caregivers) will first go through the informed consent and
      enrollment processes.

      Eligibility criteria will include: 1) participant in the Lulun Project I; and 2) child
      healthy, without fever or severely malnourished. Mothers or primary caregivers of children
      will be given a written informed consent statement in Spanish to read and sign, indicating
      their consent and consent on behalf of their child. If the mothers/primary caregiver is less
      than 18 years of age, informed consent process will be sought from their parents or
      guardians. Participants with limited literacy will be offered the option to have the
      statement read to them. Caregivers will be invited to ask any questions about the nature of
      the study during this time.

      For the gender analysis component of the study, a small number (10-20) of prospective mother
      (caregiver) participants, their partners, and key stakeholders will be contacted by phone by
      the Field Manager who will explain the nature and (qualitative) method of this part of the
      study. They will be invited to participate. Consent process for mothers, partners, and
      community stakeholders will occur after they agree to participate and just prior to interview
      or focus group.
    
  