
    
      METHODOLOGICAL APPROACH 1.0 Randomized Control Trial (RCT) Study Design Hypothesis: a 3-month
      strength and balance training program will result in improvement of balance, increase in
      lower body strength, as well as lower fall rates compared to control. The proposed STABLE
      (Strength Training And Balance Leg Exercise) study is an observer-blinded, parallel group (IG
      vs. CG) randomized controlled feasibility trial. If found effective, findings from this study
      can inform a subsequent, larger scale trial to inform design of definitive phase III trial.

      1.1 Research questions:

        1. What are the preliminary effects of a 3-month, online, supervised strength and balance
           exercise program on lower body strength, balance, and fall rates in community-dwelling
           older adults with cancer?

        2. What is the feasibility of this 3-month online, supervised, exercise program in terms of
           recruitment, retention, outcome capture [whether each participant complete all the
           measures], completion, and acceptability)? 1.2 Study population: Study participants will
           be recruited over a two-year period from the cohort of older cancer patients referred to
           the Cross Cancer Institute, Edmonton, Alberta.

      Participants will also be recruited in the Regina area via urologist referrals and posters in
      urology clinics. Recruitment Strategy: The research assistant will approach physicians and
      clinic nurses employed at the oncology clinics during clinic hours to inquire about the
      availability of patients who may fit the eligibility criteria for this study. Patients
      identified as eligible will be approached (with patient's permission) by the research
      assistant and provided with a description of the study and an opportunity to ask questions.
      Posters to advertise the study (with contact information) will also be placed in waiting
      areas of oncology clinics and chemo infusion clinics. The informed consent process will also
      include obtaining participants' permission to collect information from their medical chart,
      including comorbidities, cancer type, stage, treatment intent and type, and drug name.

      Inclusion criteria for this study are as follows:

        1. older adults aged 65 or above;

        2. living in the community;

        3. have a confirmed diagnosis of any stage of lung, breast, prostate, or colorectal cancer
           (the most common cancer sites in older adults);

        4. receiving or starting systemic chemotherapy or hormone therapy;

        5. life-expectancy of at least 9 months (in consideration of the measurement period of the
           study and also avoid burdening patients who are near the end-stage of their disease);
           and

        6. have their treating physician's approval to participate.

      Exclusion criteria are as follows:

        1. presence of brain metastases;

        2. presence of unstable metastases as per treating physician (e.g., bone metastasis in a
           weight-bearing area, recent bone fracture);

        3. presence of any conditions that would potentially interfere with their ability to carry
           out the exercise interventions (e.g., mobility impairment, poorly controlled pain,
           severe vision/hearing loss, severe arthritis that limits ambulation, left-sided heart
           failure, neurological or musculoskeletal conditions);

        4. recent history of light-headedness during physical activities; syncopal episodes within
           the past month; and

        5. participation in any form of structured exercise program (that are at least 30 minutes
           per week) at the time of consent.

      1.3 Assessments: Outcomes will be measured at baseline (t0, prior to starting the STABLE
      program), and at 3 months (t1, when the intervention period is complete). All outcome
      assessments will be carried out by a trained registered nurse who is blinded to group
      allocation and not involved in analysis of study results. After informed consent,
      participants will complete the baseline assessment, which will include a survey
      (sociodemographic information, functional status, fall history, fall efficacy). Participants
      will be offered the option to fill out the survey themselves, with assistance, or complete it
      verbally (with the PI/research assistant asking the questions and writing down the answers).
      Ensuring flexibility is important in conducting research concerning older adults so as to
      accommodate their different functional needs and personal preferences. For instance, patients
      with manual dexterity difficulties or visual impairment would benefit from a
      verbally-conducted survey, whereas patients with hearing difficulties would likely be able to
      handle the survey in writing with greater ease compared to verbal. Baseline assessment will
      also entail assessment of lower body strength and balance. The 3-month assessment entails
      assessment of both groups for lower body strength, balance, falls, as well as update on
      clinical data, fall-efficacy, and functional status to provide context. For IG participants,
      3-month data collection will also include an exit survey to collect participants' opinions
      regarding the intervention, any difficulties related to exercising and adherence, as well as
      feedback for future improvement. This survey will be scheduled separately and administered by
      the research assistant in order to ensure continual blinding of the research nurse who
      collects outcome measures related to strength, balance, and falls.

      1.4 Randomization Procedure and Sample Size: After informed consent and collection of
      baseline data, randomization will take place. The randomization will be generated by the
      RedCap (Research Electronic Data Capture) software. Participants will be randomized into
      parallel groups with a 1:1 allocation ratio to either intervention group (IG) or control
      group (CG). Following standard guidelines for a phase II RCT (75-77), this study aims to
      recruit 30 IG participants who will complete the STABLE intervention and 30 CG participants
      who will act as controls (total 60 participants) to provide precise estimates of parameters
      related to the primary outcomes and important feasibility information that will be vital to
      inform our subsequent, larger trial. To address the potential limitation of attrition and
      loss-to-follow-up, we will recruit at least 73 participants to anticipate a 14% - 18.7% loss
      to follow-up based on recent research in older adults with cancer (78,79). Research suggests
      80% as a minimum acceptable follow up (80).

      1.5 Intervention: The STABLE program is informed by the prescription of the Otago program
      (31), known for targeting strength and balance to prevent falls in older adults, and designed
      for a frequency of three times per week (81,82). Specifically, it consists of leg muscle
      strengthening and balance training exercises that progress in difficulty. This program has
      been shown to be effective in reducing the number of falls and fall-related injuries by 35%
      in community-dwelling older adults (31). After baseline assessment and randomization, IG
      participants will receive orientation and learn the exercise routines in an an activity room
      in a community centre in Regina (for participants in Regina) or at the exercise lab within
      the University of Alberta, in Edmonton. A Certified Exercise Physiologist (CEP) will meet
      with each participant to provide instructions regarding the exercise and provide an overview
      of exercise safety precautions. The balance component of the exercise will include knee bend,
      backwards walking, sideways walking, heel toe stand, heel toe walk, and one-leg stand, as
      outlined by the Otago program (31). The strength training component will target the lower
      body muscles by performing isotonic contractions using an exercise band. The
      strength-training parameters for prescription and mechano-biological descriptors will be
      based on American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) (71) and Toigo and Boutellier (83). The
      advantage of using a leg press machine also includes its ability to facilitate accurate
      measurement of mechano-biological descriptors including load, repetition, sets, and
      progression, in order for a more precise report of description and progression of
      strength-training (83). During the familiarization sessions, the training load will be
      tailored and adjusted for each participant to ensure optimal benefit from the exercise.
      According to the ACSM, to achieve gains in strength, loads should be titrated in such way
      that the individual can only complete 10-15 repetitions of the maneuvers with good form
      before the onset of fatigue (84). An Apple iPad device and internet access service will be
      provided to the IG participants (for those who do not possess an iPad and for those who do
      not have reliable access to the internet). The familiarization session will also include
      orienting the participant to the iPad and how to connect to the training sessions using the
      iPad.

      Once the familiarization is completed and participants are comfortable with the exercise
      routines and techniques, and the iPad use, they will continue the supervised strength and
      balance training for 3 months (20-30 minutes per scheduled session, three times a week)
      (81,82) from home, supervised by the CEP during online live sessions.

      The strength/resistance training routines are adapted form the Otaga program. The
      intervention is described in accordance with the Template for Intervention Description and
      Replication (TIDieR) checklist guide (86). IG participants will be provided with contact
      information (PI + CEP) for any follow up questions. The PI/CEP will phone each participant in
      the home exercise group every week to check in, remind them about attending exercise
      sessions, provide support, and answer questions. Exercise trials in older adults with cancer
      have been found to be safe (87,88), and adverse events are rare (16,89). Therefore, this
      study anticipates a low adverse event rate for this study. Any adverse events during the
      training sessions will be documented and graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4 (90).

      1.6 Control: The CG will allow inferences that can be made on the preliminary effect of the
      prescribed exercises. Participants in the CG will not receive the intervention, and will be
      advised to carry out their usual daily activities. As mentioned, data collection for CG
      participants will also occur at baseline and at 3-month study completion by a research nurse
      blinded to study group allocation. As with the IG, the research nurse will call CG group
      participants weekly to ask if a fall has occurred.

      1.7 Progression: Each IG participant's exercise performance will be monitored closely by the
      CEP, and exercise loads and/or progressions will be titrated accordingly during each exercise
      session. Progression of balance training will occur by graduating from holding onto a stable
      structure to performing the exercise independent of support (81,82). For the
      strength-training component, based on the recommendations by the ACSM (71), the training load
      will be increased by 2-10% once the participant can comfortably perform 15 repetitions for
      all sets on two consecutive training sessions.

      1.8 Adherence, retention, and concomitant care: As described above, participants will receive
      weekly phone calls to answer questions, promote adherence, and to ask whether a fall has
      occurred. Additionally, during each exercise session, participants will also be encouraged by
      the CEP carry out the full set of routines as prescribed. Participants who report falls will
      be asked about circumstances of their falls (as per the recommendations of the American
      Geriatrics Soceity/British Geriatrics Society (AGS/BGS) (91)), and will be referred for
      appropriate follow-up (e.g., CEP, family physician, treating oncologist, and/or geriatric
      team).

      1.9 Measures: 1.9.1 Falls: Falls will be assessed at study completion self-report following
      recommendations of fall assessment as outlined by the American Geriatrics Society/British
      Geriatrics Society (AGS/BGS) (91).

      1.9.2 Lower body strength: Lower body strength will be assessed using the 5-times Chair Stand
      test (92). Participants will be asked to stand up and sit down five times as quickly as
      possible, with their hands folded across their chest. The time taken to complete the test, in
      seconds, will be recorded and interpreted as follows: ≥16.7 sec (1 point), between 13.7 and
      16.7 sec (2 points), between 13.7 and 11.2 (3 points), less than 11.2 sec (4 points). A time
      of ≥12 sec indicates abnormal finding that signifies poor muscle strength and fall risks
      (93). The 5-time Chair Stand test is highly reliable (intra-class correlation coefficients
      [ICCs] 0.76-0.99 for test-retest reliability, and ICCs 0.97-1.00 for inter-rater reliability)
      in older adults (93-95) and is a commonly used tool for measuring lower limb strength in
      older adults (94).

      1.9.3 Balance: Static balance ability will be measured using the Side-by-side Stand (SBS),
      Semi-tandem Stand (ST), and Full tandem Stand (FT) (92). Participants will be asked to
      maintain their balance in the three different positions. The amount of time they succeed in
      maintaining the various positions, in seconds, will be recorded based on the following
      criteria: Side-by-side 10 sec, semi-tandem 10 sec (1 point); tandem 10 sec (2 points), tandem
      3-9.99 second (1 point) (92). (See Appendix D for score sheet).

      1.9.4 Feasibility: Recruitment rate will be determined by assessing the number of
      participants eligible and consenting divided by the number of patients referred to the study.
      Retention rate will be determined by assessing the number of participants completing the
      study divided by number of participants starting the study. Adherence will be calculated by
      dividing the number of appointments attended by the number of appointments scheduled (96).
      Outcome capture will determine whether each participant completes all of the measures.
      Acceptability will be assessed using an open-ended exit survey to collect information on
      participants' perceptions regarding: (1) the intervention; (2) any difficulties related to
      the exercise training and adherence; (3) their level of satisfaction; and (4) suggestions for
      changes or improvement for future exercise participants. Development of the survey questions
      are informed by previous research on exercise program in older adults (97) as well as the
      expert consensus of the research team.

      1.9.5 Functional status: Functional status will be assessed using the 7-item, validated Older
      Americans' Resources and Services (OARS) instrumental activities of daily living (IADL) scale
      (98). This instrument covers tasks necessary for independent living in the community,
      including telephone use, shopping, travelling, meal preparation, housekeeping, taking
      medications, and managing finances. It is rated on a 3-point Likert scale that measures the
      degree to which a task can be accomplished independently (2 points), with help (1 point), or
      completely unable (0 point). A total score of <2 on any item indicates IADL impairment (98).

      1.9.6 Fall Efficacy - Fall Efficacy Scale-International: The Fall Efficacy
      Scale-International (FES-I) (99) will be used to assess for fear-of-falling. This 16-item
      instrument includes easier as well as more challenging physical and social activities, such
      as walking on slippery, uneven, or sloping surfaces; going to a social event; going to a
      crowded place; and visiting friends/relatives. The level of concern regarding partaking in
      these activities will be rated on a 4-point Likert scale (from 1=not at all concerned to
      4=very concerned). Scores >23 indicate high concern about falling (100). The FES-I has
      demonstrated excellent internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha 0.96) and test-retest
      reliability (ICC = 0.96) in a community dwelling population (82). This tool has been used on
      different samples in various countries (101), including in older cancer populations in Canada
      (2,102).

      2.0 Data handling Data related to exercises and falls will be recorded on excel spreadsheets
      by the CEP and by the research nurse respectively. Group allocation for participants will be
      stored in a password-protected, secure file database. Paper surveys will be stored in the
      PI's office in a locked cabinet. All data collected from participants will be de-identified
      and entered into a separate, password-protected, secure database (Research Electronic Data
      Capture [RedCap7.1.1]).

      2.1 Data Analysis: 2.1.1 Statistical analysis: Data will be entered into IBM Statistical
      Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) Version 27.0 (Chicago) for analysis and assessed for
      normality before inferential statistics will be conducted. To avoid bias in estimating the
      intervention effect, an intention-to-treat analysis will be performed (i.e., inclusion of all
      measures in all participants irrespective of whether they completed the intervention).
      Descriptive statistics (e.g. means, standard deviations, counts, percentages) will be used to
      describe patient characteristics (i.e. age, sex, gender, number of comorbidities and
      medications, cancer site, stage, treatment type) as well as use of mobility aid, functional
      status, and fall efficacy.

      To answer Research Question 1: What are the preliminary effects of a 3-month strength and
      balance exercise on lower body strength, balance, and fall rates in community-dwelling older
      adults with cancer? Descriptive statistics (medians, numbers, and proportions) will be used
      to report muscle strength scorings, balance scores, and fall rates at T0 and T1 (based on the
      entire sample as well as based on genders). T-test will be performed to compare differences
      between the two groups at T0 and T1. Main effects and interaction effects paired with
      appropriate effect sizes (e.g., Eta square) will be calculated.

      To answer Research Question 2: What is the feasibility of this 3-month exercise program, in
      terms of recruitment, retention, adherence, outcome capture, completion, and acceptability?
      Descriptive statistics (numbers and proportions) will be used to analyze recruitment rate,
      retention, adherence, outcome capture, and completion (based on the entire sample and also
      based on genders). Data from exit surveys will be summarized to determine general ways in
      which study procedures and participation experience could be improved for participants in
      future studies.

      ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS AND POTENTIAL PITFALLS OF THE STUDY Ethical consideration: Prior to
      the start of the study, ethics approval will be sought from the Research Ethics Board of the
      University Saskatchewan prior to beginning of the study, and operational approval will be
      sought from the Saskatchewan Cancer Agency and the Saskatchewan Health Authority.
      Participants will be reimbursed for their parking expenses or transportation (e.g. bus fare)
      associated with attending the familiarization sessions. During the informed consent process,
      participants will be informed that they can withdraw from the study at any time and, if they
      choose to stop participating, data collected up to the point of their withdrawal will be
      included in the data analysis; however, no further data will be collected. Potential Pitfalls
      and Limitations: As with any research studies, participant accrual could potentially be an
      issue. However, prior research by members of the research team (SS and SA) found that older
      adults are very willing to participant in research studies, especially if they know that
      findings of study may potentially help others in the future (103). Additionally, exercise
      research among older patients with cancer have shown good response rates (104,105). Another
      potential pitfall is loss-to-follow-up. Loss-to-follow-up is inevitable in most cohort
      studies and may lead to bias and weakens statistical power (106-108). This study anticipates
      loss to follow up may occur due to a number reasons (death, disease progression, decline of
      health, or no longer interested to participate (107). As discussed earlier, to anticipate
      this potential limitation, we will recruit at least 73 participants based on a 14% - 18.7%
      loss to follow-up (78,79).

      KNOWLEDGE TRANSLATION PLAN The target audience for this research is researchers in the field
      of geriatric oncology (especially those with an interest in functional and health outcomes in
      older adults with cancer), as well as clinicians and knowledge users in the field. The study
      will be reported following the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) checklist
      (109).
    
  