
    
      Despite all efforts to optimize the transplantation of deceased donor kidneys, the number of
      available kidneys continues to fall short of demand. Living donor kidneys have been used to
      overcome this organ shortage. Graft and patient survival is significantly higher following
      living donor kidney transplantation compared with deceased donor kidney Transplantation.

      The major disadvantage of using living donors is that a healthy individual must undergo a
      major surgical procedure to provide the organ for transplantation. The donor does not
      medically benefit from the procedure, but there is a medical impact on both donor and
      recipient. Therefore, a nephrectomy technique associated with the lowest donor risk and the
      best organ quality should be used during Transplantation.

      Open donor nephrectomy was the universal technique before the advent of laparoscopic
      techniques. Laparoscopic living donor nephrectomy was introduced in 1995 and commercial ports
      were developed shortly after. In 1998, Wolf et al. described the hand-assisted laparoscopic
      living donor nephrectomy (HALDN) technique and since then it has become widely adopted.
      Laparoscopic methods have definite advantages over open surgery in terms of blood loss,
      postoperative pain, analgesic requirements, duration of hospital stay, and convalescence.

      There is some controversy regarding the possibility of relatively longer warm ischemia time,
      longer operative time, and increased bleeding with laparoscopic nephrectomy. HALDN reduces
      warm ischemia time by extracting the kidney using the hand port as soon as the blood vessels
      are divided. This technique is associated with tactile feedback, better manual control of
      bleeding, relatively shorter learning curve, less kidney traction, faster kidney removal, and
      shorter warm ischemic periods. At present, there is no strong evidence to support the use of
      one laparoscopic approach in preference to the other. However, evidence suggests that HALDN
      is the most cost-effective method of donor surgery and achieves equivalent clinical benefits
      of pure laparoscopic approaches with less operative time.

      HALDN is usually performed using a periumbilical or Pfannenstiel incision for hand-assisted
      port placement and kidney extraction. A periumbilical incision is made at the midline. In
      contrast, a Pfannenstiel incision is made as a slightly curved horizontal line just above the
      pubic symphysis. Pfannenstiel incisions improve wound complications, such as incisional
      hernia, cosmetic results, and wound dehiscence. However, the duration of surgery,
      postoperative pain score, and length of hospital stay were significantly lower in donors with
      periumbilical incision. The inserted hand plays a vital role in the procedure, including
      retraction and dissection, therefore the hand port midline incision is placed close to the
      periumbilical area. Dissecting the upper pole of the kidney through a Pfannenstiel incision
      may be difficult in morbidly obese and large donors.

      Patients with Pfannenstiel incisions return to normal physical activity quicker than those
      with periumbilical incisions. However, to the best of our knowledge, these two different
      incision types in patients undergoing HALDN have not been compared in a randomized controlled
      trial.Our objective is to compare the return of patients to physical activity following a
      HALDN procedure with Pfannenstiel incision (intervention group) or periumbilical incision
      (control group) in a clinical randomized trial using an expertise-based design.
    
  