
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a common cancer that poses a heavy economic burden on the
      healthcare system. It represents the fourth and sixth most common cancer in Egypt and
      worldwide respectively. Globally, HCC is the fourth most common cause of death from cancer.
      It was estimated to be responsible for nearly 9.1% of the total deaths in 2012 (746,000
      deaths). In Egypt, it is the most common cause of cancer-related mortality, and morbidity
      (32.35% of the total cancer deaths, mortality data were derived from the World Health
      Organization (WHO)). The leading risk factor in developing HCC in Egypt is hepatitis C virus
      (HCV).

      Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a metabolic disorder characterized by hyperglycemia, which may be
      caused by insufficient insulin secretion, insulin resistance, or augmented glucagon
      production. Cancer and type II diabetes (T2DM), The world's two most prevalent diseases,
      share many overlapping risk factors and predisposing pathological conditions. Although the
      T2DM-cancer co-existence has been noted for many decades, the exact mechanisms linking these
      diseases are yet to be fully understood.

      Insulin-Like Growth Factor-1 Receptor (IGF-1R) is a member of the insulin and IGF family. It
      coordinates a complex downstream signaling network through which it plays essential roles in
      the regulation of cell growth, proliferation, and survival as well as in glucose homeostasis.
      IGF-1R plays a crucial role in many tumor-related courses, such as tumor growth and
      metastasis in addition to drug resistance. The IGF-1R dysregulated signaling pathways in
      cancer and DM have been reported to be controlled at different levels by non-coding RNAs.

      Non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) are a large category of RNAs that usually do not participate in
      protein encoding but have a wide range of biological functions through regulation of protein
      expression and functions. The two most researched classes of ncRNAs are microRNAs (miRNAs)
      and the long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs). H19 is a lncRNA that is found to be overexpressed in
      many solid tumors including HCC. The relationship between H19 and IGF-1R expression levels in
      addition to the dysregulation of H19 in DM are still inconsistent in literature, warranting
      further investigations. Ghazal et al. noted that H19 levels are directly proportional to
      IGF-1R expression levels in women with endometriosis (Ghazal et al., 2015). This is
      conflicting with Farzi-Molan et al. who remarked the reverse relation between IGF-1R & H19
      during the differentiation of Bone Marrow Mesenchymal Stem Cells (BMSCs) to neural cells
    
  