
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the safety profile of MDX-010 (ipilimumab) monoclonal antibody and
      identify a tolerable immunologically active dose level in B cell lymphoma patients.

      II. To evaluate the clinical response rate in B cell lymphoma patients treated with MDX-010.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the phenotype and function of memory T cells before and after treatment with
      MDX-010 by:

        -  Quantitation and phenotypic characterization of peripheral blood and tumor infiltrating
           T-cells, including cluster of differentiation (CD)4+CD25+ regulatory T cells.

        -  Measurement of tumor-specific T cells in peripheral blood lymphocytes.

        -  Measuring proliferation of memory T cells in response to recall antigens (tetanus toxoid
           and keyhole limpet hemocyanin [KLH]).

      II. Measurement of anti-tumor antibodies in serum pre- and post-therapy. III. To evaluate the
      time to progression. IV. To evaluate the duration of response to treatment with MDX-010.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open-label, phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a
      phase II study. Patients are grouped according to prior treatment with a vaccine therapy for
      lymphoma (yes vs no).

      PHASE I: Patients receive anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 monoclonal
      antibody (MDX-010) IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for a total
      of 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 6 patients from each group receive escalating doses of MDX-010 until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients receive MDX-010 as in phase I at the MTD.

      Patients are followed at 1 and 4 months and then every 6 months for up to 2 years.
    
  