
    
      To develop the best practices nursing protocol in intensive care units, three steps were
      necessary:

        1. An incidence study of occurrence of critical incidents linked to nursing was conducted
           during a month in nine intensive care units to identify high risk clinical situations

        2. A qualitative study (individual interviews and focus groups) with nurses was led to
           elicit nurse's risk anticipatory strategies during nursing

        3. Based on the results of the two previous step, a working group proposed a best nursing
           practices protocol to limit critical incidents

      Methodology to assess the effectiveness of the protocol of best nursing practices:

      The statistical unit is the nursing act for one patient meeting the inclusion criteria (a
      patient is nursed two times or more per day) Nine intensive care units are included in the
      study Intensive care units includes 127 beds, their average occupancy rate is approximately
      80 % which means about 330 nursing a day and about 9900 nursing a month.

      An occurrence of critical incidents (primary outcome measure) of 25% is expected
      (approximately 2475 critical incidents per month). To show a reduction of 50% of critical
      incidents in the interventional group, 6 month inclusion will be necessary, whatever the
      value of the inflation coefficient.

      The patient will be under observation during 60 min if a critical incident occurs. And only
      during nursing if no critical incident occurs.

      Data will be collected at bedside.

      Patients will be included for the entire duration of the hospitalization in intensive care
      unit, if inclusion criteria are still met.

      Data collection:

        -  Characteristics of the intensive care unit

        -  Characteristics of the patient

        -  Characteristics of the nurse

        -  Characteristics of the medical equipment of the patient

        -  Physiological parameters before, during and after nursing (see primary outcome measures)

      The best nursing practices protocol will be consider as efficient if a reduction of 50% of
      critical incident can be established.

      Statistical analysis will be in the intent-to-treat.

      Hospitals as part of qualitative policy request a declaration of each critical incident. This
      circus of declaration will not be changed.
    
  