
    
      Male circumcision (MC) is a research-tested, evidence-based HIV prevention strategy that has
      been shown to be cost-saving. Randomized trials have provided compelling evidence that MC
      reduces men's risk of heterosexually-acquired HIV-1 infection by about 60%. The World Health
      Organization (WHO) recommends MC as part of comprehensive HIV prevention strategies and says,
      "Since neonatal circumcision is a less complicated and risky procedure than circumcision
      performed in young boys, adolescents or adults … countries should consider how to promote
      neonatal circumcision in a safe, culturally acceptable and sustainable manner."

      In 2010, the WHO published the "Manual for early infant male circumcision under local
      anaesthesia, [6]", which included the Mogen, Gomco and Plastibell devices. At the time of
      publication, the AccuCirc was relatively new (approved by the United States Food and Drug
      Administration in 2007) but has promise as a device that will facilitate scale-up of early
      infant male circumcision (EIMC). It must, however, undergo field evaluation before it can be
      included in the WHO's list of prequalified EIMC devices so that it can be accessible for
      programmatic adoption. The investigators propose an implementation study to address several
      salient operations research questions that remain with regard to the role of devices in
      scale-up of EIMC programs in sub-Saharan Africa.

      This study will include a field evaluation of the AccuCirc device with the aim of providing
      data that would allow evaluation of the device for WHO prequalification. Other aspects of the
      current study aim to understand how EIMC can be optimized and successfully implemented in
      routine public health settings.

      The investigators therefore propose the following specific aims:

      Aim 1: Complete a field evaluation of the AccuCirc device for EIMC in Nyanza Province, Kenya,
      with a target enrollment of 600 infants, including intensive follow-up of the first 50
      infants undergoing EIMC with the AccuCirc device.

      Aim 2: Qualitatively assess provider experiences and preferences with regard to EIMC devices
      and the relationship to future routine provision of EIMC. Research staff will train providers
      in both Mogen clamp and AccuCirc devices and ask them to compare the benefits and drawbacks
      they perceive for each device, and possible implications for scale-up.

      Aim 3: Assess parental decision-making about EIMC using qualitative methods, including
      whether the device for EIMC would influence parental decision-making about circumcision for a
      son. Parents will be informed about the risks and benefits of EIMC in general, and the Mogen
      clamp and AccuCirc specifically, before qualitative data about decision-making is gathered.

      Aim 4: Identify factors associated with having a male infant circumcised, including if, when,
      where and by whom EIMC services were offered to mothers, and the role of devices for EIMC in
      decision-making, if any. Mothers whose infants were circumcised and a comparison group of
      mothers of uncircumcised infants will be administered a questionnaire that will identify
      factors associated with uptake of EIMC and whether the device affected the circumcision
      decision.
    
  