
    
      The basic therapy for asthma treatment involves the use of corticosteroids that can lead to
      the development of glucose intolerance and to the onset of diabetes. Moreover, several works
      in literature highlight the fact that patients with diagnosis of both asthma and diabetes
      have a scarcer glycaemic control, a reduced life expectancy, and a higher risk of pneumonia
      when compared to patients with only asthma or only diabetes.

      However, in the last years the evaluation of the inflammatory patterns in asthmatic patients
      has revealed a heterogeneity of the inflammation, with patients characterized by neutrophilic
      phenotype, mixed granulocytic or without a well-defined inflammatory component
      (pauci-granulocytic phenotype).On the other side, a immunological type Th1 switch
      systemically characterizes diabetes. The impact of diabetes, therefore, as a comorbidity in
      asthmatic patients could influence the inflammatory status of airways. Moreover, studies have
      reported that glucose is higher in the airways of subjects affected by chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease and it correlates with bacterial and viral load compared to healthy
      controls. Even asthmatic patients, especially if diabetic, might have an increase of glucose
      in their airways, that could favourite or feed an inflammatory/infective state. Although
      physical exercise is able to reduce the level of systemic inflammation, improving asthma
      symptoms and glycaemic control, it is well known that asthmatic and diabetic patients tend to
      lead a more sedentary life style compared to healthy subjects.A limiting factor that bonds
      the two pathologies is obesity, since the gain of weight causes exacerbation of respiratory
      symptoms, resulting in lower effort tolerance.

      Up to-day there are not in literature studies that have investigated the airways inflammatory
      pattern and the exercise capacity in relation to functional characteristics in diabetic
      patients affected by asthma.

      Aim of the study is to characterize the airways inflammatory pattern of patients affected by
      bronchial asthma, patients affected by type II diabetes and patients with concomitant
      diagnosis of asthma and diabetes by using induced sputum. Secondary objective is to
      characterize the exercise capacity in relation to the functional and anthropometric
      characteristics of patients with diabetes, with asthma and diabetes, compared to patients
      with only asthma.
    
  