
    
      This study will be a randomized, crossover, outpatient sleep restriction (SR) study with 2
      phases of 6 weeks each, with a 6 week wash-out period between the phases. Sleep duration in
      each phase will be the participant's regular bed- and wake times during the habitual sleep
      (HS) phase and HS minus 1.5 hours in the SR phase. During the HS phase, participants will be
      asked to follow a fixed bedtime routine based on their screening sleep schedule. During the
      SR phase, participants will be asked to keep their habitual wake time constant but delay
      their bedtime to achieve a reduction of 1.5 hours in total sleep time.

      On the first day of each study phase (baseline), participants will come to the research
      center in the morning after an overnight,12 hour fast. Participants will have anthropometric
      measurements taken and will then be taken to the department of Radiology to undergo magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) scanning to assess body composition. Flow-mediated dilatation will be
      performed in the Cardiovascular Ultrasound Laboratory. They will then return to the the
      clinic for an oral glucose tolerance test. A blood sample will be taken for hormone
      measurements, and a sample of cells lining the blood vessel (forearm vein) will also be taken
      to assess endothelial function. Participants will begin the fixed bedtime routine that night.
      These baseline measurements will be repeated at endpoint, 6 weeks later. Body weight and
      waist circumference will be measured weekly and fasting blood samples will be taken at week 3
      during adherence check visits.

      To verify that participants adhere to the sleep protocol, they will be asked to keep a sleep
      diary and wear an activity monitor 24 hours/day. Participants will wear an actigraph GT3X+ on
      their wrist, which will serve to track their sleep duration, sleep timing, and physical
      activity. Two weeks prior to randomization and during the washout period, participants will
      also wear the actigraph watch and keep a sleep diary to verify sleep duration and sleep-wake
      schedule. In addition to achieving an average sleep of 7-9 hours/night, by wrist actigraphy,
      participants will only be enrolled if they achieve 7 hours of sleep for at least 10 of the 14
      nights of screening and have <4 nights with <6 hours of sleep. At the time of randomization,
      a urine pregnancy test and drug screen will be performed. Participants will be asked to
      abstain from caffeine and alcohol intake for 24 hours prior to the start. Between study
      phases, if participants have not returned to baseline sleep patterns within the 6 week
      washout period, an additional 2-4 week washout period will be provided. This washout length
      will ensure that women are in the same phase of their menstrual cycle at the start of each
      experimental phase.
    
  