
    
      This study is a prospective, randomized, double-blinded, controlled, clinical trial that
      evaluates the efficacy of using PEMF in the postoperative period in decreasing swelling and
      pain after extraction of partial or full/complete boney impacted third molars. The study
      group will be comprised of subjects that will receive PEMF ActiPatchTM treatment for
      postoperative management of pain and edema. The control group will be comprised of the
      subjects that will receive a placebo patch as treatment for postoperative management of pain
      and edema.

      Thirty (30) subjects will be randomly assigned to each group. Enrollment will continue until
      sixty (60) qualified subjects have been recruited. Eligibility criteria will be based on the
      standards for conducting oral surgery procedures on third molar extractions, in addition to
      safety considerations and contraindications for the ActiPatch(TM) and other agents to be
      used. Moreover, the selected subjects will have the same surgical difficulty and surgical
      trauma anticipated standardized by classification system of impacted third molars. This
      classification system is utilized in the TUSDM (Tufts University School of Dental Medicine)
      oral surgery clinic. All inclusion and exclusion criteria will be thoroughly explained in the
      relevant section of this proposal. Postoperative edema and pain will be evaluated using
      3dMD(TM) and Visual Analog Scale, respectively. Different measurements will be obtained
      immediately before the surgery and in standard periodic intervals as described in the
      Materials and Methods section of the proposal. Any difference in postoperative edema, pain,
      and site responsible for request of rescue pain medication will be compared and analyzed
      between the two groups.

      Up to 200 subjects will be enrolled in the study to account for screen failures. Up to forty
      (40) subjects will be randomly assigned to each group. Recruitment will continue until up to
      eighty (80) subjects have qualified for study participation. This will allow for up to 25%
      dropout to end with 60 subjects completing the study.

      The primary outcome, postoperative facial swelling at 72 hours (as measured by the 3dMD(TM)),
      will be compared between the two groups using independent sample t-test if the data are
      normally distributed, or the Mann Whitney U test if non-parametric methods need to be
      utilized. This approach will also be utilized for comparing pain (as measured by VAS). The
      percentage of subjects who will use rescue pain medication due to experience of postoperative
      pain on the group treated with PEMF ActiPatch(TM) will be compared with the percentage of
      subjects who will use rescue pain medication due to experience of postoperative pain for the
      group received placebo, using a Chi-square test. In addition, the volume measurements and the
      VAS scores will be analyzed using a repeated measures analysis, adjusting for subject age,
      gender and pain perception. Furthermore, a correlation between placebo group and the use of
      rescue pain medication will be determined and the association will be dictated by calculating
      the odds ratio. The statistical significance of this association will be examined using the
      Chi-square test. All p-values less than 0.025 will be considered statistically significant.
      Statistical analyses will be performed using SAS, Version 9.2 (SAS Institute, Cary, NC).

      An initial 3dMD(TM) scan will be obtained for baseline evaluation at the extraction visit. A
      second 3dMD(TM) scan will be obtained for evaluation and determination of facial swelling at
      the 72 hour follow up visit. A third scan will be obtained at the 10 day follow up visit to
      evaluate the degree of resolution of swelling. The scan will result in a computer-generated
      image, on which the investigator will outline the area of clinical interest and calculate the
      volume using integration. The process of surface scanning and volume measurement will use the
      3dMD(TM) Vultus software® (3dMD(TM), Atlanta, Georgia, United States).The Vultus software
      allows for pre and post-surgery superimposition of images as well as quantitative evaluation
      of surface and volume changes. The PI has had on site training at the Georgia 3dMD facility
      and had additional training when the camera array was installed. The technique of obtaining
      the image is straight forward and there is a set of instructions at the installation site for
      immediate review as necessary. The PI and a representative from 3dMD company will give
      training to the co-investigators who will be using the device.

      The degree of facial swelling between the two groups at the two time points (72 hour follow
      up and 10 day follow up) will be compared using the data collected from 3dMD(TM).
      Furthermore, the change in volume between the two scans taken at the 72 hour follow up visit
      and the 10 day follow up within each group will also be compared. The volumetric difference
      between the two groups will be analyzed for any statistical significance.
    
  