
    
      Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) is a class 1 or "strong" recommendation in contemporary clinical
      practice guidelines following percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or coronary artery
      bypass grafting (CABG) after a myocardial infarction (MI)[1-6]. The CR program at St.
      Joseph's Hospital is a 6 month intensive program focusing on education, exercise and
      lifestyle changes [7, 8] with the goal of helping the patient improve their functional
      capacity. The Canadian Cardiovascular Society has set a benchmark of a 0.5 MET increase in
      functional capacity as one of 5 Quality Indicators (QIs) of CR programs [7, 8]. Quality
      indicators seek to quantify the quality of CR in a well-defined and evidence based manner. To
      measure the improvement in functional capacity, CR participants complete an exercise stress
      test at intake to and exit from the CR program. The improvement on this test is one of the
      main outcomes of a CR program while illustrating the impact of the CR program on the
      individual.

      Performance on the exercise stress test can be used to predict coronary heart disease and
      all-cause mortality risk levels in patients [9]. Patients with higher aerobic fitness have a
      favourable cardiovascular risk factor profile [9]. Obtaining an accurate measure of the
      patient's fitness levels during the exit stress test is essential to creating an appropriate
      future care plan. In order to optimize results on the exit stress test, the other
      contributing factors to performance must be optimized as well.

      Past studies suggest that patients may exercise at a lower metabolic intensity without
      feedback [10]. This result shows the potential increase in performance on the exercise stress
      test if patients are given feedback. Given that participant feedback, knowledge of results
      and motivation can all have an effect on performance, we are interested to see if providing
      additional information to our patients about their performance on their previous (intake)
      stress test will have an impact on their performance at the exit test.

      When the patient learns about their previous performance, they will be better informed of
      their capacity and should be inclined to improve results at their exit test. If the other
      contributing factors surrounding one's performance on the treadmill are optimized, the
      cardiac care team will have a better understanding of the patient's true fitness. This will
      help the team propose an accurate plan for the future direction of the patient's care
    
  