
    
      This is a Phase II, open-label (all people involved know the identity of the intervention)
      trial to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of TMC207 as part of an
      individualized Multi-drug Resistant Tuberculosis (MDR-TB) treatment regimen in participants
      with sputum smear-positive pulmonary MDR-TB. Approximately 225 participants will receive
      TMC207 for 24 weeks in combination with an individualized background regimen (BR) of
      antibacterial drugs used in the treatment of TB according to national and international
      guidelines and selected at the baseline visit. TMC207 dosage will be 400 mg once daily (q.d.)
      for the first 2 weeks and 200 mg 3 times/week (t.i.w.) for the following 22 weeks. Upon
      completion of the 24-week treatment with TMC207, all participants will continue to receive
      their BR under the care of their physician and in accordance with national TB program (NTP)
      treatment guidelines.

      Additionally, the pharmacokinetics (how the body absorbs, distributes, metabolizes and
      eliminates a drug) of TMC207 and its N-monodesmethyl metabolite (M2), and
      pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (the study of the action or effects a drug has on the body)
      relationships for safety and efficacy will be assessed. Safety evaluations that will be
      performed are lab tests, vital signs, ECG, reporting of adverse events, physical examinations
      and X-rays.

      All participants will be followed up for 19 months after their last intake of TMC207. Also
      participants who prematurely withdraw (unless they withdraw consent) will be followed for
      this period or until the last follow-up visit for the last patient in the trial.
      Investigators will be asked to provide information about the survival/clinical outcome of
      these participants throughout the follow-up period, approximately every 6 months.

      Primary outcome is time to sputum culture conversion in Mycobacteria Growth Indicator Tube
      (MGIT) during and beyond treatment with TMC207. Sputum culture conversion will be defined as
      2 consecutive negative cultures from sputa collected at least 28 days apart.
    
  