
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) for the combination of glembatumumab
      vedotin and nivolumab in patients with solid tumors. (Phase Ib) II. To evaluate the antitumor
      activity of the combination in 4 expansion cohorts (melanoma, uveal melanoma, GPNMB
      overexpressing triple negative breast cancer [TNBC], other GPNMB overexpressing solid tumors)
      as measured by overall response by Immune-Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors (iRECIST)/Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the safety and toxicity profile of the combination. II. To evaluate the
      clinical benefit rate (no disease progression within 6 months), progression free survival
      (PFS), and overall survival (OS) in patients receiving the combination treatment.

      III. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics (PK) of glembatumumab vedotin and nivolumab in
      combination in serum and in mononuclear phagocyte system (MPS) cells in peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells.

      IV. Profile differences in the type, number and density of Fc-receptors (FcgammaR) on MPS
      cells in blood of patients prior to and after administration of glembatumumab vedotin and
      nivolumab as a method to evaluate the factors affecting PK and pharmacodynamics (PD)
      variability and mechanisms of drug-drug interactions.

      V. Characterize differences in chemokines (CCL2 and CCL5) and other cytokines in blood of
      patients prior to and after administration of glembatumumab vedotin and nivolumab as a method
      to evaluate the factors affecting PK and PD variability and mechanisms of drug-drug
      interactions.

      VI. To evaluate the pharmacodynamic (PD) effects of the combination in plasma and tissue
      biomarkers.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive glembatumumab vedotin intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes and nivolumab IV
      over 60 minutes on day 8 of course 1 and on day 1 of subsequent courses. Patients in melanoma
      expanded cohort also receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment with
      ipilimumab repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unaccepted toxicity and courses with glembatumumab vedotin and nivolumab repeat every 21 days
      in the absence of disease progression or unaccepted toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks and then at 30 and
      70 days.
    
  