
    
      Given the known roles of proteases and PARs in coagulation, inflammation, pain, healing and
      protection, the need for development of a PAR antagonist as a therapeutic agent for treatment
      of thrombosis, atherosclerosis and inflammation is well-recognized. Thus, blocking PAR action
      by inhibiting the PAR-G protein interface is an alternative target for blocking downstream
      consequences of thrombin-mediated cellular activation. Since there are two PARs on human
      platelets, PAR1 and PAR4, it is critical to define the roles of both receptors in several
      likely clinical settings where PAR antagonists would be used. In this proposal both the G
      protein pathways underlying PAR signaling mechanisms as well as their roles in pathologies
      characterized by activated platelets will be studied in detail. We propose in our grant to
      investigate the specific roles of individual PARs in mediating the events leading to the
      multi-stage process of platelet activation and clot formation. The long term goals of these
      studies are to determine novel PAR-specific anti-platelet therapies. The 2002 estimates of
      the DHHS suggest that 6.3% of the population of the United States (18.2 Million people) have
      diabetes, with estimated annual costs of $132 Billion (Centers for Disease Control and
      Prevention). The complications of coronary artery and of cerebrovascular disease account for
      up to 65% of deaths in patients with diabetes. The prevalence, complexity and complications
      of cardiovascular disease are increased in patients with diabetes. This appears related to
      the frequent association of diabetes and of insulin resistance with traditional risk factors
      for atherosclerosis. Recent studies by Haffner and other investigators have established the
      concept of diabetes as a coronary risk equivalent; this is reflected in the guidelines for
      therapeutic targets set by the ADA, AHA and ACC.

      The clinical importance of platelet activation is reflected by the benefits of aspirin and
      clopidogrel and GPIIbIIIa inhibitors in diabetics. Epidemiologic data demonstrates that the
      metabolic syndrome is associated with an increased incidence of atherosclerotic events. Type
      2 diabetes shares many features in common with the metabolic syndrome, and may represent a
      precursor condition, Stern described this in the "common soil hypothesis". Hsueh and Law have
      more recently proposed that the progression of insulin resistance to type 2 diabetes
      parallels the progression of endothelial dysfunction to atherosclerosis.

      These studies were designed to study PAR signaling and G protein activation states in
      patients with platelet activation in the setting of the continuum of the metabolic syndrome
      and diabetes mellitus. The degree of platelet activation as determined by assays of platelet
      reactivity and by the expression of markers of platelet activation will be correlated with
      the changes in PAR signaling. These studies will provide a comprehensive assessment of
      platelet activation in the setting of the metabolic syndrome, and will compare the extent of
      activation in this setting with that in a group of contemporaneously studied patients with
      diabetes mellitus. Finally, the influence of the direct thrombin inhibitor, bivalirudin on
      platelet activation and signaling will be assessed.
    
  