
    
      The surgical process is a major stressor because of the psychological distress, tissue
      trauma, lack of activity, and quasi-starvation and it produces immediate systemic changes and
      both short- and long-term effects on activity and quality of life. However, there is mounting
      evidence that many of the negative immediate effects of surgery such as pain, fatigue, and
      weakness are amenable to intervention. If proper interventions are carried out, these
      symptoms may be readily controlled allowing for a faster recovery and early home discharge.
      But the effects of surgery are felt far beyond the immediate convalescent period and patients
      can feel fatigued for many weeks and this delays return to usual function and reduces quality
      of life. Thus, it would be of great practical benefit if ways of improving post-surgery
      physical function and quality of life could be identified.

      Traditionally efforts have been made to improve the recovery process by intervening in the
      post-operative period. However, the post-operative period may not be the most opportune time
      to introduce interventions to accelerate recovery. Many of these surgical patients are
      concerned about perturbing the healing process as well as being depressed and anxious if they
      await further treatment. The pre-operative period may be a more emotionally salient time to
      intervene in the factors that contribute to recovery. The process of enhancing functional
      capacity of the individual to enable him or her to withstand an incoming stressor has been
      termed prehabilitation The purpose of this study is to address the following research
      question: Among persons scheduled for colorectal surgery, does a pre-operative program of
      aerobic and muscle strength training (prehabilitation) compared to a standard peri-operative
      educational protocol affect functional exercise capacity and health-related quality of life?
      The trial will be a single blind, stratified (on cancer diagnosis or not), randomized,
      two-group (prehabilitation or standard care), parallel design. Both groups will receive the
      same peri-operative education program. In conformity with current practice, all subjects will
      also be advised on nutritional support during the preoperative period. Persons with albumin <
      38 gm./l will receive an adequate supply of protein and calorie nutritional supplement bars.
      In addition to this standard care, the prehabilitation group will be prescribed a program of
      exercise training consisting of daily stationary cycling from the start of the intervention
      to the day prior to surgery (minimum 3 weeks) combined with an individualized program of
      muscle strength training.

      Both groups will be evaluated for exercise tolerance, walking capacity and health and
      emotional status at enrolment and after 3 three weeks of training as well as at 4 weeks, 8
      weeks and 24 weeks (6 months) post-surgery. The main outcome measure will be the 6 Minute
      Walk Test - a valid and reliable measure of functional walking capacity. The estimator of
      effect will be the proportion of people in each group who, at 8 weeks post-surgery, achieve
      or exceed their baseline value on this test (± 20m). The proposed sample size is 200. This is
      based on 80% power to detect a difference of 22% in the proportion recovering to baseline
      values (40% in standard and 62% in prehabilitation). The results of this trial will be used
      to inform practitioners and patients alike of the benefits (or risks if any) of exercise in
      preparing for surgery.
    
  