
    
      Study design

      A total of 600 participants will be enrolled and randomised to one of three arms: low mg/kg
      single dose tafenoquine (5 mg/kg); medium mg/kg single dose tafenoquine (9 mg/kg); and high
      mg/kg dose tafenoquine (12.5 mg/kg). Due to tablet packaging, doses will be weight dependent
      and equal to 200, 300, 400, or 600 mg given as a single dose for the description of the study
      treatment arms). Each arm will have 200 participants (~120 participants per country). The
      schizonticidal agent used will be determined by the study site for description of
      schizonticidal treatment). Tafenoquine will be given concomitantly with the schizonticidal
      agent on the day of enrolment. The participant will be followed daily until the malaria smear
      is negative for asexual parasites or until the schizonticidal treatment is completed,
      whichever occurs last. Follow up will continue on day 7, 14, 21, and 28 then every month
      until month 6. Participants will be instructed to follow up in between visits if they are
      feeling unwell. This is an open label randomised trial and neither participants nor clinical
      study staff will be blinded to the treatment allocation.

      Recruitment

      Potential participants will be recruited from the outpatient setting at the following sites:

        -  Mahidol Oxford Tropical Medicine Research Unit (MORU), Cambodia

        -  Lao Oxford Mahosot Hospital Wellcome Trust Research Unit (LOMWRU), Lao PDR

        -  Myanmar Oxford Clinical Research Unit (MOCRU), Myanmar

        -  Mahidol Vivax Research Unit (MVRU), Thailand

        -  Shoklo Malaria Research Unit (SMRU), Thailand

        -  Oxford University Clinical Research Unit (OUCRU), Vietnam

      Screening and Enrolment

      Patients presenting with fever or history of fever and have asexual P. vivax parasitaemia by
      microscopy will be approached for informed consent. After written informed consent has been
      provided, study staff who have been trained in phlebotomy will draw approximately 7.19 mL of
      blood. Medical history, participant weight, vital signs and physical examination, point of
      care haemoglobin, quantitative glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase testing, and urine pregnancy
      testing will be performed to determine if the volunteer can be enrolled.

      Randomisation

      Randomisation will be done by sequentially numbered sealed envelopes. The randomized arms
      will be low (5 mg/kg), medium (9 mg/kg) or high (12.5 mg/kg) single dose tafenoquine. The
      doses will be provided in a dosing table in the protocol.

      There will be no control arm per se (i.e. with primaquine, the current standard of care) as
      the study is designed to evaluate the relationship of the tafenoquine dose (drug exposure)
      with the therapeutic response (P. vivax recurrence within 6 months).

      Direct Observation of Drug Administration

      In order to ensure complete adherence to the prescribed drug regimens, all drug
      administration will be directly observed by study staff. Study staff will provide the
      participant with the appropriate dosing of the drug for that day and observe the participant
      taking the drug.

      The following procedures are to be performed for each direct observation of drug
      administration subsequent to the first dosing:

        -  Record adverse events as reported by participant or observed by study staff

        -  Record vital signs

        -  Record the date and time of study drug administration

      Study staff will review any available laboratory findings prior to drug administration. The
      investigator will determine if any adverse event requires discontinuation of the study
      medication or results in inability to continue to comply with study procedures.

      Follow-up Visits

      Participants will be followed daily until the malaria smear is negative once or when the
      schizonticidal treatment is completed, whichever is later. Follow up will continue on days 7,
      14, 21, and 28, then months 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 (total of 12 visits depending on parasite
      clearance time).

      Daily visits must occur on the exact day scheduled. The visit windows for the day 7, 14, and
      21 visits are +/- 3 days, for the day 28 visit + 2 weeks/- 3 days, and for the months 2, 3,
      4, 5 and 6 visits are +/- 2 weeks.

      The following procedures are to be performed for each visit:

        -  Medication history and concomitant medication use

        -  Record adverse events as reported by participant or observed by study staff

        -  Record vital signs and physical examination

        -  Collect blood samples for laboratory tests

        -  Review all available laboratory results

      At study exit on month 6, any participant with ongoing, unresolved adverse events will be
      referred to care for appropriate clinical follow-up in the outpatient department. If the
      participant has a P. vivax recurrence, they will be treated as per the randomisation arm and
      study activities (blood sampling and follow up) will restart as episode 2, day 0. The total
      study duration will remain the same. This means that the study completion date is 6 months
      from the date of enrolment for all participants regardless of the number of P. vivax
      episodes.

      Missed Visits

      In case of a no-show at the clinic for a scheduled study visit, study personnel (or community
      engagement) will call the participant if the participant has a phone. Study personnel (or
      community engagement) may visit the participant's home to remind the participant of the study
      visit. Maximum efforts will be made to ensure complete follow-up in the trial, including
      routine education for participants on follow-up schedules. For participants who do not
      complete a scheduled visit within the visit window, that visit will be documented as "missed"
      and follow up will continue.

      Participant Withdrawal or Termination

      Each participant has the right to withdraw consent for study at any time. In addition, the
      investigator may discontinue a participant from the study at any time if the investigator
      considers it necessary for any reason including:

        -  Ineligibility (either arising during the study or retrospective having been overlooked
           at screening)

        -  Significant non-compliance with treatment regimen or study requirements

        -  An adverse event which requires discontinuation of the study medication or results in
           inability to continue to comply with study procedures

      The reason for withdrawal will be recorded in the case report form (CRF). If the participant
      is withdrawn due to an adverse event, the investigator will arrange for follow-up visits or
      telephone calls until the adverse event has resolved or stabilized. Participants who have
      been withdrawn or terminated from the study will not be replaced.

      Sample Size

      The trial hypothesis is that radical curative efficacy is determined by the total drug
      exposure, approximated by the total area under the whole blood tafenoquine concentration-time
      curve. This trial aims to characterise the dose-efficacy relationship of single-dose
      tafenoquine by randomising patients to receive target doses close to 5, 9 and 12.5 mg/kg
      (corresponding approximately to the previously tested Southeast Asian adult doses of 300,
      450, or 600 mg, constrained by available tablet sizes). The clinically relevant primary
      efficacy endpoint (which for a single dose regimen is the equal to the effectiveness) is the
      occurrence of a microscopy detectable recurrent vivax malaria after treatment. The
      investigators have used previous data from the study sites on infection rates, P. vivax
      relapse rates, and a published model of tafenoquine population pharmacokinetics to construct
      a simulation model which allows for approximate determination of the sample size required to
      characterise the exposure-response curve for the hypnozoiticidal activity of tafenoquine. The
      population pharmacokinetic model of tafenoquine was used to generate area under curve
      exposure values as a function of the randomised doses and simulated patient weights. In
      addition, the investigators used estimates from the phase 2 studies of the area under curve -
      hypnozoiticidal efficacy relationship (pharmacodynamic model) to generate plausible estimates
      for the dose-response curve. The resulting pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic simulation model,
      adapted to Southeast Asia (where higher doses of 8-aminoquinoline treatment are needed),
      accounting for inter-site variability, estimated that 200 patients per arm (approximately 120
      per country) were needed to provide 90% power to characterise the dose-response relationship
      (Figure 7). Sparse pharmacokinetic sampling, with 4 blood samples in the first week and
      additional samples at 14 and 28 days, will allow for subsequent determination of individual
      patient area under curve values, and an accurate characterisation of the population
      dose-efficacy curve.

      DATA HANDLING AND RECORD KEEPING

      Data Collection All study data will be recorded on standard paper Case Report Forms (CRFs).
      Data will be entered on a secure database in accordance with standard operating procedures
      (SOPs). A study-specific data management plan will detail procedures for collection, curation
      and storage of study data.

      Source documents are original documents, data, and records from which participants' CRF data
      are obtained. These include, but are not limited to, hospital records (from which medical
      history and previous and concurrent medication may be summarized into the CRF), clinical
      charts, laboratory, correspondence, log books, and CRFs. For most variables, the CRF will be
      considered the source document.

      All documents will be stored safely in confidential conditions. On all study-specific
      documents, other than the signed consent and screening logbook, the participant will be
      referred to by the study participant number/code, not by name.

      Data Access

      The participants will be identified by a study identification number in the study database.
      The name and any other identifying detail will NOT be included in any study data electronic
      file. The database linking the volunteer's clinical identification number (ie. hospital
      number) to the study identification number will be kept by the individual study sites and the
      data analysis team will not have access to this information. All records will be kept locked
      and all databases will be password protected such that clinic staff and study staff will have
      access to their respective databases.

      Direct access will be granted to authorized representatives from the sponsor, host
      institutions and the regulatory authorities to permit trial-related monitoring, audits and
      inspections.

      Data Storage

      Each study site will maintain, and store securely, complete, accurate and current study
      records throughout the study. In accordance with the University of Oxford's policy, research
      data and records should be retained for five years for adults, and for children until the
      youngest child participating in the trial reaches 21, or in accordance with the
      local/in-country regulation. Applicable records include source documents, site registration
      documents and reports, informed consent forms, and notations of all contacts with
      participants.

      Data Sharing

      Participant's data and results from blood analyses stored in the database may be shared
      according to the terms defined in the MORU data sharing policy or other researchers to use in
      the future. All personal information will be anonymised so that no individual can be
      identified from their treatment records.

      Quality Control and Quality Assurance

      The study will be conducted in accordance with the current approved protocol, International
      Conference on Harmonisation (ICH) Good Clinical Practice (GCP), relevant regulations,
      standard operating procedures, and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The
      Clinical Trials Support Group (CTSG) at MORU will provide study oversight, quality
      management, and study monitoring.

      Statistical Analysis

      Baseline participant characteristics will be compared across study arms using standard
      descriptive statistics. To assess the primary and secondary endpoints of microscopy and
      sub-microscopic P. vivax recurrence, respectively, logistic regression will be used to
      compare rates of P. vivax infection between study arms and determine whether age or other
      demographic factors, mg/kg tafenoquine dose, tafenoquine area under curve or CYP2D6 status
      are predictive of recurrence. Logistic regression will also be used to analyse the presence
      of gastrointestinal adverse effects associated with use of concomitant medication, drug
      exposure, and CYP2D6 status. Methaemoglobin levels and association with tafenoquine area
      under curve will be analysed using linear regression. The estimated tafenoquine area under
      curve model will be based on previous work on primaquine pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic
      analysis using nonlinear mixed-effects modelling.
    
  