
    
      All participants will be admitted to the GCRU, the SRU, or the CRR and maintained on
      sublingual Bup/Ntx. During the first week after admission, participants will be withdrawn
      from their prior opioid analgesic regimen and will be stabilized on one of three doses of
      buprenorphine/naloxone (2/0.5, 8/2, or 16/4 mg per day). Participants will be treated for
      emergent withdrawal symptoms with supplemental supplemental medications (clonidine,
      clonazepam, compazine, ketorolac tromethamine, hydroxyzine, ranitidine, ondansetron,
      zolpidem) until withdrawal symptoms have dissipated, based on self-report and observer
      ratings. Each buprenorphine dose will be administered in equal divided doses according to a
      QID dosing schedule, and each dose will be maintained for a two-week period (one week of
      stabilization followed by one week of laboratory testing). Thus, stabilization will occur
      during Weeks 1, 3, and 5; testing will occur in Weeks 2, 4, and 6. Participants may receive
      an unaccompanied pass of up to 72 hours during Weeks 3 and 5 to attend to family obligations.
      Participants will be informed that urine toxicology screens will be conducted upon their
      return to the hospital, and that testing positive for drugs other than the study medication
      may result in discharge from the study. The order of administration of these three doses will
      vary among subjects in a randomized manner. At the completion of laboratory testing in Week
      6, participants will be stabilized on 16 mg of buprenorphine. This final week of
      stabilization ensures that (1) any acute effects of high-dose oxycodone administration in the
      laboratory have dissipated and do not affect opioid dependence level; and (2) participants
      have sufficient opportunity to stabilize on the dose of buprenorphine on which they will be
      maintained during the outpatient phase.

      Participants whose pain is not adequately relieved by Suboxone (buprenorphine/naloxone) will
      we removed from the study by the investigators. A criterion for dropout during the inpatient
      phase will be: clear decline in functional status, such as sustained worsening of mobility or
      marked decline in level of activity. In the event that average daily pain level worsens from
      baseline by 30% or more (e.g. 6/10 to 9/10), a clinical evaluation will be performed to
      consider whether the participant should be removed from the protocol, or should be allowed to
      continue to participate. The clinical determination will include an assessment of whether
      pain has improved throughout the inpatient stay as a range of doses are tested.

      During the subsequent outpatient phase medication will be dispensed on a weekly basis and
      will consist of (1) a standing maintenance dose of 16 mg Suboxone (buprenorphine/naloxone),
      and (2) doses of Suboxone to be taken on a prn basis for breakthrough pain (prn doses will
      not exceed 25% of the total daily standing dose). Patients will report to the Substance Use
      Research Center (SURC) twice per week for 12 weeks for clinical visits.
    
  