
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of carboplatin in combination with
      berzosertib (M6620) and gemcitabine/pembrolizumab, in patients with squamous cell non-small
      cell lung cancer (Sq-NSCLC). (Lead-in Phase 1B) II. To compare progression-free survival
      (PFS) of carboplatin/gemcitabine/pembrolizumab with and without M6620 in patients with
      Sq-NSCLC, as measured by a hazard ratio in an intent-to-treat analysis. (Phase 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare progression-free survival (PFS) of carboplatin/gemcitabine/pembrolizumab with
      and without M6620 in patients with Sq-NSCLC, as measured by a hazard ratio in an as-treated
      analysis.

      II. To compare PFS of carboplatin/gemcitabine/pembrolizumab with and without M6620 in
      patients with ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM)-deficient Sq-NSCLC, as measured by a hazard
      ratio.

      III. To compare overall survival (OS) and overall response rate (ORR) of
      carboplatin/gemcitabine/pembrolizumab with and without M6620, in patients with
      chemotherapy-naive Sq-NSCLC.

      IV. To determine the systemic drug exposure of M6620 and gemcitabine, as correlates of
      efficacy and toxicity.

      V. To determine the safety and tolerability of M6620 in combination with
      carboplatin/gemcitabine/pembrolizumab.

      VI. To observe and record anti-tumor activity.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify molecular subpopulations of patients who have increased sensitivity to the
      M6620/carboplatin/gemcitabine/pembrolizumab combination.

      II. To explore the prognostic and predictive qualities of the ATM immunohistochemistry (IHC)
      assay for clinical response and PFS.

      III. To explore inflammation-associated gene signatures and clinical response.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose de-escalation study of carboplatin followed by a phase II
      study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1,
      gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8, carboplatin IV over 30 minutes
      on day 1, and berzosertib IV over 60 minutes on days 2 and 9. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      then receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and berzosertib IV over 60 minutes on
      days 2 and 9. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 9 months in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive pembrolizumab alone IV over 30
      minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 6 weeks for up to 1 more year in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive pembrolizumab, gemcitabine hydrochloride, and carboplatin as in Arm
      A.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 12 months.
    
  