
    
      Cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is a major cause of
      morbidity and mortality days after securing the aneurysm due to development of cerebral
      ischemia and strokes. Vasospasm is detected by measuring the blood flow velocities in the
      cerebral circulation via daily Transcranial Dopplers (TCD). There is no effective treatment
      except for a per os calcium channel blocker (nimodipine) and for keeping the patient
      hypertensive and with euvolemia or hypervolemia. A recently proposed option is to dilate the
      cerebral vessels by infusing continuously another vasodilatory calcium channel blocker,
      nicardipine, and supporting the systemic blood pressure (BP) with vasopressors which do not
      constrict the cerebral vasculature at the same time. Nicardipine has also been used
      extensively intra-arterially as a bolus or infusion to dilate the vasospastic cerebral
      vessels as a rescue therapy for severe vasospasm.

      Clevidipine is a novel, short-acting calcium channel blocker, which in a small series of
      patients with SAH at Henry Ford Hospital, was able to control the elevated BP very
      efficiently and within a narrow window, without adverse events. It has never been used before
      for ameliorating vasospasm, but theoretically offers advantages compared to nicardipine due
      to its shorter half-life and easier titratability. Except for use of clevidipine for BP
      control in the investigators previous study, there are no data on clevidipine use after SAH
      and no data about effect of the drug on vasospasm.

      In this single-center, open-label, uncontrolled, pilot clinical study, the investigators
      hypothesize that clevidipine low-rate infusion will decrease sonographically-detected
      moderate cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal SAH. The dose of the drug in this exploratory
      study is 2.5 to 5 times lower than the dose used previously to control BP. The effect of the
      drug will be evaluated in 20 patients by TCD monitoring during 3 periods: 1-hour
      pre-infusion, 4-hour infusion and 4-hour post infusion. The cerebral blood flow velocities,
      which are a surrogate marker of vasospasm, will be compared between the 3 periods. The
      primary efficacy end-point will be the percentage of measurements with at least a 10% or more
      decrease of the velocities during the infusion period. Potential long-term effects after
      discontinuation of the drug will be also evaluated in the post-infusion 4-hour period and
      beyond, until the last follow up. The major safety issue is hypotension induced by the drug
      during a period when vasospasm is present. For that reason, two measures will be taken.
      First, only patients with moderate vasospasm will be evaluated. Second, vasopressors will be
      used as needed during the infusion period to counteract the systemic circulatory effect of
      the drug and maintain a stable systemic Mean Arterial Pressure (MAP) within 10% range
      compared to pre-infusion. Potential effect of cerebral vasodilation on intracranial pressure
      (ICP) will be also evaluated during the infusion and post-infusion periods and any elevation
      > 10 mm Hg will be reported.
    
  