
    
      Screening Visit:

      Discuss the purpose of the study and the required completion of study-related questionnaires
      and their potential impact for active duty members. (research-driven) Obtain signed Informed
      Consent Document and HIPAA Authorization (research-driven).

      Review the patient's past medical history in Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology
      Application (AHLTA) or ESSENTRIS to verify the inclusion/exclusion criteria.
      (research-driven) The investigators will record the subject's tobacco use history, alcohol
      use history, marijuana use history, other illicit drug use history, and previous
      non-prescription use of opioids. (standard of care) Obtain an overall pain score, from 0 to
      100, with 100 being the worst pain imaginable. (research-driven) Obtain a localized pain
      score from 0 to 100, with 100 being the worst pain imaginable, which the patient attributes
      specifically to the hernia that is scheduled for surgical intervention. (research-driven)
      Instruct patients to discontinue use of any over-the-counter pain medications, such as
      ibuprofen, naproxen, or acetaminophen containing medications, that were not prescribed by the
      investigators during this study.

      Subjects will have the following blood test drawn, which include (research-driven):

      Fasting comprehensive metabolic panel (liver function, renal function, plasma glucose tests)
      via 1 venipuncture (5-10 milliliters, approximately 1-2 teaspoons of blood will be drawn)
      Subject's CMP results must be within 30 days of the day of surgery or it will need to be
      repeated.

      Women of childbearing potential will have a serum pregnancy test (5-10 milliliters,
      approximately 1-2 teaspoons of blood) or urine pregnancy test (10 drops or less than 1
      milliliter of urine) (research-driven). Visit 1 (may occur the same day as the screening
      visit or the same day as visit 2):

      The standard of care local anesthesia used for this type of surgery is bupivacaine. The
      surgeon will be reminded via a note in the medical record. (standard of care) Subjects will
      be randomized by the MOFMC Pharmacy into one of two naturally stratified groups (e.g., opioid
      naive patients and non-opioid naive patients), with further randomization into an opioid +
      ibuprofen study group or an opioid + placebo study group The MOFMC Pharmacy staff will
      maintain a key that can be used to un-blind the randomization scheme if needed for an
      emergent patient care issue. Study ID numbers will be used to maintain blinding and
      confidentiality. (research-driven)

      Opioid naive patients (used an opioid for less than 14 days in the past 6 months, and no
      history of opioid use disorder at any time) will be randomized into one of two groups:

      Group A: Subjects will be prescribed ibuprofen 800 milligrams by mouth every 8 hours as
      needed for pain for 5 days, and 1 to 2 tablets of oxycodone/acetaminophen 5 milligrams/325
      milligrams (Qty. 30) by mouth every 4 hours as needed for pain for 5 days.

      Group B: Subjects will be prescribed 800 milligrams of a placebo pill (containing corn
      starch) to be taken by mouth every 8 hours as needed for pain and 1 to 2 tablets of
      oxycodone/acetaminophen 5 milligrams 325 milligrams (Qty. 30) by mouth every 4 hours as
      needed for pain for 5 days.

      Non-Opioid naive patients (opioid use for more than 14 days in the past 6 months, or history
      of opioid use disorder) will be randomized into one of two groups:

      Group C: Subjects will be prescribed ibuprofen 800 milligrams by mouth every 8 hours as
      needed for pain for 5 days, in addition to their preferred opioid medication prescription.

      Group D: Subjects will be prescribed or advised to continue to take only their preferred
      current oral opioid prescription (codeine, hydrocodone, hydromorphone, morphine, methadone,
      oxymorphone, or transdermal fentanyl).

      Subjects will complete the Beck Depression Inventory-II or the Patient Health Questionnaire
      (PHQ-9) depression screen, and it will be reviewed on the same day of completion.
      (research-driven) Subjects will complete the Pre-Operative Activities Assessment Scale (AAS),
      and it will be reviewed on the same day of completion. (research-driven) Subjects will
      complete the Opioid Risk Tool (ORT) , and it will be reviewed on the same day of completion.
      (research-driven) Subjects will be asked "How likely do you think it is that you will develop
      an addiction problem from pain medication you take after surgery?" and chose from 1 of 4
      answers: 1: "not at all"; 2: "unlikely"; 3: "somewhat likely"; or 4: "very likely".
      (research-driven) Subjects will be asked "On a scale of 0-100, with 0 being no pain and 100
      being the worst pain imaginable, what is your average level of pain at rest in the past 24
      hours?" (research-driven) Subjects will be asked "On a scale of 0-100, with 0 being no pain
      and 100 being the worst pain imaginable, what was your lowest level of pain when at rest in
      the past 24 hours? (research-driven) Subjects will be asked "On a scale of 0-100, with 0
      being no pain and 100 being the worst pain imaginable, what was your highest level of pain
      when at rest in the past 24 hours? (research-driven) Subjects will be given a Medication and
      Pain Level Diary and will be instructed to complete it every day for 14 days beginning after
      their surgery. The investigators will record information from the subjects' surgery, for
      example: the start and end times of surgery and anesthesia, how long the surgery lasted, how
      difficult the surgery was, were the ilioinguinal, genitofemoral, or iliohypogastric nerves
      identified and were they protected, injured, or transected, and which opioids the
      anesthesiologist gives at any point during the case after incision. (research-driven) The
      preoperative instructions will include standardized verbal and written instructions: "After
      your surgery, it is expected that the patient will experience a certain amount of pain for a
      short period of time. The patient will be prescribed pain medication that you should take
      only when you are in pain. If the patient is no longer experiencing pain, the patient should
      stop taking the medication. If the patient does not require all of the pain medication that
      was prescribed, the patient should record the amount of medication that was unused and then
      properly dispose of the remainder." (standard of care)

      Visit 2 (day of surgery-prior to surgery):

      Subjects will receive prescriptions for medications according to their randomization group.
      These prescriptions will be filled at the MOFMC pharmacy, which will perform the subjects'
      randomization assignments. The ibuprofen and placebo capsules will be delivered to the MOFMC
      Pharmacy after being compounded by Solutions Specialty Pharmacy. (research-driven) Subjects
      will complete the Pre-Operative AAS (approximately 5 minutes to complete), and it will be
      reviewed on the same day of completion. (research-driven) Research staff will record the
      start and end times of the surgery, record the amounts of standard of care pain medications
      used during their hospital stay, document any standard of care pain assessments that were
      performed, and document the anesthesia the subject received. (research-driven) Subjects will
      be reminded in the Post Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU) to complete their Medication and Pain
      Level Diary and reminded to complete it every day for the 60 days beginning after they are
      discharged from the hospital. (research-driven)

      Visit 3 (Post-Op day 0 Contact (at time of discharge from post-anesthesia care unit)):

      Subjects will be contacted by research team in person or via telephone and asked the
      following questions in this order (research-driven):

      On a scale of 0-100, with 0 being no pain and 100 being the worst pain imaginable, what is
      the average level of pain when at rest in the past 24 hours? On a scale of 0-100, with 0
      being no pain and 100 being the worst pain imaginable, what was the lowest level of pain when
      at rest in the past 24 hours? On a scale of 0-100, with 0 being no pain and 100 being the
      worst pain imaginable, what was the highest level of pain when at rest in the past 24 hours?
      What pain medications are the patient taking including the strength (in milligrams), and how
      many total doses have you taken since your surgery? Time of last opioid medication taken?
      Relief from starting pain is: 0 = none, 1= a little, 2 = some, 3 = a lot, 4 = complete
      Subjects will be reminded to complete their Medication and Pain Level Diary.
      (research-driven)

      Visits 4-8 (Post-op Day 1 through Day 5 Contact (each visit every 24 hours plus or minus 4
      hours visit window):

      Subjects will be contacted by research team in person or via telephone and asked the
      following questions in this order (research-driven):

      On a scale of 0-100, with 0 being no pain and 100 being the worst pain imaginable, what is
      the average level of pain when at rest in the past 24 hours? On a scale of 0-100, with 0
      being no pain and 100 being the worst pain imaginable, what was the lowest level of pain when
      at rest in the past 24 hours? On a scale of 0-100, with 0 being no pain and 100 being the
      worst pain imaginable, what was the highest level of pain since when at rest in the past 24
      hours? What pain medications have been taken, including the strength (in milligrams), and how
      many total doses have been taken since the last study visit? Time of last opioid medication
      taken? Relief from starting pain is: 0 = none, 1= a little, 2 = some, 3 = a lot, 4 = complete
      Subjects will complete the Post-Operative AAS, and it will be reviewed on the same day of
      completion. (research-driven) Subjects will be reminded to complete their Medication and Pain
      Level Diary. (research-driven)

      Visit 9 (Post-Op day 14 Contact (plus or minus 2 day visit window)):

      Subjects will be contacted by research team in person or via telephone at their
      Post-Operative Follow Up Visit and asked the following questions in this order (in-person)
      (research-driven):

      On a scale of 0-100, with 0 being no pain and 100 being the worst pain imaginable, what is
      the average level of pain when at rest in the past 24 hours? On a scale of 0-100, with 0
      being no pain and 100 being the worst pain imaginable, what was your lowest level of pain
      since your when at rest in the past 24 hours? On a scale of 0-100, with 0 being no pain and
      100 being the worst pain imaginable, what was your highest level of pain since your when at
      rest in the past 24 hours? What pain medications are being taken including the strength (in
      milligrams), and how many total doses have been taken since the last study visit? Time of
      last opioid medication taken? Relief from starting pain is: 0 = none, 1= a little, 2 = some,
      3 = a lot, 4 = complete Subjects will complete the Post-Operative AAS, and it will be
      reviewed on the same day of completion. (research-driven).

      Subjects will return their Medication and Pain Level Diary and be issued a new one for the
      remainder of the study. (research-driven) Subjects will be reminded of the two remaining
      contacts. (research-driven)

      Visit 10 (Post-Op day 30 Contact (plus or minus 5 day visit window)):

      Subjects will be contacted by research team in person or via telephone and asked the
      following questions in this order (research-driven):

      On a scale of 0-100, with 0 being no pain and 100 being the worst pain imaginable, what is
      the average level of pain when at rest in the past 24 hours? On a scale of 0-100, with 0
      being no pain and 100 being the worst pain imaginable, what was the lowest level of pain when
      at rest in the past 24 hours? On a scale of 0-100, with 0 being no pain and 100 being the
      worst pain imaginable, what was the highest level of pain when at rest in the past 24 hours?
      What pain medications are being taken including the strength (in milligrams), and how many
      total doses have been taken since your last study visit? Time of last opioid medication
      taken? Relief from starting pain is: 0 = none, 1= a little, 2 = some, 3 = a lot, 4 = complete
      Subjects will complete the Post-Operative AAS, and it will be reviewed on the same day of
      completion. (research-driven).

      Subjects will be reminded to complete their Medication and Pain Level Diary.
      (research-driven)

      Visit 11 (Post-Op day 60 Contact (plus or minus 5 day visit window)):

      Subjects will be contacted by research team in person or via telephone and asked the
      following questions in this order (research-driven):

      On a scale of 0-100, with 0 being no pain and 100 being the worst pain imaginable, what is
      your average level of pain when at rest in the past 24 hours? On a scale of 0-100, with 0
      being no pain and 100 being the worst pain imaginable, what was the lowest level of pain
      since your when at rest in the past 24 hours? On a scale of 0-100, with 0 being no pain and
      100 being the worst pain imaginable, what was the highest level of pain when at rest in the
      past 24 hours? What pain medications are being taken including the strength (in milligrams),
      and how many total doses have been taken since the last study visit? Time of last opioid
      medication taken? Relief from starting pain is: 0 = none, 1= a little, 2 = some, 3 = a lot, 4
      = complete Was there a diagnosis of post-operative neuralgia at any point following your
      surgery? Was there a diagnosis of an inguinal hernia recurrence at any point following your
      surgery? Was there a diagnosis of a surgical site infection at any point following your
      surgery? Subjects will complete the Post-Operative AAS, and it will be reviewed on the same
      day of completion. (research-driven).

      The Medication and Pain Level Diary will not be collected from the patient. (research-driven)
    
  