
    
      Nissen fundoplication is a commonly performed procedure in infants and children with
      gastroesophageal reflux and a variety of other medical conditions including respiratory
      compromise, severe neurologic impairment, failure to thrive and swallowing dysfunction.
      Randomized controlled trials in adults have shown that laparoscopic fundoplication is a safe
      procedure that results in lower morbidity, shorter hospital length of stay and similar 5-year
      recurrence rates when compared to an open procedure. The aim of this study is to compare
      laparoscopic and open Nissen fundoplication in children less than 2 years of age.

      Children younger than 2 years of age presenting for Nissen fundoplication will be randomized
      to either a laparoscopic or an open procedure. Patients who have already undergone
      anti-reflux surgery or whose hospitalization is anticipated to be prolonged by an unrelated
      illness will be excluded. All procedures will be performed at a single institution by two
      surgeons who will perform both the open and laparoscopic procedures.

      A total of 68 patients will be needed (34 in each group) to detect a 20% difference in length
      of stay at a significance level of p < 0.05 and power of 80%. Patients will be followed for
      up to 2 years postoperatively. Variables to be compared between the two groups will include
      age, gender, presence of neurologic impairment, presence and specification of any congenital
      abnormalities, total operative time, total dose of narcotic analgesia required, postoperative
      day on which the patient tolerated full feedings, postoperative and total lengths of stay as
      well as the occurrence of postoperative complications (including wound infection and the need
      for immediate reoperation). The primary outcomes analyzed will be length of stay and amount
      of narcotic analgesia required. Longer-term outcomes including persistent GERD, wrap failure
      and need for reoperation within 24 months of the initial procedure also will be determined.
    
  