
    
      Systems of Support (SOS) to Increase Colon Cancer Screening and Follow-up A. Specific Aims
      There is strong evidence that colorectal cancer screening (CRCS) decreases colorectal cancer
      (CRC) mortality and reduces colorectal cancer incidence. Despite the efficacy of screening,
      40-60% of eligible adults are not screened at recommended intervals, and many have never had
      any type of CRCS. Screening failures occur not only from lack of screening but also from
      breakdowns in follow-up of positive tests, which obviates the benefits of screening.
      Strategies for improving the uptake of CRCS typically focus on either patients or health care
      providers, without describing the infrastructure changes, or systems of support (SOS), that
      are required to implement and sustain these changes.

      We propose a two-part study using the Chronic Care Model to organize SOS. We will identify a
      cohort of Group Health patients aged 50 -73 years who have not had a colonoscopy (CS) in 10
      years, a flexible sigmoidoscopy (FS) in 5 years, or a fecal occult blood test (FOBT) in 10
      months.

      Part One:

      Subjects will be randomized to receive one of four interventions of stepwise increasing
      intensity of support.

        1. Usual care (UC).

        2. Automated (UC+ mailed information, access to a cancer screening hotline, mailed FOBT
           cards, and a reminder card).

        3. Assisted (UC + automated + a medical assistant) to document screening intent and assists
           patients via the resources already supplied or sending requests to the patient's
           physician.

        4. Care management (UC + automated + assisted + cancer screening nurse support) who
           counsels patient and assists with this screening plan (assessing procedural risk, and
           ordering tests).

      Part Two: Patients with a positive FOBT or a positive FS (CS needed) will be randomized to
      one of two follow-up intervention arms: A. Usual care (which at Group Health includes a
      registry and physician alerts) or B. Care Management (UC + cancer screening nurse who manages
      care after a positive test). Our study hypotheses are that increasing levels of SOS will
      result in increasing CRCS rates, and care management by cancer screening nurses will increase
      follow-up rates after a positive test.

      The primary specific aims are:

        1. To compare the effectiveness of each intervention condition on increasing CRCS rates.

        2. To compare the effectiveness of each intervention condition on follow-up after a
           positive screening test.

           The secondary aims are:

        3. To assess the effects of each intervention condition on participants' cognitive,
           affective, and social factors related to CRCS adherence and satisfaction with medical
           services

        4. To compare utilization, costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness of each intervention
           condition.
    
  