
    
      Scientific hypothesis: Patients treated with preliminary intravesical installation in a
      timely fashion before TURBT are expected to show lower recurrence rate and better outcome
      then control patients.

      Participants: Three hundred patients designed to undergo TURBT in the urology department at
      "Sheba" Medical Center at "Tel Hashomer", Israel.

      Exiting the research:

        1. Patient is not completing the procedure due to allergic reaction or serious adverse
           effect during the heated intravesical instillation .

        2. Patient having according to pathology report muscle invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) and
           expects to undergo cystectomy.

      Protocol steps Eligible patients give their consent to participate in the study. A
      preliminary grouping (for low, intermediate and high risk groups) will be initiated according
      to cystoscopy examination results. (this step is for administrative purpose in order to
      achieve equal amount of participants between groups during follow-up phase) Then participants
      will randomly assign, according to randomized computer software to two major arms, those who
      receive the heated thermo-chemo therapy and those who will not. The intravesical instillation
      will take place up to 6 hours prior TURBT in the following matter: The "Elmedical" system
      will introduce intravesically a 40mg of heated Mitomycin-C (MMC), diluted in 50cc of saline
      at a uniform temperature (44-44.50C). The length of the procedure - 50 minutes.

      Once pathological reports will arrive, the participant will assign to his/her actual risk
      group stratification. Participants with recurrent disease will be assigned into separated
      intermediate or high risk groups accordingly.

      consequently five stratification groups are created in each major research arm (with or
      without prior heated intravesical instillation) Follow-up of each participant, at any group
      takes two years. During the follow-up period a urine cytology and routine cystoscopy will be
      carried out every 3 month. Patients with intermediate to high risk disease will receive six
      courses of intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) installation according to
      international guidelines. Participants who for any reason won't be able to complete the BCG
      intravesical instillations will be offered a MMC instillation instead. Participant that
      pathological report is indicating a muscle invasive disease will be offered a cystectomy and
      exit the study (unless the participant avoids cystectomy by his/her own decision).

      The investigators are obligate ourselves for surveillance according to international
      guidelines (as intravesical instillations of BCG or performing repeat TURBT / Biopsy by
      need).

      Potential bias: Different surgical skills between urologists, Quality of pre-TURBT
      installation of thermo-chemotherapy.

      Duration: Four years with two years follow up per participant.
    
  