
    
      Chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a major health problem that affects 71 million
      people worldwide. Patients with chronic HCV infection may present with various hepatic and
      extrahepatic manifestations which lead to substantial morbidity and mortality. In contrast,
      the long-term health outcome improves following successful HCV eradication by antiviral
      therapies.

      Owing to the excellent efficacy and safety as well as the short treatment duration, the use
      of interferon (IFN)-free direct acting antivirals (DAAs) has become the standard-of-care for
      managing HCV. Sofosbuvir (SOF) is a pyrimidine nucleotide analogue which acts as the HCV
      ribonucleic acid (RNA) chain terminator by inhibiting HCV non-structural protein 5B (NS5B)
      RNA-dependent RNA polymerase following intrahepatic activation to uridine triphosphate form.
      Dephosphorylation results in the formation of inactive metabolite (GS-331007) that undergoes
      extensive renal excretion. Clinically, SOF is administered once-daily with pangenotypic
      potency, well tolerability and a high genetic barrier to drug resistance. Furthermore, SOF
      can be used in combination with NS3/4A protease inhibitors (PIs), NS5A inhibitors, and/or
      ribavirin (RBV) to achieve high rates of sustained virologic response (SVR). Therefore,
      applying SOF-based DAAs for HCV is welcome to most treating physicians.

      Following the widespread use of SOF-based DAAs for treating HCV in different populations, a
      large-scale real-world HCV-TARGET study enrolling 1,789 patients indicated that patients with
      a baseline eGFR ≤ 45 mL/min/1.73m2 were associated with a higher risk of worsening renal
      function than those with a baseline eGFR > 45 mL/min/1.73m2 following SOF-based DAAs.
      Moreover, three retrospective studies showed that SOF-based DAAs negatively affected the
      on-treatment and off-therapy eGFR. On the contrary, other studies showed that the use of
      SOF-based DAAs did not worsen the eGFR. Because most studies were retrospective in nature
      without protocol-defined time point for eGFR assessment or patient election, and did not
      enroll patients receiving SOF-free DAAs as the controls, the investigators thus conducted a
      prospective study to evaluate the evolution of eGFR in patients with chronic HCV infection
      receiving SOF-based or SOF-free DAAs.
    
  