
    
      This study has two goals. One of these goals is to see if a new genetic test can determine if
      participants are at risk of developing Mild Cognitive Impairment due to Alzheimer's Disease
      (MCI-AD) within the next five years. The other goal is to evaluate the study drug called
      pioglitazone. Pioglitazone is being tested to delay the onset of MCI-AD. This study will look
      at the effectiveness of pioglitazone in delaying the onset of MCI-AD in cognitively-normal
      people who are at high-risk of developing MCI-AD, as identified by the biomarker in the
      non-Hispanic/Latino Caucasian participants.

      This multi-centre trial will be conducted worldwide. The study will enroll approximately 3500
      subjects. Participants will be assigned to high or low risk groups for developing MCI- AD
      within the next five years, based on the results of the biomarker risk algorithm.
      Participants in the high risk group will be randomly assigned to one of the two treatment
      groups-which will remain unknown to the participant and study doctor during the study (unless
      there is an urgent medical need):

        -  Pioglitazone tablet

        -  Placebo (dummy inactive pill) - this is a tablet that looks like the study drug but has
           no active ingredient.

      Participants in the low risk group will be assigned to placebo. The assignment of each
      participant to the high or low risk group, as well as the participant's treatment assignment,
      will remain undisclosed to the participants and study doctor during the study (unless there
      is an urgent medical need).

      All participants will be asked to take one tablet at the same time each day throughout the
      study.

      The overall time to participate in this study is approximately 5 years. Participants will
      make up to 14 visits to the clinic, and will be contacted by telephone 3 months after each
      treatment visit for a follow-up assessment, and 2 weeks after the final visit.
    
  