
    
      In this phase I/II trial natural killer (NK) cells or memory T lymphocytes will be infused
      from donors who have recovered from COVID-19 and have complete resolution of symptoms for at
      least 14 days.

      There will be two arms based on the biology of the donor and the patient:

        1. Infusion of NK cells which are cells of the innate immune system that can eliminate
           virally infected cells.

        2. Infusion of memory T cells which have the SARS-COV-2 memory T cell repertoire.

      The investigators expect a quick recovery of the patients with pneumonia or lymphopenia for
      two reasons:

        1. NK cells act quickly after a viral infection. The number and function of NK cells
           correlates with the severity of another coronavirus infection, Severe Acute Respiratory
           Syndrome (SARS), originated in China in 2002.

           Moreover, the investigators have previous successful experience with other viruses such
           as CMV, EBV and HHV-6.

        2. The pool of memory T cells will increase in patients. Memory T cell levels are low in
           these patients. These lymphocytes have long-life memory, which upon reencountering
           SARS-CoV-2 will induce enhanced effector function resulting in greater protection of the
           patient.

      Patients who have recovered from COVID-19 are the ideal donor candidates because they have
      immune cells with memory against SARS-CoV-2. Therefore, the infusion of NK and memory T cells
      from these donors will increase the pool of cells with cytotoxicity to virally infected
      cells, and will increase the pool of memory cells that respond quicker to a previously
      encountered stimulus.

      This will impact in saving thousands of lives, releasing hospital beds, reducing the costs of
      a national health system and improving the economy of a locked-down country.

      Cell therapies are safe and cost-effective and successfully used in other diseases. the
      investigators need new innovative treatments where others have failed.
    
  