
    
      Medical masks in use today are disposable and consist of three or four fine to very fine
      fibers. Medical masks are divided into three groups as type I, type II, and type IIR
      according to performance requirements. It is generally recommended for type I patients, type
      II, and type IIR healthcare professionals. The fact that many people in society use medical
      masks for hours in the current outbreak conditions and it is not known how long this
      situation will last suggests that the effects of the medical mask should be investigated
      further. This study was designed to investigate the effects use of a medical mask on exercise
      capacity and lower extremity endurance in young people. In the analysis using the G * Power
      3.1.9.7 program, the sample size was calculated as 79 when the power ratio was at least 85%
      and the alpha error rate was 0.05. Participants included in the study will perform 3 field
      tests. Tests will be performed in the form of 30 seconds sit-to-stand test, incremental
      shuttle walk test (ISWT), and 6-minute walk test (6 MWT), respectively. Participants will
      come to the working place for 2 days to be evaluated. In this process, they will perform
      field tests one day with a medical mask and the other day without a mask. Whether the field
      tests to be performed on the first day will be with or without a medical mask will be decided
      through randomization. The tests to be made in the second visit will be carried out within 10
      days with the time of the previous test, environmental conditions, and test sequence. The
      mask to be used in tests is a type I medical mask recommended for general public health in
      outbreak situations. The mask has three layers. During the study, the mask will be replaced
      with a new one at the end of each test. Also, mask-wearing comfort at rest, during daily
      living activities, and after ISWT will be evaluated with a 10-item scale. In the study,
      attention will be paid to precautions such as the researcher's use of a face shield and the
      protection of social distance in order to prevent the risk of contamination.
    
  