
    
      Noncompliance in taking medication is very common among people with schizophrenia, and is a
      frequent cause of relapse of symptoms. A long-acting injectable formulation that ensures slow
      but steady release of risperidone over a period of several weeks would eliminate the need to
      take medication on a daily basis, and improve compliance. This is an open-label,
      international, multicenter study in subjects with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder
      who completed the risperidone microspheres arm of study RIS-INT-62, or who completed study
      RIS-INT-85, or who dropped out of the risperidone microspheres arm of study RIS-INT-62 due to
      treatment with 75 mg long-acting injectable risperidone. Patients have to begin this study
      within 7 days of the final visit in the RIS-INT-62 or RIS-INT-85 studies. The end point visit
      of the RIS-INT-62 or RIS-INT-85 study serves as the first visit of this open-label study.
      Patients can start this study on the same dose as the last risperidone microsphere injection
      that they received in the previous study, or at a dose that was 12.5 mg lower or higher than
      the previously received dose. Patients who received 75 mg risperidone microsphere injection
      during study RIS-INT-62 can continue on this dose but an attempt will be made to decrease the
      dose to 50 mg within 3 months. The total study duration is planned to be at least 1 year or
      until approval of long-acting injectable risperidone in the respective country. The study
      hypothesis is that treatment with the long-acting injectable formulation of risperidone every
      2 weeks for at least 1 year will be safe and well tolerated, as assessed by adverse event
      reporting, the extrapyramidal symptom rating scale, laboratory tests, vital signs
      measurements, physical examinations, body weight measurements, electrocardiograms, and
      injection site evaluations. Patients will receive injections of risperidone depot
      microspheres (25, 37.5, 50, or 75 mg) in their gluteal muscle at 2-weekly intervals for at
      least 1 year.
    
  