
    
      Cords are bands of tissue that are present in the axilla following breast cancer surgery and
      may extend across the antecubital fossa and into the forearm. Cords are often painful to
      patients and limit their shoulder range of motion.The proposed study design involves the
      recruitment of patients who are enrolled in Partners Protocol # 2008P000540, a prospective
      analysis of symptoms, functionality and quality of life questionnaire to evaluate lymphedema
      in patients following treatment for breast cancer. This protocol recruits newly diagnosed
      breast cancer patients prior to any treatment interventions. Subjects are required to undergo
      volumetric arm measurements and complete the Lymphedema Evaluation Following Treatment for
      Breast Cancer Questionnaire (LEFT-BC) which will allow for the evaluation of changes in
      functionality, upper extremity utilization (fear associated avoidance), and quality of life.
      Throughout treatment patients will be screened before and after each treatment event:
      surgery, chemotherapy and radiation. Following the conclusion of treatment for breast cancer,
      patients will be measured at least 2 times per year (every 4-7 months). If during these study
      visits the patient notes cording symptoms, the research staff administering the questionnaire
      will be alerted. At this point, they will notify a designated medical provider who will
      perform a physical examination of the area to confirm the presence of cording. Once the
      presence of cording is verified, the patient will be provided with the opportunity to enroll
      in the proposed trial. Due to the current limited knowledge on the nature of the condition,
      the patients arm and axilla will have to be imaged within 7 days of the physical exam
      confirmation. The patients will be asked to return to the vascular imaging lab located on the
      Massachusetts's General Hospital's main campus. They will undergo a venous duplex ultrasound,
      on a General Electric LOGIQ-9 unit with a Phillips-IU-22 probe.
    
  