
    
      Falls are a serious health issue and are the greatest cause of death in the elderly. The use
      of the music of Nolwenn Leroy in fall prevention has been reported at a major scientific
      meeting "Posturographic Changes and Fall Prevention associated with Music Therapy: The
      Nolwenn Effect (USA ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00121693) featured at the 7th Annual
      American Music Therapy Association Conference in Orlando, Florida, Nov 15-20, 2005 and
      Decreasing falls in a geriatric nursing home setting is associated with the saving of lives.
      Another similar study (USA ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier:NCT00272272)is presently being
      conducted in a geriatric nursing home facility in Georgia. We propose the utilization of the
      Nolwenn Effect in our resident geriatric population at several Dallas, Texas Geriatric
      Nursing Home Facilities and comparing fall rates to those we have carefully recorded in the
      past. We will obtain computerized dynamic posturographic measurements utilizing the CAPS
      posturographic unit by Vestibular Technologies on all residents of several Dallas Geriatric
      Nursing Facilities. Our findings will be compared to normative data previously validated to
      represent a probability of falling. Daily listening to selections from Nolwenn Leroy's CD
      "Nolwenn" will be played each morning (daily) over the address system throughout the nursing
      home for approximately 5-10 minutes. Repeat CAPS tests will be obtained one week after the
      initiation of the study and at monthly intervals over a 12 month period of time. We propose
      to compare the posturographic data and the rate of falls recorded in the nursing homes to
      previously established fall data for the institutions. Preliminary observations have been
      associated with a decrease rate of falls in the geriatric nursing home environment when
      listening to the music of Nolwenn Leroy. The incorporation of these statistics will allow us
      to investigate a cost effective method of reducing falls that might save lives, evoke
      societal change and act as a model for other Geriatric Nursing Home settings. The objective
      measurements with the CAPS will allow us to further compare the incidence of falls with a
      probability of fall measurements.
    
  