
    
      Introduction/Clinical Significance Vancomycin is the standard first-line treatment for
      methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) bacteremia. In recent years however, there
      has been an increase in the number of MRSA isolates with high vancomycin minimum inhibitory
      concentrations (MIC). Recent consensus guidelines recommend clinicians consider using
      alternative agents such as daptomycin for MRSA infection when the vancomycin MIC is greater
      than 1 ug/ml. To date however, there has been no head to head randomized trial comparing the
      safety and efficacy of daptomycin and vancomycin in the treatment of blood stream infections
      (BSIs) due to MRSA with high vancomycin MICs.

      Specific Aims:

      Our primary aim is to compare the efficacy of daptomycin treatment versus vancomycin
      treatment in the treatment of MRSA BSIs due to isolates with high vancomycin MICs (i.e. > or
      equal to 1.5 ug/mL) in terms of reducing all-cause mortality.

      Our secondary aim is to compare clinical failure rates of daptomycin treatment versus
      vancomycin treatment and to compare time to microbiological clearance in patients treated
      with daptomycin versus those treated with vancomycin.

      Hypothesis:

      Daptomycin treatment is superior to vancomycin treatment in reducing mortality from BSIs due
      to MRSA with high vancomycin MIC from 25% to 10%.

      Methodology We will conduct a prospective open label randomized controlled phase 2B pilot
      study in 3 major Singaporean hospitals, with balanced treatment assignments within each
      hospital achieved by permuted block randomization. There will be 21 subjects per arm, with
      the control arm receiving vancomycin and the experimental arm receiving daptomycin. The
      primary objective is to compare the efficacy of daptomycin treatment versus vancomycin
      treatment in the treatment of MRSA BSIs due to isolates with high vancomycin MICs (i.e. > or
      equal to 1.5 ug/mL) in terms of reducing all-cause mortality 60 days from positive index
      blood culture. Secondary outcomes include rates of clinical failure, time to microbiological
      clearance, and rates of nephro- and muscular toxicities in both arms.

      If the pilot study proves our hypothesis that indeed , we aim to proceed with a larger scale
      trial
    
  