
    
      Objectives:

        -  To evaluate effect of the three doses of the non-racemic methadone HCl on the metrics of
           pain intensity in comparison to placebo.

        -  To determine minimally effective and maximally tolerated doses of non-racemic methadone
           HCl for the treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain.

        -  To evaluate safety and tolerability of non-racemic methadone HCl therapy.

      Study Design:

      This is a pilot efficacy and safety study comprised of two parts.

      Part I is a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study of three daily doses (15 mg, 30
      mg and 40 mg) of non-racemic methadone compared with placebo. Two lower doses (15 mg and 30
      mg) will be administered for 1 week. The final dose (40 mg) will be administered for 2 weeks.
      After receiving three consecutive doses of the assigned drug the subjects will be switched to
      another regimen. Two 28-day treatment periods will be separated by a 14-day washout
      (drug-free) interval.

      Subjects will be randomly assigned to one of the two treatment sequences:

      Sequence 1: non-racemic methadone HCl (Period 1) followed by Placebo (Period 2); Sequence 2:
      Placebo (Period 1) followed by non-racemic methadone HCl (Period 2).

      Subjects completing Part I will be enrolled into the open-label, single-arm extension.
      Subjects discontinuing the study while on placebo may also be eligible for the enrollment.
      During the 6-week extension phase (Part II of the study) subjects will be treated with
      non-racemic methadone HCl with continuous dose titration driven by the clinical response
      (degree of pain relief) and reported adverse events. The Parts I and II will be separated by
      a 14-day washout (study drug-free) interval.

      Number of Patients:

      Up to fifty (50) subjects diagnosed with neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral
      neuropathy will be enrolled in the study; approximately 30 subjects are expected to complete
      Study Part I. Enrollment will be terminated when this completion target is achieved.

      Study Duration:

      The duration of Study Part I is approximately 12 weeks, the duration of Study Part II is
      approximately 6 weeks. A total study duration (including screening and final evaluations) is
      expected to be approximately 20 weeks.
    
  