
    
      The muscle weakness associated to intensive care, one of the components of Post Intensive
      Care Syndrome (PICS) has a significant impact on the short-term and long-term outcomes in the
      critically ill patient (1, 2). Puthucheary et al. (3) analyzed 63 septic patients with
      imaging examination and established a clear relationship between the number of organ failures
      and muscle loss in the first 10 days of ICU. Although a study involving 244 critically ill
      patients has shown an alarming relationship between reduced muscle mass at admission and
      mortality (4), evidences that nutritional interventions can attenuate muscle loss and result
      in improvement in outcome are unclear. Recent studies evaluating the impact of nutritional
      therapy on clinical outcomes have surprisingly demonstrated that patients who received full
      nutritional intake did not differ in outcomes when compared to those receiving reduced
      nutritional intake, the so-called permissive underfeeding (5, 6, 7). Careful analysis of
      these studies, however, reveals that the authors define hyponutrition as synonymous with
      reduced calorie intake, without mentioning the protein intake offered to the patients. The
      study with the greatest scientific repercussion (8) used reduced caloric intake in the study
      group, but the protein intake did not differ between groups. Observational studies comparing
      high protein intake with conventional intake have shown improvement in outcome indicators in
      patients receiving more than 1.6 and even more than 2.0 g / kg / day of protein (9, 10).
      Recently the intensive care medicine research agenda published in the journal of the European
      Society of Intensive Care Medicine, the top priority of the nutrition research in the
      critically ill patients was to compare normal and hyperproteic nutrition ideally associated
      with physical activity (11). Several recent studies have shown benefits of early physical
      rehabilitation in the critically ill patient (12, 13).

      The optimal integration between adequate protein intake and exercise in the critically ill
      patient may have an impact on short- and long-term outcomes, but this hypothesis has not yet
      been tested by studies with a good methodology. The hypothesis of this prospective randomized
      phase II study is that the association of high protein intake with early physical
      rehabilitation improves physical function after hospital discharge with a significant impact
      on quality of life.
    
  