
    
      Protocol synopsis Study title "Low flow" CO2 removal via a membrane gas exchange device
      (Prismalung®) on a renal replacement platform (Prismaflex®) in hypercapnic, ventilated
      patients requiring renal replacement therapy Brief description Prismalung Study Indication
      Hypercapnic, ventilated, and renal replacement therapy requiring patients Primary study goal
      Changes in the arterial pCO2 value Secondary study goals Changes in the acid-base balance
      Changes of tidal volumes/ventilation pressures Changes in hemodynamics Study design
      Prospective intervention study (pilot study)

      Study population Inclusion criteria:

        1. Necessity of renal replacement therapy

        2. Necessity of ventilation therapy with an expected duration >24 hrs. in mild to moderate
           ARDS according to the "Berlin Definition" (300≥PaO2/FiO2>100mmHg, ventilated acc. to the
           ARDS network strategy with VT 6 ml/kgKG (KG = Körpergewicht, body weight) and PEEP ≥ 5
           cmH2O)Pneumonia, pulmonary vasculitis, COPD, or other pulmonary disorder

        3. PaCO2 ≥ 55 mmHg with plateau ventilation pressure > 25 cmH2O and pH < 7.30

        4. Written consent by patient or legal representative

      Number of patients n = 20 Interventions 1. With ongoing continuous hemofiltration and
      mechanical ventilation additional membrane gas exchange device (Prismalung®) in the renal
      replacement circulation; measurements of the effects on PaCO2 under varying blood and sweep
      gas flows 2. Afterwards, reduction of the tidal volume (VT) / plateau pressure until reaching
      the initial PaCO2value Study drug None Primary endpoint 1. Changes in the PaCO2 / acid-base
      status (BGA) 2. Changes of the VT / plateau pressure in the ventilation (ventilation
      settings) Secondary endpoints Changes in the systemic hemodynamics Vasopressor dosage BGA,
      renal values, lactate PaCO2 before and after gas exchange device Lifetimes of the
      extracorporeal circulation Complications Study site Intensive care units Medizinische Klinik
      4, Uniklinikum Erlangen-Nürnberg Medizinische Klinik 4, Klinikum Nürnberg Süd Klinik für
      Intensivmedizin Universitätsklinikum Hamburg Eppendorf Klinik für Anästhesiologie und
      Intensivmedizin Universitätsklinikum Frankfurt a. M. Timeline Start in October 2015
      Anticipated study duration: 6 months Financing Baxter Gambro Renal GmbH (Ltd)
    
  