
    
      STUDY DESIGN

      The Phase 2 study will be conducted in conjunction with companion protocol (Cell Harvest and
      Preparation to Support Adoptive Cell Therapy Clinical Protocols and Pre-Clinical Studies) as
      described below:

      Cell Preparation:

      Patients with evaluable metastatic uveal melanoma who have lesions that can be resected with
      minimum morbidity will undergo resection of tumor. TIL will be obtained while enrolled on the
      companion protocol (Cell Harvest and Preparation to Support Adoptive Cell Therapy Clinical
      Protocols and Pre-Clinical Studies). Separate tumor procurements may be performed under a
      protocol to obtain TIL if initial tumor procurements could not successfully generate TIL. The
      TIL will be grown and expanded for this trial according to standard operating procedures
      submitted in the IND. The TIL will be assessed for potency by interferon-gamma release.

      Treatment Phase:

      Once cells exceed the potency requirement and are projected to exceed the minimum number
      specified in the COA, the patient will be registered on this study and receive the lymphocyte
      depleting preparative regimen consisting of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide, followed by
      infusion of up to 2x10^11 lymphocytes (minimum of 1x10^9 cells) and administration of
      high-dose intravenous aldesleukin. It is anticipated that TIL that meet the COA will not be
      achievable in approximately 20% of patients who undergo resection. These patients may undergo
      a second resection to grow TIL, if another suitable lesion exists. Approximately 6 weeks (+/-
      2 weeks) after TIL administration, patients will undergo a complete tumor evaluation and
      evaluation of toxicity and immunologic parameters. Patients will receive one course of
      treatment. The start date of the course will be the start date of the chemotherapy; the end
      date will be the day of the first post-treatment evaluation. Patients may undergo a second
      treatment. Patients will receive no other experimental agents while on this protocol.
    
  