
    
      After initial presentation of our data concerning this regimen (in pancreatic cancer) at the
      2003 and 2004 ASCO meetings, a number of practitioners began using the regimen for pancreatic
      cancer patients. More importantly, several of these investigators began using the same
      regimen for patients with unresectable and metastatic biliary tree cancers, such as
      cholangiocarcinoma. In personal communications with us, they have cited the absence of
      reasonable alternatives as the primary reason to experiment with novel regimens. They have
      described to us case reports, whereby patients with cholangiocarcinoma had objective
      responses to this regimen. Personally, our group, in a pilot study, has treated 5 patients
      with the GTX regimen, and has documented 3 partial responses and 1 stable disease in 3
      patients afflicted with cholangiocarcinoma and 2 with gall bladder cancer. In this
      prospective study (to date 08/09), three patients have been enrolled and two of them achieved
      a partial response, by RECIST parameters, of >30% reduction in tumor size by cycle 3 (the
      first evaluation point). Therefore, we believe that GTX will show efficacy in treating this
      disease.

      Indeed, there is clinical evidence of efficacy of these drugs in cholangiocarcinomas. In a
      phase II trial, single agent gemcitabine produced a 30% partial response rate and a 30%
      stable disease rate in chemotherapy-naïve, cholangiocarcinoma patients.(8) A retrospective
      review of patients treated with combination fluorouracil (continuous infusion) and
      gemcitabine (30 minute infusion) demonstrated a 33% response rate and a 30% stable disease
      rate, with a median survival of 5.3 months. The low, observed rate of grade 3-4
      myelosuppression (11%) suggests this is a well tolerated regimen.(9) Likewise, gemcitabine
      and docetaxel have been combined in the treatment of these cancers, resulting in a 33%
      response rate and a 36% stable disease rate (3). We hope to improve upon these studies by
      substituting a sixty minute infusion rate for gemcitabine instead of the traditional thirty
      minute infusion, and by substituting capecitabine for infused fluorouracil. In addition, we
      have tested the GTX regimen in 2 cell lines in our lab: one cholangiocarcinoma and one gall
      bladder human line. We found that when GTX is given all at once to the cells, there is no
      increased cytotoxicity, but when given in the amount and dosing sequence that mimics the GTX
      regimen of this protocol, there is significant synergistic cytotoxicity. This synergism
      produces approximately a 3-fold increase in cell kill as compared with any other combination
      of the drugs or from any single drug in the GTX regimen. Given our laboratory data in
      cholangiocarcinoma cell lines that demonstrates synergy between these drugs, we are
      optimistic that we can produce superior results with less toxicities.
    
  