
    
      Stroke is the leading cause of death and of serious long term disability in adults, three
      mouths after stroke, 20% of people remain wheelchair bound, and 70% walk at reduced velocity
      and capacity.

      People who suffer a stroke, when regain ambulatory function, walk with typically asymmetrical
      gait pattern, slow, and metabolically inefficient. These characteristics are associated with
      difficulty advancing and bearing weight though the more affected limb, leading to instability
      and increased risk of falls.

      Manually-assisted body-weight supported Treadmill training (BWSTT) is a contemporary approach
      to gait rehabilitation after stroke, whereas an individual walks on a treadmill, the
      therapists manually facilitate hemiparetic limb and trunk control in an effort to normalize
      upright reciprocal stepping and dynamic postural control. Advantages of this approach are
      that little to no ambulatory function is required to initiate locomotion and early post
      stroke training effects are transferred of improvements in over ground gait including:
      symmetry, speed, and endurance as well as motor impairment and balance scores.

      An example of electromechanical devices is Lokomat, a robotic gait orthosis combined with
      harness-supported body weight system is used together with a treadmill. However the main
      difference from treadmill training is that the patient's legs are guided by the robotic
      device according to a preprogrammed gait pattern. A computer-controlled robotic gait orthosis
      guides the patient, and the process of gait training in automated.

      Lokomat can be used to give non ambulatory patients intensive practice in terms of high
      repetitions, of complex gait cycles with a reduced effort for therapists, as they no longer
      need to set the paretic limbs or assist trunk movements.

      The main objective of the present study was to compare the effects of exoskeleton devices
      used in electromechanical-assisted gait training after stroke compared to over ground
      conventional physical therapy in a single blind research.

      The second objective is to research when the devices can be used with the best chance of
      success in the functional recovery of gait in people who are unable to walk independently
      after stroke.
    
  