
    
      This is an interventional, multi-site, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of
      tACS in patients with FTD. The main aim of this study is to investigate the safety,
      tolerability and efficacy of gamma-tACS in patients with behavioral variant (bv)-FTD,
      demonstrating tACS potential mechanisms of action, target engagement, and thus informing the
      design of larger clinical trials.

      Participants will be screened at trial sites for determination of eligibility to enter the
      study on the basis of diagnostic evaluations, according to current diagnostic criteria for
      probable bv-FTD and safety assessments.

      Baseline assessments will consist of behavioral/cognitive evaluations, blood biomarkers,
      actigraphy, voice biomarkers, EEG and TMS-EEG and tACS with EEG measures, MRI, FDG-PET
      imaging (5-8 visits). Once participants have met all inclusion and exclusion criteria, they
      will be randomly assigned to either 6 weeks of daily tACS sessions or 6 weeks of daily Sham
      tACS sessions.

      Post-intervention visits will include FDG-PET scans, MRI, cognitive testing, tACS with EEG,
      blood biomarkers and TMS-EEG (5-8 visits). A follow-up visit will occur 3 months after the
      post-invention visit. This visit will include an EEG registration, cognitive testing and
      behavioral markers.

        -  tACS is a way of stimulating the brain externally using weak electric currents.

             -  Electrodes are placed into a cap that you wear on your head.

             -  A weak electrical current travels back and forth through the electrodes to your
                head.

        -  FDG-PET is a way of taking pictures of your brain using a special dye that is absorbed
           into your body. In this study, the dye will help us to see the glucose uptake in your
           brain. The PET scans for this study will be done at Massachusetts General Hospital
           (MGH).

        -  TMS is a noninvasive way of stimulating the brain and will be used in this study to
           measure your brain's plasticity. Brain plasticity is the brain's ability to change and
           learn through experience. TMS uses a magnetic field to cause changes in the brain
           activity. The magnetic field is produced by a coil that is held next to your scalp. We
           will measure how your brain responds to the TMS before and after the tACS treatment.

        -  EEG is used in routine clinical care to measure the brain's electrical activity. EEG
           involves placing a cap with electrodes onto your head.

      The investigators will enroll a sample of 20 age-matched healthy controls, who will undergo
      evaluations similar to the bv-FTD baseline assessment except for PET imaging. Healthy
      subjects will not have the tACS intervention.
    
  