
    
      Preterm birth, its causes, prevention, complications and ramifications persist as an
      important focus of obstetrical research. In the United States 11.8% of all live births occur
      prior to 37 weeks gestation. As many as 45% of these deliveries will have been proceeded by
      preterm labor with intact membranes.(2) Both preterm labor and preterm premature rupture of
      membranes have both been associated with evidence intrauterine infection. While antibiotic
      treatment in conservative management of preterm PROM remote from term has been shown to
      significantly prolong pregnancy and reduce infant morbidity, (16) data regarding the
      effectiveness of antibiotics for pregnancy prolongation in preterm labor are inconsistent.
      (3-15) Currently, narrow spectrum antibiotics (penicillin or clindamycin) are given prior to
      delivery to reduce the risk of neonatal Group B Beta Streptococcus (GBS) sepsis, however
      broad spectrum antibiotic treatment of women with preterm labor for pregnancy prolongation is
      not recommended.

      Review of the literature regarding antibiotic treatment for pregnancy prolongation in preterm
      labor reveals that most studies utilized single agent therapy, and no study has evaluated the
      use of antibiotics for pregnancy prolongation in women with an advanced cervical exam (>4cm).
      While a number of studies have shown significant pregnancy prolongation in unselected
      populations,(5,12,13) only one study of 12 reviewed was able to show a neonatal benefit to
      adjunctive antibiotic use.(12,20) Norman, et al was able to show a reduction in the incidence
      of necrotising enterocolitis with the use of antibiotics. Given the number of studies in this
      area, and the lack of supporting evidence, this likely represents an alpha error. Another
      study by Svare et al was able to show a significant decrease in NICU admissions for women
      treated with antibiotics in the setting of preterm labor, however no change was reported in
      neonatal morbidities.

      Our proposed study is designed to evaluate patients at particular risk for preterm delivery;
      those with advanced cervical exam. In this randomized prospective controlled study, we intend
      to examine the influence of adjunctive antibiotic use in preterm labor complicated by a
      cervical exam of 4 cm or greater. We plan to compare a study group receiving broad-spectrum
      antibiotics with a control group that will not receive antibiotics for pregnancy
      prolongation. Both groups will receive antibiotics for GBS prophylaxis as indicated. We hope
      to see a delay in delivery in the study group as a primary outcome. Secondary outcomes will
      include the use of steroids, neonatal complications including sepsis, intraventricular
      hemorrhage, periventricular leukomalacea, mechanical ventilation and respiratory distress
      syndrome, retinopathy of prematurity and necrotizing enterocolitis, and neonatal ICU stay.
    
  