
    
      Nightmares are distressing or frightening dreams, affecting 2.4 to 5% of the population.
      Suffering consists of disturbed sleep, fear and distress during night and/or day, expectancy
      anxiety and impaired functioning during the day.

      Various forms of Cognitive Behavior Therapy (CBT) has been previously shown to be effective
      against nightmares and among them Imagery Rehearsal Therapy (IRT) has been the most
      promising. IRT consists of approaching the unpleasant dreams and to imagine a positive ending
      to them. So far IRT has been compared to untreated controls or treatments that have included
      methods to some extent similar to those in IRT, and it is therefore difficult to determine
      the specific effect of IRT.

      Since access to CBT therapists is low, different types of self-help treatments for nightmares
      have been tested, but often these therapies have been provided without the assistance of a
      therapist, a procedure known to usually lower the effect of self-help treatments. So far, no
      nightmare treatment has been conducted over the Internet.

      IRT will in this study be given as Internet CBT (ICBT) and will be compared to an active and
      credible control treatment (CONT) consisting of relaxation and exercise to focus on positive
      images or dreams, but without approaching or reinterpreting the nightmares. Relaxation
      Training has previously shown preliminary positive effects on nightmares. Both active
      treatments will be compared to a waiting list which only records how they manage their
      nightmares (REG).

      The main purpose of this study is to examine whether the positive effects of IRT that has
      been seen in previous studies persists even when IRT is compared with a credible, active
      control treatment that does not contain the presumed active parts of the IRT. In addition, an
      untreated control group is used to ensure that the effects are not only due to spontaneous
      improvement. The control group will afterwards be treated with IRT without therapist support,
      in order to make a preliminary evaluation of the importance of therapist support.

      Some researchers argue that nightmares are not to be seen only as something that is often
      caused or is a side effect of other conditions, but as a separate problem that should receive
      special treatment. Our study will help to determine whether it is possible to treat
      nightmares also in people with other problems such as posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
    
  