
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The total effect of a medication is the sum of its drug effect, placebo effect (meaning
      response of placebo), and their possible interaction. Current interpretation of the results
      of clinical trials (the gold standard in evidence based medicine) assumes no such
      interaction. Using a novel cross-over balanced placebo design and caffeine as a model drug we
      have recently shown that a negative interaction does exist; suggesting that the size of drug
      effect as currently measured by clinical trials may not be accurate. Due to the novelty of
      the findings and their important clinical practice and research implications, they need to be
      confirmed using another drug; and the size of drug effect measured using the novel design
      need to be directly compared to that measured using conventional clinical trial design.

      DESIGN:

      A cross-over balanced placebo plus randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial design.

      METHODS:

      480 adults will be double-blindly randomized to three groups: first generation H-1 receptor
      antagonist- hydroxyzine (25 mg), placebo, or hydroxyzine+placebo group. The first two groups
      will receive the assigned intervention described by the investigators as hydroxyzine or
      placebo, in a randomized crossover design. The third group will receive hydroxyzine and
      placebo in a randomized double-blind placebo-controled crossover design. Group assignment
      will be concealed from volunteers and recruiters. Data collectors will be blinded to group
      assignment and intervention assignment. Volunteers will be partially deceived to the
      intervention assignment in the first two groups and blinded in the third group. The
      interventions to the third group will be also administered blindly. Serum hydroxyzine levels
      will be determined 3 hours post intervention from all volunteers to verify compliance and
      help maintain deception/blinding. The results of the study are expected to further our
      understanding of a widely used medical intervention, i.e., placebo, and help assess the
      appropriateness of randomized clinical trials in determining the size of drug effect.
    
  