
    
      Background

      Primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is considered nowadays as the reperfusion
      strategy of choice for patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI,
      owing to a lower risk of myocardial re-infarction and improved short- and long-term survival
      compared to fibrinolysis. However, STEMI is still associated with poorer clinical outcomes
      after PCI, compared to stable CAD, with higher rates of stent thrombosis and an increased
      risk of myocardial re-infarction persisting throughout long-term follow-up. recent data from
      randomized controlled trials and meta-analyses demonstrate a consistent and strong signal
      towards a significant reduction in major adverse cardiac events among patients with STEMI
      undergoing primary PCI with third-generation DESs, compared with both first-generation and
      second-generation DESs with durable polymer. Importantly, this signal suggesting superiority
      of third-generation DESs in patients with STEMI has never been demonstrated with
      second-generation DESs. Third-generation DESs with enhanced biocompatibility may therefore
      have a particular clinical benefit in high-risk subgroups of patients with delayed vascular
      healing but these data warrants confirmation in appropriately designed randomized controlled
      trials.

      Objective

      The purpose of the study is to compare the safety and efficacy of a novel
      biodegradable-polymer sirolimus-eluting stent (Orsiro®) with a durable-polymer
      everolimus-eluting stent (Xience Xpedition or Xience Alpine®) in a superiority trial among
      patients presenting with acute STEMI and undergoing primary PCI.

      Methods

      Eligible patients with acute STEMI presenting within 24 hours of symptom onset will undergo
      primary PCI. At PCI, the randomly allocated stent has to be implanted in the culprit lesion
      of the target vessel.

      Patients will be followed-up with a hospital visit at 12 months. Patients will be followed-up
      for clinical endpoints by telephone at 30 days and 2 years.
    
  