
    
      Arterial blood pressure (ABP) monitoring is a corner stone in perioperative management.
      Recently, tight intraoperative individualized control of systolic blood pressure (SBP)
      (within 10% of baseline reading) was reported to reduce the risk of postoperative organ
      dysfunction in high risk patients undergoing abdominal procedures. However, proper control of
      SBP requires accurate measurement of ABP.

      The gold standard for ABP measurement is through a catheter placed in an artery. Being an
      invasive, measurement of BP through an arterial catheter is restricted to patients with rapid
      major fluid shifts. Many indirect methods are used for measurement of ABP. Oscillometric
      blood pressure (OBP) monitoring is considered the standard non-invasive monitor for use in
      most clinical situations. In OBP monitor, a pressure transducer located in the cuff senses
      the series of small oscillations heart-beat induced pulse volume changes. These oscillations
      are detected during deflation of the cuff pressure from above the SBP to diastolic blood
      pressure (DBP).

      The upper arm is the standard location of application of the blood pressure cuff as it is
      aligned with the heart level regardless the patient position. In obese patients, OBP
      monitoring is considered superior to auscultatory method which is limited by faint
      auscultatory sounds. However, application of blood pressure cuff at the upper arm in this
      population is frequently limited by large arm circumference and asymmetrical arm contour.
      Thus, locating the cuff at the wrist might be a more feasible alternative for the upper arm.
      OBP monitoring at the wrist was previously compared to auscultatory measurement of ABP in
      non-surgical patients. A recent study investigated the accuracy of OBP at the upper forearm
      in obese patients. No data to the best of our knowledge validated OBP monitoring at the lower
      forearm in obese patients using invasive blood pressure monitor as a reference standard.

      The aim of this work is to validate the wrist OBP monitor in obese patients and compare it to
      upper arm location (in accuracy, convenience, and trending) using invasive blood pressure
      monitor as a reference standard.
    
  