
    
      Purpose: The overarching purpose of this study is to determine whether MBSR is appropriate
      for a larger clinical trial. AIM 1: To explore the feasibility of conducting a randomized
      control trial (RCT) of an occupational therapist-led, 8-week MBSR program in an
      interprofessional primary care setting, with the following objectives: 1a. To assess
      participant recruitment, intervention adherence, and study retention, 1b. To explore the
      acceptability of delivering technology-based tablets (iPads) for intervention, and data
      collection in the MBSR program and 1c. To explore the perspectives of participants and
      healthcare providers with respect to satisfaction (e.g. the intervention and its delivery),
      perceived value, barriers to and facilitators of acceptability of this 8-week MBSR program in
      primary care.

      AIM 2: To evaluate the impact of MBSR on satisfaction with functional performance and
      psychosocial outcomes in individuals with SCD or MCI with the following objectives: 2a. To
      determine the effect sizes of satisfaction with functional performance and psychosocial
      outcomes Methods: A convergent mixed-methods, feasibility randomized control trial will be
      used. Participants will be randomized into an 8-week intervention or control group (usual
      care) and these groups will be compared at three different time points. Initially, data
      analysis will involve collecting and analyzing the quantitative and qualitative strands
      separately. Both qualitative and quantitative data will then be merged for comparative
      analysis to best understand both the feasibility of a larger clinical trial and to explore
      preliminary clinical outcomes from the study.

      Significance: The results gained from this study will help to determine the feasibility of
      pursuing a future fully powered trial. Ultimately, this line of research will determine if
      there are potential benefits of MBSR in improving perceived satisfaction of functional
      performance and alleviating concomitant psychosocial issues that is associated with those
      living with SCD and MCI.
    
  