
    
      SUSAC's Syndrome (SS) is characterized by the clinical triad of encephalopathy, hearing loss,
      and retinal artery branch occlusions. Since the first description of SS in 1979, hundreds of
      patients with SS, mostly young women, have been reported. However, comprehensive
      epidemiological, clinical and etiological features of SS have never been specifically
      addressed so far.

      The diagnosis of SS is difficult because its characteristic signs often do not occur
      simultaneously or may be too subtle for the patient to notice. Neurological features of SS
      may occur several months prior to other symptoms. The retinal artery branch occlusion, by
      occurring in the peripheral portion of the retina, may remain asymptomatic. Sensorineural
      hearing loss may also be asymptomatic and disclosed only by audiogram. Besides mild
      pleocytosis in cerebrospinal fluid, all performed biological tests are virtually negative. No
      infectious agent, consistent autoimmune marker, or coagulopathy has been disclosed. Changes
      seen on brain MRI are well characterized although not specific. The only site from which
      biopsy material is available for pathological analysis is the brain. The most common finding
      in brain biopsies is the presence of microinfarcts but brain biopsy is not currently
      performed.

      Although the treatment of SS has not been studied in controlled trials, most patients have a
      good response to treatment with glucocorticoids, with the addition of anti-thrombotic therapy
      and, for cases in which the disease is refractory to steroids, intravenous immune globulin or
      cyclophosphamide. The clinical course is characterized by recurrent attacks involving 1 or
      more components of the triad that characterize the active phase of the disease. Remission
      usually occurs after the active phase but some patients show residual mild to moderate
      dementia or gait disturbance, and impaired hearing and vision.

      SUSAC's Syndrome is a vasculopathy causing small infarcts in the cochlea, retina and brain.
      Proposed explanations include a hypercoagulable state, vasospasm, and vasculitis, none of
      which are supported by laboratory results or findings on brain biopsies. The unique
      distribution of arteriolar disease affecting the brain, the retina, and the cochlea suggests
      selective vulnerability of these three structures. The brain, retina, and cochlea all have a
      blood-tissue barrier, and the endothelium in these sites shares a common embryologic origin
      and unique structural and antigenic characteristics. It has therefore been proposed that SS
      is an autoimmune disease in which the endothelium is the primary target, and damage to the
      endothelium triggers arteriolar occlusion and microinfarcts. However, the pathogenesis
      remains unknown.

      The objective of this study is to characterize the epidemiological, clinical, and etiological
      features of SUSAC's Syndrome. In this aim, we will constitute a national clinical-based
      cohort including all SS cases retrospectively reported in France since the last 20 years and
      all new cases prospectively observed. French Society of Neurology, Ophthalmology and Internal
      Medicine will be asked to collaborate. Every case will be reviewed by an expert comity of
      internists, neurologists and neuroradiologists to validate the diagnosis. The exhaustive and
      systematic analysis of each case will help to better define different aspects of the disease
      such as the incidence and prevalence, the clinical presentation, the diagnostic modalities
      and the impact of treatments. Diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging of the brain will
      be obtained to more carefully study the cerebral microvasculopathy of the disease. Serum,
      cerebrospinal fluid, DNA samples from each patient will also be collected to study potential
      autoimmune, thrombotic and infectious markers.

      Because SUSAC's syndrome is a rare disease, we expect to include one hundred patients in this
      cohort. The constitution of the cohort and the collection of the samples will last for 2
      years and half.

      The conclusion of the study, based on statistical analysis done once all patients will be
      included in the cohort, should allow new recommendations in the diagnosis strategy and give
      new understandings of the therapeutic management of the disease. The result of this study may
      also give rise to hypothesis for an interventional study.

      It's important to underline that this study must be considered as an interventional study.

      Indeed, in this study the patients have a specific MRI, the acquisition of the sequences is
      with diffusion tensor. While in common practice the patients have only classical MRI without
      this specific sequences which is the routinely technique used.
    
  