
    
      A better understanding of the mechanisms by which the heart muscle fails in pediatric heart
      disease may result in novel therapies directed at preventing rather than treating ventricular
      failure. The most likely mediator candidate for cardiac demise in congenital heart disease as
      well as the cardiomyopathies is diffuse myocardial fibrosis and non-favorable chronic
      biventricular remodeling. As such, fibrosis may be a marker, if not a mediator, preceding the
      onset of actual echocardiographic and clinical deterioration, opening opportunities for more
      timely and targeted treatment. Chronic stressors of myocardial function (hypoxemia, abnormal
      afterload or preload) appear to promote fibrosis. In some groups of patients, a genetically
      upregulated collagen metabolism seems to play a role. In adult patients with dilated
      cardiomyopathy the extent of myocardial fibrosis is predictive of outcome.

      With cardiac magnetic resonance imaging, the characterization of myocardial tissue is
      possible. Whereas standard late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) CMR can only identify patchy
      scars neighboring healthy tissue, quantification of diffuse myocardial fibrosis in the living
      has become feasible with the T1 mapping technique. Both techniques (T1 mapping and LGE) are
      based on the principle that MR contrast medium (gadolinium) is trapped in between collagen
      fibres and is retained in areas of fibrosis while it is quickly washed out of healthy
      myocardium. As gadolinium is a T1 shortening agent, the fibrosed tissue with its 'trapped'
      gadolinium has a shorter T1 time than healthy tissue. T1 mapping measures the T1 time
      constant, which has been shown to correlate with the degree of fibrosis. In a refined
      approach of this technique, which we will use, it is now possible to quantify the
      extracellular space (equivalent to the degree of fibrosis) by T1 mapping. This method has
      been validated against the current gold standard of surgical myocardial biopsy.
    
  