
    
      Surgical Crown lengthening (SCL) procedure facilitates restorative and prosthetic
      rehabilitation to provide adequate clinical crown structure to teeth which are otherwise
      compromised due to subgingival pathologies. One of the main advantages of the surgery is gain
      in supragingival crown length which is desirable for restoring severely lost tooth structure.
      This procedure provides increase in retention and resistance forms of the tooth necessary for
      restorative treatment. Indications of this procedure are subgingival caries, crown & root
      fracture, short clinical abutments, cervical root resorption and altered passive eruption.

      Gargiulo et al. has given the concept of biologic width the distance between the base of the
      gingival sulcus and height of alveolar crest) based on classic histologic study in humans. He
      measured the average dimensions of epithelial junction and connective tissue attachment, the
      summed value of these dimensions gave biological width (2.04mm=0.97mm+1.07mm). Later on,
      Vacek et al.2 examined naturally occurring dimensions in human cadaver histomorphometrically
      and measured mean dimensions for epithelial attachment (1.14 +/- 0.49 mm) and for connective
      tissue attachment(0.77 +/- 0.32 mm). The average dimensions reported was approximately 2mm.
      The importance of biologic width lies in the fact that the violation of this width leads to
      gingival inflammation, attachment loss, and alveolar bone resorption. The integrity of
      biologic width should be maintained while performing crown lengthening for healthy hard and
      soft tissues, required for prosthetic and restorative rehabilitations.

      Nevins M et al. and Ingber JS et al. proposed "3mm rule" for crown lengthening. According to
      this, 3mm of alveolar bone should be removed during crown lengthening, but this can not be
      applicable to all cases. Deas DE et al. in a study demonstrated significant tissue rebound
      following crown lengthening which was found to be related to placement of flap with respect
      to alveolar crest. More the distance between POST SUTURING Flap position and alveolar crest,
      less was the tissue rebound observed.

      Osseous surgery in crown lengthening can be performed using rotary & manual instruments like
      carbide diamond burs, surgical chisels and files which leads to generation of heat,
      post-operative discomfort, swelling and trismus. Vercellotti et al. proposed that
      Piezosurgery is a new osteotomy procedure that requires microvibrations at ultrasonic
      frequency facilitated to cut hard tissue, while soft tissue remained unaffected. The sites
      treated with piezoelectric device had gain in bone level compared to sites treated by carbide
      bur or diamond bur. Ma LI et al and Esteves JC et al in a study performed on animals,
      demonstrated that the use of piezoelectric device in bone cutting showed advanced bone
      healing compared to traditional bone cutting. Sortino et al. proposed that piezosurgery
      osteotomy showed less post-operative complications (facial swelling, trismus, discomfort)
      although it required longer time for surgery. Verardi S.et al. evaluated and proposed that
      piezosurgery showed more favorable response in periodontal compromised patients in terms of
      less chewing discomfort, less cold sensitivity and low pain perception at various time points
      compared to conventional surgical treatment.

      Till date, no studies have compared the periodontal healing, patient based perception of
      pain, and discomfort after osseous resection in crown lengthening using piezosurgery with
      conventional rotary instruments. The aim of this study is to comparatively evaluate,
      clinically and radiographically,the changes in periodontal healing, surgical time required
      and postoperative morbidity observed in patients undergoing osseous resection in crown
      lengthening procedure with conventional rotary instruments versus piezoelectric device.

      The present prospective, analytical, randomized controlled clinical trial will be conducted
      in the Department of Periodontics and Oral Implantology, Post Graduate Institute of Dental
      Sciences, Rohtak Systemically healthy patients age group 18-60years will participate in this
      study. Each patient should have at least one tooth for conducting crown lengthening procedure
      either in maxillary or mandibular arch.

      Participants will be enlisted from the regular outpatient department of the Department of
      Periodontics and Oral Implantology and Department of Oral Medicine and Radiology after
      screening on the basis of inclusion and exclusion criteria . All participants will be given
      an outline of the study design and all patient-specific considerations and concerns will be
      properly addressed. All participants will be required to provide written informed consent.
      All patients enrolled in the study will be further randomly divided into the following two
      groups using computer-generated balanced block randomization table with 1:1 allocation

        1. Control group - For osseous resection in crown lengthening procedure, conventional
           rotary instruments will be used with copious irrigation of sterile saline.

        2. Test group-In this group piezoelectric device will be used for osseous resection in
           crown lengthening procedure with copious irrigation of sterile saline.

      Control Group Before surgical procedure all clinical measurements will be recorded using
      customized acrylic stents and radiograph will be taken. Administration of local anesthesia
      will be done for nerve block. Incisions will be given based on width of keratinized gingiva.
      Before resective surgery, the position of free gingival margins (FGM) will be recorded from
      the stent which will be placed on teeth before surgery, using periodontal probe.
      Intrasulcular incisions/internal bevel incisions will be given and elevation of full
      thickness mucoperiosteal flap will be done in both buccal and lingual aspect. The osseous
      resection will be performed based on presence amount of tooth structure to be gained for
      future restorative rehabilitation. The ostectomy (removal of bone supporting teeth) will be
      performed under combination of rotary instruments, bone chisels, carbide & diamond burs with
      copious saline irrigation & maintenance of natural bone anatomy and architecture throughout
      the procedure. Exposed root surfaces will be planed to prevent re-attachment and rebounding
      of free gingival margins to its initial position. After planning, the surgical sites will be
      closed after applying pressure for 3min and providing adaption. Suturing of flap shall be
      done based on presence of supracrestal gingival tissues(SGT) acquired postoperatively
      ,maintaining the preoperative dimensions of the SGT. Fixation of flap then placing apically
      to ensure maximum facial & lingual bone coverage. Measurements of parameter will be recorded
      by single investigator before and after surgery and post operative instructions will be given
      to patients once all procedure is completed. Patients will be recalled after 1week for suture
      removal, to evaluate patient morbidity and for demonstration of good oral hygiene. Patients
      will be re-evaluated at 3 & 6 months post-operatively.

      Test group All surgical procedure will be performed same as described in the control group
      except for the use of piezoelectric device for osseous resection used in this group instead
      of using conventional rotary instruments with carbide & diamond burs.

      All patients will be prescribed an antibiotic, an anti-inflammatory/analgesic and an
      antiseptic mouthwash starting from the day of surgery.

      PRIMARY OUTCOME

        -  Postoperative patient perceived outcomes

        -  Gain in crown length

        -  Change in alveolar bone level SECONDARY OUTCOME

        -  Stability of supracrestal gingival tissues

        -  Surgical time required Clinical parameters- Alginate impression will be made to provide
           study casts for full arch fabrication of customized probing stents.The stent will cover
           most of the tooth structure but away from gingival margins. The apical edge will be
           considered as fixed reference line for probe measurements. The following parameters will
           be recorded clinically and radiographically at baseline, 3 & 6months follow up period.

        -  Gingival index(GI), according to Löe and Silness

        -  Plaque index(PI), according to Silness and Löe

        -  Pocket probing depth(PPD)

        -  Free gingival margin(FGM; measured before surgery and after suturing i.e distance from
           stent to free gingival margin)

        -  Relative attachment level(RAL; measured before and after surgery i.e distance from stent
           to base of pocket)

        -  Bone level via transsulcular probing(BL-TSP; from stent under local anaesthesia before
           surgery and after 6months )

        -  Supracrestal gingival tissues will be measured by SGT=BL-TSP - FGM

        -  Direct bone level(DBL; before and after osseous resection measured from stent to osseous
           crest)

        -  Flap will be sutured at the level of SGT acquired post operatively.

        -  Postoperative pain using visual analog scale at treated site (VAS; a scale from 0-10; 0
           means no pain/discomfort, 10 means maximum pain/discomfort). at these time point: 1st
           day, 4th day and 7th day postoperative.

      All patients will be asked to fill the given format which include visual analog scale diagram
      ranging from 0-10 point scale.

      Radiographic- Intra oral periapical radiographic evaluation of alveolar bone level will be
      done at baseline, after surgery and 6 months post-operatively. By taking CEJ (cement enamel
      junction) as a fixed reference point to alveolar bone crest, bone level will be measured at
      various time periods using image j software. Standardised intraoral periapical radiographs
      will be taken by using customized bite block with paralleling angle technique using Rinn XCP
      holder.

      Data Collection And Methods All the data will be collected from calibrated and standardized
      manual periodontal probe (CP-15 UNC SE,Hu Friedy, Chicago IL). Measurements will be made at
      six sites on treated tooth(TT;
      mid-facial,mid-lingual/palatal,mesio-buccal,mesio-lingual/palatal,disto-buccal,disto-lingual/
      palatal)at four sites on adjacent tooth(AT; mesio-buccal, disto-buccal, mesio-lingual &
      disto-palatal/lingual)and at eight sites on non adjacent tooth(NA;tooth which is far from
      treated tooth;mesio-buccal,mesiobuccal furcation, distobuccal furcation, disto-buccal,
      mesio-lingual/palatal, mesio-lingual/palatal furcation, disto-lingual/palatal furcation,
      disto-lingual/palatal).

      DATA MANAGEMENT AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS Data recorded will be processed by standard
      statistical analysis. The normality of distribution of data will be examined by Shapiro Wilk
      test. Statistical analysis will be performed according to distribution of data. If it is in
      normal distribution, intra group comparison will be done by repeated ANOVA between different
      time points followed by paired T test between two time points and inter group comparison will
      be done by using Independent T test between two groups. If it is in non normal distribution,
      intra group comparison will be done by Wilcoxon signed rank test and inter group comparison
      will be done by Mann-Whitney U test. The Chi square test will be applied to analyze categoric
      data. Correlation and association between predictors and dependent variables will be analyzed
      by correlation analysis and regression analysis.
    
  