
    
      Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists are widely used in the treatment of type 2
      diabetes because of their ability to mimic the incretin hormone, GLP-1. GLP-1 increases
      glucose-dependent insulin secretion and thereby reduces the glucose level. Over the past few
      years, GLP-1 receptor agonists have been investigated as possible therapies for neurological
      disorders, due to their ability to cross the blood-brain-barrier. Evidence of the treatment
      of cerebrovascular diseases has been growing especially in animal stroke models. GLP-1
      receptors, which are located in the central nervous system on neurons and endothelium, are
      upregulated in the brain due to ischemia. GLP-1 receptor agonists have shown
      anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic properties, and they may protect the cell from oxidative
      stress and may protect the endothelium. The inner lining of blood vessels, the endothelium,
      is an active component of the endocrine function. It affects the formation of blood clots and
      plays a role in the disease mechanisms of stroke. The current acute and prophylactic
      treatments of stroke mainly target platelet function, but not endothelial function.

      This double-blinded, randomized, controlled, pilot trial investigates the effect of a single
      dose of the GLP-1 receptor agonist, exenatide, on cerebral blood flow velocity in the
      subacute phase of stroke in humans. The primary endpoint is the mean flow velocity in the
      middle cerebral arteries measured by transcranial doppler and cortical oxygination measured
      by near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). The secondary endpoints are the effects on the
      peripheral endothelium, hereby: 1) changes in the reactive hyperaemia index measured by
      EndoPAT2000, 2) changes in the ankle-brachial index, and 3) changes in
      endothelial/inflammatory biomarkers in the blood. The primary and secondary endpoints are
      measured before and up till three hours after administration of exenatide.

      The overall hypothesis is that GLP-1 receptor agonists may represent a novel potential
      neuroprotective treatment in stroke. Parallel to this study we investigate the effect of
      GLP-1 receptor agonist on people free of cerebrovascular diseases (ref. to EGRABINS1).
    
  