
    
      The aims of this study are to:

        1. Define PLGD natural history in a large cohort of individuals with hypoplasminogenemia
           and their first-degree family members.

        2. Identify factors that correlate with disease expression and severity.

        3. Create a specimen biobank for further studies, available to other researchers.

      The project will be international in scope with two collaborating centers that have created
      and will collect the subject data and samples. In North/Central/South America, the Indiana
      Hemophilia & Thrombosis Center (IHTC) will serve as the primary site while University of
      Milan will serve as the center for all other sites. The database is housed at the University
      of Milan, Italy.

      Study population will include males and females affected with hyposplasminogenemia of any
      age. Both one-year retrospective and three-year prospective data will be collected on an
      international cohort of 100 affected individuals and their first degree family members
      (parents, siblings; total estimated study population ~500).

      Study sample analysis, except for urine analyses, will be centralized and performed in Italy;
      the plasminogen antibody analysis will be batched for analysis, and the urine analyses will
      be performed locally. A sample biorepository will be created and ultimately housed in Italy.
      The study will provide testing for plasminogen activity and antigen, plasminogen genetic
      analysis, polymorphisms in genes that impact plasminogen expression and fibrinolysis, and
      global hemostatic assays. In addition, stored samples will be used for further testing and
      analyses to potentially include whole genome sequencing to further identify plasminogen
      genetic mutations as needed and to investigate other genetic modifiers of disease expression.
      An exploratory aim includes investigating the potential relationship with streptococcal
      strains and altered plasminogen products.

      The study period will be 3 years for each enrolled subject. In-person visits will be
      conducted and samples for analysis will be collected at baseline and at end of study.
      Interval follow-up will be performed every 6 months by telephone. data will be collected at
      unscheduled visits that are performed for clinical need at the treating physician's
      discretion.
    
  