
    
      COVID 19. A prospective case-control pathophysiological study of long term implications.

      The rationale of the study To identify the phenotype of patients who would have long term
      complications from COVID 19 The investigators hypothesize that

        1. Cytokine and inflammatory biomarkers and histopathology will allow phenotyping of
           patients with COVID 19 disease

        2. That clinical, histopathological and radiological correlation may provide further
           information into the different phenotypes of COVID 19 patients.

      Aim and Objectives of the study Primary objective: To phenotype COVID 19 patients based on
      biomarkers

      Secondary objectives:

        1. Risk factors for developing long term pulmonary complications

        2. Risk factors for thromboembolic disease

        3. Pathology of long term lung complications in COVID 19 Method

             1. Study design and setting This is a prospective cohort comparison study of patients
                with a confirmed diagnosis of COVID 19 clinically and with a positive Polymerase
                Chain Reaction (PCR) test or antibodies done later in the disease history.

             2. Study population All patients admitted to the hospital with confirmed COVID-19
                infection will be approached for the recruitment in the study following appropriate
                consent

             3. Study assessments Baseline Assessment The following data will be collected at the
                baseline Clinical

                  -  Demographics - age, sex, BMI (if available)

                  -  Co-morbid conditions, especially known respiratory disease and heart failure.

                  -  Date of onset of symptoms

                  -  History of presentation and onset of the disease with important clinical
                     features Physiological measurements

                  -  Inspired fraction of oxygen (FiO2), Oxygen saturation, heart rate, blood
                     pressure and temperature at the time of enrolment

                  -  Method of ventilation (spontaneous, high flow nasal cannula, non-invasive
                     ventilation, invasive ventilation, invasive ventilation + extra-corporeal
                     membrane oxygenation)

                  -  Ventilatory pressures (if applicable) Investigations

                  -  Radiological changes - chest -x-ray and CT scan where available

                  -  Arterial blood gas - FiO2, pH, paO2, paCO2, HCO3, lactate- if not available,
                     then a venous blood gas

                  -  Routine laboratory investigations - Hemoglobin, Lymphocyte count, Neutrophil
                     Count, Urea, Creatinine, eGFR, ALT, AST, ALP, Bilirubin, CRP, Troponin,
                     D-Dimer, Ferritin, NT-proBNP.

                  -  Cytokine assay - IL1b, IL6, MCP1, IL2ra, IL10, INFgamma levels

                Follow up at 6 - 8 weeks following discharge from the hospital

                Clinical

                  -  Signs and symptoms Physiological measurements

                  -  Oxygen saturation, heart rate and blood pressure

                  -  Six-minute walk test

                  -  Full lung function tests Investigations

                  -  Routine laboratory investigations - Hemoglobin, Lymphocyte count, Neutrophil
                     Count, Urea, Creatinine, eGFR, ALT, AST, ALP, Bilirubin, CRP, Troponin,
                     D-Dimer, Ferritin, NT-proBNP.

                  -  Cytokine assay - - IL1b, IL6, MCP1, IL2ra, IL10, INFgamma levels

                  -  Lung Ultrasound - if more than 3 B lines per field in two or more zones then
                     proceed with CT scan

                  -  If there is more than 4% desaturation on a six-minute walk test, a volume CT
                     scan with high-resolution reconstructions, where possible, a Dual-energy CT
                     scan with Iodine mapping.

                  -  Echocardiogram

                  -  If the CT is normal, then a V/Q scan or SPECT scan to look at mismatch and
                     shunt fraction estimation.

                  -  Arterial blood gas - FiO2, pH, paO2, paCO2, HCO3, lactate- if not feasible,
                     then a venous blood gas

                Lung biopsy If the CT is abnormal, then proceed with Cryobiopsies following MDT
                discussion and agreement.

                Cryobiopsies will be needed in at least two of each radiological patterns of
                interstitial lung disease. Biopsy specimen will be examined for pathological
                changes, and also potential PCR testing will be done to identify any dormant SARS
                COV2 virus antigen presence. During bronchoscopy, a Broncho-alveolar lavage will
                also be done from an agreed site in the MDT discussion. Samples will be sent for
                cytology and microbiology.

                Follow up - 8- 10 weeks post-discharge Review patients with the results, explain
                results and start treatment as per the local physician's clinical decision.

                Repeat bloods

                  -  Routine laboratory investigations - Hemoglobin, Lymphocyte count, Neutrophil
                     Count, Urea, Creatinine, eGFR, ALT, AST, ALP, Bilirubin, CRP, Troponin,
                     D-Dimer, and Ferritin.

                  -  NT - pro BNP only if it was elevated in the first follow up. Follow up 12-week
                     post-discharge Clinical

                  -  Symptoms and signs Investigations

                  -  Routine laboratory investigations - Hemoglobin, Lymphocyte count, Neutrophil
                     Count, Urea, Creatinine, eGFR, ALT, AST, ALP, Bilirubin, CRP, Troponin,
                     D-Dimer, and Ferritin.

                  -  NT - pro BNP only if it was elevated in the first follow up.

                  -  Full lung function test

                  -  Chest x-ray

                  -  Lung ultrasound

                Follow up 6 months post-discharge

                  -  Routine laboratory investigations - Hemoglobin, Lymphocyte count, Neutrophil
                     Count, Urea, Creatinine, eGFR, ALT, AST, ALP, Bilirubin, CRP, Troponin,
                     D-Dimer, and Ferritin.

                  -  NT - pro BNP only if it was elevated in the first follow up.

                  -  Full lung function test

                  -  Chest x-ray

                  -  Lung ultrasound

                  -  Volume CT scan with high-resolution reconstructions if possible Dual-energy CT
                     scan with Iodine mapping.

                  -  If the patient had a V/Q scan, then repeat this with shunt fraction
                     estimation. This will be the end of the trial follow up of the patients.
                     Patients will have care as per the clinical need dictated by the physician.

             4. Data considerations

                Sample Size This is an exploratory study as there are no previous data in this
                population. The target sample size will be 60, with 30 patients as controls tested
                positive for COVID 19 disease at first follow up (6 to 8 weeks).

                Those patients who are initially enrolled in the study will be withdrawn if the
                patient wishes not to continue in the research or proven to be COVID negative.

                All patients admitted to the hospital will be approached for inclusion in the
                study. The investigators expect to recruit this number within 12 months, and the
                last patients follow up will be finished in 18 months.

                Statistical Analysis Descriptive statistics will be presented as proportions or
                means with standard deviations.

                To assess risk factors of developing complications, chi-square test, linear
                regression, and logistic regression methods will be used for continuous and
                categorical variables where appropriate multivariate modelling will also be used.
                Only variables with ≤10% missing data will be included in the multivariate
                analysis. Multiple imputations will be used to account for missing baseline data.

                A p-value of less than 0.05 will be considered statistically significant. All the
                statistical analysis will be performed by using the Statistical Package for the
                Social Sciences (SPSS) version 20 or above (IBM, USA) for Windows or by using other
                Statistical Package to perform exploratory data analysis and produce descriptive
                statistics. Normality will be tested using the skewness and kurtosis test; these
                parameters' values should be zero in an ideal normal distribution.

                Data Management Data will be collected by the chief investigator, principal
                investigator, trial coordinator and the trial team members. Patient data will be
                anonymized with trial number allocations.

                The data will be analyzed by the trial team and the trial statistician. This is an
                18 month trial with subsequent data analysis and manuscript production.

                All patients will be assigned a unique identifying number. The database will be
                accessible only to authorized individuals. Appropriate database software will be
                used to develop the database and enter the data. Data on all the variables
                specified will be collected consistently. A data monitoring committee will meet
                periodically and review the data collection and management procedures for the
                completeness of coverage and data quality.

                Data usage for future studies/research

                The data will be stored for 5 years. The data will be transferred to a password
                only accessible drive with passwords for the clinical database and the coding
                database. This data storage process will be duplicated in case of data loss, and
                the data will be stored in a lockable office [Chief Investigators Office at King
                Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre (KFSHRC)].

                All future publications will follow the standard procedure for studies /research at
                KFSHRC.

             5. Ethical considerations

             1. Confidentiality

                The confidentiality of personal information will be dealt with utmost care. All
                information collected will be protected, and patient anonymity ensured. No personal
                identifying information will be stored with the data. The information collected
                will not affect the safety or treatment of the patient. The study will be conducted
                according to the principles of Good Clinical Practice, the Declaration of Helsinki,
                and the rules and regulations of the Ethics committee of KFSHRC Riyadh.

                Moreover, confidentiality and anonymity will be strictly adhered to in the
                discussion and publication of the results. The autonomy of the patients will be
                observed.

             2. Patient Consent This is a prospective study recording patient's clinical details,
                laboratory investigations, and imaging. Most of the investigations are part of the
                routine care provided for a COVID 19 patient admitted to secondary care. The
                investigation that is not part of the routine care but is a part of the trail are
                Cytokine assays, which is a blood test, V/Q scan if indicated and lung biopsy.

      The lung biopsy obtained using cyrobiopsy technique is an invasive procedure for selected
      patients within the trial cohort who have interstitial lung disease. This involves a risk of
      pneumothorax and bleeding. Patients will have appropriate consent for this procedure
      explaining the risk and benefits. Not all patients in the trial will have this intervention.

      As data will be collected prospectively, the patient will be informed that data will be
      gathered from patient charts for the study. When the patient agrees, it will be recorded on
      the patient chart.
    
  