
    
      Pediatric urolithiasis is a very common disease among Uyghur children of China. Investigators
      have conducted a cross-sectional survey among children≤14 years in Kashgar Region, which is
      Uyghur concentrated region and lies in southern Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region July to
      December 2016. The results showed that the current prevalence rate of urolithiasis was 1.8%
      among children ≤14 years, while the overall prevalence was 3.6%. The prevalence of
      urolithiasis for children ≤1 year was 5.63%. Binary logistic regression analysis showed that
      non-breastfeeding, urinary tract infection, with a family history of urolithiasis and
      excessive sweating were all statistical significantly associated with increased risk of
      urinary stone.

      Since most of the risks of urolithiasis among Uyghur children are associated with feeding and
      living habits, investigators create a Parents' Health-Education Handbook based on these
      results. This Handbook includes the knowledge of symptoms, hazards, epidemiology, risk
      factors, therapy, and prevention of pediatric urolithiasis, and also baby's right feeding
      methods. Investigators use this Handbook to teach newborn's parents to enhance their
      knowledge of pediatric stone, with a view to change parents' cognition, attitude and behavior
      of preventing stone formation.

      This study is designed as an unmatched clusters randomized intervention trial. The aim of
      this study is to investigate the role of Parents' Health-Education Handbook in preventing
      pediatric urolithiasis formation. It is conducted in Shufu Count in Kashgar Region of China,
      which include 171 villages and communities. Investigators define each village or community as
      a cluster. And these villages and communities are assigned to intervention group or control
      group by a simple random sampling technique with a rate of 1:1. A total of 86 villages and
      communities are assigned to intervention group, while 85 villages and communities are
      assigned to control group. Participants include newborns and their parents. The newborns and
      their parents are assigned to intervention group or control group as their villages or
      communities.

      The incidence (same as prevalence) of urolithiasis was 5.63% for children ≤1 year by our
      former study. The intervention (Parents' Health Education) is considered effective when the
      incidence decreases more than one half (2.8%) for children when they are 1-year old in this
      study. So for sample size, we estimate the normal incidence of urolithiasis (π0) is about
      5.6% , the incidence will decrease to less than 2.8%(π1) after one year intervention, with α
      of 0.05, 1-β=90%, 1052 newborns are required by the formula for each group; considered a
      predicted of 10% missed follow-up late, and at least 2314 newborns needed in this study.
    
  