
    
      A total number of 100 volunteers with acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria will be randomly
      assigned one of 3 arms to be treated with artesunate monotherapy or quinine/doxycycline for 7
      days at a ratio of 2:2:1. The study design will be based on the WHO recommendations for the
      'Assessment and Monitoring of Antimalarial Drug Efficacy for the Treatment of Uncomplicated
      Falciparum Malaria' (WHO, 2003). Study participants will be otherwise healthy malaria
      patients aged 8 to 65 years with uncomplicated falciparum malaria recruited at the Bandarban
      Sadar Hospital, Bangladesh.

      The artesunate will be administered orally (a single dose of 2 or 4 mg/kg/day) over a total
      duration of 7 days by directly observed therapy.

      Patients will be admitted to the hospital for the duration of study drug administration or
      until all signs and symptoms of malaria have disappeared, whichever comes later. Thereafter
      they will be followed as outpatients until Day 42 with scheduled follow-up visits on Day 14,
      28, 35, and 42.

      In vitro drug sensitivity assays will be performed from samples on inclusion and in case of
      recrudescence. Drug levels will be measured on the first and last day of therapy.

      Primary clinical outcome is cure (Adequate Clinical and Parasitological Response - ACPR) on
      Day 28 and 42. Secondary outcome measures are time until parasite, fever, and gametocyte
      clearance (PCT, FCT, and GCT). Parasite genotyping will be used to distinguish recrudescences
      from reinfections by PCR for patients in whom recrudescences cannot be fully excluded.
      Subjects will be monitored for clinical adverse events throughout the study duration.

      Blood will be drawn on the day of admission (before initiating therapy) for in vitro drug
      sensitivity testing and for PCR (markers of drug resistance and to distinguish recrudescence
      from reinfection by genotyping). Malaria smears will be prepared twice daily until parasite
      clearance and on Days 7, 14, 21, 28, 35, and 42 or whenever symptoms consistent with malaria
      appear. Plasma samples for determining drug levels will be obtained on the first and last day
      of therapy. Study participation for each individual will be 42 days.
    
  