
    
      Specific Aims Aim 1: To compare the glycemic control and glucose variability during pregnancy
      and at first postpartum visit in the two randomized groups. This was accomplished by the
      evaluation of the mean glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels and of several glucose variability
      indices during gestation and 1 month after delivery. Hypothesis: the real-time information
      provided by the FGM system improves glucose control and glycemic excursions during pregnancy
      and after delivery.

      Aim 2: To compare the maternal and neonatal adverse outcomes in the two randomized groups at
      the time of delivery. This was accomplished by the evaluation of the rate of all the most
      important maternal and fetal-neonatal adverse outcomes (e.g. cesarean section, macrosomia,
      neonatal hypoglycemia) at the end of gestation. Hypothesis: the use of FGM reduces the rates
      of those adverse pregnancy outcomes related to maternal hyperglycemia.

      Significance and Background Pre-gestational diabetes is still associated with adverse
      perinatal outcomes largely attributed to maternal hyperglycemia. The risk of adverse outcomes
      increases with HbA1c higher than 6-6.5% during gestation. Conversely, mean HbA1c levels <6%
      during the second and third trimester are associated with better outcomes and with the lowest
      risk of large-forgestational-age infants. Unfortunately, this goal is often difficult to
      achieve during pregnancy considering that approximately 60% of all pre-gestational diabetic
      women are poorly controlled at the time of conception and that maternal hypoglycemia should
      be avoided. Fasting and post-prandial SMBG are recommended in pre-gestational diabetic women
      to achieve glycemic control during gestation. Additional useful information on direction,
      frequency and duration of glycemic oscillations could be provided by the CGM. This system, in
      fact, allows the patients to prevent hypoglycemia and to reduce glucose oscillations
      measuring interstitial glucose levels continuously. Despite initial controversial results on
      the efficacy of the CGM technology during pregnancy, a recently published trial demonstrated
      that Real-Time use of CGM is associated with improved neonatal outcomes (which are likely to
      be attributed to reduced exposure to maternal hyperglycemia).

      Unfortunately the existing CGM devices still need to be frequently calibrated, using a
      minimum of 2-5 daily monitored capillary blood glucose. The recent introduction of FGM using
      the factory-calibrated meter has emerged as a novel method to study glycemic patterns. FGM
      does not require finger prick calibration. The data are extrapolated using the inbuilt
      software to summarize the glycemic variability over 2 weeks. The glucose profile obtained
      using this system is called Ambulatory Glucose Profile (AGP). The usefulness of AGP has been
      studied in adults and pediatric patients affected by diabetes.

      Nevertheless, to date there are no studies looking into the efficacy of this tool in women
      affected by pre-gestational (Type 1 and Type 2) diabetes during pregnancy. The investigators
      aim to evaluate the effectiveness of antenatal FGM on maternal glycemic control and pregnancy
      related morbidity in the offspring of mothers with poorly controlled Type 1 and Type 2
      diabetes at the time of conception (peri-conception HbA1c ≥6.5%).
    
  