
    
      The most desirable sedative-analgesic agent used in infants with HIE would 1) have an
      excellent safety profile, 2) provide adequate analgesia and sedation, 3) reduce shivering, 4)
      cause minimal respiratory depression, 5) preserve cerebrovascular autoregulation, and 6)
      confer neuroprotection. Several lines of evidence suggest alpha 2 adrenergic receptor agonist
      class of sedatives-analgesics may have all these properties. The investigators have recently
      developed a sensitive assay to measure clonidine levels which will allow us to perform
      population Pharmacokinetic (PK)/Pharmacodynamic (PD) analyses of clonidine in sick newborns.
      Thus, this phase I/II trial is designed to test the hypothesis clonidine , an alpha- 2
      adrenergic receptor agonist, will reduce the incidence of shivering without adversely
      affecting heart rate (HR), blood pressure (BP), temperature regulation or cerebrovascular
      autoregulation.

      Essentially all classes of sedative-analgesic agents affect mean arterial blood pressure
      (MAP) which can alter cerebral perfusion and affect cerebrovascular autoregulation.
      Cerebrovascular autoregulation is when blood flow to the brain is held relatively constant
      over a wide range of MAPs; it ensures a steady supply of oxygenated blood to the brain, and
      is only functional within a specific range of MAP's. When MAP deviates from this range and
      drops below the lower limit of autoregulation, blood flow becomes passive to MAP and the
      brain is placed at risk for ischemic injury. Brain injury alters cerebrovascular
      autoregulation in the region of injury, and together with sub-optimal MAP after hypoxic brain
      injury could cause more brain ischemia leading to poor outcomes, seizures, and permanent
      neurologic injuries. Little information is available on the effect of HIE alone or in
      combination with hypothermia on cerebrovascular autoregulation, and no information is
      published on the direct effect of sedative-analgesics on alterations in hemodynamic
      parameters and subsequent indirect or direct effects on cerebrovascular autoregulation in
      newborns with HIE. Thus, this study will establish the safety of clonidine, a commonly used
      sedative-analgesic in infants and children, in a population of infants with HIE undergoing
      therapeutic hypothermia. A secondary exploratory outcome is to determine the efficacy of
      clonidine in reducing shivering during the cooling phase of the therapeutic hypothermia
      protocol.
    
  