
    
      The pilot testing (Einstein Institutional Review Board Protocol #2010-491) demonstrated the
      acceptability and feasibility of implementing the culturally and linguistically Chinese DPP
      lifestyle protocol. The pilot study found that the intervention resulted in a significant
      weight loss and trends for glycemic (HbA1c) improvement among Chinese immigrants with
      prediabetes. The planned R01 funded study will address larger scale implementation to inform
      wider spread dissemination within the United States and globally. Our specific aims are to:

      Aim 1. Evaluate the clinical effectiveness of the implementation model in a cluster
      randomized trial. Primary endpoints will include changes in weight and glycemia (HbA1c ) one
      year after randomization. Secondary endpoint will include cardiovascular risk markers,
      lifestyle (dietary intake and physical activity) and self-reported quality of life.

      Aim 2. Evaluate the study generalizability using the RE-AIM (reach, efficacy/effectiveness,
      adoption, implementation and maintenance) framework. The specific evaluation questions
      include:

      Reach: How many of the eligible patients enrolled? How representative are the study
      participants of the underlying population?

      Efficacy/Effectiveness: How did the intervention affect participants' outcome measures?

      Adoption: How acceptable were the intervention components to the participants?

      Implementation: How many of the intervention components were provided as planned?

      Maintenance: How much of the 1-year intervention effects are sustainable at 2-year follow-up?
      What mechanisms are available for sustaining the intervention?

      Aim 3. Evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the implementation model with respects to weight
      and glycemic (HbA1c) change.

      Aim 4. Disseminate "lessons learned" and effective program components to expand access to
      effective programs within the United States via the registry developed by the Centers for
      Disease Control of DPP intervention sites and to explore global dissemination issues via our
      partnership with Confucius Institute.
    
  