
    
      Childhood adversity is associated with premature diseases of aging, most forms of
      psychopathology, and early mortality, and chronic stress is a critical mechanism of this
      phenomenon. Biologically informed interventions are sorely needed to break this pernicious
      cycle, but very little research has examined potentially malleable psychobiological risk and
      protective processes during childhood that could be leveraged in interventions. Allostatic
      Load (AL)-the accumulation of biological insults sustained by the body's attempts to maintain
      homeostasis in the face of chronic stress-is recognized as one such risk process. Most AL
      research has thus far been conducted with adults, but the emerging research with adolescents
      suggests that in-depth examination of AL accumulation processes during early adolescence may
      yield critical insights needed to develop psychobiologically potent interventions. Coping and
      self-regulation are potential malleable protective processes, but they have not received much
      attention in AL research to date. This R01 project will therefore examine the accumulation of
      AL biomarkers in early adolescence, and will test the contributions of stress (early life,
      cumulative, recent) and of coping resources (coping skills, parent coping socialization,
      physiologic regulation) to AL accumulation. In addition, we will examine associations between
      AL and the emergence of premature diseases of aging (e.g., type II diabetes, metabolic
      syndrome) by mid-adolescence.

      Elevated AL biomarkers have been detected in samples of disadvantaged preadolescents (e.g.,
      Evans, 2003; Keller et al., 2012; Rogosch et al. 2011), and are correlated with health
      problems in this population. Nevertheless, numerous important gaps in our understanding of
      youth AL processes remain. First, AL is not well characterized in child or adolescent
      samples. Most existing research involving children focuses only on select aspects of the AL
      index (such as cortisol), and a comprehensive assessment of the major classes of biomarkers
      indicated in AL (metabolic, cardiovascular, immunologic, neuroendocrine) in at-risk children
      is lacking. Second, the absence of clinical benchmarks linking AL to disease in children is a
      major limiting factor, which coupled with lower base rates of AL-linked diseases in children,
      calls into question the typical practice of calculating an AL index using adult thresholds
      (i.e., upper quartile of range). Third, it is unclear to what extent recent and cumulative
      stressors experienced after the early life period (birth to age 5) contribute to the
      development of AL over and above early life stress (ELS) in any age group, and many AL
      studies do not include in-depth assessments of life stress. Fourth, little is known about the
      extent to which coping resources (youth coping skills, coping socialization) can buffer
      children from the development and/or worsening of AL over time. This is a critical question
      as the lead PI's research has shown that coping skills and resources can buffer at-risk
      children (e.g., in poverty) from common stressors and that coping has effects on primary
      neuroendocrine mediators of AL such as the HPA (Wadsworth et al., 2016; Bendezu & Wadsworth,
      2017).

      The present project will build on the unique strengths and capacities of the two PIs and
      their co-investigator and will include state-of-the-art assessments of stress, coping
      resources, and AL to fully capture these processes at multiple levels of analysis.
      Two-hundred 11-12 year old Medicaid-enrolled patients will be recruited by experienced
      pediatric research nurses at Penn State Hershey Hope Drive Pediatrics. Twenty-five additional
      11-12 year old patients whose families are not Medicaid eligible will serve as a middle class
      comparison group for biomarker benchmarking. This research affiliated pediatrics practice
      conducts 40,000 patient visits per year and enrolls patients from both rural and urban
      communities across central PA. Youth will be followed across two years and participate in
      three annual assessments. Biological samples will include blood draws, overnight urine, and
      saliva samples taken at each time point. Assessments will further include (a) parent and
      child Youth Life Stress Interviews to obtain indices of early, recent, and cumulative life
      stress, and (b) the Trier Social Stress Test to measure adolescent SAM and HPA activation
      patterns and parent coping socialization. Parent-child parasympathetic co-regulation and
      reports of psychological symptoms, parenting, parent-child attachment, and coping skills will
      also be obtained. We will examine levels and correlates of AL biomarkers at T1 as well as
      predictors of the changes that occur between T1, T2, and T3 (AL accumulation). Study aims are
      as follows:

      Aim 1: To characterize AL biomarkers in a sample of low-income preadolescents (N = 200). How
      many children living in low-income homes have atypical or out-of-range biomarker levels (as
      compared to middle class comparison group) (Aim 1a)? Do prior AL biomarker elevations predict
      physical and mental health problems at age 13-14 (Aim 1b)? How much and what type of change
      in AL biomarkers occurs between ages 11 and 14 (Aim 1c)?

      Aim 2: To investigate in the same sample of preadolescents exposed to varying levels of ELS,
      the relative contributions made by ELS, recent (past year), and cumulative (since age 5)
      stress exposures to initial AL levels at T1 (Aim 2a), and to changes in AL across the two
      years of the study (Aim 2b).

      Aim 3: To examine how coping resources, including children's coping skills, children's
      physiologic self-regulation, parent-child attachment, and parent coping socialization,
      uniquely and synergistically influence AL levels and accumulations in early adolescence.
    
  