
    
      This study will be randomized, split mouth design controlled trial with a 1:1 allocation
      ratio. One resident (A.A), calibrated by the main supervisor (S.M), will be reliable for
      recruiting the subjects, undertaking the orthodontic treatment under the supervision. The
      eligibility of the cases will be reevaluated by main supervisor (E.M) before the start of
      treatment.

      Split mouth design will be utilized with MOPs that will be randomly assigned to the patients'
      left or right sides to eliminate the possibility of uneven occlusal forces because of
      habitual occlusion predominantly on 1 side and also the eliminate the biological variability
      between subjects. The allocation sequence will be concealed from the researcher (A.A)
      enrolling and assessing participants in sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed and stapled
      envelopes with the participant's the name and date of birth are written before the
      intervention. Allocation concealment seeks to prevent selection bias, protects the assignment
      sequence until allocation.

      A Ethical approval will be granted by Jordan University of science and technology research
      center, and permission will be given at postgraduate dental clinics at Jordan University of
      science and technology, Irbid, Jordan.

      We hypothesized that 50% increased in rate of tooth movement in MOP group would produce a
      clinically significant difference. The sample size was calculated depend on a type I error
      frequency of 5%. According to the power analysis and assuming a large effect size difference
      between groups with 50% of acceleration rate of tooth movement, the power analysis yields a
      total sample size estimate of 44 samples at a conventional alpha-level (p = 0.05) and desired
      power (1 - β err prob) of 0.90, yielding 22 samples per group (means 22 patients that
      represent 22 MOP group and 22 Control group). Assuming an overall attrition rate of 15%,
      initial recruitment should target a total of 55 samples with 18 patients per group. All
      calculations were performed with the computer application G-Power (Erdfelder et al., 1996)
    
  