
    
      There is substantial interest in preventing cardiovascular (CV) and renal disease progression
      in the Type 2 diabetic. Activation of the renin angiotensin aldosterone axis (RAS) and the
      mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) results in pro-inflammatory effects. Further the phenomenon
      of aldosterone escape provides a rationale for MR antagonism in addition to an ACEI/ARB
      agent. Agents that target the renin-angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS) cascade have shown
      benefit in Type 2 Diabetics although combined RAS blockade such as using ACEI+ARB or
      ACEI/ARB+Renin inhibition have met with failure primarily owing to adverse effects such as
      hypotension and renal failure/hyperkalemia requiring dialysis. It has been speculated that
      dual RAS blockade or use of ACEI/ARB in conjunction with MRA may potentially be beneficial if
      one controls hyperkalemia and/or avoid excess hypotension. As a foundation for this current
      proposal, the investigators have demonstrated an important role for RAAS and MR antagonism in
      reducing atherosclerosis and inflammation in experimental animal models and limited studies
      in humans. The investigators are currently testing the efficacy of Spironolactone in reducing
      atherosclerosis on top of ACEI/ARB in high-risk patients with type 2 diabetes (T2DM) with
      concomitant CKD as part of a Randomized Double-blind controlled clinical trial. Given the
      fact that as much as 20-40% of a diabetic patient population with CKD may have problems of
      hyperkalemia on spironolactone, particularly those already on angiotensin converting enzyme
      inhibitor (ACEI)/ARB therapy, that would preclude their participation in this trial, the
      investigators would like to propose an open label supplemental arm to where patients who are
      ineligible for participation owing to baseline hyperkalemia or hyperkalemia on the dose
      escalation phase will be eligible to participate in the PRIMARY-Add on trial. The addition of
      Patiromer will enable introduction of MRA therapy at therapeutic doses and avoidance of
      hyperkalemia. The investigators thus propose a prospective open label trial with blinded
      assessment of end-points (PROBE) study which test the relative safety and efficacy of
      Patiromer on top of Spironolactone in T2DM on LV mass regression and occurrence of
      hypokalemia (Co-Primary End-points) as well as its effect on 24-hour ambulatory blood
      pressure (ABP) at 6 weeks, central aortic blood pressure at 6 weeks, atherosclerosis
      progression at 12 months and measures of monocyte inflammatory potential. If successful, the
      studies outlined in this proposal will extend the utility of Patiromer in high-risk diabetics
      at risk for future CV events and provide new information.
    
  