
    
      Patients will be determined as Group A: Acukupuncture group and Group C as Control group and
      35 patients will be included in the study. Both groups will be given an intravenous (i.v)
      route in the preoperative patient room, PGE2, IL 6 will be taken for blood and 0.09% NaCl
      will be started. Group A preoperatively, 24 hours prior to bilateral PC6 (approximately two
      cm above the midline of the wrist line) and ST 36 (approximately 1-2 cm laterally from the
      Tibia) to be applied to the press needle (0.22x1.3 mm) and the tape (Needle Press will remain
      for 24 hours after surgery. Electrocardiography (ECG), noninvasive blood pressure (SBP-DBP),
      and peripheral arterial oxygen saturation (SpO2) monitoring will be applied to the patients.
      In the induction of anesthesia, Pentotal 5 mg / kg, Fentanyl 0.5 mcg / kg, and rocuronium 0.6
      mg / kg will be used. Anesthesia maintenance will be provided with a 2% concentration of
      sevoflurane, 50% nitrous oxide (N2O) and 50% oxygen (O2) mixture and appropriately intubated.
      Patients will be recorded with systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (heart
      failure), heart rate (HR), mean arterial pressure (MAP) and SpO2, 5, 15, 30, 60, 120 minutes
      (min) after induction.

      Patients in Group A and Group C had a saturation value of 97% or more, and exhaled if
      breathing effort was sufficient. Atropine and neostigmine will be used to neutralize muscle
      relaxants. Contramal 1mg / kg will be applied to the patients as standard by 20 minutes
      before the end of surgery. Following the termination of the surgical intervention, the
      anesthesia gases will be cut and 100% O2 will be inhaled with the mask until all the cases
      are compiled. 5.dk follow-up and extubation period of the patients will be taken to the
      postoperative rest room after being followed up on the operating table. 30. Min follow-up
      will be sent to their services after being done here. Postoperative 60 min, 3 h, 6 h, 12 h,
      24 h, sore throat, nausea, vomiting, cough, itching, dysphagia, sore throat and analgesic
      needs, whether pain, assessment will be made. VAS score will be used to evaluate pain.
      Paracetamol will be applied to all patients when analgesia needs. At 24 hours
      postoperatively, blood will be taken to look for PGE2 and IL6 values.Preoperative and
      postoperative PGE2 and IL 6 values will be compared between the groups of the acupuncture
      group and the control group.
    
  