
    
      Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) display a substantial increase in cardiovascular
      disease (CVD). Moreover, the prognosis of CVD in CKD is extremely poor. Understanding the
      pathophysiology of CVD in CKD might help to develop treatment strategies to reduce its
      morbidity and mortality. Traditional CV risk factors for the general population, such as
      diabetes mellitus, high blood pressure, and dyslipidemia, are more common in patients with
      CKD, but cannot entirely explain the increased CV risk. Compelling evidence suggests that the
      uremic milieu itself plays a critical role in the development and progression of CVD in CKD.
      The gut microbiota is markedly altered in CKD. Fermentation of protein and amino acids by
      certain gut microbiota results in the generation of different uremic toxins. p-cresyl sulfate
      (PCS) is among the most representative gut-derived uremic toxins implicated in the
      pathogenesis of CVD in CKD (JAHA 6:e005022, 2017). However, there remained no clear cut-off
      value of fasting plasma PCS for unfavorable clinical outcomes (Clin J Am Soc Nephrol
      4:1551-8, 2009). The benefit of adding an orally administered adsorbent (AST-120) to standard
      therapy in unselected patients with moderate to severe CKD is also not supported by data from
      a recent randomized controlled trial (J Am Soc Nephrol 26:1732-46, 2015).

      It has been shown that uremic toxicity is related to the peak rather than the time-averaged
      urea concentration (Perit Dial Int 9:257-60, 1989). PCS is mainly produced from the
      metabolism of dietary tyrosine by gut bacteria. PCS concentration may fluctuate widely from
      time to time in response to meals. A postprandial plasma PCS might theoretically reflect the
      pathophysiological level of PCS. Thus, we plan to establish an oral tyrosine challenge test
      (OTCT) to simulate the postprandial plasma PCS among patients with CKD to identify "PCS
      producers" who are likely to be at high risk for CVD and are more likely to respond to
      adsorbent therapy. The OTCT survey is integrated with dietary patterns, gut microbiome, and
      serum biochemistry to assess PCS synthesis capacity from host-diet-microbiota interactions.
    
  