
    
      Youth depression affects roughly 10% of the North American population, effecting high costs
      to both individuals and society at large. Unfortunately, few effective treatments exist.
      Antidepressant medications such as selective serotonergic reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are
      associated with side effects, and possess marginal efficacy in this age group. Black box
      warnings persist for antidepressants used in those under 24, owing to concerns that these
      medications enhance suicidal ideation in this population. While guidelines and randomized
      controlled trials support the use of cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) as a standalone or
      combination treatment for depressed youth, a large proportion of youth do not respond to
      either medication or psychotherapy.

      The study investigators propose to examine the efficacy of repetitive transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (rTMS) in conjunction with cognitive training (CT) for depressed youth. rTMS
      delivered to the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) is a safe and FDA approved treatment
      for adults with treatment-resistant depression, and preliminary studies suggest its safety,
      acceptability, and efficacy in depressed youth. Theta-burst stimulation (TBS) is a new form
      of rTMS that can achieve antidepressant effects in a quarter of the time of conventional
      rTMS. TBS is also thought to enhance neural plasticity. In this study, all participants will
      receive daily (5x a week on weekdays) open-label TBS. In addition, half of the participants
      will receive computer-based CT designed to enhance executive function, while the other half
      will receive placebo CT. This approach may capitalize on rTMS-induced neural plasticity,
      while improving depression associated executive dysfunction.

      Aim:

        1. to investigate the efficacy of combination cognitive training and rTMS applied to the
           DLPFC in youth depression, and

        2. to identify biological targets and predictors of response to combined CT and rTMS
           intervention in youth depression
    
  