
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the overall survival in patients treated with PSA-TRICOM (fowlpox-PSA-TRICOM
      vaccine and rilimogene-galvacirepvec) and docetaxel chemotherapy versus docetaxel
      chemotherapy only.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the time to radiographic progression after beginning docetaxel chemotherapy in
      patients previously treated with PSA-TRICOM vaccine versus those not treated with this
      vaccine.

      II. To compare objective responses (according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      [RECIST]) between the two treatment groups in those patients with measurable disease.

      III. To evaluate prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response rates (decline >= 50%) in patients
      treated with PSA-TRICOM and docetaxel chemotherapy versus docetaxel chemotherapy only.

      IV. To evaluate immune responses elicited in patients treated before and after docetaxel
      chemotherapy.

      V. To evaluate the association between development of prostate antigen-specific immune
      responses and time to progression and overall survival.

      VI. To evaluate the association of predicted survival (by Halabi nomogram) with actual
      survival in patients treated with PSA-TRICOM vaccine versus those not treated with this
      vaccine.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A (vaccine and chemotherapy): Patients receive rilimogene-galvacirepvec subcutaneously
      (SC) on day 1 of course 1 and fowlpox-PSA-TRICOM vaccine SC on days 15, 29, 43, and 57 of
      course 1. Beginning on day 85 (day 1 of course 2), patients receive docetaxel intravenously
      (IV) over 1 hour on day 1 and prednisone orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21.
      Treatment with docetaxel and prednisone repeats every 21 days for up to 12 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B (chemotherapy): Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1 and prednisone PO
      BID on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  