
    
      The adverse cardiac outcomes due to right ventricular apical pacing with dual chamber
      pacemakers have been widely observed such as ventricular dyssynchrony resulting in reduced
      left ventricular function, increased risk of heart failure and atrial fibrillation. To
      minimize the ventricular pacing, manufacturers of pacemaker have made an effort to develop
      special algorithms designed to deliver right ventricular pacing only in case of demonstrated
      persistent long PR interval or repetitively lacking intrinsic ventricular activation.

      Currently, there are three methods and algorithms are available with a pacemaker from the
      Biotronik SE & Co. KG to minimize right ventricular pacing as follows; DDD mode with fixed
      longer atrioventricular (AV) delay than intrinsic conduction time; Intrinsic rhythm support
      (IRSplus); Ventricular pacing suppression (VpS).

      In the real world, it is the most common practice to program the DDD(R) mode with fixed long
      AV delay because of physician's concerns about the possible failure of an algorithm or long
      pause being resulted from 2 consecutive loss of AV conduction by the algorithm. However, the
      main disadvantage of a fixed with long AV delay is that the prolonged total atrial refractory
      period (TARP) results in changes of the upper rate behavior (i.e., pseudo-Wenckebach AV block
      and subsequently 2:1 block at lower atrial tracking rates). The possibility of
      pacemaker-mediated tachycardia is getting high if the post-ventricular atrial refractory
      period (PVARP) is shortened to compensate. Furthermore, there is a high chance to have
      fusion/pseudo-fusion of ventricular pacing in a fixed long AV delay because the AV conduction
      is dynamic according to the heart rate.

      The recent systematic review showed that there are no significant differences between the
      pacing modes for mortality, heart failure, stroke, and atrial fibrillation (AF) in patients
      with sinus node dysfunction (SND) without AV block. However, the dual chamber pacemaker is
      still recommended in patients with SND due to lack of tools to identify patients at high risk
      of developing the complete AV block. The meta-analysis about the effect of the reduction in
      unnecessary ventricular pacing using a sophisticated algorithm in patients with SND showed
      there are no benefits in clinical outcomes compared with conventional DDD mode. But the
      percentage of ventricular pacing in ventricular pacing reduction modality group was not
      negligible between 1~11.5%. The result might be changed if we have data with a more
      significant reduction in ventricular pacing using difference algorithm. The recent study
      using IRSplus and VpS algorithm from Biotronik pacemaker showed the significant reduction in
      ventricular pacing to less than 3%.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of IRSplus and VpS algorithm compared
      with conventional DDD pacing with a fixed AV delay.
    
  