
    
      Research in palliative care has primarily focused on physical and psychological symptoms.
      Research in other psychosocial and existential problems has been sparse. Loss of dignity as a
      consequence of serious illness may be an important cause of suffering. The research team of
      the Canadian psychiatrist and professor, Harvey Chochinov has investigated the concept of
      dignity and developed the psychosocial intervention 'Dignity Therapy' (DT). The preliminary
      research results were promising.

      Research questions: Do Danish cancer patients have a need of, interest in, and benefit from
      DT? Methods: DT consists of an interview revolving around the patient's life, values, and
      accomplishments and is also an opportunity to leave messages and words of hope and compassion
      for friends and family. The interview is audio taped, transcribed, and edited together with
      the patient, and made into a tangible document, which the patient can give to his/her
      relatives. The project consists of three parts: (1) a cross-sectional investigation of the
      prevalence of loss of dignity and related symptoms/problems among at least 200 incurable
      cancer patients. (2) A feasibility study, testing the intervention in terms of relevance and
      the need of any modifications in relation to Danish patients. (3) An evaluation study testing
      the effect of and satisfaction with DT.

      At least 80 patients are planned for the feasibility and evaluation studies. Questionnaires
      are used for detection of loss of dignity and as measures of effect. These will be
      administered before the intervention and, along with a semi-structured evaluation
      questionnaire, right after the intervention, when the document is received and again
      approximately two weeks later.

      The duration of the intervention (DT) varies markedly between patients. In some cases the
      process (interview, transcription, editing of document, and the final meeting where the
      document is given back to the patient) is completed urgently in a few days, whereas in other
      cases, the patient prefers a slower pace, and may want to sub-divide the interview into two
      or more parts. Also, when presented with the document, some patients want to have something
      changed or they want add material. This variation is seen as intentional, as it illustrates
      that the process is tailored to the patient's wishes.

      As stated, the effect of the DT intervention is evaluated at completion of the intervention,
      i.e. when the final document is given back to the patient, and about two weeks later. Due to
      process described above, the time from the first measurement (before intervention) to the
      second measurement (which takes places at completion of the intervention) therefore varies
      considerably (median 36 days after baseline, range 7-121 days).

      Perspective: If Danish patients have a need of, an interest in and benefit from DT, it can be
      offered to Danish patients admitted to palliative care.
    
  