
    
      OBJECTIVES/AIMS

        1. Group 1: Determine the serum levels of hLPCAT1 mRNA in pregnant women from 32- 36+6/7
           weeks gestation. More specifically, to determine at what moment in gestation, expression
           spontaneously begins.

        2. Group 2: Determine how (and if) serum hLPCAT1 mRNA changes with administration of a
           course of steroids by measuring its levels before, 24hrs after the first dose and 24hrs
           after the second dose of bethamethasone as well as one and two week after the first
           dose. The investigators seek to understand the effects of the 2nd dose of steroids and
           determine if, once the hLPCAT1 expression begins, does it continue or does it turn off
           again after some time from steroid administration.

        3. Correlate measures of neonatal outcomes (Apgars, cord gases, need for NICU admission,
           need for respiratory support, need for ventilator) with levels of hLPCAT1 in labor.

      METHODOLOGY The first group will consist of patients with normal pregnancies who present for
      routine prenatal care between 32- 36 6/7 weeks. Once consented and enrolled in the study,
      participants will give a small (half a teaspoon) blood sample every other week until reaching
      37 weeks.

      In group 2, pregnant women who present for rule-out preterm labor will be offered
      participation in the study. Blood samples will be collected along with all other relevant
      clinical labs (in PAX gene tubes) on admission, 24hrs and 48hrs after the course of steroids
      is initiated. Samples will also be collected 1 and 2 weeks later to see if steroid effect
      degrades over time. This would have immense clinical implication, especially when it comes to
      rescue doses.

      Investigators will also correlate measures of neonatal outcomes (such as apgar scores, blood
      gases, NICU admission, need to go on respiratory/ventilator support) to the most recent
      maternal serum hLPCAT1 throughout the study. If the patient delivers more than one week from
      the last sample, an hLPCAT1 will be acquired during labor.

      Women with singleton pregnancies and no evidence of diabetes, hypertension, smoking, BMI >
      35, Hgb < 10 g/dl or other confounding variables will be admitted to the study. In addition a
      baseline for hLPCAT1 maternal serum mRNA will be established by testing women from 32 - 36
      +6/7 weeks gestation. All tests will consist of a half teaspoon (2.5 ml) blood collection
      using PAX gene tubes.

      Consent will be obtained by the PI/Co-PI's and by residents/fellows and the signed consent
      sheet will become part of the chart. No remuneration will be offered. Investigators will seek
      80 volunteers for this study, anticipating an approximate drop-out rate of 50% because of
      compliance issues and early deliveries.
    
  