
    
      This multi-center, unblinded, prospective randomized controlled trial will enroll adult
      diabetic patients of the Wilson Community Health Center, Harvest Family Health Center, and
      Freedom Hill Community Health Center living below 200% of 2013 poverty level with a serum
      hemoglobin A1C >9% and who currently own a mobile device with text messaging capacity. After
      written informed consent has been obtained, subjects will be randomized to intervention or
      control group (1:1), stratified based on insulin initiation within 1 week of study inclusion.
      Participants randomized to the intervention group will be further divided into subgroups as
      "insulin user" or "non-insulin user" and both will receive SMS messages every 7 days. The
      content of the message consist of medication reminders, reporting of blood glucose results,
      insulin technique assessment (if applicable), or d) medication adherence assessment.
      Participants will be asked to respond with a simple text within 7 days. The intervention
      group will receive the standard medical appointment reminder via telephone one to two
      business days prior to the appointment at the Health Center PLUS a unidirectional text
      message two business days prior to scheduled health center appointments. Control group
      participants will receive the standard medical appointment reminder via telephone one to two
      business days prior to the appointment at the health center. All participants in the study
      (control and intervention) will undergo venipuncture at 3 months (+/-) 2 weeks for the
      determination of hemoglobin A1C. Demographic information, and frequency of hemoglobin A1C
      concentrations in the past 6 months will be assessed at baseline. Each week for 12 weeks, the
      number of texts sent per week and by type, percent of respondents weekly by text or by phone,
      content of participant responses, number of patients unable to be reached via text, total
      investigator time spent per week, and time spent per contact will be recorded. At the three
      month visit, the hemoglobin A1C concentration, blood transfusions since study initiation, and
      medication changes will be recorded.
    
  