
    
      This was a prospective, parallel and controlled clinical trial.

      Group CTG (n = 18) - patients who received connective tissue graft to treat gingival
      recession associated with non-carious cervical lesion. Group CTG+RC (n = 18) - patients who
      received connective tissue graft plus resin composite restoration to treat gingival recession
      associated with non-carious cervical lesion.

      The surgeries, as well as all postoperative follow-up, were performed at the dental clinic of
      ICT- UNESP. Two horizontal incisions were made at right angles to the adjacent interdental
      papillae, without interfering with the gingival margins of neighboring teeth. Two oblique
      vertical incisions were extended beyond the mucogingival junction, and a trapezoidal
      mucoperiosteal flap was raised up to the mucogingival junction. After this point, a
      split-thickness flap was extended apically, releasing the tension and favoring coronal
      positioning of the flap.The exposed root surface was gently scaled and planed until it became
      smooth in the CTG group. For those allocated to CTG+RC group, a sterile rubber dam was placed
      to isolate the operative field and the non-carious cervical lesion restoration was performed
      with a nanocomposite resin (Filtek Supreme - 3M ESPE - St. Paul, MN, USA), following the
      manufacturer's instructions. Afterward, the both groups received a thin and small connective
      tissue graft that was sutured over the root/restoration surface. Then, the flap was coronally
      positioned and sutured to completely cover the graft.

      Clinical parameters were assessed at baseline and 3 and 6 months post-operatively.

      Statistical Analysis The null hypothesis considered in the study was the absence of
      difference in the clinical parameters between the different groups. For data analysis, the
      statistical program was used (Sigmaplot). The demographic and clinical data were compared
      between the groups using Student's t-test. The data were first analyzed for homogeneity using
      the Shapiro-Wilk test, which indicated non-normal distribution. . Those presenting
      Shapiro-Wilk p values < 0.05 were analyzed using a Friedman test (for intragroup comparisons)
      and Mann-Whitney tests (for intergroup comparisons). Patients' esthetics and discomfort
      measures using VAS were analyzed by T-tests. The frequency of sites that were scored as very
      good or excellent in each group by QCE analysis, the frequency of complete root coverage,
      BOP, and the presence or absence of plaque at the site were compared using χ2 tests.
      Intergroup RES comparisons were performed with a T-test. A significance level of 0.05 was
      adopted.
    
  