
    
      STRIPPS is an etiologic, multi-center cohort study in the Ile-de-France region aiming to
      study better understands the complex relationship between the work organization, the stress
      ant and the caregiver fatigue and infectious risk in the hospital departments.

      It will be conducted in 5 volunteer hospitals, with 7 to 8 hospital departments selected at
      random in each center and meeting eligibility inclusion criteria. The envisaged recruitment
      is approximately 20 staff per hospital department, enabling a total of about 150 staff to be
      included per center, totaling 750 surveyed caregivers.

      The five voluntary centers will designate at least one local correspondent or referent among
      the hygiene team, the human resources (HR) department and the department of medical
      information system (DMI). The hygiene referent is the privileged correspondent. He will be
      part of the scientific committee and will help the investigators in the organization of the
      study within the hospital departments that will be drawn to participate. The HR and DMI
      referents are appointed to facilitate the collection of anonymous and aggregated data from
      the HR and PMSI databases planned for the study.

      After obtaining regulatory authorizations, the eligible hospital departments of each hospital
      center will be drawn at random. Prior to the draw, hygiene referents of each hospital will
      prepare a list with all eligible hospital departments. Hospital departments will be selected
      using simple random sampling without replacement as follows in each list, the services will
      be numbered from 1 to n and 8 numbers between 1 and n will be chosen randomly using a
      computer. It will have a total of 5 lists (one list per hospital center) and 8 randomly
      selected numbers per list for a total of 40 randomly selected services. Similarly, visit days
      and survey start schedules will be drawn at random for the passage of an epidemiologist
      investigator recruited by the coordinating team. Two survey dates, between one Monday and one
      Friday of each week, and one survey start schedule, will be drawn at random for each work
      shift in every participating hospital department, during the entire inclusion period.
      Information meetings with the staff of the selected participating hospital departments and
      the communication by display will be organized by the investigators. A 15-day period will be
      left between the last information meeting held in the service and the closest date drawn for
      the start of the inclusion visits.

      Based on a prospective data collection and using a qualitative-quantitative approach this
      study will provide some elements to better understand the complex relationship between the
      work organization, the stress and the caregiver fatigue, and infectious risk in the hospital
      departments (for patients and caregivers). This is an approach that relies on a conceptual
      model with several hypotheses to test. The conceptual diagram envisaged in our study has been
      based on the James Reason's model of accident causation. Indeed, it considers a multi-level
      interrelation of many factors ranging from organizational climate root causes to infectious
      risk. This equally includes contributory factors related to caregivers themselves, the care
      team, work environment as well as immediate causes related to care practices. Thus, for
      example, the infectious risk such as blood exposure accidents (for caregivers) or
      healthcare-associated infections (for patients) could be explained by several relationships
      between a wide range of factors: behavioral changes in care workers such as a decreased
      adherence with infection control measures as hand hygiene, stress and fatigue of caregivers,
      an excessive workload, a high nurse turnover or their absenteeism, the work schedules, as
      well as, by individual factors such as, the work experience, age, and the organizational
      climate as root causes.

      In this research the following factors will be taken into account:

        -  at the organizational level: the type and size of hospital departments (in number of
           beds and in number of caregivers), the hourly organization of the staff, the number of
           caregivers by professional category for each shift in 24h;

        -  at the hospital department level: nurse absenteeism and turnover rates, safety culture,
           healthcare-associated infections rates, the rate of blood exposure accidents among
           caregivers, hand hygiene compliance rates;

        -  at the level of caregivers: age, sex, personal situation, number of young children,
           occupation, the position held, work experience, work schedules, stress and fatigue
           levels, blood exposure accidents, excessive work-related commitment, the social support
           from coworkers and from supervisors, current state of health, absences due to health
           reasons including absences due to accidents at work or for work-related illness, etc.
    
  