
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) has become a major heath problem in the United States. With
      prevalence in middle-aged adults of 2 to 4% of the population, untreated OSA has been
      implicated in increased risk for cardiovascular disease, including hypertension and heart
      failure.

      The first line and most common treatment for OSA is continuous positive airway pressure
      (CPAP) treatment, utilized by an estimated 3 million Americans. CPAP is effective in reducing
      the AHI if used properly. However, the nasal mask required for CPAP during sleep leads to
      poor acceptance and compliance rates. Published studies on CPAP have shown that only 58 to
      80% of patients accept CPAP therapy,, and further 65 to 90% of these patients exhibit
      long-term compliance with CPAP. Additionally, there are many patients who would choose other
      therapy besides CPAP.

      Patients cite a number of issues with CPAP, namely discomfort and inability to sleep while
      connected to an air pump. Auto-titrating CPAP, heated and humidified air, and bi-PAP
      (different pressures on inspiration and expiration) have improved patient compliance, but
      there remains a significant unmet clinical need.

      It is widely accepted that the region behind the tongue is a major site of collapse during
      obstructive sleep apnea. In fact, there are many surgical procedures performed currently to
      address tongue base collapse. These include: RF ablation (Somnoplasty) of the tongue base;
      genioglossus advancement; Medtronic's Repose system for tongue base suspension; hyoid
      suspension; and maxillomandibular advancement (MMA). The change in airway dimension after MMA
      surgery on the lateral cephalograph is presented in Figure 1.

      One of the principal mechanisms of effect of MMA surgery is to move the base of the tongue
      and the attached structures forward. Hyo-mandibular suspension has been previously studied as
      a treatment for OSA and has shown to be highly effective.

      This is a prospective, multi-center, registry during which 30 subjects with OSA will be
      considered for hyo-mandubular suspension treatment. After obtaining informed consent and
      meeting all inclusions and exclusion criteria, subjects will be treated using the Encore
      System. Subject follow-up with the physician or nurse will occur at one (1) week, one (1)
      month, three (3) months, and twelve (12) months.

      This study will assess the effectiveness of hyoid suspension in reducing the apnea-hypopnea
      index (AHI), and improving the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), snoring (VAS) and functional
      outcome (FOSQ) for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). In addition, the study
      will evaluate the effect that the change in hyoid position has on the airway anatomy.
    
  