
    
      Varicose veins are common and are known to affect approximately one third of the population.
      Chronic Venous Disease (CVD) has been shown to have a negative impact on the quality of life
      of patients and treatment of varicose veins has been demonstrated to lead to improvement in
      the quality of life of patients. Over the past decade, new endovenous techniques have been
      introduced and these are felt to be cost-effective, especially, when performed in an
      outpatient or 'office-based' setting.

      There is currently uncertainty about the use of compression stockings following treatment of
      varicose veins. International Union of Phlebology (IUP), The Society for Vascular Surgery and
      the American Venous Forum, as well as 2013 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence
      (NICE) Guideline on Varicose Veins in the Legs have recommended that compression stockings
      are suitable in certain clinical indications and can be worn post-operatively for no more
      than 7 days after interventional treatment to prevent haematoma formation, pain and swelling.
      However, further research is essential for determining clinical and cost effectiveness, as
      well as length of time compression should be worn, and level of compression.

      Several researchers have looked into the practice of using compression after venous ablation.
      In a survey of the management of varicose veins by the members of the Vascular Society of
      Great Britain and Ireland. Edwards et al. found that the majority of surgeons used bandages
      post-operatively, with 49% using elastic bandage. To date, the literature on the use of
      compression stockings following treatment of varicose veins is limited.

      Mechano-Chemical Ablation (MOCA) combines mechanical damage to the endothelium caused by a
      rotating wire with simultaneous catheter-guided infusion of a liquid sclerosant that
      irreversibly damages the cellular membrane of the endothelium, causing fibrosis of the vein.
      The exact mechanism is still not exactly known. However, recent experimental research showed
      that various sclerosants induced apoptosis in the vein wall rather than having an effect
      restricted to the endothelium. Incomplete loss of endothelial cells and penetration of the
      sclerosant effect into the media suggest that medial damage is crucial to the success of
      sclerotherapy and may explain why it is less effective in larger veins. This poses the
      question whether compression is needed post sclerotherapy to improve contact of the
      sclerosant to the endothelium when media penetration seems to be more important to allow
      apoptosis of smooth muscle cells.

      The investigators therefore propose to undertake a randomised study looking at the effect of
      compression therapy after MOCA using Clarivein device
    
  