
    
      Health news is an important way to communicate updated medical research to the public. News
      items reporting the results of medical research attract a large audience. However, the
      quality of reporting in health news is questionable. The merits of a wide range of treatments
      and tests are overplayed and harms are underplayed. Several studies have shown the presence
      of spin (i.e., distorted presentation of study results) in health news. Distorted facts can
      be misleading and can affect the behaviour of physicians, healthcare providers and patients.
      However, little research has assessed whether spin can affect readers' interpretation of
      health news items.

      Objective: "Spin" is defined as a misrepresentation of study results whatever the motive
      (intentionally or unintentionally) to highlight that the beneficial effect of the
      intervention in terms of efficacy and safety is greater than that shown by the results. To
      compare the interpretation of health news items reported with or without spin. News items
      reporting pre-clinical studies evaluating the effect of a pharmacological treatment that
      received high online public attention will be focused.

      Hypothesis: The hypothesis of this study is that the spin can influence the reader's
      interpretation of health news items reporting results of pre-clinical studies.

      Design: A randomized controlled trial

        1. Interventions: Health news items reporting results of pre-clinical studies with and
           without spin will be compared. A sample of health news items reporting the results of
           pre-clinical studies evaluating the effect of pharmacologic treatment and containing
           spin in the headline and text will be selected. Spin will be deleted in the selected
           news items and will be rewritten the news without spin.

        2. Participants: The participants will include English-speaking patients from an online
           patient community.

        3. Sample size: For this RCT, the sample size will be 300 patients.

        4. The primary outcome will be perception of beneficial effect of the treatment X. We will
           ask participants, what do you think is the probability that treatment X would be
           beneficial to patients? (scale, 0 [very unlikely] to 10 [very likely]).

        5. Expected results: This study will evaluate the impact of spin on the interpretation of
           news items reporting results of pre-clinical studies by English-speaking patients.
    
  