
    
      -  Patients will be recruited in periodontic department faculty of dentistry Cairo
           university.

        -  Patients who already need esthetic rehabilitation treatment (implant placement,
           restorative treatments, periodontal therapy, and root coverage) on anterior maxilla and
           this treatment needs to investigate the gingival biotype.

        -  Medical history will be taken.

        -  Oral examination will be done.

        -  Full mouth periodontal examination and charting will be done for each patient.

        -  The investigation will be explained to the patient.

        -  All the investigations will be carried out by one investigator.

        -  Dental patients will be received to the clinic (for esthetic rehabilitation treatment
           such as implant placement, restorative treatments, periodontal therapy, and root
           coverage on anterior maxilla).

        -  Patients who needs treatment will be investigated the gingival biotype by the five
           measurement methods (PT, TP, CBCT, IDS and EDS).

        -  Patients refusing to participate will be reported with the cause of their refusal.

        -  Conventional clinical examination will be held on a dental unit using the light of the
           unit, mirror and probe.

        -  Before the investigation, the aim of the study will be explained to the patient and the
           patient's acceptance to participate in the survey will be obtained.

        -  Periodontal status will be evaluated including assessment of gingival index (GI), plaque
           index (PI), probing pocket depth (PPD) on aesthetic zone in maxillary teeth by using UNC
           15 periodontal probe which is 15mm long probe with markings at each millimetre and
           colour coded at 5th,10th and 15th mm.

        -  Then an investigator will evaluate the gingival biotype by probing Transparency (PT) as
           reported by (Kan et al., 2010). The periodontal probe will be softly inserted into the
           gingival sulcus till it reaches the sound bone on the labial side of the maxil¬lary
           anterior teeth and it will be parallel to the long axis of the crown. The gingival
           biotype will be considered as thick if the probe tip is not seen into the tissue and it
           will be considered as thin if the probe was seen. If the thick en d of the probe was
           seen into the tissue but the thin end was not, then it will be considered as a moderate
           biotype.

        -  The second method of assessment to the gingival biotype will be carried out using CBCT
           with lip retraction. It is important to note that the patients will not receive
           additional radiation exposure for the purpose of this investigation and to give us clear
           details about soft tissue, patients have already underwent CBCT examination as an
           investigation method for aesthetic rehabilitation treatment.

        -  Afterwards, gingival biotype assessment will be done by intraoral digital examination
           (Kim et al., 2016). This is the third method; the investigation of gingival biotype of
           the anterior maxilla will be done by means of a three-dimensional intraoral scanner. The
           intraoral scanning data will be acquired in stereolithogra¬phy (STL) format and will be
           matched with the CBCT data. Three highly radiopaque and relatively fixed positions in
           the teeth will be chosen as fiducially markers to match the STL files with the CBCT
           images in accordance with a best-fit algorithm using TRIOS software (3Shape).

        -  Finally, the fourth method for gingival biotype investigation will be performed by
           extraoral digital scanning (EDS) of a gypsum cast of the maxillary teeth, then the
           classic alginate impression of the max-illary arch and cast with dental stone will be
           made, gyp¬sum cast will be scanned using a three-dimen-sional scanner, and the STL data
           will be matched with the CBCT image according to a best-fit algorithm as in intraoral
           method.

        -  Assessment of some anatomic parameters (crown width/crown length ratio, attached
           gingival width, labial bone thickness and papilla volume) will also be performed.
    
  