
    
      BACKGROUND The burden of Lung Cancer Lung cancer remains the most lethal malignancy
      worldwide, claiming more lives compared to any other malignant disease in both developed and
      developing countries, as well as globally. Although some countries have accomplished a
      decrease in incidence rates, most regions, particularly those in the developing world, face
      the challenge of an epidemic of paramount importance, which is likely to take hundreds of
      thousands of lives in the coming years. In Latin America, regional trends show that lung
      cancer incidence and mortality are on the rise, in México, for example, trends from the
      Global Cancer Statistics group (GLOBOCAN) show that it is likely that incident lung cancer
      cases will double by 2030, compared to those reported in 2010.

      The management of lung cancer, therefore, requires a surge in our efforts. For many decades,
      lung cancer treatment was based on the use, alone or in combination, of radiotherapy, surgery
      and chemotherapy. The scarce therapeutic options were further limited by their lack of
      long-term efficacy, with a 5-year survival rate for lung cancer patients which ranged from
      5-16%, and which remained unchanged from the 1970´s to the dawn of this new century.
      Nowadays, the therapeutic outlook for lung cancer patients is changing dramatically. Novel
      data regarding the molecular mechanisms of the disease led to the development of targeted
      treatments, including Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors (TKIs) which can dramatically improve
      outcomes in specific subgroups of lung cancer patients.

      Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase Translocation (ALK) Between 6-8% of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
      cases have been shown to harbor the fusion gene of echinoderm microtubule based protein-like4
      (EML4) and the anaplastic lymphoma Kinase (ALK) because of a chromosomal inversion in 2p21
      and 2p23.

      The formation of ALK fusion proteins results in the activation and deregulation of gene
      expression and signaling, which contributes to increased cell proliferation and survival in
      tumors expressing these genes. This is supported by reports which state that the TRK-fused
      gene (TFG) and kinesin family member 5B (KIF5B) genes may also serve as ALK fusion partners
      in some patients with NSCLC. Expression of these ALK fusion genes causes their transformation
      and enhanced proliferation. Tumors that contain the EML4-ALK fusion oncogene or its variants
      are associated with specific clinical features, including never or light smoking history,
      younger age, and adenocarcinoma with signet ring or acinar histology. Alterations of the ALK
      gene are generally found in a mutually exclusive relationship with mutations in epidermal
      growth factor receptor (EGFR) or Kirsten rat sarcoma (KRAS). Nonetheless, EGFR mutations may
      develop as a resistance mechanism after treatment with ALK inhibitors.

      Wild-type ALK is hardly expressed in most normal human tissues, but is expressed at higher
      levels in a few limited types of tissues such as developing and mature tissue of the nervous
      system (glial cells, neurons, endothelial cells and pericytes. In contrast, an aberrant ALK
      with constitutively active kinase results from the formation of the EML4-ALK fusion gene by
      chromosomal translocation and will likely be expressed in cells with this genotype.

      Patients with advanced NSCLC who have this genetic abnormality are preferably treated with an
      ALK inhibitor. This observation is based on a previous phase III study which compared
      treatment with standard chemotherapy vs. crizotinib (ALK-TKI) in treatment-naïve patients
      with ALK-rearrangement. Results from this trial demonstrated a prolonged progression-free
      survival (PFS) along with an improved response rate and quality of life in patients treated
      with crizotinib. Due to a potentially confounding crossover effect, differences in overall
      survival (OS) did not reach statistical significance. In spite of these encouraging results,
      patients treated with crizotinib have short-lived responses, with an average of 10 months of
      therapy before discontinuation. Other shortcomings of first-generation ALK-inhibitors include
      their ineffectiveness in the context of the central nervous system as well as the development
      of resistance mechanisms.

      - Alectinib Alectinib is a second-generation ALK inhibitor that has activity in
      crizotinib-resistant disease. Additionally, Alectinib has been shown to provide adequate CNS
      activity and has a more complete blockade of ALK. It received FDA approval for first-line
      treatment of ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC, as well as for patients who have progressed on or
      are intolerant to crizotinib.

      Initial approval of Alectinib for ALK-rearranged NSCLC previously treated with crizotinib
      came in 2015. Bases for approval were derived from an initial study, in which 122 patients
      with evaluable, ALK-rearranged, crizotinib-resistant disease were included. Eighty percent
      had progressed after prior platinum-based chemotherapy. With a median follow-up of 47 weeks,
      Alectinib was associated with an overall objective response rate (ORR) of 50%, a disease
      control rate (DCR: objective response plus stable disease) of 79%, and a median duration of
      response of 11 months. The median progression-free survival (PFS) was 8.9 months.

      A second phase II study including 69 patients with measurable advanced ALK-rearranged NSCLC
      who had progressed on crizotinib found that Alectinib was associated with an ORR of 48% at a
      follow-up of 4.8 months.

      Further, Alectinib received approval in 2017 and is now recommended as a first-line
      therapeutic option in ALK-rearranged NSCLC. Approval was based on results from the trial
      comparing alectinib (Alecensa) with crizotinib (Xalkori) as first-line treatment against
      ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer (ALEX) trial, a global study including 303 patients
      which compared treatment with Alectinib vs. crizotinib for ALK-rearranged metastatic NSCLC
      patients who had not received previous systemic therapy. Study results reported an improved
      PFS, with a hazard ratio (HR) of 0.53. Additionally, patients receiving Alectinib had a
      significantly lower incidence of CNS progression (12% vs. 45%) and a higher proportion of
      patients with response duration of ≥12 months (64% vs. 36%). Further, grade 3 to 5 toxicities
      were less frequent with Alectinib (41% vs. 50%).

      In another study published in 2017, the J-ALEX trial, 207 Japanese ALK-rearranged,
      crizotinib-naïve NSCLC patients were randomly assigned to Alectinib vs. crizotinib. At a
      planned interim analysis, results demonstrated improved PFS with Alectinib; median PFS was
      not reached in the Alectinib arm compared to 10.2 months in the crizotinib arm (hazard ratio
      [HR] 0.34, 99.7% Confidence Interval [CI] 0.17-0.70). Alectinib was also better tolerated,
      with the most frequent adverse event being constipation (36%). Patients receiving crizotinib
      experienced nausea (74%), diarrhea (73%), visual disturbances (55%), and alanine
      aminotransferase (ALT)/ aspartate aminotransferase (AST) elevations (>30%), among other
      toxicities.

      Data to support the FDA approval for those who have progressed on or are intolerant to
      crizotinib comes from two phase II studies, both demonstrating response rates to Alectinib of
      approximately 50 percent in patients with ALK-rearranged locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC
      who had progressed on crizotinib.

      - Brain Metastases Alectinib appears to have important clinical activity in patients with
      brain metastases, including patients with symptomatic brain metastases, patients with
      leptomeningeal disease, and patients who have CNS relapse on ceritinib.

      Alectinib has also demonstrated improved outcomes relative to crizotinib among patients with
      brain metastases in 2 phase III trials. In the J-ALEX study, among 43 patients with
      ALK-positive NSCLC with brain metastases, Alectinib demonstrated improved PFS relative to
      crizotinib (HR 0.08, CI 0.01-0.61). Similarly, in ALEX, among those with CNS metastases,
      Alectinib improved PFS relative to crizotinib (HR 0.40, 95% CI 0.25-0.64) and intracranial
      response rate (81% versus 50%).

      Evidence of the activity of Alectinib among patients with brain metastases who have
      crizotinib-resistant disease comes from phase II studies. In a pooled analysis of two phase
      II studies, among 136 patients with baseline CNS metastases (70% of whom had prior CNS
      radiotherapy) the CNS ORR, DCR, and duration of response for Alectinib were 43%, 85%, and
      11.1 months, respectively.

      - Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a
      potent endothelial-specific angiogenic factor that is expressed in a wide array of tumors. In
      NSCLC, high levels of VEGF expression are associated with a poor prognosis, suggesting that
      treatment targeted toward this pathway might be useful.

      One approach to blocking the VEGF pathway is the administration of bevacizumab, a recombinant
      humanized monoclonal antibody (MoAb) that binds VEGF, thereby preventing its interaction with
      the VEGF receptor.

      For good performance status patients with non-squamous NSCLC, the addition of bevacizumab to
      a platinum based doublet offers a higher response rate, a longer PFS, and improved OS
      compared with chemotherapy alone.

      The effect of adding bevacizumab to platinum-based doublets is illustrated by the two largest
      trials, in which bevacizumab was continued as maintenance after completion of the planned
      chemotherapy In the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group trial E4599, 878 previously untreated
      patients with advanced, non-squamous NSCLC were randomly assigned to paclitaxel plus
      carboplatin or the same chemotherapy plus bevacizumab (15 mg/kg) on day 1 of each cycle.
      Bevacizumab was continued as monotherapy on the same schedule after completion of six cycles
      of chemotherapy until there was evidence of progressive disease.

      Patients receiving chemotherapy plus bevacizumab had statistically significant increases in
      the ORR (35% vs. 15% with paclitaxel plus carboplatin alone), OS (median 12.3 vs. 10.3
      months), one-year and two-year survival rates (51% vs. 44% and 23% vs. 15%, respectively),
      and PFS (6.2 vs. 4.5 months).

      In the AVAiL trial, 1043 patients were randomly assigned to cisplatin plus gemcitabine every
      three weeks with either low-dose bevacizumab (7.5 mg/kg), high-dose bevacizumab (15 mg/kg),
      or placebo on day 1 every three weeks. The cisplatin plus gemcitabine was continued for a
      maximum of six cycles, while the bevacizumab or placebo was continued as maintenance until
      there was evidence of progressive disease. PFS was significantly improved with both low-dose
      and high-dose bevacizumab (median 6.7, 6.5, and 6.1 months, for the 7.5 mg/kg, 15 mg/kg, and
      placebo groups, respectively). With a median follow-up of 13 months, the benefit in terms of
      PFS was maintained, as was the improvement in response rate (38%, 35%, and 22%,
      respectively). However, there were no significant differences in OS when comparing the three
      treatment arms (median survival 13.6, 13.4, and 13.1 months respectively; HR for death 0.93
      and 1.03 vs. placebo).

      In a meta-analysis based upon four trials (2194 patients), the addition of bevacizumab
      significantly increased both OS and PFS compared to chemotherapy alone (hazard ratios for
      death or progression 0.90, 95% CI 0.81-0.99 and 0.72, 95% CI 0.66-0.79, respectively). The
      effect on OS was significantly greater in patients with adenocarcinoma compared to other
      histology subtypes. The addition of bevacizumab increased the risk of grade ≥3 toxicity.

        -  Bevacizumab and TKI (Anti EGFR) The combination therapy of bevacizumab plus a TKI has
           been previously explored in a phase II trial. The study included 154 previously
           untreated patients who were randomly assigned to erlotinib plus bevacizumab or erlotinib
           alone. All patients´ tumors contained either an exon 19 deletion or the amino acid
           substitution at position 858 in EGFR, from a leucine (L) to an arginine (R) (L858R)
           mutation. PFS, the primary endpoint of the trial, was significantly increased with the
           combination regimen (median 16 versus 9.7 months, HR 0.54, 95% CI 0.36-0.79). A similar
           magnitude of benefit was seen with both types of mutation. OS data are pending.

        -  Alectinib and Bevacizumab To this date there is no published data of interaction and
           clinical efficacy of a combination therapy with Alectinib plus bevacizumab in patients
           with advanced NSCLC.
    
  