
    
      Strategies directed at improving myocardial perfusion or viability in the setting of acute
      myocardial infarction (AMI) are currently suboptimal. The consequences of microvascular
      damage, as assessed by the TIMI myocardial perfusion (TMP) grade or by cardiac magnetic
      resonance imaging (MR), are serious and affect survival after AMI. Because the size of the
      infarct is an important predictor of prognosis, precise determination of infarct size allows
      risk stratification of patients after AMI.

      First-pass MR perfusion studies recently developed provide quantification of the absolute
      measure of myocardial blood flow as well as direct visualization of myocardial perfusion
      abnormalities, such as areas of "no-reflow". The hyperenhancement technique (Delayed
      enhancement) identifies viable and nonviable myocardium as well as no-reflow areas.

      A recent pilot study showed that infarct size measured by scintigraphy at 7 days was 23% vs
      14% when abciximab was administered in the cath lab vs emergency room, with a reduction in
      infarct size of 40%.

      The present study will be conducted at the Cardiothoracic Department of the University of
      Pisa together with the Institute of Clinical Physiology (CNR) and two other Cath Labs of the
      West of Tuscany. Each Cath Lab will treat patients enrolled in peripheral hospitals referring
      the patients for primary PCI.

      The primary objective of the study is to demonstrate that early abciximab administration
      (before transfer) as compared with late abciximab administration (in the Cath Lab) reduces
      infarct size as measured by delayed hyperenhancement imaging at 6 months.

      The major secondary objectives of this substudy are to demonstrate that early abciximab
      administration:

        1. Improves angiographic TMP grade and cTFC compared with primary PCI group, immediately
           after PCI.

        2. Reduces the extension of no-reflow areas, as assessed by DE-MRI before discharge.

        3. Reduces the extension of microvasculature damage as assessed by fist-pass perfusion
           study by MRI before discharge.

        4. Improves regional wall motion and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) as measured
           by cine MR and 2D echocardiography at 6 months

        5. Reduces the occurrence of LV remodeling at 6 month follow up.
    
  