
    
      A cross-sectional study was conducted at Section of Chemical Pathology, Department of
      Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Aga Khan University, Karachi from 1st February to 31st
      December 2019. Adult patients with history of kidney stones presenting at the Clinical
      Laboratory for 24 hours urine oxalate estimation were included in the study. Debilitated or
      bed ridden patients and patients with renal failure or end stage renal disease, in whom
      urinary oxalate is no longer an indicator of disease status were excluded from the study.
      Study was approved by ethical review committee of Aga Khan University Hospital. Patients
      after informed consent, were guided to submit a spot urine sample. Clinical details were
      recorded on a structured questionnaire by the principal investigator.

      24 hour urine samples were collected in a jar having thymol, which is routinely added to
      limit bacterial growth and hence guard against citrate degradation. Spot urine samples were
      collected in red top container without any added preservatives. The specimen were transported
      to the laboratory within the 12 hours of collection of 24 hour urinary specimen.

      Volume of 24 hour urine was measured in liters. After mixing of the urinary sample to
      overcome effects of sedimentation, a 6 ml aliquot was made and HCl was added to avoid the
      precipitation of oxalate crystals in every sample. Specimen was stored at -20 C till further
      analysis.

      Urinary oxalate was measured on Micro lab 300 using a kit based on oxalate oxidase principle
      by Trinity Biotech plc. Wick low, Ireland following standard operating procedures. Urinary
      creatinine was measured on ADVIA 1800 by Siemens, US using kinetic Jaffe reaction. Both
      normal and abnormal quality control materials were run with every batch of oxalate and
      creatinine analysis in urine to validate the results. In addition, external proficiency
      testing of urinary oxalate was conducted by College of American Pathologists (CAP).

      The cut-offs for 24 hour oxalate excretion was 502 킬mol/24 hours for males and 353 킬mol/24
      hours for females. The cut-offs for spot oxalate: creatinine ratio was 33 킬mol/mmol for males
      and 45 킬mol/mmol for females.
    
  