
    
      Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) and dendritic cells (DCs) activation/maturation One of the
      important approaches to successful cancer immunotherapy is generation of specific T cell
      responses by dendritic cells (DCs). DCs are the most potent antigen-presenting cells for
      naive T cells, because their high expression of MHC and co-stimulatory molecules. DCs
      comprise several subsets, and their roles in the presentation of antigens derived from
      pathogens, vaccines and self tissues are now beginning to be elucidated. Immature DCs (iDCs)
      resided in periphery have a high ability to endocytose antigens and become to mature DCs
      (mDCs) upon a variety of stimuli through Toll-like receptors (TLRs). However, iDCs facilitate
      immune tolerance and fully mDCs can promote immune responses. Until now, there are some
      studies have demonstrated that TCM could promote the activation status of DC to enhance
      immune responses through TLR, which are characterized by increased expression of
      co-stimulatory moleculars, MHC class II and several cytokines. Ganoderma lucidum and
      Cordyceps sinensis have been widely used in Asian countries to have beneficial effects on
      human health. Ganoderma lucidum polysaccharides have been reported to induce DCs maturation
      and promote the cytotoxicity of specific CTL. Moreover, Ganoderma lucidum polysaccharides
      were able to induce DC activation markers production and cytokines expression through TLR-4
      signaling pathway. However, this character about TCM acted as TLR agonists could apply to
      develop safe and effective adjuvant in vaccine generation.

      Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) and T cell activation T cells are the master regulators of
      adaptive immune responses. Proper T cell responses are essential for the hosts to orchestrate
      sufficient adaptive immunity. Classically, the TH1/TH2 hypothesis has served the immunology
      community well, particularly in understanding infectious and allergic diseases. Regulatory T
      cells (Treg) are suppressive T cells that regulate effector T cell immunity. Nevertheless,
      this model dose not fit all systems when it comes to the study of organ-specific autoimmune
      diseases. It has also become more and more clear, however, that many complicated pathological
      situations cannot be simply explained by the TH1 cell and TH2 cell paradigm. Efforts to
      resolve these issues in recent years have resulted in the discovery of TH17 cells.

      T cell immunity is crucial for anti-tumor immunity. Given their importance in immune
      responses and diseases, it is important to understand the regulation of T cell immunity. In
      immune system, different lineages of immune cells were conventionally distinguished by the
      morphology and expression of a cluster of differentiation markers on the cell surface. TH1
      cells that make IL-2 and IFN-r are important for delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions,
      whereas TH2 cells that make IL-4 promote IgE production and allergic reaction. The
      differentiation of TH1 and TH2 cells mainly through the induction of distinct transcriptional
      programs. Activation of Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription 1 (STAT1) by IFN-r
      and STAT4 by IL-12 drives expression of T-bet for TH1 programming. On the other hand,
      activation of STAT6 by IL-4 promotes GATA3 expression in TH2 cells. A revise of the TH1/TH2
      hypothesis was proposed until the discovery and IL-23 and IL-17. TH17 cell is a distinct T
      helper cell population that plays a crucial role in CD4+ T cell-mediated adaptive immunity.
      Commitment to the TH17 pathway requires the presence of both IL-6 and TGF-a during in vitro
      culture. These cells, different from the classical TH1 and TH2 cells, do not produce IFN-r or
      IL-4 but on the other hand express the IL-23 receptor and IL-21, IL-22, and IL-17F. ROR-rt ,
      ROR-rt are also highly expressed in TH17cells and can be induced by TGF-a and IL-6. Our
      previous studies showed for the first time an in vivo requirement for STAT3 in TH17 mediated
      autoimmunity. In addition, the investigators found that STAT3 is required for the maintenance
      of endogenous TH17 cells. In a more recent report, the investigators also found that CD8 T
      cells, like their CD4 counterparts TH17, can be skewed toward IL-17 production in vitro and
      in vitro.

      Manipulating T cell immunity by Chinese herbs is a promising field to explore. Many herbs
      were reported to regulate the T cell activation. Tanshinlactone A from Salvia miltiorrhiza
      Bunge significantly decreased the IL-2 and IFN-γ gene expression through reduction of MAPK
      activation in phytohemagglutinin-activated peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Periplocoside
      E (PSE) was shown to dose-dependently inhibit anti-CD3 induced primary T cell proliferation,
      activation for IL-2R (CD25) expression, and IFN-γ and IL-2 production at the transcriptional
      level by inhibited the activation of ERK and JNK. Furthermore, kurarinol was reported to
      increase level of HBV specific CTL by down-regulating peripheral blood HBV specific CTL
      surface PD-1 expression of CHB patients.

      All of these will support investigators' hypothesis that modulation of dendritic cell and T
      cell immunity by Chinese herbs or cytokines may be an applicable intervention to modulate
      immunity, for example, to promote anti-tumor immunity against cancer. The successful
      completion of the proposed studies will provide a strong support for future development of
      anti-cancer immunotherapy by Chinese herbs.

      Traditional Chinese herbs as a pharmacologic approach to modulate immunity Cancer
      immunotherapy, allergy, and autoimmune diseases are among the chronic illness that accounts
      for the death and economic burdens in Taiwan and other modern countries. Diseases such of
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA), SLE, multiple sclerosis, ankylosing spondylitis, vasculitis,
      psoriasis and Sjogren's syndrome are common autoimmune diseases that cause not only life-long
      discomfort but also disabilities of the patients. Cancer immunotherapy is promising. Many of
      autoimmune disease and difficult-to-treat allergies are now found to be associated with IL-17
      mediated pathology. However, the current treatment is limited. Recently, targeted therapy
      such as Etanercept (trade name Enbrel), a biopharmaceutical that interferes with tumor
      necrosis factor (TNF; a soluble inflammatory cytokine), has been developed to treat some of
      the autoimmune diseases. However, nhibition of TNF has substantially advanced the treatment
      of inflammatory diseases. Because TNF and IL-17 have shared functions, the rationale for
      testing IL-17 inhibitors in the clinic is often based on the concept that patients who do not
      respond to TNF inhibitors may have an IL-17-driven disease. Autoimmune diseases such of
      rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis are common autoimmune diseases that cause not
      only life-long discomfort but also disabilities of the patients. The current treatment for
      these autoimmune diseases is limited to analgesia, anti-inflammatory drugs, steroids,
      disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), and immunosuppressants. Recent studies in
      mouse models and in humans have identified a key role of IL-17 and TH17 cells in the
      pathogenesis of inflammation and autoimmunity as well as in host defense against certain
      pathogens.

      Meanwhile, there are some studies using Chinese herbs to modulate CD4 TH17 immunity. Compound
      extracted from Chinese herbs, such as berberine exhibited potent efficacy inhibiting TH17 in
      the EAE model. Triptolide also inhibited collagen-induced arthritis (CIA), a model of
      rheumatoid arthritis, through inhibition of CD4 TH17 cells. Periplocoside A was found to
      ameliorate EAE by suppressing IL-17 production and inhibited the differentiation of Th17
      cells in vitro. Eriocalyxin B was also found to be effective to inhibit TH17 and EAE through
      targeting Janus Kinase/Signal Transducer and Activator Of Transcription and Nuclear
      factor-kappaB signaling pathways. TCM formula such as Qingkailing injection was found to
      ameliorate rat experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU). Qingkailing injection can alleviate
      autoimmune uveitis in rats, inhibit the differentiation toward Th1 and Th17 effector cells
      and the relevant cytokines secretion. Pure compound from Daphne odora var. marginata (D.
      marginata) was also found to inhibit TH17 and thus exhibit inhibitory effects in CIA model.

      One of the landmark study published in Science and Nature Chemical Biology is the example of
      halofuginone, an active component of traditional Chinese herb hydrangea root (Dichroa
      febrifuga), used to treat malaria for thousands of years. A collaborative research team led
      by Dr. Mark Sundrud at the Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School and Immune Disease
      Institute, Boston, MA, has reported that halofuginone halted the progression of experimental
      autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) mice and TH17. Importantly, unlike other therapies for
      autoimmune diseases, halofuginone does not have the undesirable effect of suppressing the
      other immune system.

      The investigators have established some platforms for screening Chinese herbs not only for
      modulating PD-1/PD-L1, IL-17, but also for detection of dendritic cell and T cell activation
      (Immunogen Test Panel).

      The hypothesis is that modulation of dendritic cells and T cells by traditional Chinese
      medicine may be an applicable intervention to treat some of the immunologic diseases such as
      cancer, allergy, and autoimmune diseases. Studies that can fit the niche, understanding the
      function and mechanism of Chinese herbs on immune cells and its pathway, will have broad
      clinical and immunological significance. The successful completion of the proposed studies
      will provide a strong support for a clinical trial of traditional Chinese medicine to treat
      patients with immunologic diseases.
    
  