
    
      One of the current treatments for choroidal neovascularization in exudative age related
      macular degeneration (ARMD) involves a combination of laser photocoagulation (PDT) and
      injections of an anti-inflammatory (Dexamethasone) and an anti-angiogenic (Bevacizumab). This
      combination therapy is designed to stabilize vision, improve vision in selected cases and
      reduce the total number of treatment cycles overall compared to other methods of treatment
      presently in use. Many retinal physicians are treating exudative ARMD with an ocular
      injection every 4 weeks for a number of years. Combination therapy has reduced the number of
      treatment cycles to less than 3 for many patients; and in preliminary studies, patients
      taking 20 milligrams of dietary oral zeaxanthin required even less treatment cycles to
      achieve stability. In this trial, the only variable will be the oral consumption of 20
      milligrams of zeaxanthin daily taken in half of the patients randomized to this group. The
      remaining half patients with still undergo combination therapy, but without taking 20
      milligrams of oral dietary Zeaxanthin.

      Zeazanthin is found in many foods and low doses of zeazanthin are commonly added to many
      multivitamins already on the market. All products with Zeazanthin is a constituent, including
      EyePromise Ten, have excellent safety profiles and no side effects or adverse events have
      been reported thus far with this supplement.

      Zeazanthin is in many eye supplements and is being studied by the NEI, National Eye
      Institute, as part of the AREDS-2 study looking at the benefits of Lutein, Zeazanthin and
      Omega 3 Fish Oils on AMD progression. The patients will be taking 20 milligrams a day of
      Zeazanthin. The United States and global safety organization have established an ADI
      (acceptable daily intake) of 2 mg/kg body weight/day of Zeazanthin. This equates to 155 mg
      per day for 177 pound person.

      Millions of doses of EyePromise Ten have been taken without side effects. The new part of
      this trial, again is taking 20 milligrams of Zeazanthin while being combined with medical
      injections and laser treatments. Zeazanthin is one of the two pigments obtained from the diet
      that deposit in the macula and give it the yellow color. While obtained from the diet the
      retina accumulates it up to 1000 times higher levels than anywhere else in the body. Numerous
      scientific and clinical trials suggest that it is critical to the protection of the retina
      and in reducing risks and progression of age related macular degeneration.
    
  