
    
      After anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction, patient-reported outcomes are improved
      10 years post-surgery. Cytokine concentrations, however, remain elevated years after surgery;
      over 80% of patients with combined ACL and meniscus injuries have post-traumatic
      osteoarthritis (PTOA) within 10-15 years after injury. Since pain nociceptors are not located
      in the articular cartilage, patient-reported outcomes improve despite progressive,
      irreversible cartilage loss, thus making PTOA a "silent killer." Because early cartilage loss
      progresses without pain and dysfunction, the prevalence of PTOA continues to increase. PTOA
      now represents the most common cause of military disability.

      Our recent results illustrate the downstream cytokine and degradative enzyme activity
      following ACL reconstruction. ACL and meniscus injury initiate a biochemical cascade
      resulting in cartilage degradation and this process involves an up-regulated pro-inflammatory
      response with a dysregulated anti-inflammatory response. Single-dose intra-articular
      anti-inflammatory treatment appears to reduce hyaline cartilage degradation shortly after the
      time of injury based on synovial fluid measures of type II collagen degradation. The
      intra-articular inflammatory milieu at the time of surgery appears to predict the patient
      symptom state two years later; however, the effectiveness of preoperative anti-inflammatory
      treatments in impacting patient symptoms or slowing long-term PTOA progression is as yet
      unclear. A lack of efficacy in preoperative interventions may be attributed to a profound
      inflammatory stimulus from surgical reconstruction of the ACL. The postoperative inflammatory
      cascade results in articular cartilage and meniscus degradation due to matrix degrading
      enzymes, especially those which breakdown type II collagen.

      PTOA affects the whole joint organ including the cartilage, synovium, and bone. PTOA
      progression is multifaceted and includes activation of the pro-inflammatory Nuclear Factor
      Kappa-B (NFkB) pathway, an increase in pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages, cell senescence, and
      bone remodeling. Limiting the biochemical cascade through an innovative disease modifying
      treatment to target upstream activity will potentially treat all components of the knee,
      thereby lessening the inflammatory response, reducing cartilage catabolism, and potentially
      improving pathologic bony remodeling observed after ACL reconstruction. The early proteomic
      PTOA response is more similar to inflammatory rheumatoid arthritis than idiopathic OA; thus,
      long-acting agents which better regulate pro-inflammatory cytokine activity may more
      successfully limit tissue destruction. By re-purposing approved therapeutics with proven
      immune efficacy, a readily-available and cost-effective strategy for disease modification may
      be possible.

      Montelukast was first approved for clinical use in 1998 for prophylaxis and chronic treatment
      of asthma. The drug selectively inhibits the cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 (CysLT1).
      Montelukast blocks the actions of cysteinyl leukotriene D4 (LTD4), which is produced through
      the arachidonic acid pathway. This pro-inflammatory signal is released from several cells
      including the inflammatory mast cells and eosinophils. Montelukast also appears to address
      multiple PTOA mechanisms by inhibiting cysteinyl leukotrienes. Cysteinyl leukotriene
      inhibition in animal and laboratory models of PTOA resulted in the elimination of senescent
      cells, reduced NFkB activation, decreased concentrations of pro-inflammatory and catabolic
      factors and reactive oxygen species (ROS) while increasing expression of anti-inflammatory
      factors (inducing anti-inflammatory M2 macrophage infiltration), inhibiting
      osteoclastogenesis and improving bone quality. The novel use of oral montelukast offers the
      potential of a disease modifying treatment to prevent irreversible cartilage loss after ACL
      injury.
    
  