
    
      Idiopathic inflammatory demyelinating disorders (IIDD) are a group of diseases with distinct
      clinical and magnetic resonnance imaging (MRI) features, the most frequent being Multiple
      Sclerosis (MS). MS can present with atypical MRI features that can be misleading.
      Neuromyelitis Optica Spectrum Disorder (NMOSD) is the main differential diagnosis. It has
      been demonstrated that some patient with NMOSD can also present with brain lesion that is
      sometimes difficult to diagnose. In this context, a retrospective series identifies 18
      patients with centreal nervous system atypical demyelination and 1) pathological evidence of
      astrocytopathy and 2) immunohistochemistry demonstrating decrease of aqp4 binding. The aim of
      the study is to describe the radiological and pathological characteristics of a series of
      patients with pathologicaly proven atypical demyelination that underwent biopsy for
      diagnostic uncertainties.

      This is a retrospective multicenter study. Inclusion criteria are: 1) Acute or subacute onset
      of neurological deficit, 2) Brain biopsy performed for diagnostic uncertainties revealing an
      active demyelinating lesion, 3) no known diagnosis of MS or NMOSD at the time of the biopsy
      and 4) no alternative diagnosis identified during the disease course.

      All the medical records of the patients will be reviewed and the following data will be
      recorded: previous medical history including previous neurologic relapses, gender, age at
      onset, clinical symptoms at onset and diagnosis at last follow-up according to current
      diagnosis criteria for MS and NMOSD.

      Brain MRI scanners will be analysed. The investigators will mainly focus on T1-, T2-, T2
      gradient echo-, fluid- attenuated inversion recovery- and diffusion-weighted images. The
      following data will be recorded: number of lesions, location (cortical, juxtacortical,
      juxtaventricular, corpus callosum involvement, posterior fossa involvement), presence of a
      peripheral hyperintense/hypointense rim (on T2 sequence), and type of gadolinium enhancement
      (peripheral open or closed ring, central homogeneous or heterogeneous). The presence of
      oedema will be recorded and mass effect will be analysed. According to the classification of
      atypical demyelinating lesions (MAGNIMS group), patients will be classified as having either
      infiltrative, megacystic, balo-like, ring-like lesions or unclassified. Three
      neuropathologists (BL, BL and VR) blinded to the MRI and clinical datas will perform all the
      pathologic evaluations. Paraffin-embedded sections have been stained using hematoxylin &
      eosin, Luxol fast blue. Primary antibodies specific fot GFAP, CD3, CD8, CD20 and CD68 were
      used in routine practice. Additional immunohistochemical studies will be done using primary
      antiobodies specific for IgG and Aquaporin-4. The investigators will specifically look at the
      presence of 1) morphologic features suggestive of either MS (Creutzfeldt cells) or NMOSD
      (dystrophic astrocytes, myelin vacuolation, vascular hyalinization) 2) negative aquaporin-4
      staining (suggestive of NMOSD) and 3) macrophages containing GFAP positive or Luxol fast blue
      positive debris.
    
  