
    
      For women with recurrent ovarian cancer, re-treatment with carboplatin is frequently
      recommended. However, carboplatin re-treatment can result in an allergic or allergic-like
      reaction called a hypersensitivity reaction. Symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction can
      include, but are not limited to itching, rash, swelling of the lips, tongue, or throat, chest
      pain, chest tightness, shortness of breath, wheezing, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting,
      diarrhea, palpitations, dizziness, confusion, and low pressure. Hypersensitivity reactions
      occur in 20-40% of women with recurrent ovarian cancer who are re-treated with carboplatin.
      At least half of the hypersensitivity reactions are described as moderately severe with
      symptoms of generalized rash, wheezing, facial swelling, difficulty breathing/shortness of
      breath, and hypotension (low blood pressure).

      Patients who suffer from a hypersensitivity reaction while receiving carboplatin and require
      additional therapy may receive future carboplatin infusions utilizing a "desensitization"
      technique. A desensitization is when carboplatin is administered in slowly increasing amounts
      as an inpatient under the direction of the department of Allergy Immunology at Massachusetts
      General Hospital. A desensitization allows patient to safely receive carboplatin, but
      requires an inpatient hospitalization, which may be of significant inconvenience to some
      patients.

      As part of this study, the participant will continue to receive carboplatin as part of their
      standard therapy. The change would be instead of carboplatin being administered over a 30
      minute period, the carboplatin be administered intravenously according to the following
      schedule:

        -  First hour - Administer 1 percent of total dose

        -  Second hour - Administer 9 percent

        -  Third hour - Administer 90 percent

      Standard pre-medications will be administered immediately prior to the carboplatin infusion
      which will include of 20 mg of dexamethasone, 50mg of diphenhydramine, and famotidine 20 mg.

      The participant's medical record will also be reviewed to evaluate whether age, cancer
      stage/grade, number of previous carboplatin cycles, accompanying agents, and/or medical
      conditions have an effect on hypersensitivity reactions. The participant will also be asked
      to fill out a short optional form regarding race and ethnicity to evaluate whether or not
      these factors contribute to hypersensitivity reactions.

      If the participant experiences a hypersensitivity reaction, the study protocol will be
      discontinued. A standard blood draw for a tryptase (a blood test for an allergic reaction)
      will be obtained at the time of the reaction along with other discretionary laboratories
      recommended by your oncologist. The participant will then be referred to the Allergy
      Immunology Department if carboplatin is determined to be necessary for future treatment.
    
  