
    
      Early administration of antimicrobials remains the mainstay of treatment of severe
      infections. Current guidelines of management of severe sepsis suggest that initial therapy of
      a patient should be reviewed after 48 to 72 hours. At that stage some patients are doing
      well, whereas others fail to respond. When microbiology cultures of biological specimens fail
      to provide information for the microbial cause of an infection and susceptibilities to
      antimicrobials, antimicrobial stewardship relies on the use of biomarkers and mainly
      procalcitonin (PCT). Data so far, suggest that early changes of serum PCT can inform about
      the prognosis of the septic patient, with greater values reflecting a worse outcome and
      higher mortality and that serial measurements within 48-72 hours provide adequate information
      of the appropriateness of the administered antimicrobials. Moreover the use of a
      procalcitonin guided-treatment in surgical as well as in non-surgical critically-ill
      patients, is seen to be non-inferior to the standard antibiotic approach and leads to a
      shorter antibiotic exposure, having possible beneficial effect on reducing microbial
      resistance and therapy costs.

      In the largest study conducted so far, de Jong et al showed that PCT-guided stop of treatment
      was not only safe compared with standard of care antibiotic duration, but also led to a
      better outcome i.e. significant decrease of both 28-day and 1-year mortality. The results of
      this study are a major contribution in the field of critical care since they prove for the
      first time that PCT guidance of antimicrobial treatment allows not only proper antimicrobial
      stewardship but it is also associated with survival benefit. However, de Jong et al did not
      provide findings to explain the underlying mechanism of survival benefit. As a rule
      critically ill patients run two major risks coming from the long-term administration of
      antimicrobials; the first is infections by Clostridium difficile coming from the ecological
      damage of gut flora and the second is the risk of infections by multidrug-resistant (MDR)
      bacteria colonizing the gut. MDR is emerging after the ecological pressure of broad-spectrum
      antimicrobial usually administered to the critically ill patient.
    
  