
    
      Background: Antimicrobial stewardship program (ASP) is recommended to improve appropriate
      antimicrobial use, reduce bacterial resistance, unnecessary drug costs and enhance patient
      health outcomes. Two core strategies of ASP recommended as effective in guidelines are
      formulary restriction with drug preauthorization and prospective audit with feedback.
      Preauthorization is the current strategy used in our hospital, while most other hospitals in
      Taiwan and worldwide uses prospective audit with feedback. Preauthorization requires
      intensive manpower to maintain timeliness of antimicrobial use. This study will evaluate a
      policy change in strategy used for antimicrobial stewardship. Investigators will evaluate the
      effectiveness of the 2 strategies using antimicrobial utilization and patient outcomes.

      Methods: During a stepwise change in the policy of the antimicrobial stewardship program in
      this hospital, the study will observe the differences between two standardized core
      strategies (preauthorization vs prospective audit) of ASP. Hospitalized patients aged 20 and
      above, requiring use of restricted antimicrobials will be recruited into the study. Signing
      of consent forms are waived since both strategies are already proven to be effective and are
      widely implemented in Taiwan and worldwide. Also, the evaluation of such policy changes will
      not impact on patient safety or patient rights. The conduction of the study will not require
      contacting patients and no clinical samples will be collected. All data required for analysis
      will be collected via a computerized patient care system. Patient data will be protected via
      de-linking. Patients will be excluded if admitted at or entered the intensive care unit
      within 48 hours of entry, and if infectious diseases consultation had been requested.
      Eligible patients will be randomized to either preauthorization, which is the current
      practice in the hospital; or prospective audit, that will be done at 48-72 hours after
      prescription, as is the current practice in other hospitals in Taiwan and worldwide. Managing
      physicians are not obligated to follow our advice and the investigators will not intervene in
      their management decisions. Primary outcomes include antimicrobial utilization, drug costs
      and patient outcomes such as length of stay and clinical improvement. The time spent on
      implementing these two strategies will be compared.

      The study hypothesis is that the preauthorization group will impact on a reduction in
      antimicrobial cost and utilization, especially in the first 72 hours, when compared to
      prospective audit. However, patient outcomes will likely be similar. Antimicrobial
      stewardship programs using preauthorization as a core strategy compared to prospective audit
      with feedback have similar patient outcomes, but may reduce antimicrobial utilization.
    
  