
    
      Patients will be randomly allocated into two groups using a sealed envelope technique:
      desflurane group (Des group, n = 30) and sevoflurane group (sevo group, n = 30).

      Anesthesia monitoring included electrocardiogram, continuous arterial and pulse oximetry,
      capnography, urine output, nerve stimulator, and esophageal core temperature.

      Anesthesia will be induced with Propofol 2 mg/kg ,FentanyL 2 μg/kg and Atracuruium (0.5
      mg/kg) was administered to achieve muscle relaxation before endotracheal intubation.
      End-tidal desflurane or sevoflurane concentrations during the induction were limited to 2
      MAC. Concentrations of inhalational anesthetics were measured using an anesthetic gas
      analyser (Datex-Ohmeda, Helsinki, Finland). For the maintenance of anesthesia, the inspired
      desflurane or sevoflurane concentration was carefully titrated to maintain the end-tidal
      concentration of 1 MAC. A constant fresh gas flow of 3 l/min (medical-grade air in oxygen to
      make inspiratory oxygen fraction 0.5) was used during the maintenance of anesthesia.
      Ventilation was controlled with a tidal volume of 7-10 ml/kg and ventilatory rate was
      adjusted to maintain an end tidal CO2 of 35-40 mmHg. to maintain intraoperative blood
      pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR) within 20% of preoperative values. additional Atracurium
      will be administered as appropriate. Nerve stimulator was used to monitor neuromuscular
      blockade on the right adductor pollicis. Hypotension (a drop in systolic BP to the extent of
      30% or more or the systolic BP being less than the preoperative values) was treated with
      volume replacement and, when necessary, with intravenous ephedrine in incremental doses
      .Bradycardia (HR < 50 beats per min) was treated with atropine if needed.

      Aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), total bilirubin (TB),
      prothrombin time (PT) expressed in international normalized ratio (INR), albumin, platelet
      count (PLT), and hemoglobin (Hb) were analysed at preoperative period, immediately after
      operation, and on the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 5th and 7th, postoperative days (PODs).
    
  