1209. the theory and practice of the family diagnostic.  ii. theoreticalaspects and resident educationfamily intervention and observation have proveduseful in 3 areas.  the 1st of these is observation of thepsychosocial context in the patient.  on admission to amental hospital the phenomenon of extrusion and separ-ation from the family is evident, and the need for studyof the interaction between the patient and his familymilieu is vital.  the 2nd area where the family inter-view has a major role is resident education.  the tra-ditional medical education of the ill prepares the stu-dent for consideration of the multifactorial problems ofemotional disorder in which balances between mem-bers of a group may be the issue rather than externalpathogenes.  the family interview offers a unique pointof observation of factually evident and emotionally con-vincing group data.  in addition to the observation offamily phenomena, mutual understanding of others'problems is created.  finally, the family interviewserves as an instrument for data collection and hypo-thesis seeking in relating individual psychopathologyto family adaptations.  the patient and his family atthe time of admission are dealing with a crisis.  some-times this is traumatic, such as the unexpected lossof a young marital partner, an unexpected illness, ora financial reverse.  more commonly, however, it isdevelopmental being a natural part of the life cycle.characteristically, the developmental task involvedin dealing with the crises has been postponed so thatone does not see the family at the age specific and ap-propriate time for this task.  the crisis emerges dis-ruptively because of inevitable biological maturation,personal decision, or social expectation.  a primaryconcern of the leader is to determine what life task isbeing faced.  families have a mentally ill member notmerely because they are dealing with the vicissitudesof life.  they are unable to cope with the crisis, be-cause of the feelings which are aroused.  each life cri-sis leads to a particular constellation of effects in anygiven family.  these include primarily, sadness, anger,and guilt, but there may well be specific affective con-stellations appropriate to different developmental tasks.the patient's inability to cope with a life crisis is dueto his particular adaptation of a style of dealing withfeelings that is employed by other members of the family.