the filarial parasites of the eastern gorilla in the congoa survey for parasites has been undertaken in 20 mountaingorillas (gorilla gorilla beringei) from the eastern congo kivuprovince.six full-grown (two males and four females),three adolescents(one male and two females), and elevenyoung gorillas wereexamined, some of them during severalconsecutive months.  nineautopsies were performed.no protozoa were discovered in the blood.plasmodium parasiteswhich are common in gorillas and chimpanzeesfrom west africawere never found in the eastern congo primates,including tenother gorillas examined previously and some fifty chimpanzees.severe diarrhoea with a balantidiasis picture developed in twoyoung gorillas.  autopsy revealed however an intensive infectionwith oesophagostomum stephanostomum and resulting fatty degenera-tion of the liver.  oligotrichida belonging to the genus troglodytellawere commonly found in the intestinal tract.  oesophagostomumstephanostomum eggs were consistently present in the stools ofthe gorillas and autoinfection caused the death of several younggorillas 4 to 6 weeks after their capture.many microfilariae were found in the blood and the skin.  pre-liminary communications were published mentioning the existenceof four different microfilariae in the blood of gorillas and of threeothers in the dermal layers of the skin.  after a detailed study sevenspecies have been identified and described:  dipetalonema leopoldi,d. gorillae, d. vanhoofi, d. streptocercum, microfilaria binucleata,loa loa gorillae n.subsp. and onchocerca volvulus.  three of theworms described have so far been discovered only in gorilla gorilla,namely dipetalonema leopoldi, d. gorillae and loa loa gorillae.  twoof them were previously known from the chimpanzee, namelyd. vanhoofi and microfilaria binucleata.  one species, d. strepto-cercum, first discovered in man and later described from the chimpan-zee, is now also known from gorilla gorilla.  onchocerca volvulus hasbeen found in only one of the 20 gorillas examined.  gorilla gorillaberingei in eastern congo might become through close contactwith man and his filarial vectors an abnormal or accidental host ofd. streptocercum and onchocerca volvulus or else might be consideredas an original reservoir of these filarial parasites of man.