a behavioural and electroencephalographicstudy of autistic childrenshort biographies are given of 10 children,age 3 to 6 years, diagnosed as suffering fromkanner's syndrome (early infantile autism).an analysis was made of the free-field acti-vities of these children compared with a groupof normal children of similar age.  electro-encephalographic studies were also carried outon all 10 children, and in two it was possibleto carry out simultaneous behavioural andeeg observations by means of telemetry.the children were observed for three minuteperiods in four environments of varyingcomplexity: a. an empty room; b. the sameroom with toy wooden blocks present; c.blocks plus passive adult; d. blocks plus activeadult.  except in a the visual fixations andmanipulatory activities were of significantlyshorter duration in the autistic children thanin the normals, lacked clear 'cut-off' pointsand showed relatively little variability betweenenvironments.  the autistic children as awhole showed virtually no constructive play incontrast with the normals, though moretime was spent in contact with play materials inthe social environments.  changes in thetime spent in locomotion, gesturing, block-playand manipulation of other objects in theenvironment showed that the autistic childrenwere acutely responsive to changes in theirenvironment, including the presence of the socialstimulus.  if the autistic children weresubdivided into those who characteristically showedstereotypies and those who did not, thelatter sub-group showed a behaviour structure whichwas very similar to that of the normals,whereas the stereotypy sub-group was clearlydifferentiated from both the normal childrenand the non-stereotypy sub-group.eight autistic children had waking eegrecords characterized by low voltage irregularactivity without any established rhythms;one child, a record containing irregular alphaand another unstable theta activity.  two ofthe children with 'flat' laboratory eegs showedmore rhythmic, higher voltage records whentheir eegs were telemetred in environment a.they also showed less stereotyped behaviour.in environments b and d they showed pro-gressively more irregular eeg activity andmore stereotypy.the hypothesis is advanced that autisticchildren are in a chronically high state of physio-logical arousal.  the findings of the presentstudy and those of other workers are discussedwith respect to this hypothesis.