
    
      While diagnostic hysteroscopy allows panoramic view of the uterus cavity, operational
      hysteroscopy allows to minimal invasive approach in the intrauterine lesions. Most frequently
      complications of hysteroscopy are cervical rupture, hemorrhage, failure of passage formation
      and uterus perforation. These generally are related to cervix dilatation's difficulty. These
      complications can be minimized preoperatively by the cervical ripening.

      Present clinic study will be performed on the patients who appealed to gynecology polyclinic
      of the Konya TRH by the reason of infertility and infertility polyclinic of Zekai Tahir Burak
      Women Health Education and Research Hospital were planned diagnostic hysteroscopy by
      intrauterine pathology prediagnosis.Women will be given information about study and written
      informed consent will be obtained Inclusion criteria: On the HSG,USG or SIS, women at the age
      of primary or secondary infertile reproductive suspected for intrauterine pathology, no
      contraindication for hysteroscopy and reproductive age Exclusion criteria: Women are with
      allergy against to prostaglandins, with diseases in which prostaglandin usage is
      contraindicated, pregnant, don't given approval, with cervical surgery history and cervical
      insufficiency.

      Post randomization. For the purpose of cervical ripening none procedure will be performed to
      Group 1, while vaginal misoprostole of 200 mg and vaginal dinoprostone will be applied to
      Group 2 and 3, respectively. While misoprostol will be implanted 3 hours before procedure,
      but dinoprostone will be implanted 6 hours before procedure. Before drug implantation for
      determination of the cervical insufficiency and measure of the cervical canal's opening,
      bougies will be applied toward to back from 8 no- hegar bougie.

      After drugs administration, cervical canal will be again evaluated with above mentioned way
      by bougie before hysteroscopy, patients whose cervixes were easily passed via 5.5 no-hegar
      bougie, haven't cervical dislocation requirement and then directly hysteroscopy will be
      applied to them. Other patients will be applied cervical dislocation up to 6 no- hegar bougie
      before hysteroscopy. These processes also will be applied to patients of the Group 1.
    
  