
    
      Bicuspid aortic valve is the most common congenital valvular heart anomaly in the general
      population, with a prevalence estimated between 0.5 - 2%. It is more common in males than
      females with ratios reported between 2:1 and 3:1. The prevalence of BAV shows significant
      differences amongst different ethnic groups. BAV sometimes associates with other,
      non-valvular cardiovascular phenotypes, e.g. aortic coarctation, left dominant coronary
      artery system and intracranial aneurysms. Presence of BAV is strongly associated with
      dilatation of the ascending aorta irrespective of valve function. BAV related dilatation of
      the ascending aorta has been reported in 56% of those aged 30 years old and 88% of those aged
      80 years old.

      Presence of BAV can be associated with serious cardiovascular complications. In a long term
      observational study, the overall survival of BAV patients was equal to age and sex matched
      subjects from the general population, but BAV was associated with the need for surgical
      intervention in 27% of subjects. Additionally, cardiovascular medical events (heart failure,
      infective endocarditis and stroke) occurred in 33% of all subjects with BAV over that period.

      BAV shows strong familial clustering, indicating that it has a strong genetic basis. In an
      echocardiographic survey of first degree relatives of patients with BAV 36.7% of families had
      at least 2 members with this anomaly. In a study of 309 subjects from 48 extended families
      heritability of BAV was calculated at 89%.A whole genome linkage scan performed in 38
      extended families (324 individuals), showed evidence for linkage with 5 chromosomal loci -
      18q22, 5q21, 13q34, 9q34, 17q24. When analysed separately, the majority of families
      contributed only to a single locus suggesting heterogenic genetic origin of BAV. Based on
      these observation an oligogenic model of autosomal dominant inheritance with reduced
      penetrance has been suggested.

      Despite strong familial clustering, only few genetic loci have been associated with BAV so
      far. The strongest evidence exist for association of BAV with NOTCH1 gene (translocation
      associated protein) - the product of which is an important element in developmental control
      of cell fate decisions. Other candidate loci include TGFBR2 (transforming growth factor beta
      receptor 2 gene), GATA5 (GATA-binding protein gene) and eNOS (endothelial nitric oxide
      synthase gene). However, the identified loci explain only small proportion of BAV
      heritability.

      Modern DNA analysis, notably next generation sequencing, allows variants associated with
      disease to be identified more rapidly and with increased precision. The objective of this
      project is to use such technology to identify genetic variants and genes predisposing to BAV
      using a combination of case-control and family-based approaches. A better understanding of
      the genetic underpinnings of BAV could in the future help to improve the management of this
      valvular heart condition.

      This BRAVE study will recruit patients with antecedent or new diagnosis of BAV. As many
      relatives of the index patient as possible will be recruited to the study (family based
      analysis). They will be screened with echocardiography for the presence of BAV. Additional
      group of unrelated healthy individuals with three leaflet valves will be recruited for the
      purpose of case control analysis.

      Demographic and clinical data from all participants will be collected using purposefully
      designed questionnaires and by accessing their medical records. Data on imaging
      investigations will be obtained from the medical records or from the echocardiogram performed
      for the purpose of screening.

      Blood samples will be used for the purpose of isolation of genetic material and subsequent
      genetic analysis. Additional laboratory tests may be performed on the blood samples to
      provide supporting evidence to the results of genetic analysis.

      The main analyses will consist of identifying and cataloguing genetic variants for each
      individual from the DNA sequencing and then seeing whether any particular variant or sets of
      variants are more commonly present in BAV subjects versus those without BAV (case-control
      design) or present in subjects with BAV but not in unaffected family members (family-based
      approach).
    
  