
    
      This study is designed to compare self-directed bibliotherapy and therapist-directed
      cognitive behavioral therapy for children and adolescents with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder
      (OCD). Both treatments involve exposure and response prevention (EX/RP), in which the child
      confronts OCD fears and is asked to refrain from compulsive rituals (such as repetitive
      handwashing, counting, etc.). Participants are requested to complete an initial evaluation to
      determine diagnosis, and four follow-up evaluations to assess symptom severity and change due
      to treatment for a total of 16 weeks. Participant involvement to self-directed bibliotherapy
      versus traditional cognitive-behavioral treatment will be determined through random
      assignment.

      In the bibliotherapy condition, the child or adolescent will meet with a therapist twice over
      the course of treatment, along with a parent. The therapist will discuss a self-directed
      program of EX/RP to be implemented at a pace deemed appropriate by child and parent at their
      own home. The child and parent will be provided with a manual designed to instruct them how
      to cope with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder. This treatment involves the parent and child
      reading the book, performing exercises, and monitoring symptoms on a weekly basis for 8
      weeks.

      In the therapist-directed treatment condition, the child or adolescent will meet weekly with
      a therapist along with their parent. The therapist, parent, and child will work together to
      design and implement a program of EX/RP. This treatment involves performing exercises,
      monitoring symptoms on a weekly basis, and completing homework assignments. Parents will be
      asked to help coach their child with at-home exercises challenging the Obsessive Compulsive
      Disorder. This treatment lasts 12 weeks.

      Evaluations will be conducted following the completion of each treatment to assess the
      efficacy of each treatment on OCD symptoms. The treatment and evaluations for OCD are
      provided free of charge.
    
  