
    
      Acute pulmonary embolism (PE) is a serious disease associated with high mortality rates
      despite advanced therapeutic options. The treatment options depend on the severity of the
      disease and the short - term mortality varies widely from 2 to 95%, depending on the severity
      of the condition.

      Initial risk stratification of patients with PE could be based on clinical indicators. The
      presence of shock and hypotension is the most important clinical sign of poor prognosis.
      Other clinical variables, associated with poor prognosis are age over 70 years, history of
      bed rest over five days, cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, renal failure, heart
      failure, and tachycardia .

      Echocardiography represents the most useful imaging tool in everyday clinical practice to
      show right ventricular dysfunction (RVD) because of its noninvasive nature and relative low
      cost. RVD assessed on echocardiography has been described as one of the strongest predictor
      of early mortality in PE .

      Currently, computed tomography pulmonary angiography (CTPA) represents the diagnostic gold
      standard for PE. Additionally, CTPA was used to evaluate the prognosis by determining the
      distribution and severity of vascular obstruction of clots in pulmonary circulation; this is
      called computed tomography pulmonary artery obstruction index (CT-PAOI). CTPA was also
      suggested as a predictor of RVD .

      In addition to the clinical findings and the imaging abnormalities, there are several
      biomarkers and indicators that can be used to predict severity and prognosis in patients with
      PE. These biomarkers include troponin and brain natriuretic peptide (indicators of RVD and
      myocardial damage), D-dimer, C-reactive protein, arterial blood gases parameters and complete
      blood count (CBC) parameters. However, some of these biomarkers have not been widely studied
      and are not commonly used although they are readily available and cheaper for developing
      countries.
    
  