
    
      Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) SARS-Cov-2 disease (COVID-19) is an infectious
      disease caused by a coronavirus. The pandemic first described in Wuhan, China, has since
      spread across the whole world and caused dramatic strain on health care in many countries.
      The virus spreads primarily through droplets of saliva or discharge from the nose when an
      infected person coughs or sneezes.1 Patients infected with the virus mostly report mild to
      moderate respiratory symptoms like shortness of breath and coughing, and febrile symptoms.
      Most recover without requiring special treatment. However, older people, and those with
      underlying medical problems (cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease,
      and cancer) are more likely to develop serious illness.1 Younger patients have been reported
      with serious illness as well. In the present situation, it is of paramount importance to
      preserve health service capacity by identifying those with serious illness without
      transferring all infected patients to emergency rooms or Hospitals. In addition, it is
      important to identify seriously ill patients early enough and before they reach a point of
      deterioration where they can be extremely challenging to handle in both prehospital and
      hospital environment.

      The number of subjects with positive test of the virus is increasing and so does the number
      of patients hospitalized.2 In parallel, most patients with positive test result or typical
      clinical symptoms are at home with information what to do if their clinical symptom status
      deteriorates.2 The Norwegian Interaction Reform was implemented in 2012.3 Key elements of the
      reform are guidance of the health care in the future and identify new directions. Prevention
      and early efforts are important and this will be achieved by creating co-working arenas for
      different parts of our health system. More health services must be moved closer to where the
      inhabitants live and simultaneously strengthening the community health system. New tools for
      monitoring the well-being of the patients must be developed in order to act early enough to
      avoid severe deterioration of health status and avoid new hospitalization. This goal has
      become even more important during the Covid 19 pandemic because the healthcare system is not
      prepared or built to take care of all these patients in hospitals.

      In the local community's wearable and wireless biosensors collecting continuous physiological
      data (CPD) in real time in order to generate information reflecting the patients' current
      state is established. This is recognized as welfare technology, and it is a generic term for
      a heterogeneous group of technologies.4 There are few studies documenting their efficacy,
      effectiveness and efficiency. One key driver for the development of wearable biosensors is
      the potential to use CPD to generate real-time, clinically actionable insights from
      predictive analytics that include early warnings of clinical deterioration and prompts for
      behavioral changes. The advent of machine learning methods that can detect subtle patterns
      from large sets of CPD may make this achievable.

      Using CPD to guide clinical decisions may be a major advance for patients with chronic
      diseases and at present time when our health system is put on an extreme stretch. This may
      drive the evolution from episodic to continuous patient care.

      The present study is designed to sample biosensor data from patients treated and observed at
      home due to mild and moderate SARS-Cov-2 disease. Such a system would be useful, both for the
      treatment of individual patients as well as for assessing the efficacy and safety of care
      given to these patients. Investigators intend to improve quality and safety of home care by
      continuous monitoring and a set of rules for follow-up.

      Investigators hypothesized that patients and local health system may benefit from the
      feedback of a simple monitoring system, which detects changes in respiration, temperature and
      circulation variables in combination with the patient's subjective experiences of care.
      Patients may be referred to hospitalization earlier. In the present study investigators will
      use live continuous and non-continuous biosensor data to monitor the development of vital
      parameters for Covid 19 patients compared with patients who are not monitored electronically
      (standard of care).
    
  