
    
      Background and Rationale: Children with neurological diagnoses including congenital or
      acquired brain lesions often have impaired upper extremity function that limits activities of
      daily life and independence. While several rehabilitation technologies in the clinical
      routines are being applied to improve upper extremity functions in these patients, the
      technology to train more severely affected children was not available so far. Since 3 years,
      the investigators are working together with the Sensory-Motor Systems Lab at ETH Zurich on a
      new robot platform specifically developed for upper extremity therapy in children (the
      'Children's Arm Rehabilitation Mechatronic Interface' or 'ChARMin'). This group showed
      recently in a single blinded RCT that their adult upper extremity robot ARMin is an effective
      neurorehabilitation tool for adults after stroke (especially for the more severely affected
      patients). Now, that ChARMin is finished the investigators would like to study whether it is
      feasible to apply this prototype to children and adolescents undergoing neurorehabilitation.

      Objective(s): As ChARMin was specifically developed for children and adolescents, the
      investigators first want to explore whether it is feasible to apply it to children and
      adolescents undergoing neurorehabilitation. Six studies will be performed with the following
      main objectives: (i) to investigate the applicability (technical aspects, patient-related
      aspects, operability/handling of the robot, the different control modes of the device, safety
      and the software interface) of ChARMin; (ii) to determine whether differences between game
      scores, kinematic and kinetic metrics provided by ChARMin, additionally applied physiological
      measures and adverse events differ when participants train with the free non-supported mode,
      the assist-as-needed mode and the fully guided mode; (iii) to determine the psychometric
      properties (validity, reliability and responsiveness) of the assessments integrated in
      ChARMin; (iv) to describe the application of the system in 30 participants and evaluate the
      concomitant changes in upper extremity motor function (open labelled interventional study
      without control group); (v) specific motor learning studies in 120 patients investigating
      whether children with neurological diagnoses can improve arm and hand task performance during
      repetitive training with ChARMin, are able to retain improved levels of task performance and
      how task performance is influenced by other interventions; (vi) to perform an ecological
      study monitoring safety, functional progress and (changes in) the application of ChARMin in
      120 participants following an in- or out-patient program (comparable to subproject iv).

      Outcome(s): The outcomes are in line with the objectives of each subproject. Some outcome
      measures are specifically performed for this study (e.g. safety, game scores, assessments
      integrated in ChARMin), others are clinically routinely applied measures (no additional
      burden for the patient). The investigators do not apply any invasive tools and assure that
      the amount of additional assessments will be limited to keep the burden for the participants
      acceptable.

      Study design: Most projects are open labelled interventional studies investigating the
      applicability, safety and usability of a newly developed upper extremity robot ChARMin.
      Project (i) will investigate the feasibility of ChARMin in 30 children and adolescents.
      Project (ii) will be a randomized study investigating differences in the various measures
      between the 3 control modes of ChARMin. Project (iii) include psychometric studies where a
      single measurement is necessary (validity), or two repeated measurements are performed
      (within 3-7 days to determine reliability and between onset and end of rehabilitation to
      determine responsiveness). Project (v) consists of motor learning studies where a large
      number of repetitions are performed in a relative short time to determine changes in task
      performance, retention and generalizability. Projects (iv) and (vi) are open labelled
      interventional studies investigating the application of ChARMin and concomitant changes in
      upper extremity function without control group.

      Measurements and procedures: Participants will be positioned in a comfortable position on a
      chair. After the required anthropometrics have been assessed, the ChARMin is adjusted and the
      cuffs of ChARMin will be fixated to the patient. Depending on the study, the participant will
      be informed and instructed what task/assessment or game will be made and what the goal is.
      Then, the participant will perform the task, while the investigator/therapist will be there
      to answer any questions, make sure the patient is comfortable, and to control the device,
      including the emergency buttons. Afterwards, the investigator/therapist will loosen the cuffs
      and assist if needed the participant getting out of the chair. The therapist will control the
      participant's skin and will ask for any other signs of discomfort. The duration of a session
      will remain within 45 minutes. In other sessions, clinical routine assessments will be
      performed.

      Study Product / Intervention: The Children's Arm Rehabilitation Mechatronic Interface
      (ChARMin) is a newly developed upper extremity exoskeleton robot which can assist single
      joint movements and complex spatial reaching movements involving movements for shoulder,
      elbow, wrist and hand. As several subprojects are performed, the intervention could last a
      single training session of about 45 minutes, two or three sessions (for example to
      investigate reliability of assessments) or a longer training duration as prescribed by the
      medical doctor (e.g. for several weeks 3-5 times per week, as part of an intense a
      rehabilitation program).

      Control Intervention (if applicable): NA (subproject 2: each child is its own control)

      Number of Participants with Rationale: In general, the investigators plan to include about 30
      participants per project as this number would results in a more or less normal distribution,
      and for psychometric studies, this is the number of participants needed to score a
      psychometric study of sufficient quality to be included in a best evidence synthesis.

      Subproject (i): 30 participants. Subproject (ii): 30 participants. For subproject (iii) the
      investigators plan to recruit 60 participants (with at least 2 measurements per participant).
      Likely, the number might be smaller if participants agree to undergo 3 assessment sessions
      (first for validity, second for reliability and a final one for responsiveness). Reference
      values will be obtained in 40 healthy participants.

      Subproject (iv): 30 participants. Subproject (v): Pilot motor learning studies will be
      performed in 40 participants, while the definite motor learning studies will be performed in
      80 participants.

      Subproject (vi): 120 participants. Please note, participants will likely contribute to more
      than 1 subproject with no high burden. Therefore, the total number of patients will therefore
      likely be smaller than 390.

      Study Duration: 5 years

      Study Schedule: Month Year of First-Participant-In (Mai 2015). Month Year of
      Last-Participant-Out (April 2020)

      Study Centre(s): Monocentric study: Rehabilitation Center Affoltern am Albis

      Statistical Considerations: The investigators will mainly report descriptive statistics.
      Normal distribution will be determined with the Shapiro-Wilk test. Comparisons between two
      dependent groups will be performed with Wilcoxon's or paired-t-test. Comparisons between two
      independent groups will be performed with a Mann-Whitney U test or a Student's t-test.
      Differences between three groups will be determined with a Friedman's test (dependent groups)
      or an ANOVA (independent groups). Relationships will be analysed with a Spearman's or Pearson
      correlation coefficient. Motor learning will be quantified with various measures: learning or
      adaptive rate will be fitted with a power or exponential regression; ratios will be
      calculated to quantify the transfer or retention between blocks of trials and retention.

      GCP Statement: This study will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, the current
      version of the Declaration of Helsinki, the ICH-GCP or ISO EN 14155 (as far as applicable) as
      well as all national legal and regulatory requirements.
    
  