
    
      Although mortality from colon cancer is decreasing, it remains the second leading cause of
      cancer related death in the United States. There are multiple factors contributing to this
      decrease, such as increased awareness, improving screening techniques, etc.

      Of the available modalities approved for colon cancer screening in the United States,
      colonoscopy is considered the gold standard. Colonoscopy has the advantage of being both
      diagnostic and therapeutic, allowing the removal of pre-cancerous polyps, before the polyps
      can transform into cancer. Colonic polyps can occur at any location from the rectum to the
      cecum. Colonoscopy has been shown to be more effective in decreasing incidence of cancer in
      the left colon but remains limited in the detection of right sided polyps /lesions 2. This
      difference based on location is thought to be due to several reasons. Typically the right
      side of the colon is less clean than the left side during colonoscopy, thereby impairing
      visualization of polyps. This problem has been overcome by incorporating a "split bowel
      preparation", which has not become standard of care. However, the problem of not being able
      to visualize polyps behind folds seen in the colon persists despite improvements in the
      quality of cleansing of the colon. Various endoscopic technologies have been introduced with
      the goal of assisting with the manipulation of such colonic folds, and thereby reducing
      chances of missing polyps behind fold. Two such colonoscope assisted devices including the
      distal transparent cap and the Endocuff endoscopic overtube.

      The Endocuff overtube is a small device with flexible arms arranged in 2 rows. Each row has 8
      short, soft arms projecting away from the device. These arms are used to peel back the
      colonic folds without causing physical damage to enable visualization behind colonic folds.
      The use of Endocuff overtube has shown promising results in terms of cecal intubation rate
      and time as well as adenoma detection rates 3.

      The transparent cap attachment is a clear plastic device that fits at the end of the
      colonoscope and extends a short distance past the tip of the colonoscope. It aids in the
      manipulation of folds and in maintaining a suitable distance from the mucosa, with the goal
      of improving visualization. Although some studies comparing cap fitted colonoscopy to
      standard (non- attachment) colonoscopies have shown improved adenoma detection 4, others have
      shown no significant benefit 5.

      Although, these devices have been compared with conventional colonoscopies (i.e without any
      distal attachment), to the investigator's knowledge, there are currently no studies that have
      compared these two distal colonoscope attachment devices head-to-head, and none has
      specifically evaluated effects on detection of right sided adenomas. Also, here at UCDavis,
      these devices are being used specifically in diagnostic colonoscopies for removal of large
      polyps and the choice of which specific device is used depends on level of comfort of the
      advanced endoscopist. The endoscopists participating in the investigators' study do not
      currently use these devices as part of their routine colonoscopies, thus it is important to
      provide head to head comparison of these devices to help guide management practice.

      Therefore, the investigators' goal is to compare the Endocuff overtube assisted, transparent
      cap fitted, and non-cap fitted (standard) colonoscopy in patients presenting to UC Davis
      Medical Center for screening colonoscopies.

      In addition, 2 of the 3 investigators will employ the water exchange method during for all
      arms of the trial, while the other investigator will employ the conventional air method of
      colonoscopy.
    
  