
    
      Objective:

      Demonstrate an improvement in endothelial function with ticagrelor

      Introduction and hypothesis:

      Ticagrelor and prasugrel are 2 new platelet antagonists. Both are superior to clopidogrel
      when used in acute coronary syndromes. However, only ticagrelor reduced cardiovascular
      mortality by almost 20%. Prasugrel reduced the composite clinical end point of cardiovascular
      mortality, myocardial infarction and stroke, but did not decrease mortality. The exact
      mechanism of mortality reduction with ticagrelor is unclear.

      Some side effects of ticagrelor, such as brady-arrhythmias and dyspnea may be related to
      adenosine release. It is thus possible, that this drug may liberate significant amount of
      adenosine. Prior studies have demonstrated that adenosine has beneficial effects on the
      endothelial function and that it improves the outcome of patient with acute coronary
      syndromes.

      It is thus possible that ticagrelor may improve endothelial function through an adenosine
      like effect. This effect is independent from platelet inhibition.

      Prasugrel has the same platelet inhibition effect compared to ticagrelor, but our hypothesis
      is that it does not have an adenosine like effect and thus does not improve endothelial
      function.

      Study design:

      This is a prospective, randomized, double blind, cross-over study comparing 2 new platelet
      inhibitors that have the same potency: ticagrelor and prasugrel.

      Patients with stable coronary artery disease will be randomized to one of these 2 drugs.
      Patients will receive one of the 2 drugs for a period of 8 +/- 2 days, they will then stop
      the drug for a period of 14 +/- 2 days, and they will then cross over and receive the other
      drug for a period of 8 +/- 2 days.

      All patients will have the following measurements:

        -  Flow mediated Dilation (FMD) of the brachial artery

        -  Platelet aggregation in response to ADP

      All measurements will be done at:

        -  Baseline 1 (prior to starting drug 1)

        -  At 8 +/- 2 days (peak effect of drug 1)

        -  Baseline 2 (at 14+/- 2 days; after washout and prior to starting drug 2)

        -  At 8 +/- 2 days after baseline 2 (peak effect of drug 2)

      Measure of FMD of the brachial artery:

      It will be performed according to the Academic Medical Center of Amsterdam pre-established
      protocol.

      Measure of platelet aggregation:

      It will be performed with the multiplate aggregometer

      Study End-Points:

        -  Primary: change in FMD before and after each of the 2 drugs

        -  Secondary: Change in platelet aggregation before and after each of the 2 drugs

        -  Possible another secondary end-point: Change in NO activity in the blood before and
           after each of the 2 drugs
    
  