
    
      The postpartum period - often called the "fourth trimester" - is a time of rapid and intense
      change in the life of a woman and her family, and uptake of health care during this
      transition is critical to optimizing women's long-term health and the health of their
      subsequent pregnancies. The importance of postpartum care has been reinforced by professional
      organizations, yet postpartum care in the United States remains inadequate. Substantial
      racial/ethnic and socioeconomic disparities in health care uptake, quality, and outcomes
      exist. Improving health for all women requires the development of new, more comprehensive
      approaches to postpartum and interconceptional care. One potential model may be patient
      navigation, which is a barrier-focused, longitudinal, patient-centered intervention that
      offers support for a defined set of health services.

      This protocol is to evaluate whether implementation of a postpartum patient navigation
      program improves health outcomes among low-income women. The investigators previously
      developed a postpartum patient navigation program, called Navigating New Motherhood (NNM),
      which introduced a clinic-level intervention in which a patient navigator assumed postpartum
      supportive and logistical responsibilities for low-income women. Navigation was associated
      with improvements in outcomes (retention in care, contraception uptake, vaccination, and
      depression screening) compared to those of a historical cohort. The investigators now propose
      to test the efficacy of the updated NNM model - called "NNM2" - via a randomized trial. The
      study will randomize 400 pregnant or postpartum women (1:1) with publicly-funded prenatal
      care to NNM2 versus usual care. Women randomized to navigation will be provided intensive,
      individualized, one-on-one navigation services through 12 weeks postpartum and, based on
      individual needs, ongoing, tapered navigation through one year postpartum. The NNM2 program
      will be grounded in understanding and addressing social determinants of health in order to
      promote self-efficacy, enhance access, and sustain long-term engagement. Participants will
      undergo surveys, interviews, and medical record review at 4-12 weeks and 11-13 months
      postpartum.

      Aim 1 will evaluate whether the navigation program improves clinical outcomes at 4-12 weeks
      postpartum as measured via a composite of health status that includes retention in care,
      receipt of recommended counseling, receipt of desired contraception, postpartum depression
      screening/care, breastfeeding initiation/maintenance, and receipt of preventive care.
      Sub-Aims will include investigation of outcomes at 11-13 months postpartum. Aim 2 will
      evaluate whether NNM2 improves patient-reported outcomes. Aim 3 additionally involves
      examining obstetric and primary care provider perspectives on the navigation program and on
      optimizing the postpartum transition. Completion of this study will fill an evidence gap by
      demonstrating whether postpartum patient navigation is an effective mechanism to improve
      women's short- and long-term health, enhance health care utilization, and improve patient and
      provider satisfaction.

      NNM2 suspended enrollment due to COVID-19 beginning March 16, 2020. For already enrolled
      individuals, study visits and patient navigation activities were converted to tele-research
      and tele-navigation. Recruitment was planned to resume when the COVID-19 pandemic resolves
      and normal outpatient care has resumed. For individuals already recruited and whose care
      occurred during the early phases of the pandemic, the outcomes definitions were appropriately
      modified for the conduct of telemedicine during the pandemic. Recruitment resumed on June 8,
      2020.
    
  