
    
      -  All patients were fasted from midnight without premedication

        -  Once in the operating room, the patients were monitored using electrocardiography, pulse
           oximetry, end-tidal carbon dioxide partial pressure, non-invasive blood pressure, and
           bispectral index (Aspect 2000; Aspect Medical Systems, Inc., Newton, MA, USA)
           measurements.

        -  Neuromuscular transmission was monitored using the M-NMT® module at the adductor
           pollicis muscle (Carescape® B850, GE Healthcare, Milwaukee, WI, USA).

        -  Throughout the surgery, these data were continuously downloaded to personal computers by
           using RS232C cables.

        -  Following pre-oxygenation with 100% O2, anesthesia was induced with propofol and
           remifentanil, which were administered using a target effect-site
           concentration-controlled infusion pump (Perfusor® Space, B. Braun Melsungen, Germany) by
           using the models suggested by Schnider et al. and Minto et al (Minto et al., 1997;
           Schnider et al., 1998).

        -  Tracheal intubation was facilitated with rocuronium 0.6 mg/kg.

        -  After tracheal intubation, the lungs of the patients were then ventilated with oxygen in
           air (1:1) and the ventilation rate was adjusted to maintain the end-tidal carbon dioxide
           partial pressure between 35 and 45 mmHg.

        -  For deep NMB group, an intravenous bolus of rocuronium (0.7 mg/kg) was given 2 minutes
           after intubation, followed by a continuous infusion of rocuronium of 0.8-1.2 mg/kg/h for
           maintaining deep NMB (post tetanic count 1-2) during operation. PTC was measured every 5
           minutes. In the case of deviations from the target PTC, the pump speed could be
           increased or decreased or a bolus dose (10 mg) could be given.

        -  For moderate NMB group, no further loading dose of rocuronium was given. An intravenous
           infusion with rocuronium (0.2-0.6 mg/kg/h) was started at a TOF count of 1 for
           maintaining moderate NMB (train of four 1-2) during operation. TOF was measured every 5
           minutes. In the case of deviations from the target TOF, the pump speed could be
           increased or decreased or a bolus dose (10 mg) could be given.

        -  The target effect-site concentrations of propofol were adjusted within a range of 2.5-3
           μg/ml to maintain the bispectral index values at less than 60 during the induction and
           maintenance of anesthesia.

        -  The target effect-site concentrations of remifentanil were titrated to prevent signs of
           inadequate anesthesia and to maintain stable hemodynamics (SBP > 80 mmHg and HR > 45
           beats/min).

           • Signs of inadequate anesthesia: systemic arterial blood pressure increased to greater
           than 15 mm Hg higher than the patient's normal value; heart rate exceeding 90 beats/min
           in the absence of hypovolemia; somatic responses, such as body movements (minimal muscle
           paralysis allowed physical movement), swallowing, coughing, grimacing, or opening of the
           eyes; and autonomic signs of inadequate anesthesia (Ausems, Vuyk, Hug, & Stanski, 1988)

        -  If necessary, ephedrine or atropine is administered to maintain systolic blood pressure
           above 80 mmHg and heart rate above 45 beats/min during anesthesia.

        -  An abdominal pressure of 13 mmHg was maintained during the laparoscopic surgery.

        -  When the surgeon asks for muscle relaxation due to the inability to obtain a visible
           laparoscopic field, additional bolus dose of rocuronium (10 mg) should be given.

        -  All patients were administered a bolus dose of oxycodone of 0.05 mg/kg at the end of
           pneumoperitoneum.

        -  IV PCA with oxycodone is started after the administration of loading dose. A
           semi-electronic pump (Automed 3200; Ace Medical, Seoul, South Korea) is used for PCA
           with demand bolus of 1 ml, background infusion of 1 ml/h and lock-out time of 15 min.
           The concentration of oxycodone in IV PCA bag is 1 mg/ml, and the volume of
           oxycodone-normal saline mixture delivered to patients for approximately 4 days is 200
           ml.

        -  Rocuronium infusions are discontinued after deflation of CO2.

        -  After the end of surgery, a single intravenous bolus dose of sugammadex 2 or 4 mg/kg was
           administered for reversal of moderate and deep NMB, respectively.

        -  After the end of surgery, patients were taken to the PACU, and assessed for pain every
           10 min using a VAS (0=no pain; 10=the most severe pain).

        -  Researchers who evaluate postoperative pain will be blinded to the patient's allocation

        -  Pain was measured at rest and when the wound areas were compressed with a force of 20 N
           (i.e., 2 kg of pressure imposed by three fingers on a 10 cm2 area). The wound
           compression was performed by a blinded researcher who was trained with an algometer
           (Commander Algometer, J Tech Medical Industries, Midvale, UT, USA) to apply this force
           consistently.

        -  The patient was administered intravenous oxycodone 2 mg (body weight <80 kg) or 3 mg
           (>80 kg) every 10 min until the VAS assessments showed that the pain intensity had
           decreased to <3 at rest and <5 on wound compression. At this point, MEAD of oxycodone
           was determined.

        -  VAS for wound and shoulder pain were also assessed at 6 and 24 h after the end of
           surgery.

        -  Postoperative nausea and vomiting were evaluated using the Rhodes index of nausea
           vomiting retching (RINVR) at 6 and 24 h after the end of surgery (Lee et al., 2016).

        -  After the end of surgery, the surgeon scored the surgical working conditions according
           to a five-point ordinal scale ranging from 1 (extremely poor conditions) to 5 (optimal
           conditions) (Martini et al., 2014).

        -  If the surgeon requests blind cessation for patient safety reasons, blindness is lifted.
    
  