
    
      The specific aims of the study are:

      AIM 1: To determine the acute effects of cold exposure and isometric exercise, on
      cardiovascular hemodynamics and autonomic regulation. The working hypothesis is that the
      combination of cold exposure with isometric hand grip (IHG) exercise would evoke a greater
      acute increase in arterial stiffness, wave reflection, arterial BP and sympathetic activity
      than cold exposure or IHG alone. In order to test this hypothesis, the investigators will use
      an environmental chamber at a temperature of 4oC to perform non-invasive measurements of
      arterial stiffness (carotid-femoral, femoral-ankle, and brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity
      [PWV]), pulse wave analysis (aortic BP and augmentation index [AIx]) using applanation
      tonometry of the radial artery. In addition, the investigators will use continuous
      beat-by-beat digital BP, power spectral analysis of heart rate variability and blood pressure
      variability, and spontaneous BRS to evaluate autonomic function during cold exposure.

      AIM 2: To examine the effects of L-citrulline supplementation on cardiovascular hemodynamics,
      autonomic regulation and endothelial function. The investigators will test the working
      hypothesis that L-citrulline supplementation for 14 days will attenuate the cardiovascular
      responses to physiological stress. The investigators will perform the same procedures
      previously specified in AIM I.

      AIM 3: To determine the acute and chronic L-citrulline supplementation on endothelial
      function by measuring flow-mediated vasodilation, vasoactive substances, and Endothelial
      Progenitor Cells (EPCs). This aim will examine the working hypothesis L-citrulline will
      result in greater circulating levels of vasodilatory substances including nitric oxide,
      prostacyclin, and EPCs whereas vasoconstrictor substances endothelin-I (ET-1) will decrease.
      This aim will be tested by measuring serum levels of these substances before and immediately
      after the session at baseline and 7 days after the intervention.

      Description of the study Forty individuals (20 men and 20 women) 18-35 years of age with
      normal resting BP (< 140/90 mmHg) will be enrolled in this study. Subjects should not be
      smokers, L-citrulline users or regular exercisers (defined as more than 120 min per week) in
      the last 6 months. The exclusion criteria will be any contraindication to exercise and
      medical conditions. Subjects with diverse ethnic backgrounds will be recruited from the
      Tallahassee metropolitan area by advertisement and direct communication.

      Study design:

      After completion of initial screening, cardiovascular function of eligible subjects will be
      evaluated at a room temperature of 4oor 23oC in random order. After baseline measurements,
      subjects will be randomly assigned to Placebo (Malt dextrin) or L-citrulline group for 14
      days. Cardiovascular function will be evaluated at the end of the study.
    
  