
    
      Endoscopy is a important tool for diagnosis and treatment of gastrointestinal diseases.
      Effective inhibition of gastrointestinal motility during examination is important to achieve
      good results and quality.

      Traditionally, hyoscine-N-butylbromide (Buscopan) is the most commonly used drugs that
      inhibit intestinal peristalsis. But the side effects of drugs were mentioned in many studies,
      such as arrhythmia, increased glaucoma, dysuria in patients who have benign prostatic
      hypertrophy and allergic reactions, and may even cause anaphylactic shock. Peppermint oil is
      the extract of the natural plant (Mentha X piperita L) which was growth in North America and
      Europe. L-menthol is main component of peppermint oil. In animal experiments, peppermint oil
      had effect of calcium channel blockers and cause gastrointestinal smooth muscle relaxing
      effect. Clinically, peppermint oil preparations were used to relieve stress headache,
      non-ulcer dyspepsia and irritable bowel syndrome. The oral or intestinal local spraying of
      peppermint oil or L-menthol showed inhibition of intestinal peristalsis in many studies, and
      improved colonoscopy, barium enema, retrograde cholangiography , and upper gastrointestinal
      endoscopy examination.

      With the aging of the population of Taiwan and the universality of endoscopy for elderly
      patients, the safety of endoscopy in elderly patients has more and more attention. According
      to ASGA guidelines, age is not a contraindication for endoscopy. But 50% of elderly patients
      have contraindications for hyoscine-N-butylbromide use. Therefore, effort to find alternative
      medicine to improve quality of endoscopy in elderly patients is necessary. Therefore, the
      investigators design a research for comparing effect and safety of L-menthol and placebo in
      elderly patients who have contraindication of hyoscine-N-butylbromide.
    
  