
    
      Background

      Breathlessness, the subjective sensation of breathing discomfort, is common and appears with
      varying severity in daily life of people across a number of diseases such as congestive heart
      failure, asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Breathlessness affects
      nearly a quarter of people 60+ and about half of patients with serious illness.[1-3]
      Breathlessness gives rise to increased anxiety and depression, increased risk of
      hospitalization and earlier death.[4]

      Clinical care relies on the patient's history based on his/her symptom recall. The recalled
      level of recent breathlessness is used by the health professional in order to decide on the
      need for further investigations and treatment. Studies have shown that the recalled intensity
      of breathlessness during laboratory-provoked symptoms is not the same as the actually
      experienced symptom in daily life.[5] Further, studies has shown lacking communication in
      regards to breathlessness between doctor and patients.[7] Knowledge on how recalled intensity
      of breathlessness differs to the actual experienced intensity during activities of daily life
      is limited.

      Several factors may influence the recalled symptom intensity including the highest and the
      final experienced intensity.[8, 9] A high intensity of breathlessness at the moment of recall
      has been correlated with higher recalled intensity than actually experienced during the
      period.[10] Also, even a very small decline in cognitive status was shown to influence the
      differences between recalled and experienced symptoms.[10]

      Aims The primary aim is to evaluate the relationship between experienced breathlessness and
      1) recalled (remembered) breathlessness; and 2) predicted future breathlessness. Secondary
      aims are to identify factors that influence the difference between experienced and recalled
      or predicted breathlessness, estimate the influence of breathlessness on physical activity.

      Research questions.

      Three types of breathlessness measures evaluated: experienced (at a time point), recalled
      (remembered) and predicted (future) breathlessness. The main research questions are:

        1. How is the recalled breathlessness intensity for a time period (T1) related to:

           1.1. Experienced breathlessness intensity during T1 measured as:

             -  Mean experienced intensity?

             -  Peak experienced intensity?

             -  Most recent experienced intensity

             -  Perceived self-efficacy related to the breathlessness

             -  Personality trait of high symptom sensitivity at baseline

             -  Experienced trajectory of breathlessness (including constant; variable; increasing;
                decreasing; quick change) 1.2. Predicted breathlessness intensity for a future time
                period (T2)

        2. How is the predicted breathlessness intensity for a subsequent time period (T2) related
           to:

           2.1 Experienced breathlessness intensity during T1? 2.2 Recalled breathlessness
           intensity during T1? 2.3 Experienced breathlessness intensity during T2?

        3. Which factors are associated with the difference score between:

           3.1 Experienced and recalled breathlessness intensity during T1? 3.2 Predicted and
           experienced breathlessness intensity during T2?

        4. Which breathlessness measures are related to physical activity prospectively measured
           during a time period (T2): [Clinical sub study]

             -  Experienced intensity before T2?

             -  Recalled intensity before T2?

             -  The participant's predicted intensity of breathlessness for T2?

        5. How do people think when they recall breathlessness over a defined time period (such as
           'now', 'last 24 hours' and 'the last week')? [Clinical sub study]

      Study procedures

      Recruitment Potential participants will be identified by clinical and research staff at the
      centers of the participating investigators including primary care and internal
      medicine/cardiology departments in Blekinge, Örebro, and Skane University Hospital
      (Lund/Malmö). Participants will also be recruited through advertisements in national and
      local newspapers and magazines including those of the Swedish Respiratory Society, the
      Swedish Heart-Lung Foundation and the Heart-Lung Association, and on web-portals/sites.

      Eligibility and Consent

      Eligibility according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria, consent and study data are
      self-entered by the participant using an application on smart phone/pad.

      Patients at the study centers who give their informed written consent will also be included
      in a clinical sub study, where additional data will be obtained on cognitive status, physical
      activity (using an activity monitor worn for one week), and from medical records, interview
      and registry follow-up.

      Application based data collection

      Baseline data will be recorded when starting the application and daily start and stop times
      will be set. At regular intervals during each day, the application will que the participant,
      using sound and homepage notifications, to self-rate the intensity of breathlessness during
      the last 10-15 minutes. Each que can be ignored or filled in at a later time. Recall of
      breathlessness during the preceding night or day and additional measurements are rated in the
      application each morning and evening, as well as for the whole week at the end of each week
      in the study. The participant can quit the application at any time and will be asked to
      complete the cessation/exit assessments for the completed part of the week. All application
      data, linked to the participant-specific study-ID, is encrypted and transferred to a central
      database in real time via the internet connection. If no Internet connection is available at
      the time of transfer or if for some reason the data transfer is interrupted, the data will be
      stored locally on the device and the application will try to resend when the connection is
      re-established and stabilized. The data will also be kept on the device until the end of the
      study to safeguard and create a redundancy. The database is located physically at Blekinge
      Institute of Technology and is used for several other clinical studies including Swedish
      National Study of Aging and Care in accordance with all relevant protocols for data security
      and integrity.

      Clinical sub study

      A subset of participants at the study centres will be asked to participate in a clinical sub
      study. In addition to the information regarding the main application-based study these
      participants will receive specific information about the sub study on paper and be asked to
      give their written informed consent to participate. A log of the study ID, Swedish social
      security number (for sub study patients only) is kept at each participating centre. Data
      including demographics, diagnoses, measures of pulmonary and cardiac function, treatments,
      and hospitalizations will be obtained from medical records and national registries with up to
      five years follow-up of diagnoses and hospitalizations (Patient Registry), dispensed
      medications (Prescribed Drug Registry) and survival (Causes of Death Registry). Participants
      will be asked to fill in a daily diary of the main events causing breathlessness and its
      impact during the day. Participants will also be invited to take part in a semi-qualitative
      interview focusing on their experience of breathlessness and specifically how they
      cognitively recall breathlessness over different time periods such as 'now', 'last 24 hours'
      or 'last week' using the study questionnaires and semi-structured qualitative interviews.
      This group of participants will also be interviewed shortly about their experiences on using
      the mobile application.

      Power and Sample Size

      To obtain a power of 80% to detect a clinically and statistically significant difference of 1
      point on a 0-10 NRS between the mean experienced and the recalled daily breathlessness score,
      assuming a pooled standard deviation (SD) of 1.81, a minimum of 30 participants need to be
      included. This is consistent with the sample size of Meek et al.[11] To account for loss of
      data and ensure adequate power, at least 45 participants with data on 2 days or more will be
      included.

      Ethical considerations

      Informed consent to participate will be obtained from all participants, including that
      participation is entirely voluntary and does not affect care or clinical contacts and that
      participation can be discontinued at the discretion of the participant, and that upon
      discontinuing, no further data will be collected.

      In the application, data are de-identified using a study ID number. For patients who do not
      participate in the clinical sub study, the Swedish social security number is not recorded.
      For patients in the clinical sub study, clinical data will be cross-linked with data
      collected through the application using a key between the study ID (used in the application)
      and the participant's Swedish social security number stored securely at the clinical centre.

      Data will be presented on the group level only so that individual participants cannot be
      identified. The findings will be published in national and international peer-reviewed
      scientific journals. The de-identified data will be posted in open access data repository in
      accordance with the requirements of the scientific journal.
    
  