
    
      PTSD is associated with high rates of mortality from suicide and health complications, high
      healthcare costs, and diminished health and quality of life. Many military veterans have PTSD
      due to combat, and many veterans continue to carry the symptoms of PTSD into late life. The
      percentage of older veterans is expected to increase substantially in coming years
      (especially as Vietnam-era veterans become older adults). The psychosocial intervention with
      the most rigorous empirical support for treating PTSD in the general population is a
      cognitive-behavioral treatment known as exposure therapy (which involves helping patients
      face feared memories and situations), yet there have been no controlled studies of any
      psychosocial interventions for PTSD in samples of older adults. Some have argued that older
      adults will not respond well to exposure because of their cognitive limitations. However,
      several empirical studies have shown exposure therapy to be safe and effective with older
      adults with anxiety disorders other than PTSD.

      The current project represents the first randomized clinical trial of psychotherapy for older
      veterans with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). It will compare relaxation training (RT)
      to prolonged exposure therapy (PE). The project will also examine whether cognitive
      impairment influences psychotherapy outcome. The five-year Research Plan is divided into
      three phases. Phase 1 (Year 1) involves the development of procedures for assessment and
      preparation for the clinical trial. Phase 2 (Years 2-4) will entail the first randomized
      clinical trial of psychosocial treatments for PTSD in late life. One hundred veterans aged 60
      years or older, with chronic PTSD, will be recruited from the San Diego VA PTSD Clinical Team
      and randomly assigned to 12 sessions of PE or 12 sessions of RT. Phase 3 (Year 5) will be
      comprised of final data collection, scoring and interpretation of all neuropsychological
      tests, data cleaning and analysis, and writing for publication of results. Primary
      hypotheses: (1) Subjects in the PE condition will have significantly less severe PTSD
      symptoms, depressive symptoms, and functional impairment than subjects in the RT condition at
      posttest; (2) Executive functioning will modify the response to both treatments, such that
      those with impaired executive functioning will demonstrate a smaller reduction in PTSD
      symptoms (representing less clinically significant change).
    
  