
    
      The use of radiation therapy to treat metastatic tumors is well established and promising
      data are emerging with the use of SBRT for metastatic disease. However, the use of a single
      large fraction concurrent with a radiosensitizer as is being proposed is not of proven
      benefit. This investigation aims to confirm the safety and efficacy for SBRT used
      concurrently with a radiosensitizer in the setting of oligometastatic disease. The dose
      selected has been chosen with the belief that it is safe and effective based on prior
      experience with SBRT of lung cancer, pancreatic cancer and brain radiosurgery. All patients
      will be treated with a single fraction (per lesion site), targeted to the lesion concurrently
      with the radiosensitizer Nelfinavir.

      On the basis of this preclinical evidence, we propose a phase II study of Nelfinavir combined
      with SBRT in patients with oligometastatic disease. Because the standard dose of Nelfinavir
      for HIV patients is known to be safe and does inhibit the phosphorylation of Akt and decrease
      tumor hypoxia, we propose to study this in conjunction with a 15 Gy dose of SBRT. Experience
      with single-fraction pulmonary and pancreas SBRT provides a useful dose for this trial. With
      published data establishing the relative safety of large single-fraction SBRT to the lungs
      and pancreas, we have decided to proceed to determine the safety of 15 Gy SBRT concurrently
      with the radiosensitizer Nelfinavir. Once this is established, we propose to continue to
      enroll more patients to the study at this dose to determine the efficacy of this type of
      therapy.

      The proposed study represents an informed estimate based on current knowledge of SBRT doses
      and those administered in currently approved image-guided protocols (brain, base of skull,
      cervico-thoracic spine, pancreas and liver). This study will refine the current understanding
      of single fraction radiation tolerance for normal tissues, thereby making it possible to
      treat future patients more safely and aggressively.
    
  