
    
      INTRODUCTION Spondyloarthritis (SpA) is one of the most prevalent forms of chronic
      inflammatory arthritis. It affects approximately 0.01-2.5% in the World wide. Estimated
      prevalence of SpA in India is between 0.1 to 0.2% and prevalence in Bangladesh is about 1.2%
      .

      Janus kinase (JAK) is a family of intracellular, nonreceptor tyrosine kinase that transduce
      cytokine-mediated signals via theJAK-signal transduction and activation of transcriptors(
      JAK-STAT) pathway. The JAK-STAT signaling pathway transmits information from extracellular
      chemical signals to the nucleus resulting in DNA transcription and expression of genes
      involved in immunity, proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis and oncogenesis .

      Tofacitinib acts by inhibiting JAK-STAT pathway particularly JAK1 and/JAK3 of multilineage
      cells thereby inhibiting lymphocytes. It inhibits interleukin IL-17, IL-21, IL-23 and
      interferon IFN-γ productions by CD4 T cells acts on dendritic cells(DCs) and suppressed
      inflammatory cytokine productions and expression of costimulatory molecules, also supprressed
      T cell stimulatory capacity of DCs. These indicate that wide range of biological effects of
      tofacitinib that directly and indirectly affect cytokine pathway thereby modulate immunue
      response and reduce inflammations.

      Axial SpA patients treated with tofacitinib experienced clinically meaningful reductions in
      axial MRI inflammations and thereby an increased clinical response rates. A 16-week, phase
      II, randomized trial on AS patients with tofacitinib showed 80.8 % patients achieved ASAS 20
      response .

      As the therapeutic options of NSAID refractory axial SpA are limited, we want to assess the
      efficacy of tofacitinib in refractory axial SpA. In our country there are no studies of
      tofacitinib on axial spondyloarthritis. In Bangladesh, tofacitinib is cheaper than anti TNF
      biologics so it will reduce the treatment cost.

      Rationale of the Study There are limited options for treating NSAID refractory axial SpA.
      Therefore, choosing the appropriate therapeutic options, efficacy, long term safety, and
      tolerability should be considered. Recently, biological agents having anti tumor necrosis
      factor-α (TNF-α) activity are now considered as 1st line treatment for refractory axial SpA.
      But these drugs are costly difficult to afford by most of the people of our country and there
      is also increase risk of activation of the latent tuberculosis, other adverse effects like
      malignancies, hematological disorders and various infections are still a problem. n our
      country this drug is less costly affordable by many people and as it is available as tablet
      form so drug compliance will be better than biological drugs.

      Research Hypothesis

      Null hypothesis:

      Tofacitinib is not effective in NSAID refractory axial SpA.

      Alternative hypothesis:

      Tofacitinib is effective in the treatment of NSAID refractory axial SpA. Tofacitinib is safe
      in the treatment of NSAID refractory axial SpA.

      Objectives Primary Objective To assess the efficacy and safety of tofacitinib in the
      treatment of NSAID refractory axial SpA

      Secondary Objectives To compare the efficacy and safety of 10 mg and 20 mg tofacitinib in the
      treatment of NSAID refractory axial SpA.

      Methodology Study Design: Open label uncontrolled clinical trial. Place of Study Out-patient
      department of Rheumatology, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University (BSMMU), Dhaka.

      Study Period:

      One and half year after IRB clearance

      Study population:

      Adult patients with back pain >3 months and age of onset of pain at <45yrs of age, attending
      outpatient department of rheumatology , BSMMU, who fullfill the ASAS classification criteria
      for axSpA and refractory to NSAID will be considered for the study.

      Sample size calculation Information needed:

        1. P1=Outcome of one group

        2. P2= Outcome of another group

        3. Zα= Z -value at a definite level of significance

        4. Zβ = Z -value at a definite power. Formula: n = n = sample size for each group Sample
           size calculation for this study:(van der Heijde D, 2017) P1= 81% (0.81) P2= 41%(0.41)

      Zα=1.96 at 5% level of significance Zβ= 1.28 at 90% power (when β=0.1) n =2.475x10.497 =25.96

      Sample Size: A total 30 subjects will be included considering around10% dropout.

      Sampling: Consecutive

      Study Procedure An open labeled prospective, uncontrolled study will be conducted in
      outpatient Department of Rheumatology, BSMMU for 18 months (May 2017 to August 2018). Total
      30 patients with NSAID refractory axial SpA will be enrolled in the study. Informed written
      consent will be obtained from all participants.

      The study subjects fulfilling the inclusion criteria will receive tofacitinib 5mg BD.

      All the patients in the study group will go through disease history, clinical examination and
      baseline investigations. Baseline charachteristics and variables will be recorded at
      initiation of therapy, 4th, 12th and 24th week. Primary endpoint of efficacy will be assessed
      using ASAS 20 response at the end of 12 th wk. At the end of 12 th week, those patients will
      achieve primary endpoint will continue with the same dose and those patients who will not
      achieve primary endpoint will be put on tofacitinib10 mg BD. Those patients who will not
      respond to treatment at the end of 24 th wk will discontinue the therapy and put on
      alternative treatment. All the baseline variables will be recorded and statistical analysis
      will be done.

      Patients who develop serious drug related adverse effect like life threatening infection with
      organ involvement or requiring hospital admission will be withdrawn from the the study.

      Safety assessment:

      Clinical and laboratory parameters will be monitor at 1st, 3rd and 6th month.

      Patient follow-up schedule:

      Follow up will be done at the end of 4th, 12th and 24th week. At every follow up detailed
      history, thorough physical examination and some investigations will be done to evaluate the
      adverse effects.

      Laboratory Investigations:

      CBC, ESR, and CRP, S. creatinine, S. ALT and urine RME will be done during follow up.

      Criteria for discontinuing a study participant:

      A participant will be excluded from the study under following circumstances .If any patient
      fails to come for follow-up routinely. If patients develop toxicity -Severe adverse drug
      reactions, Infections (TB) etc. If patients stop to take the drug by themselves .

      Variables:

      Demographic variables

        1. Age

        2. Gender

        3. Education

        4. Occupation

        5. Monthly income

        6. BMI Outcome variables Assessement of Spondyloarthritis International Society-20(ASAS-20)
           response Assessement of Spondyloarthritis International Society-50(ASAS-50) response
           Assessement of Spondyloarthritis International Society-70(ASAS-70) response Ankylosing
           Spondylitis Disease Activity Score-CRP(ASDAS-CRP) Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease
           Activity Score-ESR(ASDAS-ESR) Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index
           (BASDAI) Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index(BASFI) Duration of morning
           stiffness Patient global assessment & Physician global assessment on NRS/VAS Statistical
           analysis The degrees of statistical significance between the intragroup values of the
           endpoints will be analyzed by paired t test if the observations are normally
           distributed, otherwise it will be compared with paired Wilcoxon signed rank test.
           Probabilities of associations will be assessed by calculating Spearman's rank
           correlation coefficient. P values will be regarded as significant if they will <0.05.

      Quality assurance strategy This will be uncontrolled clinical trial. Extensive literature
      search was done. Direct supervision by guide and co-guides will be done. Investigator will be
      sufficiently trained. Patient will purchase the drugs from pharmacy execpt tofacitinib which
      will provide free of cost and all of these drugs will be checked by the investigator. Monthly
      pill count will be done to ensure drug adherence. Patients will be educated properly not to
      take other medications that interact with tofacitinib(Rifampicin,ketoconazole) during the
      whole study period .During his/her follow up visit every time it will be ensured that he/she
      is not taking any other medication except those suggested by us. To prevent loss of follow
      up, telephone number of patient and caregiver will be collected, permanent and present
      address will be noted meticulously. They will advise to come for a follow up visit monthly.
      If any patient will miss it then he/she will be contacted over telephone to know their where
      about. If they are not available by telephone then a letter will be send to their present and
      permanent address. If they failed to reply and if they live nearby then I myself or a
      volunteer will be send to his/ her resident. Review of the study status will be done every
      fortnightly by the investigator with Guide. 10% data will be checked randomly by the guide.
      It will be an unbiased study. After collection, all data will be checked for inadequacy,
      irrelevancy and inconsistency. Irrelevant and inconsistent data will be discarded.
    
  