
    
      There is a wealth of evidence to support the benefits of oxygen therapy on wound healing.
      Oxygen is required for all major processes of wound healing and wound hypoxia is common. Skin
      wounds can receive oxygen from the blood stream via perfusion and from oxygen uptake through
      the skin. Yet, both wound perfusion and blood oxygen levels are frequently insufficient in
      patients with chronic wounds due to poor circulation, vascular disruption, and
      vasoconstriction, thereby reducing the wound's capacity to heal.

      Diabetic ulcers, vascular ulcers (venous or arterial), and pressure injuries are all chronic
      wounds. The pathologies underlying chronic wounds can differ widely. However, common shared
      features include prolonged or excessive inflammation, persistent infections, and the
      inability to respond to reparative stimuli. Adults with vascular disease and/or diabetes are
      at highest risk for chronic leg and foot wounds. The ischemic (reduced tissue perfusion) and/
      or hypoxic lower limb conditions which result from these conditions reduces availability of
      both oxygen and nutrients, making these wounds especially hard to heal. These wounds last on
      average 12 to 13 months, but this varies widely; many will remain open for years or never
      heal, and up to 30% of DFUs go onto amputation. Even when they do heal, wounds recur in
      60-70% of patients, decrease quality of life, and are a significant cause of morbidity.

      The need for telehealth and remote patient monitoring in the current climate is critical and
      reinforces the VA's strategy to protect and care for Veterans, their families, heath care
      providers and staff in the face of this pandemic.

      The VA's tactic to shift outpatient care to a "telehealth" mode, with phone, video and/or
      electronic communication to meet the needs of the ambulatory patient is difficult to achieve
      in wound care as clinicians rely heavily on the visual appearance of the wound to direct
      their therapy decisions. Thus, it is imperative to validate a remote monitoring tool that
      offers standard telehealth care as well as accurate, consistent, and simple wound measurement
      and imagery. Having the ability to manage complex wounds accurately should enable quick
      identification of early warning signs that the wound is deteriorating thus facilitating
      appropriate triaging of patients that need urgent face to face medical review.
    
  