
    
      Background and rationale of the medical experiment:

      Ultrasound imaging is an imaging method that uses sound waves to characterize the structure
      and function of various organs in health and disease conditions. This technique is widely
      used in clinical daily life and has many benefits. The exam does not involve the use of
      ionizing radiation, so its use is safer than other techniques such as X-rays or CT scans
      (Computed Tomography). The images acquired and viewed on the ultrasound device are real-time,
      so changes can be identified, which in many cases affects the final diagnosis. The test is
      non-invasive, nor does the test require the use of a contrast agent that contains substances
      that may cause an allergic reaction or impair kidney function. In addition, the equipment is
      widely available, and can also be used bedside. Aside from the mentioned advantages, the
      ultrasound test also has notable drawbacks. The ultrasound waves do not penetrate well
      through bones or air, thus impairing test quality. In addition, the method is highly
      dependent on the skill of the operator, so substantial experience is required in order to
      produce sufficient quality information and make an accurate diagnosis. The quality of the
      test also depends on the cooperation of the subject during the test, such as changes in
      posture and deep breathing.

      Compared to the ultrasound examination, the CT scan allows for a broader anatomical view, and
      is not limited by physiological factors such as bones and air. The most notable shortcomings
      of the CT scan include the fact that the test requires ionizing radiation that inevitably
      carries a direct and indirect danger to the patient's health. In addition, the test requires
      more resources financially and in terms of manpower, which is a limitation in its use outside
      the hospital or in countries with poor socio-economic status.

      In this study, the investigators aim to bridge the gap between these two types of techniques
      and create a uniform system that takes advantage of both. This is done by creating CT images
      from ultrasound images. This process will involve the use of artificial intelligence methods,
      namely machine learning algorithms.

      Machine learning in general, and deep learning in particular, have gained momentum in recent
      years in the field of computer vision and more recently also in the field of medical imaging.
      In addition, one can already see significant successes in the classification of retinal
      diseases, in which the sensor is a fundus camera or Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), in
      the classification of classifications In MRI imaging of the breast 3, and more recently, in
      the classification of the severity of the disease caused by the Corona virus, using chest
      X-rays and ultrasound scans.

      Machine learning includes two phases. In the first phase, the algorithm trains on tagged
      data, using architectures and target functions, which allow high accuracy to be achieved. In
      the second step, the investigators will test the algorithm for data that has not yet been
      observed. It should be noted that a large amount of tagged data can be very helpful in
      developing the algorithm, but at the same time, it may be difficult to produce tagged data
      and it can be a long and expensive process. Therefore, the investigators will utilize
      unsupervised or semi-supervised approaches.

      Objectives of medical research: Providing sonographic and radiographic information to an
      artificial intelligence system for the purpose of creating CT images from ultrasound images,
      in order to allow better spatial orientation as well as better characterization of the
      scanned anatomical structures.

      Type of study: A prospective, open label study in which both the physician and the patient
      are aware of the manner and purposes of the scan.

      Experimental procedure: Participants who meet the study criteria will undergo a complete
      ultrasound scan of the abdominal organs using a clinical ultrasound device in the Imaging
      Institute at Haemek medical center. The estimated duration of the exam is 20 minutes. The
      ultrasound images will be visually coupled to previous CT images of the same patient at the
      time of the examination, using a Fusion system located in the ultrasound device mentioned
      above.

      Note that if the participant came for a clinical ultrasound examination which was supposed to
      take place in any case, he will pass the clinical examination as usual, and then will
      separately go through the examination described above as part of the study.

      The coupled CT and ultrasound images will be encoded and be sent to the SAMPL laboratory in
      Weizmann institute, there the images will serve as a learning platform for the artificial
      intelligence system. The images will be transferred only after the subject personal details
      have been encoded in an EXCEL file and saved by the principal investigator. Only the lead
      researcher and secondary researchers will be exposed to pre-encoding information, which will
      be stored on a dedicated computer at the lead researcher, password protected.

      The coded information collected will be passed continuously during the research to the
      Weizmann Institute, in order to ensure good acquisition of information and the possibility of
      real-time feedback to the lead researcher in favor of acquiring better quality information
      that enables data analysis.

      In any future application of the SAMPL laboratory for details about the participants, it will
      have to contact with the serial number when the coding key will be exclusively at the
      clinical site (Haemek Hospital). The SAMPL laboratory at the Weizmann Institute will not be
      exposed in any way and at any stage in the experiment to identifying information about the
      participants.

      Monitoring of participants and reporting of medical findings

      If unexpected medical findings that are important to the patient's health are discovered
      during the study, it is the responsibility of the principal investigator to transfer them to
      the attending physician without delay for further follow-up and treatment as necessary by
      standard medical care. Participants will not be followed up after the experimental scan as
      part of the clinical trial.
    
  