
    
      Small cell lung cancer accounts for approximately 15% of all lung cancer diagnoses in the
      United States (US), with 60-80% response rates to platinum-based chemotherapy in extensive
      disease. Despite its sensitivity to chemotherapy, small cell lung cancer is characterized by
      its tendency to spread to other locations in the body such as the bloodstream and other
      organs such as the liver. Currently, the only FDA-approved second-line therapies are oral and
      parenteral topotecan, although irinotecan is also commonly used in primary and relapsed
      disease. Novel combination therapies are desperately needed in this disease. in order to
      improve survival.

      Carfilzomib (also known as Kyprolis) is an anti-cancer drug classified as a selective
      proteasome inhibitor. Proteasome inhibition affects the levels of numerous cell cycle control
      proteins, apoptosis (i.e., cell death), cell adhesion, angiogenesis, and chemoresistance
      proteins. Chemically, it is a tetrapeptide epoxyketone, similar to epoxomicin.

      Carfilzomib and other proteasome inhibitors interrupt cellular pathways integral to the
      survival of small cell lung cancer, namely the apoptic pathway involving activated nuclear
      factor-kB (or NF-kB). NF-kB activates the transcription of anti-apoptotic and proliferation
      genes, mediating tumor cell survival in response to cytotoxic stress thus resulting in
      chemoresistance, a common problem in small cell lung cancer. Carfilzomib prevents the
      breakdown of IkB, a protein which inhibits NF-kB, controls levels of the anti-apoptotic gene
      Bcl-2 and the tumor suppressor p53. Overexpression of Bcl-2, a key mediator of resistance to
      apoptosis following chemotherapy, which is an important problem in small cell lung cancer.

      In this trial, Carfilzomib is combined with Irinotecan. Irinotecan, a camptothecins, inhibits
      topoisomerase I, thought to be important in the growth and spread of cancer. As a class,
      camptothecins have shown efficacy in small cell lung cancer in a variety of settings.

      Topoisomerase-1 is thought to cause apoptosis via mechanisms other than NF-kB, adding to the
      potential synergy of these compounds. In addition, topoisomerase-1 is overexpressed in the
      majority of subjects with SCLC and decreased degradation of this enzyme is expected to lead
      to further enhancement of this mechanism of apoptosis

      The pivotal phase III study which led to FDA approval of topotecan in relapsed small cell
      lung cancer was by Von Pawel et al, and included 211 subjects with sensitive (> 60 days since
      prior therapy) relapse and randomized them to either topotecan (107 subjects) daily for 5
      days or to cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and vincristine (CAV), each given every 21 days.
      Topotecan showed no significant improvement in the median time to progression (13.3 weeks
      vs.12.3 weeks, p=0.552) or median survival (25 weeks vs. 24.7 weeks, p=0.795), however,
      subjects treated with topotecan had improvement in cancer-related symptoms (dyspnea,
      hoarseness, anorexia, and fatigue) as well as hematologic toxicity. Irinotecan, has
      established activity in small cell lung cancer, as well as non-small cell lung cancer,
      colorectal cancer and ovarian cancer.

      In this Phase 2 study patients will be treated with the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of
      Carfilzomib 25/30 mg/m2 as stepped up dosing determined in Phase 1b and 125mg/m2 of
      Irinotecan.
    
  