
    
      The study will be randomized, double-blind, and controlled. It will involve a group of 60
      children with ASD (diagnosed with the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule (ADOS-2) by a
      research-reliable clinician) coming in for an orientation day, where participants will be
      acclimated to the testing environment, as well as undergo safety screening, and a mock MRI.
      The investigators will recruit from a sample of children diagnosed with ASD (The diagnosis
      must be made by experienced, research reliable clinicians using gold standard measures
      including the Autism Diagnostic Observation schedule Second Edition Study, or ADOS-2 and a
      diagnostic and developmental parent interview). The investigators will request this
      information from the institution where the diagnosis was given with parent/caregiver
      permission. Diagnostic information will be reviewed by the study neuropsychologist, and if
      additional testing is needed to update or confirm the diagnosis, the investigators will
      administer an ADOS-2 here at UTSW prior to other baseline measures. If diagnostic information
      from a previous CADD clinic visit or an outside institution by a research reliable clinician
      is current, the investigators will accept it.

      Participants will complete in a variety of tasks during a pre-treatment visit. In addition,
      baseline behavioral measurements will be performed. These tests include an abbreviated
      measure of cognitive ability using the Stanford Binet-Fifth Edition, interpretation of facial
      expressions, memory for faces, reading the mind in the eyes, triangle animations, cyberball
      /social ball throwing, dimensional card change sort, and caregiver-completed behavioral scale
      including the Autsim Spectrum Rating Scale (ASRS). Participants will also be asked about
      their mood before, during, and after treatment. Participants will then be randomly assigned
      into either a sham treatment group or an active treatment group. The next time the
      participants come in, participants vitals will be monitored in addition to eye monitoring and
      will undergo either 1 mA for 20 minutes of anodal or cathodal tDCS administration to Right
      Crus I/II area of the cerebellum or sham treatment. Participants will undergo fMRI imaging
      prior, during, and after anodal or cathodal tDCS. After the scans, testing will be repeated
      and include interpretation of facial expression, memory for faces, reading the mind in the
      eyes, triangle animations, theory of mind, cyberball/social ball throwing, and dimensional
      card change sort. At the end of the visit parents/guardians/participants will receive a
      safety questionnaire asking about the presence and severity of the possible side effects. The
      participants will then follow up in 1 week with the safety questionnaire and at 1 month with
      the safety questionnaire and the Autism Spectrum Rating Scale.

      Study Procedures:

      Investigators, including those involved in questionnaire and behavioral scales administration
      and fMRI scanning/interpreting will be blinded to which treatment group participants are in.
      Staff members in charge of applying tDCS will be aware of what treatment group the
      participant is in but will not be involved in analysis of data to ensure blinding of results.
      As far as the tDCS procedure goes, the device consists of a programmable current source with
      a rechargeable battery with two wires connected to electrodes in fabric pads. The device
      cannot be plugged into an outlet while the electrodes are connected, ensuring safety. tDCS
      pads are moistened with 0.9% normal saline and placed on the participant's scalp using
      elastic bands. During stimulation, the electrodes will apply 1 mA of constant DC electrical
      current. Current will be increased over 10-60 seconds. The current will be applied for no
      more than 20 minutes, after which the current is decreased over 10-60 seconds. In sham tDCS,
      the current is increased and then immediately decreased to provide sensations associated with
      tDCS (mild tingling or itching, which blinds the participant).

      Testing will take place before (on orientation day) and after tDCS. Baseline testing includes
      an ADOS-2 if deemed necessary, an abbreviated cognitive measure, interpretation of facial
      expressions, memory for faces, reading the mind in the eyes, triangle animations, cyberball
      /social ball throwing, dimensional card change sort, and caregiver-completed behavioral scale
      including the Autsim Spectrum Rating Scale.. Testing immediately after tDCS includes only the
      following: interpretation of facial expressions, memory for faces, reading the mind in the
      eyes, triangle animations, theory of mind, cyberball/social ball throwing, and dimensional
      card change sort.

      Participants with ASD will come in on designated orientation days and be assigned an
      alphanumeric identifier to ensure confidentiality. An initial safety screening will be done
      to ensure no exclusion criteria are met. Participants will then be randomly split into either
      a sham group or a treatment group. Baseline testing will be completed. Participants will then
      be allowed to explore and become acclimated with study equipment, and a mock MRI will be done
      on the first visit at the UTSW Advanced Imaging Research Center (AIRC).

      Participants will be desensitized to the sounds and tactile sensations of the fMRI
      environment while in a space similar to that of the scanner bore. Participants will practice
      remaining still within the mock MRI while viewing a movie, and biofeedback is used to train
      participants to keep their movement <1mm during practice periods of 10 minutes. Participants
      should be able to complete all of the screening in one visit. If participants cannot due to
      time constraints participants will be brought back in on a different day to complete the
      screening visit.

      The next time participants return, participants will be hooked up to vitals and eye movement
      monitoring and will be placed in the fMRI machine so the "before" scanning can begin. After
      this "before" scan, tDCS electrodes will be applied and participants will again be placed in
      the fMRI machine for the "during" scan. As soon as scanning begins, tDCS (either sham or
      treatment of 1 mA for 20 minutes of anodal tDCS administration to the Right Crus I/II area of
      the cerebellum) will begin as well. During tDCS treatment caregivers will receive a safety
      questionnaire for them to assess any side effects occurring in their child. After this scan,
      the tDCS electrode will be removed, and a final "after" fMRI scan will take place. The safety
      questionnaire will be given after tDCS at the end of the visit and behavioral tests are
      complete.The time estimated for all of this is about 90-180 minutes.

      The Safety Questionnaire will be assessed again with follow-up visits 1 week and 1 month
      afterwards using the same caregiver-completed scales.
    
  