
    
      Background

      Inpatient hospital services constitute the largest share (29%) of total national health care
      spending. Hospitalizations for children cost $37 billion annually. The traditional model, in
      which inpatient care has been provided by primary care pediatricians is being replaced by a
      new model of pediatric hospitalists whose primary or exclusive professional focus is the care
      of hospitalized patients. This shift has been driven by the increasing illness severity and
      complexity of hospitalized children, the challenges in managing these children by
      office-based pediatricians, and the increasing demand for higher quality, and more efficient
      and cost-effective hospital care.

      Although the pediatric hospitalist model system is being widely disseminated, its value in
      improving clinical outcomes or controlling health care costs remains to be demonstrated. The
      findings in studies of pediatric or adult hospitalists have been mixed, and almost all
      studies have been of low quality, mostly retrospective before and after comparisons subject
      to a variety of biases. With the necessity to restrain health care spending, the funding
      required from Medicaid and other 3rd-party payers to develop and sustain high-quality
      pediatric hospitalists services may not be forthcoming unless they are shown to improve
      outcomes with acceptable or reduced costs.

      The investigators propose to conduct an evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of pediatric
      hospitalist care assessed as described below in a stepped wedge QI trial. The pediatric
      hospitalist program will be initiated by the Department of Pediatrics with Medical School
      support and is planned for stepwise implementation at Children's Memorial Hermann Hospital
      (CMHH) starting in 2016.

      Patient and Methods

      Aims. To assess in the most rigorous feasible manner whether the pediatric hospitalist
      services soon to be implemented at CMHH is cost-effective--expressed as net cost or savings
      per hospital day prevented (from the health system perspective) -as well as beneficial in
      improving clinical outcomes and parent, nurse, and physician satisfaction relative to that
      with the general pediatrics service.

      Trial Hypothesis: The hospitalist program will be cost-effective by either reducing hospital
      days without increasing health system costs, reducing health system costs without increasing
      hospital days, or reducing both.

      Design: Stepped Wedge Quality Improvement Trial.

      Rationale. It would not be desirable or feasible to use a conventional parallel group
      randomized trial for at least two reasons: 1) With new hires, the number of hospitalists will
      increase substantially over the study period, and a fixed allocation of patients (e.g., the
      usual 1:1 ratio) to the hospitalist and general pediatrics services throughout the study
      would not efficiently use these faculty; 2) Random assignment of patients would be difficult
      to implement, might result in unacceptable imbalances in the number of patients assigned to
      the 4 different hospitalist or general pediatric teams, and would intrude on current routines
      and likely be resisted by the hospital administration.

      Stepped-wedge trials involve sequential roll-out of an intervention to groups- in this care,
      4 hospital services, over a number of time periods. At the end of the entire study all groups
      will have received the intervention. Each serves as its own control in a before/after
      comparison and also as control for other groups in comparison of groups across time.

      Thus, this design allows both between group and within-group analyses. Moreover, it also
      allows flexibility in deciding when to initiate a stepwise increase in patients served and in
      augmenting the intervention strategy based upon problems and solutions identified over time.
      This design is particularly appropriate in implementing interventions like a hospitalist
      program for which there is likely clinical benefit with minimal risk, and it is not feasible
      for logistical or financial reasons to either randomize or deliver the intervention
      simultaneously to all participants.

      To this end, the investigators will use a stepped-wedge QI trial design to serially introduce
      the hospitalist program in all 4 inpatient services at CMHH currently staffed by primary care
      pediatricians from the General Pediatric Division. The researchers have chosen to use this
      design because it allows partial adjustment for any important temporal changes that may occur
      unrelated to the intervention, and facilitates a more rigorous assessment of treatment
      effects than the usual pre- and post-intervention comparisons, while also allowing the
      investigators to start the project quickly with the available faculty and to focus on
      optimizing hospitalist care in each service successively.

      Patients. Children 18 years and younger admitted to the 4 pediatric inpatient services
      (including those on observation status) at CMHH. These services include inpatient ward and
      intermediate care beds. (Patients who are first admitted to the pediatric intensive care unit
      [ICU] will not be considered enrolled in the study until they are transferred to the
      pediatric service.)

      To adjust for any important chance differences between services in baseline patient risk,
      study personnel blinded to the service will categorize each child as high risk or very high
      risk based on findings present on admission to a general pediatrics or hospitalist service.
      This designation will be based on predefined criteria that are easily applied on admission
      and related to the risk of prolonged or expensive hospitalizations (e.g. transfer from the
      pediatric ICU, admission to the IMU, mechanical ventilation, with do-not-resuscitate order,
      or scheduled for surgery).

      Treatment Allocation. Currently, the 4 pediatric inpatient services each admit patients every
      other day; the 2 admitting services each accept every other patient without regard to
      diagnosis. These procedures will not be altered by the study to avoid disrupting current
      hospital routines while still allowing quasi-randomized assignment to the different services
      that is unaffected by the child's prior history or his/her diagnoses and condition on
      admission. The order in which the hospitalist services will be implemented will be randomly
      determined.

      General Pediatric Services at CMHH. The attending pediatrician on each service conducts daily
      morning rounds on weekdays, supervises the students and house staff and is available to the
      residents by phone or in person during the day. On weeknights, an on-call pediatrician is
      available to the residents by phone. On weekends two on-call pediatricians make rounds,
      supervise the residents, and take call from home for the 4 services. This approach on the
      General Pediatric Services will not be changed materially as hospitalists assume
      responsibility for one or more of the 4 services.

      Hospitalist Services at CMHH. The hospitalist services at MHH will be phased in according to
      the number of hospitalists who are appointed to the new Pediatric Hospitalist Division. As
      currently planned hospitalist services will involve an in-house hospitalist at all hours. The
      attending hospitalist on each hospitalist service will make morning rounds on weekdays and be
      present supervising the residents or providing care throughout the day. A different
      hospitalist will cover at night. On weekends, one hospitalist will cover up to 2 services
      each day.

      Outcomes:

      Primary: cost-effectiveness, expressed as net cost or savings per hospital day prevented
      assessed from the health system perspective.

      Secondary: Hospital days (including 30-day readmissions), severe deterioration (transfer to
      the pediatric ICU, intubation, unexpected surgery, or death) days with diversion of patients
      from the ED, pediatric ICU, or IMU), parent satisfaction at discharge, nurse and resident
      satisfaction assessed once a year, and costs expressed from the healthcare system
      perspective.

      Sample Size. The sample size won't and can't be predefined. The most important problem that a
      predefined sample size is used to avoid - bias in deciding when to stop enrollment -is
      unlikely to be a problem when the decision to stop enrollment will be based on factors (in
      this case, the recruitment of hospitalists) that are unlikely to hinge on the accrued
      results. Another problem that a fixed sample size is intended to avoid is imprecision of the
      effect size identified. For this study, the precision of this estimate will be limited by the
      numbers of children who are admitted at the 4 services over the 2-3 year study period. This
      is likely to be the largest feasible sample size that can be studied, as >8,000 admits are
      expected in 3 yrs.

      Statistical Analyses. All analyses will be conducted at the individual patient level using a
      generalized linear mixed model (GLMM). Separate GLMMs will be used for outcome. GLMMs account
      for the stepped wedge design, individual level covariates, and service level covariates, and
      allow each service to have different number of patients at each time point. For all secondary
      outcomes, the investigators will investigate the best fitting distributional form (i.e.,
      Normal, gamma) to estimate relative risks (RRs) for the intervention effect. Each model will
      include treatment group (intervention/control), time (5 planned periods), season, age,
      ethnicity, insurance status, baseline patient risk, time of hospital admission (day on
      weekdays: 8 am - 5 pm; weekday night; weekend) as covariates, and a random effect for child
      (to account for within subject correlation due to possible repeat admissions by the same
      child). Estimates of RRs and 95% credible intervals will be reported with posterior
      probabilities of benefit and cost-effectiveness. Prior distributions for all covariates will
      be neutral but excluding implausible large treatment effects ~N(0, SD=0.35).

      Interim analyses will be performed 6 months after hospitalists become responsible for the 2nd
      and 3rd services to verify that the hospitalist program does not unexpectedly worsen outcome
      or increase costs before expanding the program to all 4 services. Otherwise the study will
      continue as planned with final analyses performed on all patients admitted by 6 months after
      the hospitalists assume responsibility for the 4th and final service. The investigators will
      conclude that hospitalist program is cost effective if Bayesian analyses indicate a 90% or
      higher probability that it reduces hospital days and/or reduces costs.

      Cost-Effectiveness Analyses. Hospital days will be computed as the number of hospital days
      after admission to any of the four services (not including any days spent in other hospitals
      or the pediatric ICU before transfer to one of these services) and any subsequent readmission
      occurring within 30 days of discharge. These data will be obtained by searching the claims
      data for the 13 Memorial Hermann Health System hospitals. Hospitalizations outside this
      system will be identified for high-risk chronically ill children as part of a separate
      ongoing QI study. If as expected, parent satisfaction is increased and/or arrangements for
      care after discharge is greater with hospitalist care, any rehospitalizations not identified
      would be expected to be less with hospitalist care, a factor that would result in a
      conservative estimate of any reduction in total hospital days with such care.

      The incremental costs of hospitalist care will be related to prevented hospital days from a
      healthcare system perspective following state-of-the-art guidelines. Hospital costs after
      admission to one of the 4 services (excluding any prior costs incurred in the emergency room
      [ER] or pediatric intensive care unit [ICU]) will be estimated using claims-based hospital
      charges multiplied by department-specific cost-to-charge ratios specified in the hospital's
      annual Medicare Cost Report. The costs will be inflated to 2018 U.S. dollars based on the
      Consumer Price Index for medical services. Physician costs will be estimated using a relative
      value unit (RVU)-based method. The resource-based RVU for each physician service provided
      during hospital days will be obtained from the medical school billing system and multiplied
      by the Medicare conversion factor. Costs for hospitalist care will be augmented to include
      any salary differentials and/or supplements received by hospitalists for taking more night
      shifts.

      Differences in cost and hospital days between treatment groups will be assessed using
      generalized linear models with log-link and gamma distribution. The model will include
      treatment group (intervention/control), time (5 periods), season, age, ethnicity, insurance
      status, baseline patient risk , time of hospital admission (day on weekdays: 8 am - 5 pm;
      weekday night; weekend) as covariates, and will account for correlations within patient. The
      incremental cost (savings) of hospitalist care will be computed by subtracting the mean cost
      per patient in this group from the mean cost per patient in the general pediatrics group. The
      incremental cost-effectiveness ratio will be computed by dividing the incremental costs
      (savings) by the hospital days avoided. The investigators will also assess the robustness of
      the results in sensitivity analyses by assessing the joint influence of hospitalists care on
      both cost and effectiveness using the net monetary benefit approach.

      Secondary Economic Analysis. Analyses from the medical school perspective will evaluate the
      effect of the hospitalist intervention relative to usual care on the difference between
      revenues and costs (i.e. net gain or loss) for inpatient care, excluding research-related
      costs.
    
  