
    
      INTRODUCTION. Participants are being asked to consider taking part in this research study if
      they are scheduled for total hip surgery. In this study we will compare the effect of a pain
      medication known as Pregabalin compared to placebo on rehabilitation and recovery of physical
      function and pain associated with rehabilitation. We will monitor patient progress in
      hospital and follow-up participants at 6 weeks and 3 months post surgery.

      At the Holland Orthopedic and Arthritic Centre we use different methods to control
      postoperative pain. Postoperative pain relief is usually controlled with morphine using a
      pump that participants can control themselves, sometimes called "PCA" (Patient Controlled
      Analgesia). Participants also receive a combination of tablets like an anti-inflammatory
      (Celecoxib), and opioids (strong pain killers), to get the best pain relief possible with the
      fewest side effects. Anti-Inflammatories are a type of pain medicine that reduces swelling
      (inflammation). We would like to see compare the recovery profile of participants who receive
      in their pain management plan, the addition of Pregabalin with those who receive placebo.

      WHY IS THIS STUDY BEING DONE? Pregabalin has recently been shown to reduce the amount of
      morphine participants use after surgery and enhance rehabilitation in some orthopedic
      participants. This study will examine whether Pregabalin added to a patient's pain management
      plan will help them rehabilitate more effectively and with less pain.

      Part of this research will involve the collection of information from study participants that
      describes any pain or discomfort that they experience before and after surgery. After
      surgery, participants will be asked about how much pain they have by the nursing staff. In
      order to address these issues, they are asked to provide the following information at various
      intervals during their hospital stay:

        1. Pain intensity - using a Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) where 0=no pain and 10=Terrible Pain
           will be recorded three times daily during your hospital stay. Participants will also be
           asked to rate their pain after several rehabilitation measures on Postoperative days 1
           to 4.

        2. Participants will also be asked if they are feeling nauseated, feel like vomiting, or
           feel drowsy.

      After Total Hip Arthroplasty, it is important that all patients receive a standardized
      rehabilitation protocol. At the Holland Orthopedic and Arthritic Centre, the Primary Hip
      Replacement Care Pathway is accompanied by a standardized rehabilitation treatment protocol.
      While patients are in hospital, they will meet a physiotherapist who will put them through a
      series of hip exercises. The physiotherapist will record how much movement they can perform
      with their hip every day that they are in hospital.

      On postoperative day 2 and day 4 study participants will, in addition to their daily hip
      exercises, be asked to perform a walking test to the best of ability. Participants will be
      timed, the physiotherapist will ask the participant to stand from a chair and walk 3 meters
      at a comfortable safe pace. Participants will then turn and walk back to the chair, and then
      sit down. In order that participants are familiar with that test we will perform that
      exercise before their operation so that we can obtain a baseline score. At the completion of
      the walking test, participants will also be asked to provide a final pain assessment of how
      painful the walking test was. On postoperative day 4, and at 6 weeks and at 3 months
      participants will be asked to perform some other rehabilitation measures. One will be a timed
      six minute walk test (only at 6 weeks and 3 months), that means we will measure how far they
      can walk in 6 minutes. The other measure will be one requiring participants to walk up
      stairs, they will have a good understanding of the above tests because they will have
      performed these tests prior to surgery.
    
  