
    
      Primary Objectives:

        1. To compare CAS and IAS with respect to bone mineral density (BMD): We will determine
           whether the bone loss associated with long term CAS can be reduced by IAS by evaluation
           of:

             1. BMD,

             2. biochemical markers of bone formation/resorption,

             3. skeletal relevant events (SRE) (defined as pathological fracture, symptomatic
                hypercalcemia or hypocalcemia, spinal cord compression, or need of spinal orthosis
                for vertebral deformity or collapse).

        2. To compare CAS and IAS with respect to body composition: We will determine whether the
           reduction in muscle mass and increased fat accumulation associated with long term CAS
           can be reduced by IAS. We will evaluate:

             1. percentage fat body mass,

             2. percentage lean body mass and

             3. body mass index.

        3. To evaluate the predictive value of germline polymorphisms in the Vitamin D receptor
           (VDR) gene for bone loss

      Eligible Patients for PR.7:

        1. Histologically confirmed prostate cancer (PCa)

        2. Completed radiotherapy to the prostatic area more than 12 months prior to randomization

        3. Rising prostate specific antigen (PSA) level (serum PSA > 3 ng/ml (3 μg/L)) and higher
           than the lowest level recorded previously since the end of radiotherapy (i.e. higher
           than the post-radiotherapy nadir)

        4. No definite evidence of distant metastasis (radiological changes compatible with
           non-malignant diseases are acceptable)

        5. No prior hormonal therapy with the exception of neo-adjuvant cytoreduction prior to
           radical radiotherapy or prostatectomy for a maximum duration of 12 months and completed
           at least 12 months prior to randomization

      Evaluation during protocol treatment will take place to assess differences in BMD, body
      composition, biochemical and genetic markers of bone disease in the two groups.
    
  