
    
      Background: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease
      that is inevitably fatal. To be diagnosed with a terminal illness such as ALS deeply affects
      one's personal existence and goes along with significant changes regarding the physical,
      emotional, and social domains of the patients' life. ALS patients have to face a rapidly
      debilitating physical decline which restrains mobility and impairs all activities of daily
      living. In addition, they are confronted with their own mortality. This progressive loss of
      autonomy and fears about the future may lead to a sense of hopelessness and loss of quality
      of life, which in turn may even result in thoughts about physician-assisted suicide.

      Concrete aims: Given the high emotional strain in this patient group, this study aims to
      apply a manualized psychotherapeutic intervention to relieve distress and promote
      psychological well-being on ALS patients. This short-term intervention (up to six sessions)
      was originally developed for advanced cancer patients. "Managing Cancer and Living
      Meaningfully (CALM)" focuses on the four dimensions: (i) symptom management and communication
      with healthcare providers, (ii) changes in self and relations with close others, (iii)
      spirituality, sense of meaning and purpose and (iv) thinking of the future, hope, and
      mortality.

      Methodology: For these aims mentioned above, the investigators will conduct a feasibility
      study, i.e., a pilot study before a future randomized controlled trial can be planned in
      detail. The design of this pilot intervention will be a non-randomised prospective
      non-controlled before-and-after study, in which observations will be made only in a patient
      group (n = 5) that receives the intervention (IG). No control group will be recruited.
      Assessments will be conducted on the three measurement points: before the therapy (T0), after
      the intervention (T1) and 3 months after the intervention (T2).This study is intended to test
      out the standard operating procedures, evaluate the feasibility, acceptance and adherence to
      the study protocol as well as preliminary efficacy of the intervention.

      Recruitment: Patients will be consecutively recruited in the Clinic of Neurology at the
      University Medical Center of Leipzig.

      Duration: The duration for patients will be about 9 months (6 months intervention, 3
      month-follow-up assessment). The duration of the whole study will be 12 months.
    
  