
    
      Advances in pediatric (cardiac) surgery, interventional techniques and medical care have
      improved survival for children born with congenital heart disease. Assessment of blood flow
      and pressures within the heart plays an integral role in the management of patients with
      congenital or acquired structural heart disease aiding with diagnoses, surveillance for
      complications, in relation to surgical or catheter procedures, and for therapeutic decision
      making. Current gold standard, direct intracardiac measurement of flow and pressures is an
      invasive procedure, while non-invasive echography-Doppler is limited by poor acoustic windows
      and operator dependency.

      Therefore, cardiac MRI (cMRI) has been recommended as an important alternative in imaging of
      pediatric heart disease. Current clinical standard for MR flow imaging is 2-dimensional
      providing flow in a single cross-sectional plane. Current clinical CMR protocols in pediatric
      congenital heart disease are time consuming, depend on technician's experience and require
      direct supervision by an experienced cardiovascular imaging specialist. 4D Flow is a new
      approach for cMRI that might overcome these disadvantages. It allows scanning of the entire
      chest in approximately 7 minutes (depending on field of view, heart rate and resolution). The
      images can be off-line reconstructed in any plane, avoiding the need to precisely define
      crosssectional planes during acquisition for each vessel. Owing to time resolved
      visualizations of intracardiac flow dynamics occult jets or dynamic jets might be more likely
      to be detected. Potential disadvantages, rsp. potential advantages to be confirmed include
      lower temporal resolution of 4D sequences than current 2D sequences, unknown consequences of
      gradient artefacts induced by new velocity encoding schemes and diagnostic plausibility of
      disease related image features .
    
  