
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare progression-free survival of patients with locally advanced, nonresectable
           adenocarcinoma of the pancreas treated with gemcitabine hydrochloride and oxaliplatin
           followed by concurrent radiotherapy, fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the tolerability of this regimen, in both the short- and long-term, in these
           patients.

        -  Determine recurrence-free survival, overall survival, and response rate in patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the quality of life of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the clinical benefits of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine locoregional and metastatic progression-free survival of patients treated with
           this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter study.

        -  Chemotherapy: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride over 100 minutes on day 1 and
           oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 2. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 4 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients are restaged at
           day 15-21 of the fourth course of chemotherapy. Patients with nonmetastatic disease
           proceed to chemoradiotherapy.

        -  Chemoradiotherapy: Patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 5 weeks. Patients
           also receive fluorouracil IV continuously in weeks 1-5 and oxaliplatin IV over 1 hour on
           days 1, 8, 15, 22, and 29 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at restaging, and at day 28 after completion of
      chemoradiotherapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 58 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  