
    
      Parkinson's disease is a disease caused by dopamine deficiency in the striatum resulting from
      the loss of dopaminergic neuronal cells in the cerebral substantia. It is a progressive
      neurodegenerative disease characterized by motor symptoms including gait disturbance and
      balance instability. In the early stages of Parkinson's disease, dysfunction of the
      sensorimotor area of the basal ganglia typically occurs, leading to habitual control hurdles.
      Accordingly, cognitive efforts are required to perform habitual tasks such as walking, and
      the automaticity of walking is reduced. Walking performance in a dual-task condition has been
      used to assess gait automaticity in patients with Parkinson's disease.

      Robot-assisted gait training is a method of rehabilitation that repeats normal gait patterns
      at high intensity. Recent meta-analysis has shown that robot-assisted gait training improved
      the recovery of independent gait after stroke compared with conventional rehabilitation
      therapy. On the other hand, robot-assisted gait training in Parkinson's disease has been
      reported to improve walking speed and walking endurance compared to conventional physical
      therapy, but is not superior to treadmill exercise of the same intensity. In addition, it has
      been reported that in patients with Parkinson's disease with balance impairment,
      robot-assisted gait training can improve balance disorder compared with physical therapy, and
      gait freezing has improved in some small-scale patients. However, studies on the
      effectiveness of robot-assisted gait training in Parkinson's disease are still lacking, and
      the mechanism of the effect has not been elucidated. In particular, the effect on gait
      automaticity, which is a characteristic of Parkinson 's disease, has not been studied.
      Therefore, this pilot study is aimed to investigate whether robot-assisted gait training can
      be applied to improve walking autonomy in patients with Parkinson's disease.
    
  