
    
      The threat of premature birth (MAP) is the leading cause of hospitalization during pregnancy
      complicated by preterm delivery in 5-10% of cases in developed countries. Psychological
      stress that encompasses anxiety and anxiety resounding including sleep quality can be a work
      of preacher and premature delivery.

      Preterm birth before 37 has an impact on the survival and health of the newborn. It is the
      leading cause of mortality and obstetric complications. It has a cost both for the newborn,
      the term parturient health but also the financial cost by the management before delivery and
      the consequences of a premature birth.

      The usual management of MAP is hospitalized with tocolysis, monitoring and rest. The
      hospitalization and invasive procedures contribute to increasing stress. It therefore seems
      necessary to seek to diversify and master reputable techniques for their effectiveness on
      mastering stress and improving sleep quality as hypnosis and feel relaxing.

      Hypnosis in obstetrics is used primarily to control pain, nausea and postpartum depression.
      It also reduces preoperative anxiety and during induction of anesthesia, as well as
      behavioral disorders during the first postoperative week. Hypnosis can play an important role
      in the prevention of preterm birth. In a non-randomized study, hypnosis combined with drug
      therapy has prolonged pregnancy of patients followed in high risk pregnancy.

      The relaxing touch brings relaxation and well being. In obstetrics, it has an influence on
      the anti-stress hormones and plays a role in reducing pain during childbirth.

      Few studies interested in hypnosis and relaxation therapies in pregnant women, especially in
      case of MAP. The published data relate to a small number of patients and a low level of
      evidence. Although there seems promising results, prospective studies are needed to conclude
      its effectiveness in improving the stress, pain or other parameters.

      Health workers trained in these techniques could observe during their production improved
      sleep disorders, stress, better communication between doctor and patient. Moreover, these
      treatments could induce an improvement in the overall care of patients, and therefore have an
      impact on the continuation of pregnancy.

      These findings are based on these hypothesis. There is a clinical gain the contribution of
      hypnosis and relaxing touch in women hospitalized for MAP before 32 weeks of gestation. This
      would, among other improvements in sleep disorders and stress, decrease pain, and acting on
      the extension of the term of pregnancy in women followed by these techniques and a decrease
      in hospitalizations of newborns premature neonatology and neonatal intensive care units.
    
  