
    
      The study was terminated early due to slow accrual and only the phase I portion of hte study
      was opened. The phase of the study has been revised to only a phase I study.

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of intensity-modulated radiotherapy
           delivered to the gross tumor volume when administered with gemcitabine hydrochloride in
           patients with locally advanced pancreatic carcinoma. (Phase I)

        -  To define the dose-limiting toxicities of this regimen in these patients. (Phase I)

        -  To determine the local control in patients treated at the MTD (determined in phase I).
           (Phase II)

        -  To compare the disease-free survival and time to progression in these patients with that
           of historical controls. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter phase I, dose-escalation study of intensity-modulated
      radiotherapy, followed by a phase II study.

        -  Induction chemotherapy: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV on days 1, 8, and
           15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression
           or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo CT scan. Patients with no evidence of
           metastatic disease proceed to chemoradiotherapy.

        -  Chemoradiotherapy: Beginning 1-2 weeks after completion of induction chemotherapy,
           patients undergo intensity-modulated radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week and
           gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes once weekly for 5 weeks in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients whose disease remains
           unresectable proceed to adjuvant chemotherapy.

        -  Adjuvant chemotherapy: Beginning 4-6 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy,
           patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride as in induction chemotherapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6
      months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  