
    
      The esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy is an endoscopic examination technique of the upper GI-tract
      which was founded by the German surgeon Johann Freiherr von Mikuliicz-Radecki at the end of
      19th century. By this means, the luminal site of the esophagus, stomach and duodenum may be
      visualized after inserting a flexible endoscope through the mouth (transoral access). By the
      rapid technical development in the last years smaller flexible video endoscopes have been
      developed allowing also an alternative access to the upper GI-tract via the nose (transnasal
      access).

      Patients with dysphagia are referred to physicians of different disciplines
      (gastroenterology, surgery, ear, nose, and throat (ENT) medicine, radiology, neurology)
      performing a variety of endoscopic and non-endoscopic techniques. Mostly, the endoscopic
      examination of the esophagus is done in sedated patients in left lateral examination. Typical
      findings during esophagoscopy might be tumors, strictures, achalasia or diverticula. In
      sedated patients lying in left lateral position, endoscopists may, therefore, receive a very
      limited impression of the actual function of the different phases of swallowing since this
      endoscopic approach is a rather static one.

      Patients suffering from neurogenic dysphagia often get caught in the trap: they find
      themselves somewhere in the space between gastroenterologist, neurologist, ENT-specialist and
      radiologist. This dilemma might be due to a lack of pathophysiological knowledge among many
      physicians and an inability to directly visualize the esophageal phase of deglutition.

      The focus of our observational study are patients with suspected neurogenic dysphagia. These
      patients shall be examined by transnasal endoscopy applying an ultrathin video endoscope with
      an outer diameter of 3.8 mm (BF-3C160, Olympus Europe). Patients are examined in sitting
      position while ingesting water and food of different consistencies (functional endoscopy).
      Diagnostic shall be completed and correlated by videofluoroscopy, high-resolution manometry
      and assessment of the clinical signs. Beside feasibility and safety as primary endpoints,
      secondary endpoints shall be the assessment of pathologic endoscopic findings in patients
      suffering from neurogenic dysphagia. The study is approved by the local Ethics Committee (AZ
      2010-214-f-S).
    
  