
    
      Objective: The goal of this study is to assess the safety, therapeutic efficacy and mechanism
      of action of idebenone in primary-progressive multiple sclerosis (PP-MS) patients.

      Study Population: Adult, untreated patients with PP-MS with disability ranging from none to
      moderately severe will be included in the trial. The upper age limit in this study has been
      set at 65; setting an age limit should permit us to focus on the potential neuroprotective
      effect of idebenone in PP-MS and limit the confounding factor of the natural aging process
      and its known negative influence on neuro-regeneration. Published data indicate that higher
      doses (10-50 mg/kg) of idebenone per day are required for beneficial effects on neurological
      disability in comparison to the lower doses (5-10mg/kg) that are sufficient for beneficial
      effects on cardiac/systemic functions in Friedreich s ataxia (FRDA) patients. Therefore, in
      order to target the CNS compartment, we will use a daily dose of 2250mg (750mg 3 times per
      day), which will provide target values of 10-50mg/kg for virtually all adult patients.

      Design: This is a Phase I/II safety/efficacy trial with an adaptive trial design: one year of
      pretreatment baseline period serves the dual purpose of collecting patient-specific
      biomarkers of disease progression and collecting longitudinal neuroimaging and clinical data
      for selection of primary outcome measures. This baseline period is then followed by a
      double-blind, idebenone versus placebo treatment phase for a total of 2 years. Based on
      preliminary sample size estimates, current enrollment calls for a total of 66 patients (33
      per arm).

      Outcome Measures: Quantitative neuroimaging measures of central nervous system (CNS: i.e.
      brain and spinal cord) tissue destruction and clinical and functional (i.e.
      electrophysiological) measures of neurological disability will be collected every 6-12
      months. Additionally, biomarkers focusing on analysis of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and
      oxidative stress will be collected every 12 months. The trial is currently powered using
      progression of brain atrophy as detected by SIENA methodology as the primary outcome measure.
      However, this may not be the most sensitive outcome available. In recognition of this, the
      trial has an adaptive design: i.e. it incorporates analysis of progression of CNS tissue
      destruction as measured by quantitative MRI markers and clinical/paraclinical markers defined
      as secondary outcome measures in the first 30 enrolled patients during the one year
      pre-treatment baseline, before randomization. All defined outcome measures collected in the
      first 30 enrolled patients will be transformed into z-scores and compared for the robustness
      of longitudinal change over the coefficient of variation. This will permit to select the most
      sensitive and most accurate outcome measure for detecting progression of CNS tissue damage.
      As a result, the primary outcome measure of this trial will be the comparison of
      individualized rates of brain atrophy progression between the idebenone and placebo groups
      after 2 years of treatment, unless the predetermined analysis of the pre-treatment baseline
      period in the first 30 enrolled subjects determines that one of the predefined secondary
      outcome measures has a higher z-score than brain atrophy measurement. In this case, the
      primary outcome would be the efficacy of idebenone versus placebo in inhibiting
      patient-specific slopes of functional or structural deterioration as measured by this more
      sensitive biomarker of CNS tissue destruction, yet to be defined by the analysis of the
      1-year longitudinal data from pre-treatment baseline.
    
  