
    
      Gross underfeeding or iatrogenic malnutrition is prevalent in intensive care units throughout
      the world. Critically ill patients only receive, on average, 40-50% of their prescribed
      nutritional requirements. Inadequate provision of nutrition to these patients is associated
      with increased complications, prolonged length of stay in the ICU and hospital, and increased
      mortality. There are good data from large scale observational studies and randomized trials
      that suggest better fed patients have better clinical and economic outcomes and there are
      ICUs that consistently reach an average of 80-90% nutritional adequacy (amount of nutrition
      received over amount prescribed) thus it appears to be a feasible goal.

      The PEP uP protocol (Enhanced Protein-Energy Provision via the Enteral Route Feeding
      Protocol) includes a new, innovative approach that protocolizes an aggressive set of
      strategies to providing enteral nutrition (EN) and shifts the paradigm from reactionary to
      proactive followed by de-escalation if nutrition therapy is not needed. The key components of
      this new PEP uP protocol are the following:

        1. Starting feeds at the target rate based on increasing evidence that some patients
           tolerate starting nutrition at a higher rate of delivery and that slow start ups are not
           necessary.

        2. Allowing "trophic feeds" a low volume of a concentrated feeding solution for 24 hours or
           longer, designed to maintain gastrointestinal structure and function for those patients
           who are deemed unsuitable for high volume intragastric feeds.

        3. Prescribing semi-elemental feeding solution instead of a standard polymeric solution.

           These can then be changed to more traditional polymeric solution once the patient is
           tolerating adequate amounts of nutrition.

        4. Prescribing protein supplements at initiation of EN and then discontinue if EN is well
           tolerated and protein requirement are met through their standard EN.

        5. Starting motility agents at the same time EN is started with a re-evaluation in the days
           following to see if it is necessary.

      This PEP uP protocol has been previously studied in two published studies enrolling primarily
      medical patients. In the first study, a pilot before and after trial, the protocol seemed to
      be feasible, safe, and acceptable to critical care nurses. No incidents compromising patient
      safety were observed. (Heyland 2010) Rates of vomiting, regurgitation, aspiration, and
      pneumonia were similar and the PEP uP group received significantly more energy and protein
      (when they were prescribed to receive full volume as opposed to "trophic"). A subsequent
      multi-center cluster randomized trial involving low-performing ICUs likewise demonstrated
      that intervention sites had improvements in energy and protein delivery as well as a decrease
      in average time from ICU admission to start of enteral nutrition compared to the control
      group. (Heyland 2013).
    
  