
    
      Research question/objective of the study

      It is assumed that the application of the Damage Control Strategy (DCS) in patients with
      perforated diverticulitis of the sigmoid colon with generalized peritonitis leads to a
      reduction of the stoma rate with the same degree of safety as other procedures (Hartmann´
      procedure, sigmoid resection with primary anastomosis, laparoscopic lavage).

      Definitions

      The damage control strategy constitutes a two stage procedure.

      Emergency surgery:

      limited resection of the diseased colonic segment with oral and aboral blind closure,
      abdominal lavage, temporary vacuum assisted abdominal closure

      Second look surgery (48-72 hours later):

      Reexploration with

        1. definite reconstruction (Colorectal anastomosis -/+ diverting ileostomy vs. end
           colostomy)

        2. lavage, vacuum assisted abdominal closure, third look 72 hours after emergency surgery

      Basis and scientific knowledge

      The majority of patients with acute diverticulitis of the left colon are currently treated
      conservatively. However, diverticular perforation with diffuse peritonitis remains a
      challenging and life-threatening situation requiring emergency surgical intervention.
      Regardless of the frequency and severity of the disease, there is yet no generally accepted
      treatment algorithm. Sigmoid resection with blind closure of the rectal stump and formation
      of an end colostomy (Hartmann´s procedure) as well as sigmoid resection with primary
      anastomosis with or without additional loop ileostomy are alternative procedures. As an
      additional approach, laparoscopic lavage and drainage has not yet been widely established.
      Accordingly, the technique is not recommended in the current German S2K guidelines for the
      treatment of diverticular disease. Within Damage Control Strategy (DCS), a limited resection
      of the affected sigmoid segment with oral and aboral blind closure is performed during the
      initial intervention. After abdominal lavage, a temporary vacuum-assisted closure of the
      abdominal cavity is then performed. 24 to 72 hours later, the decision on the definite
      reconstruction procedure is made within the scope of the planned second-look laparotomy.
      Generally, a colorectal anastomosis with or without loop ileostomy is intended. If this is
      not possible, end colostomy is available as additional option. Principal criteria for the
      decision on the type of definite reconstruction are the local and general findings of the
      patient. According to the results of a first cohort from the Innsbruck University Hospital, a
      colorectal anastomosis can be achieved in almost 80% of patients within second operation. In
      about half of the patients, a loop ileostomy is additionally created. Using DCS, morbidity
      and mortality are comparable to the above mentioned competing procedures. An own study from
      2016 shows similar results. After the initial hospital stay, 47% of the patients were stoma
      carriers after the application of DCS, compared to 83% of the patients from the control group
      to which all "other" surgical procedures (Hartmann operation, Primary anastomosis with or
      without loop ileostoma) were assigned. At the end of follow-up, 88% of patients were
      stoma-free after use of DCS. The mortality rate was 11 percent. A systematic review of the
      available specific literature on DCS is yet underway. The manuscript is currently undergoing
      peer review at the World Journal of Gastroenterology. In the course of this process the above
      mentioned results could be confirmed. A total of eight publications from five study groups
      were identified (status 11/2019). In 73% of the cases a colorectal anastomosis could be
      performed during the second-look laparotomy. 15% of the patients additionally received a loop
      ileostomy. End colostomy (secondary Hartmann´s procedure) was necessary in only 27% of the
      patients. The cumulative anastomotic leak rate was 13%, surgical morbidity 31% and 30-day
      mortality was 9%. A stoma rate of 45% at discharge should be emphasized. Thus, the number of
      patients in whom intestinal continuity could be restored during the initial hospital stay was
      considerably higher when using the damage control strategy than in most studies on the
      treatment of perforated diverticulitis with diffuse peritonitis. In addition, a stoma rate of
      <50% at discharge was achieved. These aspects should be highlighted as key benefits. Further
      positive aspects of the method are the fast and technically simple focus repair during the
      initial intervention.
    
  