
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the clinical efficacy and toxicity profiles of a nonmyeloablative preparative
           regimen comprising busulfan and fludarabine with or without anti-thymocyte globulin
           followed by allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in patients with
           hematologic cancers or other diseases.

        -  Determine the feasibility of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Establish a treatment-related mortality during the first 6 months that is less than 20%
           in patients treated with this regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the response rates (disease-specific partial response and complete response)
           in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine overall and progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the percent donor chimerism and immunologic recovery, including dendritic cell
           recovery, in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the risk of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease and other toxicities
           in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Assess the overall nonhematologic grades 3 and 4 toxicity of this regimen, including the
           incidence of veno-occlusive disease and pulmonary toxicity, in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 4 treatment groups according to disease type and donor
      type.

        -  Preparative regimen:

             -  Group 1 (patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), acute lymphoblastic leukemia
                (ALL), IPSS (International Prognostic Scoring System score) high-risk
                myelodysplastic syndromes (HR MDS), or chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) with an
                human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched related donor (MRD): Patients receive
                fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days -7 to -3 and busulfan IV
                continuously over 48 hours on days -6 and -5.

             -  Group 2 (patients with AML, ALL, IPSS HR MDS, or CML with an HLA-matched unrelated
                donor (MUD) or mismatched related donor (MMRD)): Patients receive fludarabine
                phosphate and busulfan as in group 1 and anti-thymocyte globulin IV over 4 hours on
                day -8.

             -  Group 3 (patients with all other diseases with a MRD): Patients receive fludarabine
                phosphate and busulfan as in group 1 and anti-thymocyte globulin as in group 2.

             -  Group 4 (patients with all other disease with a MUD or MMRD): Patients receive
                fludarabine phosphate and busulfan as in group 1 and anti-thymocyte globulin IV
                over 4 hours on days -8 and -7.

        -  Allogeneic stem cell transplantation: All patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood
           stem cell transplantation on day 0. Patients then receive sargramostim (GM-CSF)
           subcutaneously once daily beginning on day 5 (groups 1 and 2) or day 7 (groups 3 and 4)
           and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: All patients receive oral tacrolimus twice
           daily on days -1 to 120 followed by a taper until day 180. Patients in groups 1 and 2
           also receive methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, and 6.

        -  Donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI): After day 120, patients with progressive disease or
           stable disease while off immunosuppression and with no evidence of active GVHD may
           receive DLI. Treatment with DLI may repeat every 8 weeks for up to 3 total infusions in
           the absence of disease response or GVHD.

      Peripheral blood and/or bone marrow samples are collected at baseline and then at 30, 60, 90,
      120, and 180 days post-transplantation. Chimerism (including the following subsets: whole
      blood, T-cells as defined by cluster of differentiation 3 (CD3) positivity, B-cells as
      defined by Cluster of Differentiation 19 (CD19) positivity, and myeloid cells as defined by
      Cluster of Differentiation 14 (CD14) and Cluster of Differentiation 15 (CD15) positivity is
      analyzed by polymerase chain reaction technology.

      After restaging between Days 90 and 100 and between Days 150 to 180, patients are followed
      every 6 months for 1 years and then yearly for a maximum of 5 years from study entry.
    
  