
    
      This study consists of a 48-week double-blind treatment period (Period 1) and a long-term
      extension period (Period 2).

      Period 1 is a 48-week randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled and active
      comparator-controlled period designed to compare the safety and efficacy of upadacitinib
      versus placebo, and versus adalimumab. Participants will be randomized in a 2:2:1 ratio to
      one of three treatment groups:

        -  Placebo (up to Week 26)

        -  Upadacitinib 15 mg once daily (QD)

        -  Adalimumab 40 mg every other week (eow)

      Participants randomized to placebo who do not achieve a ≥ 20% improvement in tender joint
      count (TJC) and swollen joint count (SJC) at Weeks 14, 18, or 22 compared to Baseline will be
      switched to blinded upadacitinib treatment. At Week 26, all participants still receiving
      placebo will be switched to blinded upadacitinib treatment regardless of clinical response.

      Participants randomized to adalimumab who do not achieve a ≥ 20% improvement in TJC and SJC
      at Weeks 14, 18, or 22 compared to Baseline will be switched to blinded upadacitinib.
      Participants still receiving adalimumab at Week 26 who do not achieve low disease activity
      (LDA) according to Clinical Disease Activity Index (CDAI; LDA is defined as CDAI ≤ 10) will
      be switched to blinded upadacitinib treatment to Week 48.

      Participants randomized to upadacitinib who do not achieve a ≥ 20% improvement in TJC and SJC
      at Weeks 14, 18, or 22 compared to Baseline will be switched to blinded adalimumab;
      participants still receiving upadacitinib at Week 26 who do not achieve LDA (CDAI ≤ 10) will
      be switched to blinded adalimumab treatment to Week 48.

      Participants who complete the Week 48 visit (end of Period 1) will enter the long-term
      extension phase of the study (Period 2), for up to 5 years. Participants will continue study
      treatment as assigned at the end of Period 1. Starting at the Week 48 and thereafter, at
      least 20% improvement in both TJC and SJC compared to Baseline is required to remain on study
      drug. Anyone who does not fulfill this criterion at 2 consecutive visits (starting at Week
      48) will be discontinued.
    
  