
    
      Radiation therapy (RT), with a relevant integration of external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) and
      intracavitary brachytherapy (ICBT), is an important part in the treatment of cervical cancer.
      Even though concurrent chemoradiation therapy (CCRT) improves the control of locoregional
      recurrence and distant metastasis for locally advanced disease, the role of RT remains
      important and essential. ICBT is an essential component of RT and has been used to deliver a
      high localized dose to the primary cervical lesion and adjacent parametria with an attempt to
      minimize dose to nearby normal tissues. The conventional point-based dose prescription
      systems have been applied for decades. Incorporation of modern imaging techniques, namely
      computerized tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission
      tomography (PET) to ICBT, enable radiation oncologists to individualize treatment volumes but
      yet, not applicable for routine practice. Point A, since defined by Tod and Meredith in 1938
      and revised in 1953, has been widely accepted as a sacrosanct reference point for dose
      prescription of ICBT. Point A was defined as a point 2 cm above the cervical os and 2 cm
      apart from os on the line perpendicular to uterine axis. It is a hypothetical point
      representing the crossover of the ureter and uterine artery, located in the paracervical
      triangle, and is considered as a critical point for radiation tolerance. This definition of
      point A provides an easy way to prescribe dose in ICBT and integrate with EBRT. However, its
      dosimetry according to orthogonal radiographs would depend solely on the applicator geometry
      but not the individual tumor volume or location. The International Commission on Radiation
      Units and Measurements (ICRU) report 38 proposed a set of guidelines for uniform reporting.
      Reporting of the dimensions of reference volumes still depends on the geometry of applied
      applicator and remains difficult for reporting of ICBT. Thus, point A is still used as a
      reference point for dose prescription and for correlating the treatment outcome in clinical
      trials. CCRT has been considered as a standard of care for locally advanced cervical cancer.
      To further dissect the patient population, which may have a benefit of less morbidity from
      CCRT, but not radical surgery plus subsequent RT, the sampling of pelvic and paraaortic lymph
      nodes prior to decision of intended surgery has been utilized by performing laparoscopy or
      laparotomy for stages IB and IIA. Moreover, this sampling procedure can also provide a
      pathological proof and delineation of lymph nodes at risk for an important reference of RT
      field design. During sampling procedures, we observed that the point crossing over the ureter
      and uterine artery could be visualized and marked by using hemoclips. Therefore, the anatomic
      position of point A could be visualized on the orthogonal films after closure of abdominal
      wound. In this study, we attempt to compare the location of and the radiation doses to
      anatomic point A (APA) and hypothetical point A (HPA) during fractionated ICBT.
    
  