
    
      Alzheimer's dementia (AD) and related neurodegenerative diseases are inflicting a global
      healthcare crisis. Neuropsychiatric symptoms including agitation and aggression affect up to
      80% of patients with AD. Among these symptoms, agitation and aggression are the most
      burdensome for patients, families, caregivers, and the health care system. The mechanisms of
      agitation in AD are poorly understood and the current interventions are only modestly
      effective while having serious adverse effects.

      In this study, the investigators propose to assess the mechanisms and treatment of
      neuropsychiatric symptoms in AD with the use of non-invasive, brain stimulation approaches.
      Agitation/aggression is associated with abnormalities in the balance of cortical
      excitation/inhibition. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) using single and paired pulse
      TMS paradigms such as long interval cortical inhibition (LICI) and short interval
      intracortical inhibition (SICI) can assess this cortical excitation/inhibition balance in
      vivo. The investigators will use TMS, combined with electroencephalography (EEG), to assess
      cortical excitation/inhibition balance in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) of
      participants with AD with and without agitation/aggression and age matched healthy
      comparators.

      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a non-invasive brain stimulation technique
      that uses a very low intensity electric current to modulate cortical excitability and brain
      plasticity. tDCS can restore excitation and inhibition balance by altering GABA and glutamate
      activity in the brain. tDCS can be safely administered to awake persons and is very well
      tolerated. Studies in healthy individuals and patients with AD have shown that tDCS applied
      to frontal brain regions can enhance cognitive function. Further, tDCS applied to frontal
      brain regions can improve depressive symptoms. The effects of tDCS on neuropsychiatric
      symptoms are not known. In this study, the investigators will use tDCS applied to the frontal
      brain regions to target deficits in inhibition and symptoms of agitation/aggression in AD.

      This study will be done over a period of 3 years at Centre for Addiction and Mental Health
      Geriatric Psychiatry Division and Temerty Centre for Therapeutic Brain Intervention. The
      investigators will recruit and enroll 30 individuals with AD + Agitation (mild to moderate
      agitation), 30 individuals with AD without agitation and 30 older healthy individuals.
      Medical work up will be done as part of clinical care prior to study enrollment to rule out
      medical causes of agitation. Clinical and cognitive assessments will be performed to
      characterize participants at baseline. The investigators will assess cortical inhibition
      using TMS EEG at baseline in the three groups. Individuals with AD + agitation will then
      receive a 2 week course of active/sham cathodal tDCS to frontal brain region in a double
      blind 1:1 randomized control design. Assessment of cortical inhibition using measures
      identical to baseline will be done at the end of tDCS course. The investigators will also
      repeat clinical and cognitive assessments after tDCS course and 2 weeks later. Measures of
      cortical inhibition will first be compared between HC and AD, and between AD and AD +
      Agitation groups. The treatment effects on clinical symptoms, cortical inhibition and the
      rate adverse events will be compared between active and sham tDCS groups.

      During the Covid-19 pandemic, the study has been modified to be administered in a hybrid
      manner to accommodate both in-person and virtual assessments. Clinical and cognitive
      assessments can be done in-person or remotely. The initial tDCS course will be conducted
      in-person with the research staff. The remaining tDCS intervention will be completed at the
      participant's home with virtual supervision from the research team.
    
  