
    
      There is already evidence that exercise training can delay the progression of dementia. But
      if the same effect could be seen in patients with cognitive impairment remains unknown. There
      is an increasing importance of how to delay or prevent the turn over of cognitive impairment
      patients into dementia in recent years. Thus we propose to investigate the following issues.

        1. To understand the physical activities of patients with cognitive impairment in Taiwan
           and construct the validity and reliability of the physical activity questionnaire and
           actigram in this population.

        2. To understand the relation between brain structure (brain tractography and resting state
           functional MRI) and cognitive and physical functions of patients with cognitive
           impairment , the capability of activity and social engagement (including quality of
           life).

        3. To understand the efficacy of exercise on the brain structure (brain tractography and
           resting state functional MRI), cognitive and physical functions, the capability of
           activity and social engagement (including quality of life) of patients with cognitive
           impairment.

      The study is a cross sectional study. We recruited 40 cognitive impairment patients from the
      memory clinic at National Taiwan University Hospital and another 20 healthy controls matched
      for age and gender. We collected the actigram and physical activity from questionnaire for 7
      days and performed the analysis for reliability and validity. We will do correlation analysis
      with the data with resting state functional MRI and tractography, brain connectivity, and
      plasma Aβ1-40 and Aβ1-42 amyloid protein.

      The study aims to establish the data base of physical activity of patients with cognitive
      impairment in Taiwan. We will also analyze the efficacy of exercise with ICF model on
      physical function, physical activity and social engagements to provide an optimized design of
      exercise program for patients with cognitive impairment in the future.
    
  