
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the probability of engraftment in patients with Fanconi anemia treated with
           cyclophosphamide, fludarabine phosphate, and antithymocyte globulin followed by
           HLA-genotypically identical sibling donor hematopoietic stem cell transplantation that
           is T-cell depleted.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the incidence of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and chronic GVHD in
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To evaluate the incidence of regimen-related toxicity in these patients.

        -  To evaluate the 1-year survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To evaluate the incidence of late secondary malignancies (e.g., squamous cell carcinoma
           of the head and neck or cervix) in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Preparative cytoreductive therapy: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on
           days -6 to -3 and fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes and anti-thymocyte globulin
           IV over 4-6 hours on days -6 to -2.

        -  T-cell depleted donor hematopoietic stem cell transplantation: Patients undergo T-cell
           depleted donor bone marrow or umbilical cord blood stem cell transplantation on day 0.
           Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) IV beginning on day 1 and continuing until
           blood counts recover.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis: Patients receive cyclosporine IV over 2 hours or
           orally every 8-12 hours beginning on day -3 and continuing until day 100, followed by a
           taper. Patients will receive Mycophenolate Mofetil (MMF) therapy beginning on day -3
           through day +30 or for 7 days after engraftment, whichever day is later, if no acute
           GVHD. Engraftment is defined as 1st day of 3 consecutive days of absolute neutrophil
           count [ANC] > 0.5 x 10^9/L.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically.
    
  