
    
      TREATMENT PLAN :

      All eligible patients will be treated:

        -  During the induction Phase (Month 1 to Month 6) with ponatinib (30mg/day) single agent;
           then

        -  During the consolidation Phase (Month 7 to Month 36) with imatinib (400mg/day) single
           agent; then

        -  From M36 :

             -  Patients with stable MR4.5 (i.e. since at least 2 years) will enter in the TFR
                phase and will stop imatinib treatment. Thereafter, in case of MMR loss, imatinib
                will be re-introduced as per investigator judgement (including for dose).

             -  Patients without stable MR4.5 will continue imatinib treatment until stable MR4.5,
                or M60, PD, death, withdrawal of consent or overall trial completion. Such patients
                will be allowed to enter into the TFR phase as soon as a stable 2-year MR4.5 is
                reached: however, they will be considered as a failure for the primary endpoint
                analysis.

      STATISTICS :

      A total of 170 patients will be enrolled in this study.

      According to a Fleming design, with a P0=20% as minimal efficacy rate and P1=30% as an
      expected target, 156 patients should be enrolled, assuming an unilateral type I error alpha
      of 5% and 90% power. At the time of analysis, if at least 40 successes are observed among the
      156 evaluable patients, the treatment will be considered as interesting for further
      investigation in this indication. Considering that some patients may withdraw their consent
      before 36 months (about 10%), the investigators plan to enrol 170 patients in total.

      DATA ENTRY, DATA MANAGEMENT AND STUDY MONITORING All the data concerning the patients will be
      recorded in the electronic case report form (eCRF) throughout the study. Serious adverse
      event (SAE) and Adverse Event of Specific Interest (AESI) reporting will be also paper-based
      by e-mail and/or Fax.

      The sponsor will perform the study monitoring and will help the investigators to conduct the
      study in compliance with the clinical trial protocol, Good Clinical Practices (GCP) and local
      law requirements.
    
  