
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety of alvocidib hydrochloride (alvocidib) in combination with
      decitabine and venetoclax in relapsed or refractory patients with acute myeloid leukemia
      (AML) or as frontline therapy in unfit/frail patients with AML. (Phase I) II. To determine
      the efficacy alvocidib in combination with decitabine and venetoclax in relapsed or
      refractory patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or as frontline therapy in unfit/frail
      patients with AML. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the preliminary assessment of efficacy by response to revised International
      Working Group (IWG) criteria and time to response variables, including overall survival (OS),
      event-free survival (EFS) and duration of response (DOR) of patients treated with this
      combination.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the minimal residual disease (MRD) after treatment with this combination and
      its impact in long-term outcome.

      II. To determine the effect of the level of pre-treatment expression of BCL-2 and MCL-1 (by
      BH3 profiling) with response to this combination.

      III. To determine the effect of this treatment combination on responding patients
      transitioning to hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT).

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of alvocidib followed by a phase II study.

      INDUCTION: Patients receive decitabine intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1-10, alvocidib
      hydrochloride IV over 1 hour on days 1-3, 1-5, 1-7, 1-10, or 1-14, and venetoclax orally (PO)
      once daily (QD) on days 1-14 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive decitabine IV over 1 hour on days 1-5, alvocidib
      hydrochloride IV over 1 hour on days 1-3, 1-5, 1-7, 1-10 or 1-14, and venetoclax PO QD on
      days 1-10. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks.
    
  