
    
      The visits for this trial are those planned for patients receiving EMM surgical operation,
      namely:

      Selection/Inclusion visit : D-90 to D-7 This visit can be split in two according to the
      requirements of the investigator and/or the patient.

        -  Full information about the trial

        -  Verification of the inclusion and non-inclusion criteria

        -  Obtaining the signed informed consent (the same day or after a period of reflection)

        -  Medical and surgical history - *Examination: Visual acuity measured on the ETDRS scale,
           near vision (Parinaud), spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT),
           microperimetry and pre-operative: "Patient discomfort" questionnaire (Appendix 7), an
           assessment of the appearance of the lens at the slit lamp, examination of the fundus
           after pupillary dilation, biomicroscopic examination of the anterior segment, retinal
           photography.

      Surgery visit D0:

        -  List of all the surgical procedures

        -  Randomization for ILM peeling or not, in the operating room after dyeing of the ILM by
           the Membraneblue-Dual® (Picture of the macula). An anonymous video of the surgery will
           be sent to Nantes for centralized processing of the analysis of the EMM's grip areas.

      To avoid bias, the follow-up visits will be made by an ophthalmologist and/or an orthoptist
      who will not know what action has been performed.

      Follow-up visit M1 (1 month after the surgery ± 7 days)

        -  Examination: Visual acuity measured on the ETDRS scale, near vision (Parinaud), spectral
           domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT), Microscopic examination of the eye,
           microperimetry, fundus photography and post-operative "Patient discomfort" questionnaire
           (Appendix 8). Biomicroscopic examination of the anterior segment, retinal photography.

        -  AE

      Follow-up visit M6 (6 months after the surgery ± 15 days)

        -  Examination: Visual acuity measured on the ETDRS scale, near vision (Parinaud), spectral
           domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT), Microscopic examination of the eye,
           microperimetry, fundus photography and post-operative: "Patient discomfort"
           questionnaire (Appendix 8). Biomicroscopic examination of the anterior segment, retinal
           photography.

        -  AE End of study visit M12 (12 months after the surgery ± 15 days)

        -  Examination: Visual acuity measured on the ETDRS scale, near vision (Parinaud), spectral
           domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT), Microscopic examination of the eye,
           microperimetry, fundus photography and post-operative "Patient discomfort" questionnaire
           (Appendix 8), Biomicroscopic examination of the anterior segment, retinal photography.

        -  AE
    
  