
    
      Post-radiotherapy fragility fractures are a frequent complication of orthopedic oncology care
      of sarcoma patients, who often receive radiotherapy (XRT) as adjunctive treatment. Prediction
      of these fractures is difficult as there has been no demonstrable relationship shown, to
      date, between bone density and fracture risk for this population. Treatment for an impending
      fracture due to radiotherapy does exist in the form of prophylactic operative stabilization
      with an intramedullary nail to prevent the bone from breaking. Without the ability to predict
      those patients at higher risk for fracture, clinical indications for prophylactic treatment
      are difficult to develop.

      Bone density has been investigated as a possible fracture prediction tool. Work by Dhakal et
      al. suggested specifically that bone density, as measured by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry
      (DXA), of the irradiated limb is not decreased following therapeutic doses of radiotherapy
      (50 Gy) administered for soft tissue sarcomas. However, their technique did not measure
      pre-radiotherapy bone mineral density (BMD), but rather compared post-radiotherapy BMD of the
      irradiated site to contralateral and ipsilateral non-irradiated long bones of the extremity.
      While this technique accounted for disuse osteopenia (bone loss due to decreased use of the
      afflicted limb), it did not account for any systemic effects of radiation therapy. This is
      important, because largely based on their work, BMD has not been utilized as a predictor of
      risk of fracture, and other measures have been sought for this particular clinical situation
      without success. Others have also failed to show decreased BMD within the irradiated field.
      However, these studies have either lacked power to show statistical significance or the
      patient population was pediatric, a growing population in which age related accrual of bone
      density was a potential confounder.

      What Dhakal and others did not account for was the possibility of abscopal (systemic) effects
      of radiotherapy that might also affect the contralateral and distant sites. Recent work in
      this investigators laboratory and others using small animal models has suggested that
      radiation to one limb has statistically significant effects on the contralateral limb in
      terms of decreased bone mineral density and loss of bone strength. The importance and
      clinical implications of such an abscopal effect is as of yet unclear. At the very least, its
      presence calls into question the conclusion that bone density is not decreased at the site of
      radiation, since differences may only be able to be shown when compared to non-irradiated
      control subjects. Moreover, there may be an adverse effect on distant bones, further lowering
      BMD and contributing to fragility fractures, particularly in post-menopausal women who are
      already at some increased risk. There is mixed clinical data on this topic, with one series
      of 45,662 prostate cancer patients showing a 76% increased risk of hip fracture (regional
      bone) following pelvic radiation, but no increased risk of fractures outside the field of
      radiation in three studies of patients with pelvic radiation for cervical and other female
      cancers or prostate cancer.

      The investigators of this study propose to determine whether human subjects undergoing
      radiotherapy for soft tissue sarcomas exhibit for abscopal bone loss. Patients in the PI's
      (Dr. Damron) practice obtain baseline-staging studies, including computerized tomography (CT)
      of the chest/abdomen/pelvis prior to treatment. Post-treatment, patients then undergo
      oncology surveillance utilizing routine repetitive computerized tomography of the chest and
      sometimes of the abdomen/pelvis for a subset where the baseline abdomen/pelvis CT scans show
      abnormalities that need to be followed. These CT scans, when combined with calibration
      phantoms of known density, afford a prime opportunity to quantify bone mineral density based
      on those scans at sites distant to the primary site of radiotherapy (typically in the
      extremity).

      This project will also evaluate a secondary aim, that of comparing effectiveness of
      utilization of CT vs BMD as a tool to evaluate bone loss in short term with a potential for
      long term fracture prediction in this patient population. In order to accomplish this aim,
      simultaneously, in a subset of patients who give consent for non-standard of care DXA scans,
      the investigators will evaluate the potential abscopal bone loss by assessing changes in BMD
      as measured by DXA, a tool that is a gold standard for bone density evaluation and for
      fracture prediction in routine clinical practice. The investigators will compare BMD pre- and
      post-radiotherapy at the site of irradiation, and further compare this change to that of the
      change in BMD at distant sites.
    
  