
    
      Dyspnea is "a subjective experience of breathing discomfort that consists of qualitatively
      distinct sensations that vary in intensity." Dyspnea, or shortness of breath, is a common
      problem affecting up to half of hospitalized patients; and "shortness of breath" and "labored
      or difficult breathing" accounts for 3 to 4 million emergency department visits annually.
      Dyspnea can represent a sensation, a symptom, or an illness. Each set of experiences involves
      distinct sensory, perceptual, and cognitive processes, including: the detection of signals;
      the perception of threat or remarkable challenge; and, the construction, or mental
      representation, of illness. As a sensory experience dyspnea can be compared to the sensation
      of pain. Although labored breathing is not painful in the usual sense of the word dyspnea,
      like pain, is a concept varying along multiple dimensions. Like pain, dyspnea can signal the
      need for medical attention; but unlike pain dyspnea is a localized sensation originating in
      the cardiopulmonary system rather than a generalized danger signal.

      Research demonstrates that sensory information from the respiratory system activates regions
      of the cerebral cortex to produce the perception of dyspnea but far less is known about the
      neurophysiology of dyspnea than about vision, hearing, or even pain. Dyspnea likely arises
      from multiple nervous system sources. Investigations of the mechanisms underlying respiratory
      sensations have included studies of airway anesthesia, chest wall strapping, exercise,
      heart-lung transplantation, hyperventilation, and opioid use. Study of the perception of
      breathing sensations in individuals with a spinal cord injury presents additional
      opportunity. The goal of the proposed project is to examine the effects of increasingly
      severe levels of spinal cord injury on the perception of breathing sensations in participants
      who are able to breathe without the use of a ventilator.

      Afferent pathways that transmit somatosensory signals to the central nervous system (i.e.,
      brain and spinal cord) are well described and event-related potentials have been used to
      measure respiratory somatosensation with high temporal resolution. Event-related potentials
      (ERPs) are time-locked cortical signals that are measured non-invasively from the surface of
      the scalp in response to brief (< 200 msec), presentations of respiratory stimuli during
      normal breathing. Davenport et al. first identified sensory-perceptual ERPs to inspiratory
      stimuli (those occurring about 50-150 msec after stimulus delivery) and Harver et al. first
      examined perceptual-cognitive ERPs to inspiratory stimuli (those occurring about 150-400 msec
      post-stimulus). Study of respiratory-related ERPs in patients with spinal cord injuries
      presents a rare opportunity to examine the neurophysiological mechanisms underlying the
      perception of breathing because the extent of somatosensory information that reaches cerebral
      cortex varies with level of lesion.
    
  