
    
      Pulmonary Rehabilitation is one of the most recommended methods to improve the muscle
      function of COPD patients. By exercise training, even patients with severe COPD can increase
      muscle strength, improve skeletal muscle function and enhance exercise endurance. Due to
      improvements in exercise endurance, when exercising at a higher intensity, ventilation
      support and dynamic hyperinflation would slightly decrease which leads to less dyspnea during
      exercise. Continuously exercising can also increase the motivation to exercise, reduce mood
      irritability and psychological burden caused by symptoms. By exercising, patient's health
      status can be both improved physically and mentally.

      High Flow Nasal Cannula (HFNC) is a non-invasive ventilatory device that provides stable
      oxygen concentration, temperature (37℃) and humidity (Relative Humidity: 100%). Humidity
      provided by the HFNC reduces irritation caused by the high flow, which leads to the increase
      of user's tolerance with the device. With the half-closed system formed by a nasal prong,
      when the high flow enters the upper airway, continue positive airway pressure would be
      formed.

      Subjects enrolled into this study are required to join a 6-week pulmonary rehabilitation
      program. Before starting the program, subjects were randomly assigned to high flow nasal
      cannula group and conventional oxygen therapy group. When exercising, the nasal cannula group
      would receive an oxygen flow of 3 - 5L to maintain SpO2>90% and the HFNC group with high flow
      setting of 45-50Lpm along with oxygen flow of 3-5L also to maintain SpO2>90%. When joining
      the pulmonary rehabilitation program, patients are required to exercise for approximately 45
      minutes per session. When exercising, changes in the degree of dyspnea, quadriceps blood flow
      and hemodynamics are assessed. After 6-week of the exercise training, all the parameters will
      again be assessed and compared to the primary data that was collected from the beginning of
      the program.
    
  