
    
      This study was a phase I randomized, double blind, safety and immunogenicity study of live,
      attenuated neonatal rotavirus vaccine candidate strains 116E or I321 in healthy
      non-malnourished infants aged 8-12 weeks. Informed, written, witnessed consent was obtained
      from the parents before infants were screened at 6 weeks of age. Infants (n=90) were
      randomized (30 per group) to receive one dose of either the 116E or I321 vaccines (10^5
      fluorescence focus units, FFu) or placebo at 8 weeks of age. The rotavirus vaccine was
      administered at a different time than DPT (Diptheria-Pertussis-Tetanus), OPV (Oral Polio
      Vaccine) and HBV (Hepatitis B vaccine) immunization since the trial represented the first
      safety study in infants with these strains. The DPT, OPV and HBV vaccines were given at the
      regular EPI schedule of 6, 10 and 14 weeks with the precautions and techniques routinely in
      place for these.

      The test article was administered orally two weeks after the first DPT, OPV and HBV dose,
      after half an hour of administering 2.5 ml bicarbonate to buffer stomach acidity.

      Evaluation of reactogenicity consisted of daily recording of symptoms reported by the
      mother/caregiver and twice-daily axillary temperature measurements for 14 days post
      administration of vaccine/placebo. Stool specimens were collected before administration of
      vaccine/placebo, twice during the week following administration (days 3 and 7), and at day 28
      after administration to evaluate for vaccine virus shedding. Weekly recording of adverse
      events was also done for the next 2 weeks i.e. on days 21 and 28 post administration of
      vaccine/placebo. If gastrointestinal signs or symptoms occurred any time during the 4 weeks
      observation period, attempts were made to collect stool samples daily (maximum 2 per day)
      while the illness persisted, to be examined for the presence of the vaccine strains.

      Immunogenicity was determined by analysis of sera obtained before immunization and 28 days
      after immunization for changes in titers of rotavirus antibodies.
    
  