
    
      ST. GEORGE'S HEADED NOTEPAPER

      CADISS FEASIBILITY STUDY (Cervical Artery Dissection in Stroke Study) PROTOCOL

      Aim:

      To determine the feasibility of a clinical trial comparing antiplatelet therapy with
      anticoagulation in the acute treatment of patients with cervical artery dissection.
      Specifically to address whether:

        1. There are sufficient clinical endpoints to provide the power to determine treatment
           effect;

        2. Adequate numbers of patients can be recruited.

      Dissection of the carotid and vertebral arteries is a major cause of stroke in persons < 50
      years of age, mainly due to embolism from clot sealing the tear. At present physicians treat
      these patients with anticoagulants or antiplatelet drugs to prevent further stroke, but
      neither therapy is evidence-based. Anticoagulants may be powerful anti-embolic agents but are
      also more dangerous than aspirin, and potentially could encourage further dissection. Most
      published studies are flawed by retrospective data, with no reference to the number of
      patients in the original study cohort and do not include the critical principles of
      randomisation and 'blinding'.

      Proposal of present 'feasibility'study:

      The only prospective data available (1) suggest that anticoagulants are more effective than
      antiplatelet agents in reducing further TIA and stroke after dissection, but the numbers were
      small and lack reliable statistical confirmation. This study was not a randomised controlled
      trial and therefore may be open to bias in selection of treatment. As well, it found that
      most recurrent events occur within the first month and thereafter the number tails off. A
      total of about 1800 patients for a two armed therapeutical trial was necessary to be
      calculated on these data.

      Authors of a previous Cochrane review (2) reviewing available published literature calculated
      that a total of about 2000 patients (1000 in each treatment arm) is needed for a blinded
      randomised trial of anticoagulants versus antiplatelet agents. This would need a major,
      probably international, study involving over 50 centres, and would be an expensive
      undertaking. Prior to starting such a study it is important to determine whether this would
      be feasible. This is particularly important for carotid and vertebral dissection which is a
      frequently missed diagnosis, at least during the acute phase. Limited natural history outcome
      data suggest the risk of recurrent stroke and TIA following carotid and vertebral dissection
      is only markedly raised during the first week to month (1, 3) and therefore early
      identification and recruitment of patients are essential if any treatment effect is to be
      demonstrated.

      For these reasons, a feasibility study is essential before any large scale clinical trial.
      Specifically, two things need to be determined. Firstly, whether a sufficient number of
      patients can be recruited sufficiently early from participating centres. Secondly, in view of
      the limited data on the rate of recurrent TIA and stroke in patients with recent dissection,
      we need more data to obtain a robust estimate of early risk to inform power calculations for
      a large scale study.

      A preliminary informal survey conducted by Clinical Neurosciences, St. George's University of
      London, in association with the Association of British Neurologists, has indicated that at
      least 27 neurologists/stroke physicians throughout the UK would be interested in
      collaborating and enrolling consecutive consenting patients into such a study comparing
      anticoagulation or antiplatelet therapy.

      Methods:

      This will be a randomised multicentre single blind study comparing antiplatelet therapy with
      anticoagulation for patients with carotid and vertebral dissection. Recruitment must be
      within seven days of onset of symptoms.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        1. Extracranial carotid or vertebral artery dissection with symptom onset within the last 7
           days. This includes:

             1. Ipsilateral TIA or stroke

             2. Ipsilateral Horner's syndrome or neck pain with known date of onset

        2. Imaging evidence of definite or probable dissection on magnetic resonance imaging
           (MRI)/magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), computed tomography angiography (CTA) or
           ultrasound (patients can be initially randomised on ultrasound alone but subsequent MR
           or CTA confirmation is needed)

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Intracranial cerebral artery dissection

        2. Symptom onset after 7 days

        3. Contraindications to either antiplatelet agents or anticoagulation therapy

        4. Patient refusal to consent

        5. Patients who are undergoing angioplasty and stenting or surgery for treatment of their
           dissection

      Treatment:

      Patients will be randomised to either antiplatelet or anticoagulation therapy allocated on a
      single blind basis and continued for six months.

        1. Antiplatelet therapy: Aspirin 75-300 mg daily, aspirin and dipyridamole or clopidogrel
           alone

        2. Anticoagulation with heparin (either unfractionated heparin or a therapeutic dose of low
           molecular weight heparin) followed by warfarin aiming for an INR in the range 2.5-4.
           Local protocols for heparin therapy can be used.

      Primary Endpoint:

      Ipsilateral stroke, transient ischaemic attack or vascular death within 6 months from
      randomisation

      Secondary Endpoint:

        1. TIA and stroke in other cerebral vascular territories

        2. Recanalisation on repeat imaging at 6 months.

      Imaging Protocol:

      The diagnosis of dissection is based on different modalities in different centres. Centres
      should use their usual imaging protocol to diagnose dissection. Diagnosis on the basis of MRI
      with cross-sectional imaging through the artery wall, MRA, CT angiography, intra-arterial
      angiography, and ultrasound (later confirmed by MR or CTA) are all acceptable.

      Patients can be randomised if the HQ radiologist (Dr. Clifton) agrees that the diagnosis is
      probable or definite. Hard copies of imaging must be recorded for central reading.

      The primary analysis will include only those patients judged to have probable or definite
      dissection on central reading of the hard copies.

      Randomisation:

      Randomisation will be via 24 hour randomisation service provided by the University of
      Aberdeen Health Services Research Unit.

      The local investigator will personally contact this service at 0800 387 4444 and the Centre
      will give the investigator a code number, known only to the randomisation centre and local
      investigator.

      Trial Management:

      The study will be coordinated from Clinical Neuroscience at St. George's, University of
      London. The principal co-investigators are Professor John Norris and Professor Hugh Markus.
      The principal neuroradiological investigator, responsible for assessment of hard copies of
      imaging, is Dr Andrew Clifton. The trial will be coordinated by a clinical fellow funded by a
      project grant from The Stroke Association.

      References

        1. Beletsky V, Nadareishvili Z, Lynch J, Shuaib A, Woolfenden A, Norris JW; Canadian Stroke
           Consortium (2003) Cervical Arterial Dissection; Time for a Therapeutic Trial? Stroke
           Dec; 34(12)2856-60

        2. Lyrer P, Engelter S. Antithrombotic drugs for carotid artery dissection. Cochrane Review
           Oxford,UK. Cochrane Library 2002. Issue 1

        3. Biousse V, D'Anglejan-Chatillon J, Touboul PJ, Amarenco P, Bousser MG (1995) Timecourse
           of Symptoms in Extracranial Carotid Artery Dissections. A Series of 80 patients Stroke
           Feb; 26(2)
    
  