
    
      Design: This will be a two-site, iterative, double-blinded, randomized, placebo controlled,
      2-arm, phase II and III superiority trial. Participants will be randomised 1:1 to each arm.
      The first part of the trial will recruit 64 evaluable patients to validate a biological
      effect of triazavirin on SARS-CoV-2. If triazavirin indeed has a demonstrable effect, the
      trial will continue to randomise another 316 evaluable participants to ascertain if there is
      a clinical benefit.

      Participants: Three hundred and eighty evaluable patients with newly diagnosed, laboratory
      confirmed, mild-moderate (including asymptomatic) SARS-CoV-2 infection. Men and women will be
      recruited in a ratio of 3:2.

      Study sites: Tshepong Provincial Hospitals in NW Province. Field Hospitals in Gauteng
      (NASREC) and North West (West Vaal) will be included if possible.

      Study Duration: Follow up will be approximately 32 days; the total duration of from
      recruitment of first patients to last follow follow up visit is 15 months.

      Population: Adult in-patients, ≥18 years and older, with a recent diagnostic test positive
      for SARS-CoV-2. Men and women will be recruited, in a ratio of 3:2.

      Intervention: After verbal informed consent is provided, participants will be randomly
      assigned to receive either five days of triazavirin 250mg p.o three times daily, or placebo
      at the same dosing schedule, in addition to standard of care therapy prescribed by the
      attending physicians.

      Primary Objectives:

      To ascertain whether a 5-day course of TZV (250mg taken orally three times per day) in
      addition to standard of care treatment for in-patients with mild-moderate disease caused by
      SARS-Cov-2 is effective in:

      A. Enhancing the rate of viral clearance from the nasopharynx compared to placebo.

      B. To demonstrate a favourable outcome in the intervention arm compared to placebo arm using
      a composite clinical outcome that consists of the earliest occurrence of any of the
      following:

        1. Death

        2. Admission to ICU or mechanical ventilation required (continuous positive airway
           pressure, high flow nasal oxygen or intubation);

        3. Prolonged duration of admission lasting >14 days (this includes patients who are
           discharged and re-admitted within 48 hours of leaving the hospital).

      C. To ascertain safety and tolerability of the investigational drug TZV

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To compare time to the first of two consecutive nasopharyngeal swabs that are negative
           for SARS-CoV-2 between the arms.

        2. To compare the proportion of participants whose nasopharyngeal swabs are negative for
           SARS-CoV-2 two days after the end of study treatment.

        3. To compare symptom reduction and improvement in clinical measures between arms

        4. To compare efficacy of nasopharyngeal swabs with salivary specimens in assessing viral
           responses to treatment.
    
  