
    
      Hyperthyroidism is the second most common endocrine disorder in the world with an estimate
      prevalence rate of 0.5-1.3% with Graves' disease being the commonest cause.

      Uncontrolled hyperthyroidism results in increase cardiovascular morbidity and mortality
      primarily due to heart failure and thromboembolism. Therefore treatment is essential to
      restore a euthyroid state in order to reverse the cardiovascular complications.

      Anti thyroid drugs (ATDs) including methimazole, carbimazole, and propylthiouracil are
      effective treatments that inhibit thyroid hormone synthesis, and have clinically important
      immunosuppressive effects including reducing serum antithyrotropin receptor antibody (TRAb)
      concentration with time but take in most cases between 6 to 8 weeks to achieve euthyroidism.
      Therefore there may be a role for adjunctive treatment added on to ATDs. It may be situations
      where adjunctive treatment is required to alleviate symptoms and restore euthyroidism rapidly
      such as before surgery or radioactive iodine treatment or in vulnerable groups such as the
      elderly or those with serious thyrotoxic complications.

      This study aim to assess the efficacy of cholestyramine and prednisolone as adjunctive
      treatment to standard treatment in patients with overt hyperthyroidism in 4 weeks.
      Cholestyramine is an anion exchange resin that binds thyroxine (T4) in the intestine
      resulting in fecal excretion of T4 thus reducing the enterohepatic circulation and absorption
      in hyperthyroidism. Steroids have been shown to be effective in controlling hyperthyroidism
      by inhibiting the conversion of thyroxine to triiodothyronine peripherally and also blocks
      the release of thyroxine from the thyroid gland. It may also have the potential to suppress
      the immune response and hence decrease stimulation of the thyroid gland in Graves.

      135 patients with moderate to severe uncontrolled overt hyperthyroid patients secondary to
      Graves disease will be randomized into 3 groups. Group 1 patients will be treated with
      cholestyramine 4g twice a day plus carbimazole and propanolol for 4 weeks. Group 2 patients
      will be treated with prednisolone 30 mg daily for week 1, 20 mg daily for week 2, 10 mg daily
      for week 3 and 5 mg daily for week 4 plus carbimazole and propanolol for 4 weeks. Group 3
      patients will be treated with carbimazole 30 mg daily and propanolol 40 mg bd for 4 weeks.
      Patients will have their clinical status (weight, blood pressure, pulse rate) measured at
      baseline along with a TRAb level and Free Triiodotyronine (T3), Free T4 and Thyroid
      stimulating hormone (TSH) levels. They will be evaluated at week 2 and week 4 of intervention
      period and have their clinical status (weight, blood pressure, pulse rate) and laboratory
      (Free T3, Free T4, TSH, Potassium, Fasting/random blood glucose) measured. Adverse events
      will be monitored at week 2, 4, and 6.
    
  