
    
      Abstract

      Obesity prevalence is a major risk factor for the onset of type 2 diabetes. Diabetic patients
      are frequently overweight or obese and diabetes complications are the main cause of
      obesity-related morbimortality, demanding proper and effective clinical management.

      Bariatric surgery, originally conceived for obesity treatment, has proven not only to be the
      most effective weight loss intervention but also for comorbidity management, with a strong
      impact on type 2 diabetes. As the antidiabetic effects of bariatric surgery largely exceed
      the metabolic improvement predicted by the caloric restriction and weight loss, which are
      mostly driven by the enteroendocrine response, this challenges the academic and medical
      communities with the need to learn how to leverage the enteroendocrine system to achieve
      glucose homeostasis.

      Supported on the investigators' previous work focusing on gastro-intestinal hormones and
      glucose metabolism after bariatric surgery, the investigators now aim to monitor the
      intestinal hormone after different anatomical modifications produced by Roux-en-Y gastric
      bypass procedures in diabetic participants and normoglycemic individuals. The utmost goal
      will be to unravel the endocrine mechanisms beyond the metabolic improvement observed after
      the surgical manipulations, towards the identification of novel targets for hormone based
      treatments in an individualised clinical approach.

      Study Overview: Participants in this study will be submitted to either short or long BPL RYGB
      surgery. Participants visits will be scheduled before surgery and after surgery at 3, 6 and
      12 months for detailed participants assessment that will include anthropometric and
      biochemical evaluation and the performance of a MMTT with plasma sampling for hormonal
      profiles.

      Participant Enrolment: Participants will be selected from the cohort of patients referred for
      multidisciplinary evaluation by the clinical team for surgical treatment of obesity of the
      Centro Hospitalar Entre Douro e Vouga (CHEDV). Participants found to be suitable according to
      the entry criteria and accept to participate will be enrolled in the study and assigned to
      one of the three study groups according to participants clinical features.

      Study Chair: Mário Nora, MD

      Principal Investigator: Marta Guimarães, MD, PhD
    
  