
    
      Transient allostatic responses of thyroid function are common in the critically ill. About
      70% of all patients treated on intensive care units develop a so-called non-thyroidal illness
      syndrome (NTIS) or TACITUS (thyroid allostasis in critical illness, tumours, uraemia and
      starvation), which is marked by low serum concentrations of the thyroid hormone T3 and other
      adaptive reactions of thyroid homeostasis. Occasionally, temporarily elevated concentrations
      of thyrotropin (TSH) and peripheral thyroid hormones are to be observed, especially after
      cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (CPR). However, the available evidence is limited, although
      abnormal concentrations of thyroid hormones after CPR have been reported.

      Aim of the planned study is to investigate the thyrotropic partial function of the anterior
      pituitary lobe immediately after CPR. It is intended to evaluate statistical moments of TSH
      concentration and peripheral thyroid hormones in de-identified datasets (protocol A).
      Additionally, a prospective substudy (protocol B) aims at a more precise description of
      pituitary and thyroid responses by means of serial investigations in routine serum samples,
      both immediately after CPR and during the course of ongoing in-patient treatment. This also
      includes the evaluation of additional possible predictors.

      Primary endpoint of the study are changed TSH concentrations immediately after CPR compared
      to the value 24 hours later. Secondary endpoint is the relation between thyrotropic pituitary
      function and mortality.

      A high proportion of patients undergoing CPR will eventually receive iodinated radiocontrast
      media (e.g. for computed tomography or coronary angiography). This is one of the reasons why
      early identifying subjects at high risk for possible iodine-induced thyrotoxicosis is
      important. Increases oxygen consumption of myocardial tissue in hyperthyroidism is one of the
      reasons for high mortality in thyrotoxicosis. Therefore, accurate diagnosis of alterations in
      the hypothalamus-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) axis is of paramount importance.
    
  