
    
      A recent study evaluated the Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience (MAUDE)
      database, which contains reports of adverse events involving medical devices6,9. The FDA
      updates the database every two months. A total of 107 Riata leads with reported inside-out
      insulation breaks were found, of which 105 were available for analysis. The average age of
      the leads was 62.1+/-18.6 months. A total of 226 insulation defects were found with 143
      inside-out insulation abrasions. Twenty-eight of the 105 leads (26.7%) had inside-out
      insulation defects underneath one or more of the high voltage-shocking coil. Of these, 23
      were 8F and five were 7F Riata ST leads. Exposed cables or conductors were present in 32
      leads and six leads had melted cables, presumably due to one or more high voltage shocks. 22
      of the 43 leads assessed (51.2%) also had abraded ETFE cable coating exposing the conductor.
      Noise and other sensing issues were the most common signs of failure. Seven leads were found
      to have externalized cables and five exhibited electrical abnormalities. 31 patients (29.5%)
      experienced inappropriate shocks of which 41% had abraded cables.

      A critical decision facing physicians is how to screen and manage patients who are found to
      have externalized cables. Externalized cables on fluoroscopy may precede any electrical
      abnormalities. Also noise may not be detected on all ICD models. A recent case report
      suggested that changes in lead parameters might be transient and may be missed. The lead may
      function normally as the high-voltage and pace-sense cables are covered with ETFE, which
      serves as the second insulating barrier. As this is a very thin layer (0.0015 inches) the
      reliability of this to withstand a high-energy shock is unknown. This may lead to failure of
      appropriate therapy for life threatening arrhythmias.

      The aim of this study is to screen patients with ICD leads that potentially could have
      multiple different failure mechanisms, including inside-out insulation breaks, to develop a
      novel new algorithm and methods to detect these defects, thereby enabling physicians to
      prevent complications from failure of these leads.

      It is hypothesized that current monitoring tools are insufficient for detecting the sometimes
      transient electrical failures of the Riata family of leads, and that additional device
      diagnostic information in combination with fluoroscopy may improve detection of electrical
      failures.

      This will be a prospective, single-center study. Patients who consent to participate will be
      enrolled for up to three years.

      This study offers the potential of direct benefit to the patient and indirect benefit for
      future users of the ICD systems. This study may identify inside-out insulation breaks and
      prevent impending lead failure. Additionally, analyses of the data collected as part of this
      study may help to develop an "electronic footprint" or pattern to remotely identify
      inside-out insulation breaks in all ICD leads Potential risks include exposure to radiation
      from a fluoroscopic exam of the lead and receiving a synchronized ICD shock.
    
  