
    
      People with OAG and concomitant OSA associated with the relevant symptoms, particularly
      daytime sleepiness, currently receive standard treatment with CPAP. However, the impact of
      CPAP on their glaucoma is unknown. There are concerns that CPAP increases IOP, currently the
      only modifiable factor in glaucoma, though the evidence for this is limited.

      Understanding the influence of CPAP on IOP is important as it may inform the management of
      people with OSA and concomitant glaucoma. If CPAP is shown to raise IOP or alter OPP to
      levels that pose clinical risk it will be necessary to assess available alternative treatment
      options for OSA. If, however, CPAP does not alter these parameters, there would be a
      rationale for assessing long-term effects of CPAP, most probably in the form of a randomised
      interventional trial, informed by the findings of this research.

      This is a prospective controlled study which will examine the impact of CPAP on nocturnal IOP
      and OPP in people with OSA with and without POAG. In addition, we will assess ocular
      microvasculature before and a few weeks into CPAP treatment.

      Objectives:

      Primary: to determine if IOP increases at night following treatment with CPAP in people with
      OSA with and without POAG.

      Main Secondary:(i) to investigate whether diurnal IOP raises after CPAP treatment; (ii) to
      investigate whether CPAP alters peri-papillary and macular microcirculation measured with OCT
      Angiography.

      Participants: People with newly diagnosed OSA who require treatment with CPAP will be
      invited. We will recruit participants with POAG and people without glaucoma (control
      subjects). All participant will undergo a detailed ocular assessment including: visual
      acuity, IOP measurement, OCT and visual field test.

      Sample Size: 30 participants: 15 per group.

      Study Visits:

      Visit 0: Baseline ocular examination to confirm or exclude glaucoma will be undertaken during
      this visit unless a participant already had this examination within the last 6 months.

      Visit 1: Participants will attend the sleep centre (Respiratory Support and Sleep
      Centre-RSSC, Papworth Hospital) where they will be admitted to a separate ward. Consented
      participants will undergo the following:

      Baseline assessment: A brief medical history, spirometry and anthropomorphic measurements.

      Repeated measurements: IOP will be measured in each eye using a rebound tonometer (Icare Pro,
      Finland Oy). Blood pressure and ocular perfusion pressure will be checked simultaneously.

      Participants will be advised to sleep at their habitual hours. Sleep onset and duration will
      be recorded. All the above measurements will be repeated every 2 hours starting from 10pm and
      finishing at 8am. In the morning OCT Angiographic will be performed.

      Participants will then self-measure IOP at home using a rebound tonometer (Icare Home,
      Finland Oy). The measurements will be performed in the daytime every 2 hours before they
      start CPAP and 4-6 weeks into the treatment.

      Visit 2: Participants will return for the second overnight assessment 4-6weeks after
      initiation of CPAP treatment.

      CPAP usage data will be downloaded. All the measurements following the same procedure as for
      Visit 1 will be repeated this time with participants using CPAP. OCT Angiographic will be
      performed immediately after removing CPAP in the morning.
    
  