
    
      This protocol is a natural history study designed to investigate the clinical, microbiologic,
      genetic and immunologic correlates of primary immune deficiencies and other conditions
      associated with mucocutaneous and invasive fungal infections (IFIs). The hypothesis is that
      chronic mucocutaneous mycoses and IFIs are caused by abnormalities in immune function in
      these patients that can be identified using modern methods in molecular and cell biology and
      immunology. For inclusion, patients must have a history of or an active mucocutaneous or
      invasive fungal infection, but may or may not have a defined primary or acquired
      immunodeficiency state. Patients will undergo evaluations that include history/physical
      examination and blood, saliva, and possible tissue sampling for genetic and immunological
      testing. Patient relatives may also be screened for clinical, microbiological, genetic and/or
      immunological correlates of host defense abnormalities. Healthy volunteers will be enrolled
      as a source of control blood, saliva, and possible tissue sampling, and for genetic testing.

      The aim of this protocol is to use modern methods in molecular and cell biology and
      immunology to elucidate the immunopathogenesis of fungal disease in humans. A better
      understanding of primary immunodeficiency and identification of fungal and host risk factors
      for fungal infection may provide new insights into pathogenesis and identify targets for
      development of novel therapies. Enrolled subjects may be followed for up to 10 years to
      undergo additional clinical evaluation and sampling. Follow-up may occur every 6 months or
      more frequently depending on clinical course, the underlying risk factor(s), and the type of
      fungal infection. Under some circumstances, standard medical treatment will be provided for a
      fungal infection or immune deficiency.
    
  