
    
      There is a risk of meningitis after neurotrauma and different actions have been taken to
      reduce this risk. Prophylactic antibiotics are often administered, although at present there
      is little evidence to support such a regimen. Increasing problems with antibiotic resistance
      heightens the need for pertinent use of antibiotics.

      Even if most of these infections occur early in the course, the risk appears to persist for
      many years and almost half of the posttraumatic meningitis cases occur after one month.
      Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common causative agent and pneumococcal vaccination
      after neurotrauma is now recommended in several national guidelines. There are, however, no
      recommendations of when to administer the vaccine. In clinical practice, vaccination is most
      often performed several weeks after the trauma. Because the risk of meningitis is at the
      highest shortly after the trauma, vaccination within days would be preferable. Until
      recently, pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV) was the most common recommendation.
      During recent years pneumococcal conjugate vaccines (PCV) have been introduced, offering
      long-term protection and is now recommended in the USA.

      Trauma, as well as surgery, activate the innate immune system resulting in, among other
      things, decreased T-cell function. Patients with injuries of the central nervous system (CNS)
      may show signs of a specific CNS-injury-induced immune deficiency syndrome (CIDS), which is
      also characterized by impaired T-cell activity. Accordingly, it can be speculated that
      ongoing anti-inflammatory response after trauma, here referred to as trauma-induced immune
      deficiency syndrome (TIDS), and CIDS by impaired T-cell function could negatively affect the
      response to vaccines, especially to T-cell dependent conjugate vaccines. In the present
      thesis, focus will be the impact of TIDS and CIDS on the response to T-cell dependent and
      T-cell independent vaccines.

      Methods

      Vaccination A conjugate vaccine against Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) was chosen as the
      T-cell-dependent antigen. All patients received a single subcutaneous injection of 0.5 ml
      Act-HIB® (Sanofi Pasteur MSD, Lyon, France) in the upper right arm. A 0.5 ml dose of this
      vaccine contains 10 μg of Hib polysaccharide conjugated to 24 micrograms of tetanus protein.

      All patients also received, at the same time, a single subcutaneous injection of 0.5 ml
      Pneumovax® (Sanofi Pasteur MSD AB, Lyon, France) (PPSV23) containing 25 μg of purified
      capsular polysaccharide from each of the 23 serotypes (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6B, 7F, 8, 9N, 9V, 10A,
      11A, 12F, 14, 15B, 17F, 18C, 19A, 19F, 20, 22F, 23F and 33F) in the upper left arm.

      Patients in the NT and NS groups were vaccinated within 10 days after trauma or surgery.
      Control patients were vaccinated, according to the local routine for pneumococcal
      vaccination, at least three weeks after trauma or surgery.

      Adverse reactions to the vaccine were recorded in the case report form.

      Sera collection and analysis Pre-vaccination sera were collected just before vaccination and
      post-vaccination sera were obtained three and six weeks after vaccination. Samples were
      stored at -70oC pending analysis. The laboratory was blinded with respect to group assignment
      of the patients.

      IgG antibody concentrations to Hib polysaccharide were determined by enzyme immunoassay which
      is an established and accredited methodology.

      An anti-Hib polysaccharide antibody concentration of 0.15 -1.0 μg/ml has been associated with
      long-term protection against invasive Hib infection after vaccination of children with Hib
      polysaccharide vaccine. Based on previous experience in children, a post-vaccination
      concentration of 10 μg/ml, 10 times the upper supposed protective concentration, was chosen
      as the target level for a good response to the vaccination in this study.

      Serotype-specific anti-polysaccharide binding IgG antibody levels to serotypes 4, 6B, 9V, 14,
      18C, 19F and 23F were determined by enzyme immunoassay which is an established and accredited
      methodology.

      A serotype-specific IgG >0.35 μg/ml has been defined as the correlate of protection for
      invasive disease in infant recipients of (PCV). The true correlate of protection for adults
      after vaccination with PPSV23 is not known. The value of 1.0 μg/ml was chosen as the target
      level for a good response to the vaccination in this study.
    
  