
    
      Introduction and rationale Progesterone is a steroid hormone with different functions. In the
      luteal phase of the menstrual cycle elevated progesterone levels maintain the endometrium.
      Amongst others it stimulates glandular secretion and adjusts pattern of secreted proteins of
      the endometrium to provide a supportive environment for of embryo implantation. A sudden
      decline in progesterone levels leads to endometrial shedding and thereby menstrual bleeding.
      Thus, elevated progesterone levels are vital to maintain a pregnancy after successful embryo
      implantation. Progesterone is produced by the Corpus luteum (CL), a relict of the Graaf
      follicle, after ovulation in the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle and in the first weeks
      of pregnancy. The lifespan of the CL is assumed to be several weeks.

      Before luteolysis of the CL, the production of progesterone shifts from the CL to the
      placenta which ensures maintenance of the pregnancy. This process is termed luteoplacental
      shift. Adequate placental progesterone increase is vital for the maintenance of the pregnancy
      and low progesterone levels can indicate inadequate development of early pregnancies.
      However, laboratory measurement of progesterone by conventional ELISA techniques cannot
      distinguish between placental progesterone and progesterone produced by the CL.

      This is one reason why still little is known about the exact time point of the luteoplacental
      shift. In 1972 a decline of progesterone and subsequent loss of pregnancy for n=12 patients
      after ovariectomy or luteectomy in the 8th week of gestation but not for operations taking
      place in the 9th week of gestation (n= 5 patients) was reported. This is in line with
      in-vitro measurements from 1985 in a placental organ culture which shows the capability for
      progesterone production between 6th and 8th week of gestation. In 1990 it was observed in
      women (n=17) with absent of ovaries and constant exogenous progesterone administration
      achieving pregnancy by an egg donation program a significant progesterone increase in the 9th
      gestational week. This is in contrast to a study in a similar setting from 1991 in n=9 women
      who reported onset of endogenous progesterone production around the 5th week of gestation.
      Additionally, even the existence of the luteoplacental shift itself was questioned because of
      a wide range of progesterone levels observed in women achieving successful pregnancies by
      assisted reproduction technique (ART).

      Moreover, 17-OH progesterone (17-OHP) was suspected to be produced solely by the CL in early
      pregnancy. This is supported by a study who found 17-OHP blood levels and vascularity of the
      CL decreasing from 5th till 11th week of gestation suggesting the luteoplacental shift to
      take place.

      In summary, little is known about the exact time point of the luteoplacental shift.

      Secondly, to date the slope and magnitude of the placental progesterone increase and its
      relevance as indicator for the latter course of the pregnancy has not been properly studied.

      In routine care patients undergoing transfer of cryopreserved embryos subsequently to an
      IVF/ICSI cycle use estradiol and progesterone supplementation to ensure anovulation during
      the menstrual cycle for optimal timing of embryo transfer. For long the vaginal application
      of micronized progesterone have been standard of care for this purpose. In March 2017 the
      LOTUS I trial showed non-inferiority for oral intake (3 x 10 mg) of dydrogesterone, a
      retroprogesterone, a same safety profile and a higher live birth rate of approximately +5%
      versus micronized vaginal progesterone for patients undergoing ART. These findings are
      supported by a Cochrane review comprising 94 randomized trials. Therefore, in routine care
      the standard regime for luteal support (LPS) for all ART patients was changed to oral intake
      of 30 mg dydrogesterone daily at the Department of Gynecological Endocrinology and
      Reproductive Medicine of the University of Luebeck.

      Unlike micronized progesterone the chemical properties of dydrogesterone preclude detection
      in laboratory progesterone measurement apart from a small fraction of cross-reactivities.
      This circumstance allows an analysis of endogenous progesterone despite supplementation of
      dihydrogesteron at the same time.

      In patients undergoing transfer of cryopreserved embryos utilization of a dydrogesterone
      regime for LPS provides the unique opportunity to study in detail the time point and
      magnitude of endogenous progesterone production (i.e. the luteal shift). The choice of
      protocol (supplementation with exogenous sex steroids or natural cycle) is taken, when the
      treatment is planned based on regularity of the cycle and patient preferences.

      Recent studies have shown an influence of abnormal vaginal microbiota for the prediction of
      pregnancy and for preclinical pregnancy loss in IVF treatment. Therefore, this study aims to
      investigates possible crosslinks between endocrine profile, vaginal microbiota and the
      establishment and maintenance of pregnancy.

      Furthermore, possible differences in vaginal bleeding pattern between different groups of
      cryopreservation regimes have not been evaluated so far. This study aims to investigate
      whether vaginal bleeding patterns might be influenced the cryopreservation regime.
    
  