
    
      As the population ages and medical progress is made, many elderly patients that previously
      would not have been candidates for surgery are now undergoing operations. In this group of
      older patients, brain dysfunction after anesthesia and surgery is well recognized and
      categorized into two distinct clinical entities; Post-operative cognitive delirium (POD) and
      post-operative cognitive dysfunction (POCD).

      Delirium is an acute and fluctuating deterioration in attention accompanied by either a
      change in cognition or arousal and is often diagnosed by criteria established in the
      Confusion Assessment Method (CAM). Delirium can present as hypoactive (decreased alertness,
      motor activity and anhedonia), as hyperactive (agitated and combative) or as mixed forms. Age
      and the type of operation are the major risk factors.

      Post-operative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) is a term used to describe subtle changes in
      cognition, such as memory and executive function. The most commonly seen problems are memory
      impairment and impaired performance on intellectual tasks. In severe cases, it can lead to
      inability to perform daily living functions. The reported incidence figures for postoperative
      cognitive dysfunction vary depending on the group of patients studied, the definition of POCD
      used, the tests used to establish the diagnosis and their statistical evaluation, the timing
      of testing, and the choice of control group. The diagnosis of POCD relies on the use of
      neuropsychological tests, including; visual verbal learning test, based on Rey's auditive
      recall of words, the concept shifting test, based on the trail- making test from Halstead and
      Reitan's neuropsychological test battery, the Stroop color word interference test , the
      letter-digit coding, based on the symbol-digit substitution task from the Wechsler adult
      intelligence scale and the four boxes test. In a large prospective multicenter cohort study,
      it was found that the presence of cognitive dysfunction 3 months after noncardiac surgery was
      associated with an increased mortality. Furthermore, patients with cognitive decline at 1
      week had an increased risk of leaving the labor market prematurely and a higher prevalence of
      time receiving social transfer payments. The mechanisms leading to cognitive impairment after
      anesthesia and surgery are not yet fully clear. The risk factors for developing POCD are
      related to patient characteristics, type of operation and anesthetic management.

      Cardiovascular, respiratory, hepatic, and renal insufficiency are all associated with
      impaired brain performance. It is theoretically obvious that an adequate intraoperative
      oxygen supply for all vital organs is essential if postoperative cerebral dysfunction is to
      be avoided. Casai et al found that brain desaturation (rSO2 decrease <75% of baseline)
      occurred in 40% of elderly patients after noncardiac surgery, and the cerebral desaturation
      was linked with a high incidence of POCD. A recent systematic review shows that reductions in
      cerebral oxygen saturation (rSO2) during cardiac surgery may indicate CPB cannula
      malposition, particularly during aortic surgery. However, only weak evidence links low rSO2
      during cardiac surgery to POCD.

      POCD is a well-recognized clinical phenomenon of multifactorial origin; emboli,
      hypoperfusion, inflammation, and patient's preoperative cerebral dysfunction Meticulous
      surgical and anesthesiological techniques are important for preventing complications and
      keeping the risk of POCD to a minimum.

      The EEG is an electrophysiological monitoring method used to record electrical activity of
      the brain, including normal and abnormal activity. In recent years, numerous clinical studies
      were performed to evaluate whether the use in intraoperative electroencephalography (EEG) to
      control the depth of anesthesia has any effect on POCD.

      Recently it was confirmed that intraoperative neuro-monitoring for depth of anesthesia is
      associated with a lower incidence of delirium. However it is unrelated to the incidence of
      POCD. The most common available monitor for depth of anesthesia is the Bispectral index,
      developed more than 20 years ago. The device's output is based on electroencephalographic
      (EEG) signals from the frontal lobe (monitors brain activity) in combination with
      electromyographic (EMG) waves (monitors muscle activity). The BIS produces a number ranging
      from 0 -100, which matches the patient's level of consciousness (awake, sedated or
      unconscious) under GA. There are two main problems with the BIS device: (1) It analyzes EEG
      and EMG with no ability to differentiate the neuronal activity from the muscle activity.
      Thus, when neuromuscular blocking drugs (NMBDs) are used, scores produced by the BIS are
      influenced by the lack of muscle activity, and mistakenly indicate a state of unconsciousness
      (lack of neuronal activity) even if no hypnotic medications were used, and (2) The BIS is
      based solely on frontal electrodes and does not monitor posterior activity. Thus, anesthetic
      medications with more posterior effect (such as ketamine) receive a false score by the BIS
      device. Accordingly, the BIS system might be better used as a means of tracking specific
      anesthetic medications and not as a universal means for monitoring unconsciousness.

      Despite its limitations over-anesthesia as monitored by BIS was at-least correlative with POD
      (but not with POCD). Therefore it is hopeful that an even more precise evaluation of the
      level of anesthesia will improve POD prediction (and thereby prevention) even further. On the
      other hand the measure of depth of anesthesia by itself does not provide sufficient
      prediction for POCD. In POCD a major role has been assigned to hippocampal damage.

      The investigators have recently demonstrated that temporary hippocampal interruptions are
      manifested by interhemispheric desynchronization, which are recognized by our new algorithm,
      which monitors electrophysiological markers of attention and of perception. This algorithm
      was based on a previous set of studies, which showed the ability to decompose the entire
      multi-electrode EEG/ERP sample to a superposition of attention and perception processes,
      spread in space (over the scalp) and time (hundreds of milliseconds). Our algorithm is unique
      in the ability to extract the needed perceptual and attentional information indicating depth
      of anesthesia and hemispheric damage (manifested by interhemispheric desynchronization) in
      real time every 30 seconds and with a minimal electrodes setup, comprised of 6 electrodes.

      The aims of this proof of concept study are: (i) to find-out whether interhemispheric
      desynchronization of attentional processes is associated with POCD; (ii) to find out whether
      the level of anesthesia, is linked primary to POD and secondary to POCD. For both purposes
      the investigators use a novel EEG algorithm based on the concept of monitoring perception and
      attention and their interhemispheric synchronization.
    
  