
    
      Hypothesis:

      US have sensitivity and specificity equal or better than CXR to exclude pneumothorax after
      transthoracic lung biopsy.

      Clinical relevance:

      Pneumothorax is a well-known complication of image-guided transthoracic biopsy of lung
      lesions. The incidence of pneumothorax in patients undergoing TTNB has been reported to be
      from 9% to 54% (ref. 3). Most of the time, the pneumothorax is small and requires no further
      intervention other than observation and a repeat CXR to ensure stability or resolution of the
      pneumothorax. In small group of patients with detected pneumothorax after biopsy, the
      pneumothorax is either large or becomes larger (more than 2 cm width at the level of the
      hilum) during observation. In these cases, a small pleural drainage catheter will be inserted
      to prevent the lung from collapsing. The catheter will be removed in 2 days. Detection of
      pneumothorax post biopsy is important to prevent possible lung collapse after discharge and
      currently is done by obtaining a CXR, 30 minutes after the biopsy.

      Obtaining a CXR, requires moving the patient on stretcher to the X-ray room, bringing the
      patient to upright position, patient holds breath. An X-ray technologist obtains the CXR
      which will be reviewed by a Radiologist when it becomes available on work station. Then the
      Radiologist revisits the patient and orders the discharge.

      Detection of pneumothorax by US is feasible and compare to current practice with CXR, is
      faster and do not need moving and repositioning the patient, therefore, more convenient. It
      can be easily performed at the time of clinical assessment prior to discharge.

      Study design/ Methodology:

        -  All patients coming for lung biopsy will be invited to participate in this study.
           Information about the one additional US at the time of their biopsy and routine CXR will
           be explained to the patient by either thoracic radiology fellow or staff radiologist.

        -  For those who agree to participate, informed Consent will be obtained by the same people
           mentioned above.

        -  There will be no change in clinical assessment or decision to discharge the patient
           after biopsy.

        -  US will be performed by a trained staff radiologist or thoracic fellow.
    
  