
    
      The purpose of this study is to find out if the laser light-based imaging test called
      Biodynamic imaging (BDI) can correctly predict the response of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma
      mycosis fungoides cancer to gemcitabine chemotherapy treatment. No untested medications or
      devices will be used in this study. Subject's response to chemotherapy will be measured after
      the first and second months (cycles) of chemotherapy; therefore, the BDI test cannot be used
      to predict whether subject will respond to the treatment or not in advance, and treatment
      decisions will not be made using any of the information obtained through this study.

      As part of routine treatment for mycosis fungoides, subjects who are being referred for
      routine treatment with gemcitabine chemotherapy given at a standard-of-care (SOC) dose and
      schedule at the Indiana University Simon Cancer Center (IUSCC) will be enrolled.
      Standard-of-care Gemcitabine is given intravenously (i.e. in the vein as in infusion) 3 times
      every 28 days on days 1, 8, and 15. Each 28 day period is called a cycle. Gemcitabine
      infusion generally lasts 30 minutes. If subject agrees to participate in this study,
      researchers would document representative skin lesions by color photography including a ruler
      to estimate the size of the lesion, and objectively calculate disease burden by using the
      modified Severity Weighted Assessment Tool (mSWAT). Researchers would also collect samples of
      your tumor tissue before subject starts chemotherapy to be used for the BDI testing in the
      laboratory by the Purdue University collaborative research team. The BDI testing will be done
      at baseline on day of collection. We would also evaluate subject's response to treatment
      after the 1st and 2nd cycles completion through PET/CT or CT scans, skin examinations, and/or
      laboratory tests depending upon subject's disease. The following is a list of what subjects
      can expect at each of their study visits.

      Pre-treatment: Screening

        1. Subject Consenting - approximately 30 - 40 minutes

        2. Collect Demographic information, Medical History - approximately 5- 10 minutes

        3. Physical Exam/performance status: A physical exam will be performed by the doctor, and
           the doctor will document subjects' overall health and how well subjects are able to
           perform their activities of daily living.

        4. Skin biopsy: One or more areas of subject's skin that has the cancer will be cleansed
           with alcohol. The areas will be numbed by injecting a small amount of anesthesia in the
           skin. As part of routine biopsy procedures in the Department of Dermatology, photographs
           may be taken of the lesions/tumors that will be biopsied. When the areas of the skin are
           numb, 3 samples of your skin about 4-mm deep (6-mm wide skin punch biopsies), will be
           removed from one or more sites and sent for BDI testing. A small stitch will be placed
           in each biopsy site. Subjects will be given sterile wound dressings and wound care
           instructions including samples of petrolatum to allow subject to take care of the small
           wounds. The stitches from the biopsy sites will be removed 10-14 days later.

        5. Skin disease severity scoring: In order to determine the extent of subject's disease,
           the physician will physically examine subject's skin.

      Post-Enrollment

        1. Laboratory tests: These tests are used to determine subject's fitness to undergo
           treatment with gemcitabine and to determine extent of disease. These tests are
           comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP), complete blood count (CBC), and peripheral blood
           flow cytometry.

        2. Scans: Positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) or CT scans of
           subject's neck, chest, abdomen and pelvis will be done to determine extent of your
           disease. A PET/CT scan from subject's skull to the base of subject's thighs may be done
           depending upon subject's disease at the recommendation of subject's doctor.

      All of these tests are done routinely in patients with the same disease being referred for
      treatment with gemcitabine with the exception of skin biopsy and, if needed, flow cytometry
      and radiological scans after the first round of chemotherapy, which are being done for
      research purposes. Treatment End of Cycle 1/Before Cycle 2 (Approximately day 28 depending
      upon whether subjects have any delays in treatment)

        1. Physical exam: A routine physical exam will be performed by the doctor.

        2. Skin disease severity scoring: The physician will physically examine subject's skin to
           determine subject's response to chemotherapy at this time point.

        3. Laboratory tests: Comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) and complete blood count (CBC)
           blood tests will be done as is routine for patients undergoing gemcitabine treatment;
           however, peripheral blood flow cytometry may also be done depending upon the
           researcher's assessment of subject's disease to determine subject's response to
           chemotherapy at this time point.

        4. CT scan: A CT scan may also be done depending upon the researcher's assessment of
           subject's disease to determine subject's response to chemotherapy at this time point.

      End of Cycle 2/Before Cycle 3 (Approximately day 56 depending upon whether subject have any
      delays in treatment)

        1. Physical exam: A routine physical exam will be performed by the doctor.

        2. Skin disease severity scoring: The physician will physically examine subject's skin to
           determine subject's response to chemotherapy at this time point.

        3. Laboratory tests: Comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) and complete blood count (CBC)
           blood tests will be done as is routine for patients undergoing gemcitabine treatment;
           however, peripheral blood flow cytometry may also be done depending upon the
           researcher's assessment of subject's disease to determine subject's response to
           chemotherapy at this time point.

        4. CT scan: A CT scan may also be done depending upon the researcher's assessment of
           subject's disease to determine subject's response to chemotherapy at this time point.
    
  