
    
      Objective

      With this prospective natural history study on neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) study, we hope
      to understand the factors leading to tumor progression and neurological disease burden in
      NF2.

      Study Population

      A total of 269 participants, ages 8-75, with a clinical or genetic diagnosis of NF2 will
      participate in this study.

      Design

      Study participants will be evaluated with a thorough physical and neurologic examination upon
      enrollment. This initial outpatient evaluation will include magnetic resonance imaging with
      contrast of brain and spine and blood collection for research use. Participants with
      measurable hearing will have audiology assessment performed during the initial visit.
      Participants with untreated vestibular schwannomas will have vestibular assessment performed
      during the initial visit. Genetic studies performed outside will be acceptable as
      confirmation of NF2 in enrolled patients. If needed to confirm NF2 with genetic studies, or
      for research purpose, whole genome/whole exome sequencing may be performed on blood obtained
      from subjects enrolled in this study. All participants will be evaluated by a speech language
      pathologist.

      Subjects will be followed as outpatients for up to ten years, during which clinical, and
      radiologic evaluation will be performed annually. Auditory testing will be performed annually
      for participants with measurable hearing. Participants with initially untreated vestibular
      schwannomas will be followed annually with vestibular testing. Speech and swallowing
      reassessments will be repeated if worsening of speech or swallowing is reported. Blood will
      be collected at each visit for blood biomarker testing

      Outcome measures

      We hope to understand the biologic basis for speech and swallowing dysfunction in patients
      with NF2. We will study and report the strength of association of MRI findings, clinical
      assessments cranial nerve deficits and speech/swallowing dysfunction. We hope to

      identify imaging biomarkers of hearing loss in NF2. We will attempt to discover the mode of
      peripheral neuropathy in patients with NF2. Lastly, we will attempt to discover previously
      unknown serum biomarkers associated with high tumor burden in NF2.
    
  