
    
      A PILOT STUDY TO ASSESS THE POTENTIAL VALUE OF ADDING ENDOSCOPIC ULTRASOUND (EUS) TO
      ESOPHAGO-GASTRO-DUODENOSCOPY (EGD) IN EMERGENCY ROOM PATIENTS REFERRED FOR EGD

      P.I.: Anand V. Sahai MD, MSc (EPID), FRCPC

      BACKGROUND Emergency room patients referred for esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy (EGD) often have
      many possible causes for their symptoms. These inevitably undergo further testing if EGD is
      inconclusive, which adds costs and inevitably prolongs emergency room length of stay (LOS).

      Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) combines EGD with high-resolution ultrasound imaging of pancreas,
      liver and biliary system and is the best test to diagnose bile duct stones, early chronic
      pancreatitis, and small [<2cm] pancreatic cancers (all of which cannot be seen by regular
      ultrasound or CT scanning or MRI, yet are included in the differential diagnosis of
      EGD-negative abdominal pain).

      EUS has traditionally been used after EGD, due to lack of availability, increased cost, and
      to increased risk due to larger scope diameter. However, the latest generation of EUS scopes
      have the same outer diameter as conventional gastroscopes, there is much wider availability
      of EUS in university and community hospital settings, and the cost per procedure is lower,
      due to increased procedural numbers and reduced maintenance costs.

      In experienced hands, diagnostic EUS is now as safe and as EGD accurate as EGD for diagnosing
      mucosal pathology and takes approximately 1 minute longer.(1; 2) Previously published work by
      our group suggests that EUS may reduce resource consumption in patients with unexplained
      abdominal pain.(3) The investigators also showed that refractory dyspepsia with normal EGD
      and CT, EUS identified signs of occult chronic pancreatitis in up to 20% of cases.(4) More
      recently, EUS was found to identify previously undiagnosed, potential causes of unexplained
      abdominal pain in up to 9% of patients, or at least provides the same, if not more
      information and EGD and abdominal US alone.(2; 5; 6) There are no previous studies that have
      prospectively compared the yield of EGD and PEUS in emergency room patients. The
      investigators hypothesize that adding EUS to EGD ("primary EUS" [PEUS]) can safely and more
      efficiently diagnose or exclude significant gastro-intestinal and pancreatico-biliary
      pathology in emergency room patients in whom EGD has been requested. The investigators
      therefore propose a prospective pilot study to determine whether PEUS can reduce LOS and
      resource utilisation in emergency room patients referred for EGD.

      AIM To perform a pilot study to determine whether PEUS reduces emergency room LOS and
      resource utilisation in emergency room patients referred for EGD.

      METHODS

      Study design This is an open-label two-arm, single center, superiority trial with 1:1
      allocation ratio between EUS and standard intervention EGD.

      Site

      This study will be performed at the St Luc site of CHUM. Approximately 5000 EGD procedures
      and 3000 EUS procedures are performed at this site annually. Therefore, there should be
      sufficient eligible patients for efficient patient recruitment.

      Research team A research team composed of the PI, one research nurse, and a biostatistician
      will coordinate the trial. The research assistant will be responsible for all data collection
      and patient recruitment (including consent). Statistical analysis will be provided by the
      biostatistical platform of the CR-CHUM under the supervision of Dr Martin Ladouceur.

      Funding There is no external funding for this study.

      Patient selection All patients referred for GI consultation in the emergency room at CHUM,
      site St Luc, are eligible.

      Inclusion Criteria EGD requested by the consulting gastroenterologist Informed consent

      Exclusion criteria Evidence of hemodynamic instability and/or ongoing active GI bleeding. Any
      suspicion of obstruction distal to the angle of Treitz. EGD or EUS cannot be performed before
      12PM. Previous barium study, EGD, US, abdomino-pelvic CT, or abdomino-pelvic MRI within the
      last 6 months.

      After the EGD request form is received in the GI department, the patient will be transported
      as usual to the endoscopy unit. Before entering an endoscopy suite, a single research
      assistant will present the patients the study protocol. After informed consent, each group
      will be randomized by sealed envelop to EGD or to PEUS. A gastroenterologist other than the
      one who requested EGD will perform EGD or EUS. Written EGD and PEUS reports will be presented
      in the standard fashion.

      EGD and EUS are both available every day, before 12PM. They will be performed and interpreted
      by experienced operators (not fellows).

      OUTCOMES

      Patients in whom EGD is scheduled after GI consultation will be stratified in to 2 groups:

        1. abdominal pain syndromes (defined as any pain or discomfort considered to be possibly of
           GI origin)

        2. all other indications.

      Primary outcome The primary outcome will be "time to GI diagnosis" (with T0 starting
      immediately after the procedure report is read and signed by the referring physician). A "GI
      diagnosis" is defined as diagnosis or confirmation of any condition sufficient to start
      treatment or to modify the existing therapeutic regimen.

      Secondary outcomes

      Secondary outcomes will be:

      frequency of conversion to the alternate procedure (EGD to EUS, or EUS to EGD) number of
      subsequent imaging procedures other than endoscopy complications (defined as any event that
      prolongs hospital stay)

      SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATIONS Given the novelty of the primary outcome of this study ("time to
      diagnosis, discharge, or admission"), there are no reliable data on which a sample-size
      estimate can be calculated. The investigators propose a pilot approach, with 40 patients per
      randomisation group (80 patients in total). This would be followed by an analysis to further
      clarify the appropriate sample size.

      4.4 Expected Duration of Study Given our current patient volumes, the investigatorsshould be
      able to recruit 1 person per day (5 per week). This should require approximately 16 weeks (4
      months) to complete this pilot project. Given that the primary endpoint is likely to occur in
      less than 3-4 days, the entire study duration until complete follow of the last patient would
      be approximately 17 weeks. To be conservative, and allow for unexpected contingencies, we
      propose an estimate for pilot study duration of 8 months.
    
  