
    
      In the United States, approximately 30,000 children are born with congenital heart disease
      every year. Between 1000 and 2000 of these children have some form of functional single
      ventricle anatomy, with variants of hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) comprising about
      half. Patients with functional single ventricle anatomy are born with a malformation that
      renders one of their ventricles unusable and surgically unrecoverable. In HLHS, for example,
      either the mitral or aortic valve can be absent or significantly stenotic, which is generally
      associated with marked hypoplasia of the left ventricle and the ascending aorta. Other common
      variants of single ventricle anatomy are tricuspid or pulmonary atresia, often associated
      with some degree of right ventricular hypoplasia, unbalanced atrioventricular defects, in
      which either ventricle can be unusable due to malposition of the interventricular septum, and
      the heterotaxy syndromes. All of these congenital cardiac anomalies, as well as several other
      less common variants, can be treated with a multi-stage surgical palliation that usually
      requires three surgical procedures during the first three years of life. At the completion of
      this series of palliative procedures the children are left with their single functional
      ventricle driving blood flow to the systemic circulation while their pulmonary circulation is
      derived from passive drainage of the systemic venous return into and through the pulmonary
      vasculature. This arrangement, the so-called "Fontan physiology", can provide an excellent
      quality of life as these children grow and enter young adulthood; however, it is by no means
      a normal hemodynamic arrangement and a significant percentage of children with single
      ventricle anatomy will fail either during the early palliative steps or at some point after
      they achieve final Fontan palliation.

      Failure of single ventricle patients to progress through the multi-stage palliation or late
      failure of patients after the Fontan procedure can result from a myriad of causes. While
      ventricular dysfunction is a common finding in failing single ventricle patients, an anatomic
      reason for their clinical failure, such as myocardial ischemia or ventricular outflow
      obstruction, often cannot be identified. Many of these patients subsequently die or require
      cardiac transplantation when their single ventricle fails. Because patient outcomes are
      highly variable despite similar anatomy and hemodynamics, it has been suggested that genetic
      variability may play a role in the ability of patients to tolerate long-term single ventricle
      palliation.

      The interaction between genetic variability and outcomes has been well documented for adult
      patients with cardiovascular disease. Genetic polymorphisms in the renin-angiotensin system
      (RAS) in particular have been well studied. The active final product of the RAS is
      angiotensin-II, which is produced by the sequential cleavage of angiotensinogen (AGT) by
      renin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE). Several steps in this series of enzymatic
      reactions have been evaluated as candidate genes of influence for cardiovascular disorders.

      Polymorphisms in the AGT gene have been associated with essential hypertension, however, a
      subsequent study failed to demonstrate any influence of these polymorphisms on outcome in
      patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. A polymorphism in the ACE gene involving a
      287-base pair insertion (I) or deletion (D) has been evaluated in several studies. The DD
      genotype is associated with higher serum levels of ACE and angiotensin II, increased
      incidence of sudden death in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, increased mortality
      in patients with idiopathic heart failure, and decreased exercise tolerance in patients with
      congestive heart failure. Meanwhile, a genetic variant in the Angiotensin II type 2-receptor
      (AT2-R) has been shown to influence left ventricular structure and function in young men with
      hypertension.

      Another potentially important contributor to ventricular function that has been studied with
      regard to genetic polymorphism related variability is the Beta1-adrenergic receptor
      (Beta1-AR). The Beta1-AR is the primary myocardial receptor for the catecholamines
      epinephrine and norepinephrine, which increase myocardial contractility and blood pressure.
      Several polymorphisms in the Beta1-AR gene have been associated with an increased risk for
      congestive heart failure and with exercise capacity in patients with ischemic or idiopathic
      cardiomyopathy.

      A final area of interest is the opposing system of vasodilators and vasoconstrictors that
      control systemic vascular tone. Two major contributors to vasomotor tone in humans are the
      endothelium derived vasodilator nitric oxide (NO) and the powerful vasoconstrictor
      endothelin-1. Endothelial NO is produced by the enzyme endothelial nitric oxide synthase
      (eNOS). A single base-pair polymorphism (G894T) is associated with an increased risk of
      vasospastic angina pectoris and with increased vascular responsiveness to phenylephrine in
      patients on cardiopulmonary bypass. Meanwhile, a single base-pair polymorphism in the
      preproendothelin-1 (pp-ET1) gene (G5665T) has been shown to increase vasomotor reactivity in
      human mammary arteries. This polymorphism is also associated with hypertension in overweight
      patients with the T allele.

      While there is very little data available regarding the causes of failure in children with
      single ventricle anatomy, it is clear that genetic factors which influence ventricular
      function and the development of heart failure in adults with two ventricles could play a role
      in the failure of patients with one ventricle. We propose a combined retrospective and
      prospective evaluation of each of the candidate gene polymorphisms discussed above for
      potential linkage to poor outcome in children with single ventricle anatomy. Poor outcome for
      these children would be defined as a multi-endpoint variable including death, evaluation for
      heart transplantation, or the development of severe single ventricle dysfunction by
      echocardiographic or cardiac catheterization criteria. Identification of high-risk
      combinations of genetic alleles could guide therapy for patients with poor predicted outcome,
      possibly steering such patients towards early transplantation rather than attempted staged
      palliation.
    
  