
    
      Fludarabine (F) alone or in combination with cyclophosphamide (FC) is not a curative
      treatment for patients with CLL, all patients will eventually relapse. Therefore there is a
      medical need to look for consolidation followed by maintenance therapies which are able to
      prolong response duration or which can shift anti-tumor therapy induced partial remissions to
      complete remissions or eradicate minimal residual disease in complete - but still
      PCR-positive - responders.

      There is no standard consolidation therapy available at the moment and the role of
      consolidation in CLL has recently been acknowledged as a research field of major importance
      in B-CLL (Schering global advisory board meeting, Lisbon Nov 2005). Possible treatment
      options are high-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cell transplantation (the role
      of which however remains uncertain with lack of worldwide consensus) or monoclonal antibody
      therapy against antigens expressed by CLL cells. Alemtuzumab is directed against the
      CD52-antigen which is present in high density on CLL cells and may therefore be most suitable
      for treatment of residual disease.

      Alemtuzumab has shown significant remission rates in patients with fludarabine refractory CLL
      and sub analysis revealed a very high effectiveness of the antibody in clearing CLL cells
      from peripheral blood and bone marrow. These findings suggest that Alemtuzumab might be an
      ideal candidate to eliminate minimal residual disease in a post-remission treatment after
      anti-tumor therapy and to be used as maintenance therapy. The efficacy of Alemtuzumab as
      consolidation therapy in CLL can easily be measured. There is evidence from several studies
      that treatment with Alemtuzumab does not have a negative impact on stem cell mobilization.
      Therefore, autologous stem cell transplantation still remains as a further treatment option
      for those patients who still have detectable disease after primary cytoreduction followed by
      consolidation therapy with Alemtuzumab.

      Side effects of s.c. Alemtuzumab in heavily pretreated patients with advanced disease are
      tolerable and manageable. Data have suggested that the safety profile of this antibody is
      even more favorable in less pretreated patients and the GCLLSG study suggests that a wash-out
      period of more than 8 weeks and possibly also a lower dose is necessary to avoid severe
      infectious problems. Campath administration started after a 2-month wash out period after
      Fludarabine was shown to be feasible and good tolerated. Based on the collective data
      obtained from other pilot or phase II studies, a subcutaneous consolidation dose of 30 mg
      once weekly in previously treated and untreated CLL patients after an induction with
      Fludarabine combination seems to be a safe and effective dose.

      The proposed study aims to evaluate the efficacy of low dose treatment with Alemtuzumab with
      regard to the following questions: Does consolidation therapy with low dose Alemtuzumab
      result in a prolonged time to disease progression in comparison to patients who do not
      receive further treatment? Is it possible to turn a PR into a CR? Does maintenance therapy
      with Alemtuzumab translate into a progression-free survival benefit compared to patients with
      no further treatment? How is the safety profile in patients treated with low dose Alemtuzumab
      as MRD elimination and as maintenance therapy?
    
  