
    
      With advances in surgery and immunosuppressive therapy, PTx has become an accepted and
      standardized therapeutic surgery worldwide. Today, PTx is a promising treatment for type 1
      diabetes mellitus and for patients undergoing total pancreatectomy because of benign disease.
      It has been demonstrated that PTx can provide a good glycemic control and insulin
      independence and improve diabetic lesions including retinopathy, nephropathy, neuropathy, and
      vasculopathy. Furthermore, thanks to improved immunosuppressive agents, prophylaxis against
      infections and thrombosis, and modifications in surgical approaches, outcomes after whole
      organ PTx has consistently improved over the past 20 years. The 1- and 5-year patient
      survival rates after PTx are approximately 95% and 85%, respectively, and the 1-, and 5-year
      graft survival rates are 90%, and 70%, respectively.

      Morbidity and mortality still occurs after PTx. Morbidity and mortality rates after PTx are
      mainly related to pancreas graft quality. To decrease these, some restricted criteria for
      pancreas graft allocation have been defined. However, these allocation criteria have
      decreased the overall availability of pancreas organs. Consequently, despite an increase in
      organs from deceased donors, organ utilization (20% of all potential donor pancreases are
      ultimately used for whole organ transplantation) and also PTx rates (10% overall decline)
      have decreased. In the US, only 13% of deceased donors provide a pancreas that is utilized
      for transplantation. Data from Eurotransplant indicate that only 27% of donor pancreases are
      transplanted, either as whole pancreas grafts or as islet grafts. In addition to the
      restricted pancreas allocation criteria, some allocated/offered organs are not accepted by
      transplant surgeons (which is biased by individual experience and personal skills) after an
      organ quality assessment.

      Longer waiting lists, increased waiting times, and donor shortages have increased the need
      for and number of extended donor criteria organs that are accepted for transplantation. To
      date, the most important selection criteria to identify suitable pancreatic allografts are
      donor demographics, donor medical history (age, gender, cause of death, etc.), and the
      transplant surgeon's own organ quality assessment based on macroscopic appearance. However,
      it is unclear, whether unallocated organs have a poor histopathologic quality for
      transplantation. To the best of our knowledge, no systematic histopathologic quality
      assessment of unallocated pancreas grafts has been performed, so far. In this study, for the
      first time, the histopathological quality of unallocated pancreas organs from brain-dead
      donors will be assessed to determine the number of unallocated organs that were potentially
      suitable for transplantation.
    
  