
    
      Objective:

      The purpose of this protocol is to improve understanding of the pathophysiology of dystonia
      by performing an electrophysiological study using plasticity induction protocols based on
      dual-site transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). We hypothesize that dystonic patients have
      enhanced responsiveness to plasticity induction in the parieto-motor network. The clinical
      significance of such an enhanced plasticity will be evaluated by correlating the plasticity
      measurements with subjects' performance on two tasks engaging high-order motor processing and
      involving the parietal cortex.

      Study Population:

      This study will explore the parieto-motor network (PAR study). There will be two independent
      arms in each study: one will compare patients with writer s cramp (WC) and age-matched
      healthy volunteers (HV); and the other one will compare patients with cervical dystonia (CD)
      with agematched HVs. The power analysis of thePAR study indicates that we need to enroll 17
      patients and 17 healthy volunteers in each arm, with an additional 3 added to account for
      drop-outs. Therefore, we request a maximum of 20 subjects per patient group and 40 subjects
      for the control groups.

      Design:

      Subjects will come for one screening visit and two outpatient study visits. During the first
      study visit patients will be scored clinically for dystonia. They will also undergo a
      structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to locate the parietal target during the
      stimulation session. At least 24 hours later, during study visit two, subjects will receive
      TMS. TMS-induced electromyographic (EMG) activity of hand muscles will be recorded as motor
      evoked potentials (MEPs). Using single TMS shocks, we will measure at baseline, the
      input-output (I-O) curve for the right first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscle MEPs. Then, the
      subjects will receive a plasticity induction protocol aiming to induce plasticity in the
      pathway linking the posterior parietal (PP) cortex and the primary motor cortex (M1). To that
      end, transcranial stimulation will be applied repeatedly (100 pairs) to the left angular
      gyrus in the PP cortex and to the left M1. At the end of the intervention, the I-O curve will
      be measured again over the next 50 minutes.

      Outcome Measures:

      The amplitude of the MEPs in the I-O curves gives information about corticospinal
      excitability as a function of TMS stimulation. The primary outcome measure will be the
      relative change of the MEP size with respect to time (before and 15-20 min after the
      plasticity intervention). The difference in MEP size will be compared between the HV and the
      patient groups using a T test.
    
  