
    
      Background:

        -  Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaths among men and women worldwide.

        -  Despite modern surgical, radiation, and chemotherapeutic interventions, the prognosis
           for patients with lung cancer remains poor, with an overall cure rate of less than 15%.

        -  Genetic polymorphisms in drug-metabolizing enzymes, transporters, growth factor and
           hormonal receptors, DNA repair enzymes, and transcription factors might affect an
           individual s response to chemotherapy and radiation.

        -  Interindividual differences in efficacy and toxicity of cancer chemotherapy and
           radiation are especially important given the narrow therapeutic index of these
           modalities.

        -  Many of these differences have not been extensively explored in patients with lung
           cancer.

      Objectives:

        -  To better understand the genotype-phenotype relationship between genetic polymorphisms
           and clinical outcomes, with a focus on overall survival, following lung cancer therapy.

        -  To better understand differences in outcome between Caucasian and African American
           patients being treated for lung cancer as a function of genotype.

        -  To establish a DNA repository for the investigation of polymorphisms related to outcomes
           in lung cancer.

        -  To develop methodology for the isolation, enumeration and live cell culture of
           circulating tumor cells (CTC) from lung cancer patients with microfiltration devices.

      Eligibility:

      - All individuals with the diagnosis of lung cancer being treated at the Washington D.C.
      Veterans Affairs Medical Center or the Medical Oncology Branch of the National Cancer
      Institute (NCI).

      Design:

        -  A single 7-ml sample of venous blood will be obtained from all patients enrolled onto
           this study, for isolation of DNA.

        -  Two 5 ml samples of venous blood, drawn immediately following the 7 ml sample, will be
           obtained from all patients enrolled on this study at the NCI Clinical Center (only), for
           CTC studies.

        -  Polymorphisms in the following genes: ABCB1, ABCG2, COMT, CYP17, CYP19, CYP1B1, CYP1A1,
           CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2J2, CYP3A4, CYP3A5, DPYD, EPHX2, ERalpha, ERbeta, ERCC1,
           ERCC2, GSTP1, HIF1A, MPO, MTHFR, NQO1, p53, PPARD, SLCO1B3, TYMS, UGT1A1, VEGF, VEGFR,
           EGFR, SLC28A1, CDA, XRCC1, OCT1, OCT2, CHRNA3 and CHRNA5 will be analyzed by the
           Clinical Pharmacology Program.

        -  Methodology for the isolation, enumeration, and live cell culture of CTC with
           microfiltration devices will be developed by the NCI Genetics Branch.

        -  Patients will be followed at the medical oncology clinic at the Washington DC VA Medical
           Center or the NCI and the following information will be recorded in a confidential
           database: age, gender, race/ethnicity, smoking history, histology, stage, treatment(s)
           received, response, toxicity, time to disease progression, time to death.

        -  Associations between genetic polymorphisms and response to therapy, toxicity and
           clinical outcomes will be analyzed.

        -  The results of the CTC studies will be applied to the initial development and clinical

      validation of CTC technology and lung cancer assays.
    
  