
    
      Epidemiologic studies have revealed a tremendous increase in the prevalence of diabetes and
      related mortality worldwide. The general population-based survey in China in 2010, using the
      American Diabetes Association (ADA) 2010 criteria, revealed that the prevalence of diabetes
      and prediabetes in adults was 11.6% and 50.1%, respectively, indicating that China has the
      highest diabetes prevalence in Asia and largest absolute disease burden of diabetes in the
      world. Lifestyle changes, aging, and obesity have become the main reasons for this increase
      in the prevalence of diabetes.

      In order to meet all the challenges in the treatment of metabolic diseases in China, the
      National Metabolic Management Center (MMC) was founded in 2016. With advanced medical
      equipment and Internet of Things (IoT) technology, the MMC is committed to creating an online
      and offline integrated solution for diabetes, and for the entire spectrum of metabolic
      disease, to achieve a more convenient and precise model of care for patients. The MMC is
      focused on establishing highly efficient diagnosis and treatment, as well as comprehensive
      disease management both in and out of hospital. All MMCs in China have the same structure in
      terms of facilities, layout, and databases, as well as the same routine daily operations,
      aiming to establish a platform with standardized diagnosis and treatment of metabolic
      diseases and their long-term follow-up. This platform of treatment is called the'One Center,
      One Stop, and One Standard Model'.

      The objective of the MMC is to launch a new metabolic disease management model based on the
      Internet health information platform. It allows the application and evaluation of diabetes
      treatment strategies at these centers. The proprietary electronic medical database in the MMC
      will help the dynamic big-data analysis in diabetes epidemiology, prevention, diagnosis, and
      treatment. It will also provide prospective data support including economic evaluation in
      management of chronic diseases for the Healthy China 2030 strategy.

      Objective：

        1. The purpose of the present study is to establish a multi-center nationwide prospective
           database of diabetes patients in MMCs, including clinical data, biological samples
           library so as to explore the epidemiology, genetics, new biomarkers, risk factors, and
           prognostic methods related to diabetes and its complications, as well as other metabolic
           diseases.

        2. To collect cross-sectional data from patients seen and treated at each MMC centers so as
           to evaluate: the current status of care of patients with diabetes and its related
           complications, as well as other risk factors treatment strategies at these centers.
           Patients'costs and quality of life (QoL) will also be evaluated.

        3. To collect the prospective data of patients treated at each MMC centers in order to
           evaluate the strategies for the achievement of treatment goals, changes in management,
           control of risk factors, incidence and progression of all-diabetes related clinical
           endpoints (including mortality), behavioral changes, psychological well being as well as
           costs and QoL.

      Methods： After obtaining informed consent, patients will be invited and initiated with a
      comprehensive baseline evaluation at each MMC centers. Then patients will be followed by
      clinical/laboratory visits at MMC every 3-6 month later on according to individualized
      patient's treatment plans. A repeated comprehensive clinical and laboratory assessment for
      glycemic and risk factors control, safety, as well as diabetes-specific complications will be
      scheduled once a year.
    
  