
    
      Optimizing the management of type 2 diabetes (T2D) will remain a major public health concern
      for decades to come. T2DM has already affected 4% of the French population and generates each
      year over 12 billion euros of expenditure. By combining therapies, oral and/or injectable
      (insulin or analogues of GLP-1), the current management of T2DM provides two thirds of
      patients with a satisfactory metabolic control (HbA1c < 7%) and reduced incidence of
      cardiovascular complications. Its effect on mortality, however, remains more limited,
      presumably because of the persistence of other cardiovascular risk factors. A recent study
      has confirmed that French patients with T2DM present an overall mortality risk significantly
      higher than the general population. In France, this group registered a mortality of 32 deaths
      per 1000 persons.

      Bariatric surgery is now a recognized method for the treatment of severe obesity. It allows
      for the permanent loss of at least 50% of initial excess weight. In obese patients, this
      surgery is also associated with a significant reduction in cardiovascular risk factors and
      particularly T2D. A recent meta-analysis of retrospective studies available suggests that
      surgery results in remission of T2DM in over 75% of cases. The only prospective randomized
      study showed that gastric restriction by placing a gastric band, provides better glycemic
      control than just medical treatment in obese patients with recently discovered T2DM. The
      gastric by-pass (GBP) which also includes an intestinal by-pass, seems to have an even higher
      metabolic efficiency than gastric bypass alone. In patients with T2DM, the GBP restores
      postprandial insulin secretion independently of weight loss. Despite the significant
      morbidity of the intervention, long-term results seem broadly supportive of the GBP. In a
      large case-control study, GBP was associated with a decrease of 90% of deaths related to
      diabetes. In a controlled study conducted in surgical candidates obese diabetics, the GBP
      decreased the overall world mortality by 75% after 6 years. Despite these very encouraging
      data, the GBP is now proposed to only a small proportion (< 1%) of patients likely to benefit
      from the procedure.
    
  