
    
      Patients will undergo radiation therapy (28 treatments of 1.8 Gy for a total of 50.4 Gy)
      concurrent with capecitabine and oxaliplatin chemotherapy. The primary objective of the study
      is to determine the maximum tolerated doses of capecitabine and oxaliplatin when delivered
      concurrently with 50.4 Gy radiation therapy with or without surgery in this patient
      population.

      Three dose levels are planned, as shown in the "Dose Escalation" table below. Three patients
      are planned at each level. When 3 patients have completed an entire chemoradiation course and
      are monitored for at least 2 weeks after the end of treatment without the occurrence of dose
      limiting toxicities (DLTs), then the next 3 patients will be treated at the next highest dose
      level. If one of the first three patients treated at any given dose level experiences a DLT,
      three further patients will be treated at that level. If only one in six patients at a given
      level experiences a DLT, escalation can proceed. If two or more of three to six patients at
      the lowest administered dose level experience DLTs, then the MTD is below the lowest
      administered dose, but no specific MTD will be defined. If two or more of three to six
      patients at a higher dose level experiences DLTs, the dose preceding the lowest dose level
      satisfying this criterion will be declared the MTD. If all the dose levels are exhausted
      without two or more of three to six patients experiencing DLTs, then the MTD is higher than
      the maximum administered dose, but no specific MTD will be defined. If MTD is reached at a
      given dose level, then additional patients can be accrued to the next lowest dose level, such
      that up to six patients can be accrued to the dose level below MTD. Because three dose levels
      are planned, with 3 to 6 patients enrolled in each dose level, a minimum of 9 and a maximum
      of 18 patients are required for trial completion.
    
  