
    
      Intervention In addition to standard treatment, patients in the experimental arm will receive
      intravenous OT with dilution of 25 UI or 40 UI OT in 500cc physiological solution NaCl 9%. OT
      will be administered with continuous pump infusion with 62,5 ml/h. The clinician will have
      the option to decrease infusion speed based on significant variations in arterial pressure,
      otherwise, the total 25 UI or 40 UI amount will be infused in 8 hours. Treatment duration
      will be 10 days

      Standard of Care (SoC). Standard of Care will comply with the indications of the
      Emilia-Romagna Region for the treatment of covid-19, and will include the following:

        -  Oxygen supply or non-invasive ventilation to target peripheral blood saturation > 94%

        -  Hydroxychloroquine 200mg b.i.d w/o an initial 1-2 days loading dose of 400 mg bid for
           1-2 days (the dose may be reduced in patients with advanced CKD according to local
           protocols) or remdesivir 200 mg in.v on day 1, followed by a 100 mg q.d.

        -  Antiretroviral therapy (usually for 5 days) with lopinavir / ritonavir or darunavir /
           cobicistat is permitted

        -  Azithromycin 500 mg q.d., usually for 5 days, is permitted in patients with suspected
           bacterial superinfection, paying particular attention to safety, considering reports of
           risk of adverse events in association with hydroxychloroquine

        -  Prophylaxis for deep vein thrombosis

        -  Steroids are not routinely recommended but may be considered in selected patients.

      Study design Phase II, multicenter, open-label, experimental randomized controlled trial with
      an adaptive design, aiming to assess superiority of Oxytocin administration vs SoC.

      The adaptive design includes Stage 1, which aims to define the more active of the two
      considered OT doses, verify endpoints, the target population and the necessary sample size
      for the following Stage. Selection between the two considered doses (25 UI e 40 UI) will be
      based on the proportion of patients for which one of the conditions that make up the endpoint
      is recorded (see below). To this end, for each of the 2 dosages of the experimental agent, a
      single arm, single stage Fleming design will be applied. Patients enrolled in this Stage will
      be assigned by balanced randomization (1:1) to one of the two OT doses. The decisional
      algorithm requires that in a sample of 25 patients, at least 20 (80%) do not worsen to a
      critical stage (main endpoint) with respect to an expected 17 (68%) with only SOC.

      In Stage 2, patients in the experimental arm will receive the dose selected in Stage 1. The
      study, on two parallel groups, will use unbalanced randomization, because patients who
      received the selected dose in Stage 1 will be included in the experimental arm to achieve
      equal sample size between the two arms (60+60) for the analysis of final endpoints Sample
      size Stage 1 - sample is determined according to the single arm single stage Fleming design
      applied to each of the 2 investigated OT doses (25 and 40 UI). 25 patients for each dose are
      estimated necessary to demonstrate a statistically significant difference considering the
      one-tail test with an alpha probability of 10% and a statistical power of 80%.

      Stage 2 - determined using as comparison the test for proportions. From available data, it is
      assumed that during 14 days of hospitalization the proportion of patients in the SoC group
      who enters a critical stage (primary endpoint) is 30%, versus 12% in the experimental arm.
      Using a two-tail test, an alpha probability of 10% and a statistical power of 80%, was
      estimated that 60 patients per arm are necessary to demonstrate a statistically significant
      difference
    
  