
    
      This study involves the diagnosis of several eye diseases, as follows:

      Glaucoma:

        1. Morphometry and spectral parameter assays: Clinical correlative studies in primary and
           secondary glaucoma subgroups: This is a volunteer study to obtain volumetric
           measurements of age-related changes in the ciliary body and individual ciliary muscle
           components. The study will provide baseline values for treatment monitoring studies of
           glaucoma therapeutics. There is minimal risk that the ultrasound procedure may reveal an
           occult ocular disease process, but the probability is very small. Patients will be
           informed and assisted in obtaining appropriate care if any abnormality is seen.

        2. Morphometry and spectral parameter assays: Ciliary body drug interactions in patients
           with initial diagnosis of open angle glaucoma: This study will attempt to document
           changes in anterior segment functional anatomy related to medical management of
           glaucoma. We hypothesize that several classes of anti-glaucoma drugs produce permanent
           modification of ciliary muscle vasculature that is related in turn to loss of drug
           efficacy over time. Data from COAG patients will be compared with age and sex matched
           normals. Participation in the study will not effect the ongoing glaucoma therapy of
           patients.

           Accommodation:

        3. Accommodative function in young emmetropes and transitional presbyopes: This is a
           volunteer study to develop a descriptive model of the human eye's focusing mechanism
           based on ultrasound morphometric measurements and spectral parameter assays. This study
           will measure dynamic changes in ciliary body spectral assays (size, CQ2) during
           calibrated accommodative tasks in volunteers with good amplitude of accommodation and
           those with accommodative loss do to aging and model 3-D conformal changes in anterior
           segment structures during accommodation. There is minimal risk that the ultrasound
           procedure may reveal an occult ocular disease process, but the probability is very
           small. Patients will be informed and assisted in obtaining appropriate care if any
           abnormality is seen.

           Ocular Tumors

        4. Tumors of the iris and ciliary body: This is an observational study of growth pattern
           changes in anterior melanoma for the purpose of identifying prognostic variables
           associated with rapid tumor growth. A percentage of small melanomas are observed for
           periods of up to several years before demonstrable growth will suggest more aggressive
           treatment. In the clinical ultrasound practice many patients with these tumors are seen
           at 3 to 6 month intervals to provide the ophthalmic oncologist with updated tumor volume
           data. We will examine changes in the ultrasound scattering structure of these tumors
           over time and their correlation with volume changes. The on-going research data are not
           released as part of the clinical ultrasound report.

           Age-related Macular Degeneration

        5. Posterior examinations: age-related macular degeneration: This study will examine the
           use of higher frequency (20-30 MHz) ultrasound in the early diagnosis of Age-related
           macular degeneration. Our hypothesis is that early changes in the choriocapillaries and
           choroid vascular density and conformation can be detected with high-frequency spectral
           assays. We will obtain ultrasound scans at frequencies of 20 MHz or more, as well as OCT
           and fundus photographs. Similar numbers of age-matched control subjects will be
           examined. Measurements of retinal and choroidal thickness profiles in the peri-macular
           region will be made. Spectral data will be used for morphologic vascular analysis (size
           and shape). Statistical comparison will be made using parametric and non-parametric
           methods between control and AMD groups.
    
  