
    
      Background. Obesity is prevalent disorder; up to 60% of US population that is associated with
      significant morbidity and mortality through inflammation, insulin resistance, dyslipidemia,
      obstructive sleep apnea, and atherosclerosis. The economic burden of obesity-related
      illnesses is substantial, with estimates ranging from 2% to 7% of the total US health care
      expenditures and billions of dollars in direct and indirect costs to society. This randomized
      clinical trial will compared the effectiveness of Intense Exercise/Moderate Calorie
      Restriction (IE-MCR), Topiramate-Phentermine (TP) and cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) on
      obesity and atherosclerosis in morbidly obesity individuals (body mass index(BMI)>40 kg/m2 or
      BMI>35 kg/m2 with associated comorbidities) with diabetes mellitus (DM).

      Importance/Significance. There is a cumulative increase in the rate of obesity, up to 60% of
      the US population. This randomized clinical trial will compare: 1) the change in fat mass and
      atherosclerosis and, 2) the change in psychological status and quality-of-life as well as
      economic burden in response to IE-MCR, TP and CBT in morbidly obese individuals with DM.
      Furthermore, 3) exploratory analyses evaluating the different underling adipocyte molecular
      mechanisms will be conducted. This will investigate the underlying genomic determinants and
      characterizes the management of obesity by comparing biologic, clinical phenotype, and cost
      effectiveness of these two interventions. These aims will provide fundamental information to
      assess the beneficial effects within and across interventions on obesity and atherosclerosis
      management which will help provide individualized intervention models to improve management
      of morbidly obese individuals Method. A significant difference in reduction of fat mass,
      carotid/coronary atherosclerosis, improve in psychological, quality of life and economic
      burden measures, as well as exploratory mechanism of action across IE-MCR, TP and CBT
      methods, are hypothesized. Over a 5 year period, 60 morbidly obese individuals with diabetes
      mellitus aged 18 or older and free of clinical cardiovascular disease will be recruited from
      the Obesity Clinic of the Greater Los Angeles VA Health Care System, University of California
      Los Angeles and Captain Lovell Federal Healthcare Center. Eligible subjects will be
      randomized to either of intense exercise/moderate calorie restriction, Topiramate-Phentermine
      or cognitive behavioral therapy (20 in each group) and receive these intervention for
      12-months. Intense exercise/moderate calorie restriction group will receive lectures on
      exercise and general dietary measures including calorie counting. They will prepare their own
      food, with protein:carbohydrate:fat ratio of 30:45:25 and over 70% of their resting daily
      energy expenditure (RDEE), and completed daily food and exercise journals. They will exercise
      ~2.5 hours/day, about 1/4 supervised, for a year. Topiramate-Phentermine group will receive
      full dose of TP (15/92mg) pills daily for a period of 1-year. Furthermore, CBT group as well
      as IE-MCR and TP will receive weekly cognitive behavior therapy for a year. All subjects will
      undergo carotid ultrasound; coronary computed tomography angiography, bioelectric impedance
      spectroscopy, dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, ambulatory calorimetry, serial home resting
      metabolic rate serial home (RMR),sleep apnea assessment and abdominal fat pad fine-needle
      aspiration biopsy (FNAB), as well as measurement of oxidative stress/inflammatory/metabolic
      biomarkers at baseline and at 1-year follow-up. Quality of life, psychological health and
      economic burden will be assessed using standardized questionnaires. Participants will
      complete quarterly trial visits for physical exam, compliance to intervention as well as
      ascertainment of adverse effects.
    
  