
    
      With increased legalization and medicalization of marijuana (MJ), there is an urgent need to
      understand the acute effects of use. One of the most consistently observed cognitive outcomes
      associated with MJ use is memory dysfunction, which may have a substantial impact on daily
      life in individuals using MJ for recreational or medicinal purposes. Notably, there are
      numerous preparations of MJ with varying proportions of cannabinoids, which may differ in
      behavioral and cognitive effects. For instance, there is emerging evidence that acute
      administration of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the main psychoactive constituent of
      MJ, hinders memory and reduces prefrontal and hippocampal functional magnetic resonance
      imaging (fMRI) activation, but cannabidiol (CBD) may mitigate some of these impairments.
      Given the role of glutamate in learning and memory, we suggest that these effects may be
      subserved, in part, by glutamatergic mechanisms. We will use magnetic resonance spectroscopy
      (MRS) to non-invasively measure glutamate in order to explore the neurochemical underpinnings
      of memory-related fMRI response changes following acute administration of THC and CBD in a
      randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over design. A total of 9 healthy
      participants ages 18-40 will be enrolled. Participants will first undergo one screening visit
      (~4 hours), comprising informed consent, assessment of health history, psychiatric diagnoses,
      cognitive function, and substance use history, and a structural MRI session. This will be
      followed by 3 separate MJ dose visits (~4 hours each), at which participants will complete
      neuroimaging after administration of one of 3 preparations of vaporized MJ in a randomized,
      counterbalanced, double-blinded fashion: 1) high THC and no CBD (THC), 2) high THC and high
      CBD (THC+CBD), and 3) no THC and no CBD (placebo MJ). As in our ongoing studies, bulk MJ
      plant material will be provided by the National Institute on Drug Abuse. MJ dose visits will
      comprise MJ administration, blood collection, MRS/fMRI scan, subjective reports, and a brief
      cognitive assessment.
    
  