
    
      Adverse childhood experiences (ACEs), social determinants of health (SDH) and their
      downstream health effects are the public health crisis of our time. Many chronic diseases are
      known to originate with, or are exacerbated by, exposure to toxic stress in childhood
      including learning and cognitive disabilities, asthma, obesity, diabetes, cancer, and
      behavioral health disorders such as ADHD, depression and substance abuse. While poverty is
      not considered an ACE, ACE exposure and unmet social needs are more common in those living in
      lower income communities. Memphis, the poorest statistical metropolitan area in the country
      with a population over one million people has an overall poverty rate of 26.9% and a child
      poverty rate of 44.7%. A telephone survey of over 1500 Shelby County residents conducted in
      the summer of 2014 found that 52% of adults reported at least one ACE and 12% reported four
      or more. Race is also an important factor in health disparities. Although the effects of race
      are predominantly due to associated income inequities, systemic racism can also have effects
      on health. For example, disparities in birth outcomes between black and white mothers exists
      across all socioeconomic strata but is most prominent among highly educated African American
      women.

      The association between poverty and ill health is likely mediated through several pathways.
      In impoverished households there may be limited cognitive stimulation and neglect. Poor
      quality and location of housing may expose children to environmental toxins such as lead or
      air pollution and allergens. Poor diet may result in micronutrient deprivation. In addition
      to these known negative exposures, environmental stress through exposure to familial discord
      and disruption, intrafamily violence, overcrowding of the home, and neighborhood violence
      appears also to play a role in the poor mental and physical health of individuals with these
      exposures.

      The link between toxic stress from ACES and other social determinants of health and adverse
      physical and mental health outcomes is derived from mostly cross-sectional studies where
      individuals with and without certain health conditions are compared for exposure to ACEs and
      SDH. These studies have been critical in revealing the spectrum of childhood and adult
      conditions that may be triggered or exacerbated by toxic stress. Both acute severe stress
      stemming from exposures like child maltreatment and chronic lower grade stresses stemming
      from exposure to poverty and its associated risks are associated with physical and mental
      illness. Much of the research into the mechanisms underpinning these associations has
      examined the epigenetic effect of these episodic or longer-term stressors. Epigenetics refers
      to post-translational modifications of DNA such as methylation, the covalent binding of
      methyl groups at CpG sites, oligodeoxynucleotides where cytosine is adjacent to guanine.
      Changes in methylation patterns can result from de novo methylation of DNA or removal of
      pre-existing methylation sites. Most epigenetic changes influence gene transcription through
      methylation of promotor and repressor regions. A gene promotor containing methylated CpG
      sequences is less able to bind transcription factors resulting in reduced gene transcription.
      Many studies have found differential methylation of areas within genes as well as intergenic
      areas of DNA. The effect these areas of methylation have on gene expression are unknown.
      Histones, proteins around which DNA is coiled, can be modified as well through methylation
      and acetylation. These modifications are thought to relax DNA coiling and open up gene
      regulatory sites for interaction with transcription factors.

      There have been studies examining differences in methylation across the genome, comparing the
      number of sites with increased and reduced methylation and drawing inferences as to the
      effect of these differences on phenotype. Many such studies have demonstrated clear
      differences in methylation patterns between subjects with greater and lesser exposure to
      episodic and lifetime stress. Differential methylation of specific genes and their promotor
      regions have also been studied, specifically, genes that could be reasonably hypothesized to
      play a role in the response to stress and the mitigating effects of different levels of
      caregiving. These include the genes for the glucocorticoid receptor, serotonin and oxytocin.
      The effects of chronically or acutely elevated cortisol levels on the methylation of the
      glucocorticoid receptor gene and its promotor are, perhaps, the most extensively studied in
      relation to ACEs and SDH. Animal studies have demonstrated an effect of high levels of
      caregiving on levels of glucocorticoid receptor expression in key areas of the brain through
      epigenetic changes which can improve self-regulation and mitigate the effects of toxic
      stress. These epigenetic modifications have been demonstrated to be transmitted across
      generations and may account for cross generational protection or vulnerability to the effects
      of toxic stress.

      Most human data on the effects of epigenetics are derived from retrospective and
      cross-sectional studies in which individuals with certain health conditions report on past or
      current exposure to ACEs and/or SDH. Many of these studies examine the cumulative risk of
      exposure over the lifetime of the study subject up to the point of the research. There does
      appear to be a dose response relationship between earlier stressors and adolescent and adult
      mental and physical health. Interventions applied early may, therefore, have the potential to
      mitigate the effects of toxic stress on health even if exposures have already occurred and
      prevent these important, long-term impacts on health and well-being. Mitigating factors
      include high family functioning with lower levels of parental stress and greater parent-child
      communication, as well as access to a medical home.

      Primary care is the cornerstone for screening, health promotion and disease prevention and
      pediatricians are best situated to screen for and address ACEs and SDH. Studies have
      demonstrated that many physicians do not perform any formal screening for ACEs but that
      individuals and families, when approached in a family-centered manner, want their physicians
      to screen for stressors and unmet social needs, even though it involves answering sensitive
      questions.
    
  