
    
      Prospective controlled study including patients with cow's milk allergy(6-36 months of
      age.During the first examination, the diagnosis will be assessed by pediatricians with great
      experience in food allergy, checking that the patient had undergone a standardized procedure.
      All cases with an unclear diagnosis of FA (i.e., lack of careful medical history, laboratory
      studies, and oral food challenge) or on incorrect exclusion diet (i.e., assumption of at
      least traces of the food allergen) will be excluded. Children with a positive history for
      prematurity, systemic diseases, renal failure, neurological impairment, active tuberculosis,
      autoimmune diseases, immunodeficiency, chronic inflammatory bowel diseases, celiac disease,
      cystic fibrosis, metabolic or endocrine diseases, malignancy and malformation of the
      gastrointestinal or the urinary tract will be also excluded. The history of each patient will
      be evaluated and the results of FA screening tests (i.e., skin prick tests and atopy patch
      tests) and of oral food challenge, together with all demographic and clinical information
      will be registered into a specific clinical chart. At enrolment (T0), after 2 (T1),4 (T2),
      6(T3)and 12 months (T4) weight, length or height and head circumference were measured by
      experienced nurse unaware of the study aims using standardized procedures. The anthropometric
      indices (z-score for weight, z-score for length/height, z-score for head circumference) will
      be also evaluated for all study subjects. Anthropometric measurements will be compared with
      the Euro-Growth References Charts. At the end of the first visit the parents of all children
      taking part in the study will be asked to fill a 3-day diet record report in a form of a
      printed chart. Written informed consent will be obtained from parents of each child enrolled
      in the study.

      Nutritional counseling Enrolled subjects will be evaluated by registered dieticians with a
      wide experience in pediatric FA, blinded to the study aims, assessing the results of the
      3-day diary dietary intake at enrollment (T0), at 6 months (T3) and 12 months (T4). All
      diaries will be collected and analyzed using a specific software based on the Italian food
      composition tables. The dieticians will evaluate the results of the 3-day diary and will give
      information to the parents about issues potentially arising during dietary elimination and on
      how to replace the allergen in the diet with alternative food items equivalent on the
      nutritional standpoint according to specific dietary recommended intake (DRI) for Italian
      children for age and sex .The nutritional counseling will be also focused on feeding
      behaviors, selection pleasant food and children preferences. No nutritional support products
      will be prescribed. This is the standard procedure in the management of FA in the centers
      involved in the study.

      Laboratory measurements At the enrollment and after 6 months (T3) after nutritional
      intervention a venous blood sample will be collected from children with FA on elimination
      diet. The following laboratory measurements will be analyzed through standardized procedures:
      hemoglobin, albumin, total cholesterol, triglycerides, calcium, phosphorus, and zinc.

      To investigate the patients rate of tolerance acquisition after 12 months of exclusion diet
      an oral food challenge (OFC) will be performed.
    
  