
    
      The study included patients who underwent TKA surgery in the Hospital de Clínicas de Porto
      Alegre (HCPA) and met the study eligibility criteria. The sample was randomly divided into
      experimental group, which received conventional physical therapy associated with the
      application of TENS, and control group, which held only conventional physical therapy, both
      on the first day after the surgery. The pain level, the range of motion of the operated knee
      and the Administration of morphine.

      The experimental group received TENS application held by two self-adhesive electrodes size
      5x9cm positioned parallel to the lumbar spine, on the nerve roots L3, L4 and L5. TENS was
      applied in conventional mode, emitting a pulsed biphasic, symmetrical rectangular wave with
      frequency of 100 Hz and pulse duration of 100 µs, for 30 minutes. The intensity was set
      according to the tolerance of the patient and was gradually increased during the application.
      The device used was the Neurodyn II model, by Ibramed.

      Subsequently, the conventional physical therapy was performed, with the use of the CPM device
      and performing exercises. The CPM device was used for 30 minutes, and realized continuous
      passive flexion and extension of the operated knee. The amplitudes of these movements were
      gradually increased in accordance with the tolerance of the patient. The device used was
      Spectra model, by Kinetec.

      Then, the patients realized active exercises of plantar flexion and dorsal flexion of the
      ankles and adduction and abduction of the hips, isometric exercises of flexion and extension
      of the operated knee and active exercises of flexion and extension of the non-operated knee.
      All exercises were performed in 10 repetitions, with the patient positioned in the supine
      position in the bed.

      The control group received only conventional therapy consisting of the use of the CPM device
      in the operated leg and the exercises in both lower limbs, identical to those performed in
      the experimental group.
    
  