
    
      Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is one of the most common causes of liver cirrhosis worldwide. The
      progression of liver cirrhosis can lead to a myriad of complications including ascites,
      variceal bleeding, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatorenal syndrome, and hepatocellular
      carcinoma. The development of these complications or decompensation can lead to a dismal
      survival of 50% at 6 months, especially if the underlying cause of the liver cirrhosis is not
      treated. The cost of caring for these patients with decompensated cirrhosis is extremely
      high. Despite this, every effort is being made to maintain these patients in reasonable
      health until liver transplant becomes available for them. Yet these patients continue to have
      poor quality of life because of the various symptoms related to decompensated cirrhosis, and
      spend much time visiting health care facilities for both outpatient and inpatient care.

      The recent availability of potent and effective anti-viral therapy has revolutionized the
      management of patients with hepatitis C infection. With a >90% cure rate, many patients with
      compensated cirrhosis, once treated, will not progress further to develop decompensation.
      With the passage of time, the liver cirrhosis may even regress to a non-cirrhotic state.
      Published data on treatment of decompensated cirrhosis with hepatitis C infection is still
      scanty. However, patients with decompensated cirrhosis due to hepatitis B infection who
      received effective anti-viral therapy not only improved their overall clinical status, many
      of these patients reverted from a decompensated to a compensated state, associated with
      improved survival. Likewise, patients with alcoholic cirrhosis who abstain from alcohol will
      also have improvement in liver function and reduction in complications of cirrhosis.
      Therefore, treatment of decompensated cirrhotic patients with hepatitis C is expected to show
      the same beneficial effects, because the underlying cause of cirrhosis is coming under
      control.

      The primary objective of this study is to assess the effects of anti-viral therapy on the
      clinical status, quality of life and survival of patients with decompensated cirrhosis due to
      chronic hepatitis C genotype 1 infection.

      After completion of all initial investigations, patients will be started on Harvoni 90 mg
      ledipasvir/400 mg sofosbuvir (one tablet) daily. The course of treatment will be 24 weeks.
      Patients will be reviewed at monthly intervals as per standard of care. At each clinic visit,
      patients with have blood tests including complete blood count, renal function, electrolytes,
      liver enzyme and liver function tests, HCV RNA will be done at week 4, week 12, week 24
      during treatment, and then again at week 12 post completion of treatment. Annual ultrasounds
      and surveillance gastroscopies will be organized as per standard of care.

      Patient will be followed for 1 year post completion of treatment, and have repeat quality of
      life questionnaires at end of treatment, and thereafter at 6 and 12 months. Patients will
      also be monitored for the development of further complications of cirrhosis (if any),
      hospital admissions, reasons for hospital admissions, lengths of hospital stays, survival,
      and liver transplantation.
    
  