
    
      Background and Justification:

      Decreased physical conditioning can occur after injury or illness, particularly in seniors.
      Frail and physically vulnerable seniors have greater risk for loss of independence and
      lowered quality of life. They are more likely to need long-term residential care. Seniors
      also have an increased risk of falls, which are the leading cause of injuries and
      injury-related hospital admissions among older Canadians, accounting for 85% of seniors'
      injury-related hospitalizations. Further, falls are associated with over 1/3 of admissions to
      long-term care facilities after release from the hospital. In 2004, the direct cost of falls
      to seniors in Canada was estimated to be $2 billion; this number will be much higher today,
      as health-care costs have increased and the number of seniors has increased as well. Among
      the many risk factors for falls include physical considerations such as balance and gait
      deficits, muscle weakness & reduced physical fitness.

      Seniors would like to live in their own homes and communities for as long as possible. They
      also would like to maintain (or improve) their independence, ability to function and quality
      of life. Gains in strength, stamina, balance, cardiovascular fitness and confidence resulting
      from regular exercise can help seniors to achieve these goals, reduce the risk of falls and
      increase social engagement. However, seniors experience many barriers to doing exercise,
      including a lack of motivation, pain or injury, lack of knowledge, fear of falling,
      transportation difficulties, no one to exercise with, poor weather and high cost. In fact,
      only 11% of Canadians between the ages of 60 and 79 meet Canada's physical activity
      guidelines. For those who live in rural locations, further barriers exist, like isolation,
      safety (cannot go for a walk on busy highways or dark roads) and lack of access to
      community-based services.

      Virtual reality (VR) is proposed as a motivating and enjoyable way to encourage seniors to do
      regular rehabilitative exercise, either as part of a home-based rehabilitation plan after
      injury or illness, or as a part of a plan to enhance mobility and decrease falls in a
      residential long-term care home.

      Goals:

        1. To assess the impact of adding home-based VR exercise to the rehabilitation programs of
           clients receiving home-care rehabilitation services.

        2. To assess the impact of adding facility-based VR exercise to the rehabilitation programs
           of residents receiving rehabilitation services or maintenance for physical conditioning
           in long-term care.

      Objectives:

        1. To assess the impact of 8 weeks of home-based VR as an addition to home-care
           rehabilitation on:

             1. balance, physical function, community integration and quality of life;

             2. number of falls, number of emergency room visits, hospital admissions and long-term
                care admissions;

             3. quantity of VR exercise, number of health care professional visits for
                rehabilitation, health care professional caseload numbers and length of wait lists
                for home-care rehabilitation services.

             4. the cost of providing home-care rehabilitation services;

             5. acceptance of VR for exercise.

        2. To assess the impact of 8 weeks of facility-based VR as an addition to the
           rehabilitation and maintenance programs of residents in long-term care on:

             1. balance, physical function and quality of life;

             2. number of falls, number of emergency room visits, hospital admissions;

             3. quantity of VR exercise, number of health care professional visits for
                rehabilitation, health care professional caseload numbers and length of wait lists
                for facility-based rehabilitation services;

             4. the cost of providing residential rehabilitation services;

             5. acceptance of VR for exercise.

      Two separate, but related studies are included; A) Randomized controlled trial studying the
      addition of home-based VR to homecare rehabilitation, compared to homecare rehabilitation
      (usual care) only for participants living independently in their homes.

      B) Multi-site randomized controlled trial studying the addition of facility-based VR to
      homecare rehabilitation, compared to homecare rehabilitation (usual care) only for
      participants living in long-term care facilities.

      A) Home-based study participants will undergo a 1-1 1/2 hour physical assessment of balance,
      gait, physical function, activities of daily living and quality of life, given by the
      Research Assistant (RA), either in their home or at the Centre for Innovation and Research on
      Aging (CIRA). The Research Therapist (RT) will assess the participant's 10 foot walk test
      (used to assess gait speed; Appendix U), then randomize the participant into either the
      control or experimental groups using an online randomization tool, stratified according to
      gait speed.

      Participants in the control group will be told to continue on as normal with their
      Extra-Mural homecare rehabilitation program.

      Participants in the experimental group will be introduced to the Jintronix VR platform and
      will discuss with the RT their abilities and therapy goals. The RT will consult with the
      participant's Extra-Mural health care professionals and create a customized VR program of
      approximately 20-30 minutes. The RT will then install the VR system in the participant's home
      and train the participant and study partner on the use of VR. Safety considerations will be
      reviewed (the study partner is not to assist or guard the participant, just be in the home
      during VR). A photograph is taken of the set-up, to document that the location is safe, in
      case the participant re-arranges furniture etc. into an unsafe position.

      Participants will be instructed to perform the VR session 3-5 times a week for 8 weeks. The
      RT will contact the participant (preferably by phone) twice in the first week and at least
      once a week thereafter, and participants will be invited to contact the RT as needed. The RT
      will also monitor VR usage remotely. The RT can modify the games remotely as required.
      Further home visits can be made as required, preferably once during week 2, to assess
      exercise technique and answer questions. Personal Support Workers (PSW) attending the
      clients' homes will also monitor the home situation for safety and unexpected changes in
      physical condition using a short check-list. The PSW will report any changes to the RT
      immediately.

      After 8 weeks, the participant will return to CIRA to be reassessed by the RA and then the VR
      system will be removed from the home. The first 10 participants (and their study partners)
      will also provide a 10-minute interview on their experience with VR.

      One month later, the participant will return to CIRA for a final reassessment with the RA.

      All assessments can be performed in the participant's home rather than having them come to
      CIRA.

      B) Facility-based study participants will undergo a 1 - 1 ½ hour physical assessment of
      balance, gait, physical function, activities of daily living and quality of life, given by
      the Research Assistant (RA). This assessment will be done at the participant's long-term care
      facility. The Research Therapist (RT) will assess the participant's 10 foot walk test (used
      to assess gait speed; Appendix U), then randomize the participant into either the control or
      experimental groups using an online randomization tool, stratified according to gait speed.

      Participants in the control group will be told to continue on as normal with their
      Extra-Mural homecare rehabilitation program and any other activities that they normally do.

      Participants in the experimental group will be introduced to the Jintronix VR platform and
      will discuss with the RT their abilities and therapy goals. The RT will consult with the
      participant's Extra-Mural health care professionals and with the facility staff (particularly
      recreation therapists and rehabilitation assistants), and create a customized VR program of
      approximately 20-30 minutes.

      Rehabilitation assistants and recreation therapists/coordinators working at the long-term
      care sites will be trained on the use of Jintronix VR during a 2-hour workshop. The
      rehabilitation assistants or recreation therapists/coordinators will be instructed on each
      participant's individual program and any safety or technique requirements and will assist and
      supervise long-term care participants to perform their VR programs. Participants will be
      instructed to perform the VR session 3-5 times a week for 8 weeks. The RT will contact the
      participant and the rehabilitation assistant or recreation therapist (preferably in person)
      twice in the first week and at least once a week thereafter, and participants and
      rehabilitation assistant/recreation therapist will be invited to contact the RT as needed.
      The RT will also monitor VR usage remotely. The RT can modify the games remotely as required.

      After 8 weeks, all participants will be reassessed at their long-term care facilities by the
      RA. The first 10 residents will also provide a 10-minute interview on their experience with
      VR. One month later, the participant will have a final reassessment with the RA.
    
  