
    
      The goal of RtG's innovative program is to help parents increase the probability that their
      children will enter school ready to learn and continue on to meet their full potential in
      education, work, and citizenship. The therapeutic, psychodynamic approach and robust
      three-year long relationship with families is designed to act as the catalyst for
      sustainable, long-term change in parenting methods and family system stability. Critically,
      and in contrast to other programs aimed at improving parenting and child development, RtG
      believes that providing concrete material assistance enhances the effectiveness of counseling
      and referrals to low-income families by reducing economic stress and freeing up scarce
      resources. The program builds on decades of research on the importance of parenting supports
      for low-income families and their children, the significance of concrete material support and
      poverty reduction in enhancing children's health and development, and the recognition that
      the early years are an effective time to provide critical supports that influence long-term
      outcomes. Numerous programs, such as home-visiting models that provide parenting supports to
      low-income new mothers have shown promising results. After decades of correlational research
      establishing relationships between income, poverty, and children's health and development,
      there is an emerging literature providing convincing causal evidence that income matters for
      child outcomes. Both strains of this research build upon additional research that clearly
      suggests early childhood is a key period of vulnerability where interventions can make a
      lasting difference in the fortunes of low-income children and their families. The research
      will build upon this literature, by testing an intervention that combines both parenting
      supports and meaningful provision of material support - in essence, assessing whether a
      combined approach can prove potentially more powerful than the sum of its parts.

      The evaluation of RtG provides the unprecedented opportunity to test the combined value of
      parenting education with social and material supports. The project leverages an innovative
      approach that combines income supports, parenting education and connection to community
      services to promote the early health and development of young children. Both parenting and
      income support programs each aim to promote low- and moderate income families' positive
      health and development, but too often they work in isolation, potentially limiting their
      ability to reduce disparities in both parents' and children's health and development. RtG's
      innovative model provides an opportunity to test the combined effect of these services, and
      provide valuable information to practitioners and policy makers on the synergistic effects of
      these program components. The proposed research can facilitate change in the early childhood
      field by demonstrating preliminary evidence that this innovative model can achieve
      demonstrable effects on key proximal outcomes over the first year of life and provide a first
      step towards building the evidence for multi-pronged approaches to meeting the needs of
      low-income families. Findings from this study may guide the field towards more integrated
      approaches that combines material support, connection to resources, and parenting assistance
      to make real impacts in the health and development of young children. Room to Grow and its
      evaluation will provide clear contributions to the development of a culture of health and
      relevant policies in the early childhood space. This will be the first RCT that provides a
      combination of parenting and community supports with substantial and empowering provision of
      material support. Many parenting programs provide some developmentally appropriate books or
      toys, but it is incredibly rare to provide the retail equivalent of roughly $10,000 in
      support over the first three years of life. This will establish whether a model such as RtG's
      holds promise for transforming early childhood parenting programs in helping to build a
      culture of health and for reducing health disparities among children from divergent
      backgrounds. The organization and its leadership look forward to learning from the evaluation
      project in order to understand more about what's working well and what could be improved in
      the program delivery and curriculum. The team at RtG has purposefully created a culture that
      uses data to inform decision-making and looks forward to understanding the full scope of
      results from the RCT. RtG is currently developing plans for expansion over the next five
      years as part of a formal strategic planning process. The organization hopes to eventually
      serve double or more the number of families in each city where it operates, New York and
      Boston. Findings to date from internal evaluations are extremely encouraging. It is the
      researchers' hope that other foundations and government agencies (or private donors) will be
      excited to build upon support from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and that the
      researchers will be able to extend the initial momentum generated by this project over time.

      The project is designed to investigate proximal outcomes. Over the long-term, the research
      team hopes to build upon these proximal outcomes and to eventually follow children through
      school-age, as well as greatly expand the number of children that are included in the RCT
      project.
    
  