
    
      The incidence of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) in young children remains high (20-
      30/1000 child-years) even in high-income settings with routine pneumococcal vaccination, and
      is associated with a high rate of hospitalisation (around 10/1000 child-years). In low-and
      middle-income settings, pneumonia is the leading infectious cause of death in children less
      than 5 years of age. In high-income settings, working mothers of children hospitalised with
      CAP have been reported to loose on average 4.2 workdays compared with 1.7 workdays for
      children with CAP managed in primary care. In addition to this economic burden, there is a
      substantial impact on quality of life for the affected child and the family. Children who are
      admitted with CAP experience on average 13 nonroutine days with slightly shorter periods of
      decreased appetite (8.5 days), disordered sleep (4.5 days) and absence from routine
      out-of-home childcare (7.5 days). Any intervention that ensures rapid clinical stabilization
      allowing for early hospital discharge without negative impacts on the overall recovery in
      children hospitalised with CAP would therefore carry substantial socioeconomic benefits.

      Only few small trials have addressed the potential impact of oral steroid treatment in CAP
      during childhood. Nagy et al reported a significant reduction in fever duration and length of
      stay in children with severe CAP receiving methylprednisolone for 5 days compared with
      children receiving placebo in a randomised trial with 59 participants. A randomised trial
      comparing adjunct dexamethasone or methylprednisolone against standard of care (no placebo)
      planning to enroll 40 participants was being set up but has been withdrawn prior to
      recruitment (NCT01631916). A placebo-controlled randomised trial of adjunct corticosteroids
      in CAP complicated by pleural effusion and/or empyema with 56 participants has been completed
      (NCT01261546), but has not yet reported on its findings. An observational analysis using
      propensity scores found that adjunct corticosteroids were associated with a shorter hospital
      stay only in children also receiving beta-agonist therapy, concluding that any benefit might
      only be seen in children with acute wheezing. All in all, there is a lack of pragmatic
      randomized controlled trials ( RCT) with sufficient power and high external validity to
      provide a definitive answer to the question of the effect of adjunct steroids in children
      hospitalised with CAP.

      Infection-related unwanted effects of adjunct steroids are potentially relevant in the
      context of childhood CAP. A higher proportion of children hospitalised with CAP reaching
      early clinical stability would only be desirable if this were shown not to be offset by a
      higher rate of clinically relevant CAP recurrence. A rebound phenomenon after corticosteroid
      discontinuation has been postulated to explain a higher rate of infection recurrence (19%
      compared with 9% in placebo group) among adults. Data from a recent individual patient data
      metaanalysis, however, indicate that an increased risk of CAP recurrence may be rather
      associated with longer duration of adjunct steroids in adults with CAP. To our knowledge, the
      question about the effect of adjunct steroid treatment in childhood CAP in relation to a
      postulated rebound phenomenon measured clinically as CAP recurrence has not been formally
      addressed in a trial. CAP-specific readmission rates for children are low at around 5%. In
      bronchiolitis, another acute lower respiratory tract infection for which oral corticosteroid
      treatment has been investigated, an increased risk of hospital revisits associated with
      steroid treatment could not be identified in a Cochrane metaanalysis.
    
  