
    
      Renal lithiasis is a pathology that affects a high percentage of the population, and although
      it has been known for a long time, advances carried out in the treatment are limited to the
      surgical aspects, while the causes responsible for the formation of kidney calculus are not
      corrected, which leads to a high recurrence.

      The "healing" of renal lithiasis inevitably goes through the elimination of the alterations
      related to the genesis of kidney calculus. It the case of uric acid lithiasis the most
      important are having urinary pH less than 5.5 and an elevated uricosuria, which can be
      corrected relatively easy by undergoing changes in dietary habits, and with pharmacological
      treatment with citrate -which produces and increase in pH- or with inhibitors of the
      xantino-oxidase as allopurinol. However, among the prophylactic treatments available for ural
      acid lithiasis, so far it does not exist one for urinary acid crystallization inhibition.

      Recently, the effects of theobromine as an inhibitor of the crystallization of uric acid have
      been described, but only in vitro. The present study aims to assess the effectiveness of
      theobromine, -product present in high proportion in the cacao-, to prevent the development of
      uric acid kidney stones.

      The study is a unicentric, low intervention, non-randomized, prospective study to assess the
      effects of the consumption of different cocoa derivate products, in the risk of
      crystallization of uric acid in the urine. Participants in the study are healthy volunteers
      and will it will be carried out with 20 individuals who will be recruited in the Research
      Laboratory in Renal Lithiasis of the Baleares Isles University.

      Patients will take a urine test previously to undergo 4 dietary interventions, with their
      subsequent urine measurements. Patients will choose one diet to follow for 1 day, and will be
      provided with the corresponding cocoa derivate for the diet (soluble cocoa, black chocolate,
      chocolate with milk). The day after the diet they will take a fast-picking of urine
      accumulated during the night of which they followed the controlled diet (12 h nocturne
      sample), then follow a 6 day washout period, and select another diet to follow and repeat
      until they have gone through the 4 diets and measurements.
    
  