
    
      The purpose of this open-label trial is to determine the efficacy of and patient engagement
      in online mindfulness-based therapy for insomnia (MBTI). The investigators' long-term goal is
      to improve sleep and mood of expecting and new mothers. Over half of pregnant women develop
      insomnia, which is associated with high rates of depression during pregnancy and postpartum.
      By successfully treating insomnia during pregnancy and improving cognitive-emotion
      regulation, mental health of pregnant women and new moms may be greatly improved. In a prior
      clinical trial, Dr. Kalmbach (PI) showed that online cognitive-behavioral therapy for
      insomnia (CBTI) greatly improved sleep during pregnancy, and offered some protection against
      sleep problems after childbirth. Women in this trial were highly satisfied with CBTI and
      especially its online delivery. However, the investigators identified important shortcomings
      of online CBTI in this population. Namely, patients provided feedback that reducing cognitive
      arousal (ie ruminative or worrisome thinking) was an important therapeutic target, that more
      mindfulness-based approaches and strategies would improve treatment, and that greater
      emphasis on maternal and infant sleep would also enhance the treatment experience. Thus, the
      investigators will conduct an open label trial to collect pilot data on the efficacy of
      digital mindfulness-based therapy for insomnia (MBTI) that has been tailored for pregnant and
      postpartum women. Specifically, the investigators will conduct this open-label trial of 50
      pregnant women to preliminary test the efficacy, patient adherence, patient engagement, and
      patient satisfaction with this online MBTI program.

      This open-label trial will enroll 50 pregnant women (gestational age 18-30 weeks at study
      entry) who will receive 6 sessions of MBTI through the online program 'A Mindful Way to
      Healthy Sleep' (https://amindfulway.com.au/). Patients will complete this treatment during
      pregnancy. This program was based on Dr. Jason Ong's Mindfulness-Based Therapy for Insomnia,
      which combined CBTI and mindfulness meditation, and it has been tailored for perinatal women.
      The investigators will assess study outcomes before treatment, after treatment, 1 month after
      childbirth, and 3 months after childbirth. Study outcomes will include insomnia symptoms,
      depressive symptoms, and cognitive arousal. The investigators will also assess patient
      engagement (number of completed sessions, homework adherence) and collect patient feedback
      (e.g., treatment satisfaction).
    
  