
    
      This is a single center study on healthy volunteers. The subjects will be seen by the study
      coordinator in the SCMRC to obtain written informed consent and to assess the co-variable
      data (vitals, medication, history, contraindications for MRI). The study nurse will schedule
      two visits for endothelial function assessment that are at least one but not more than three
      weeks apart. Both visits are to be at the same time of day. The initial volunteer will be
      assigned an endothelial function assessment with MRI first followed by FMD in the endothelial
      function lab. Subsequent volunteers will alternate assignment to FMD or MRI first to rule out
      pre-conditioning effects. Simultaneous to FMD assessment, plethysmographic pulse volume will
      be evaluated with finger probes on the index finger of each hand. Subjects will be studied in
      a temperature-controlled room with minimal background distraction and in a fasting state for
      the previous 4 hours. Subjects will also refrain from ingesting caffeine or nicotine in these
      preceding 4 hours. Each study day volunteers will undergo two endothelial function
      assessments. The first baseline assessment takes place after a 10 minute accommodation
      period. The volunteer is then subjected to a 15 minute upper arm tourniquet. The second
      assessment takes place 15 minutes after the release of the tourniquet. This so called
      'ischemia reperfusion' is known to markedly impair endothelial function for approximately one
      hour without affecting the early bloodflow responses to reactive hyperemia. This effect is
      reversible and will help to determine the actual endothelial component of measured BOLD
      signal changes.

      One day: 2 CMR studies without contrast agent to assess endothelial function during reactive
      hyperemia. Each will last 15 minutes. A 15 minutes upper arm occlusion with a pressure cuff
      in between the 2 measurements will be applied.

      Another day: 2 FMD studies with ultrasound to assess endothelial function during reactive
      hyperemia. Each will take 15 minutes. Simultaneously a PAT hyperemic index will be measured.
      A 15 minutes upper arm occlusion with a pressure cuff in between the 2 measurements will be
      applied.

      Blood work (fasting glucose, creatinine, lipids, hsCRP), performed by Calgary Labs Services
      (CLS).

      The effect of the reperfusion ischemia will be tested by individually comparing the BOLD
      signal change (BC) at baseline with BC after reperfusion ischemia. Since these are paired,
      related data a Wilcoxon rank sum test will be performed and a p value < 0.05 will be regarded
      as significant. The same will be done for the FMD and PAT index before and after reperfusion
      ischemia.

      FMD as the most accepted technique and will be considered as gold standard and a linear
      regression analysis of FMD with MBC and TBC will be performed. r2-value will be calculated
      and a value of > 0.25 will be considered as reasonable of > 0.5 as good correlation. If the
      correlation does not appear linear a Spearman's correlation test will be done.

      The correlations between PAT index and FMD and PAT index and TBC will also be assessed with
      linear regression analysis.
    
  