
    
      The study will be performed at several sites and oversight of the study is being monitored by
      Thomas D Gazda MD PC in accordance with established research principals, the ICH GCP
      (International Conference on Harmonization Good Clinical Practice) Guideline, FDA regulations
      and applicable regulatory requirements and local laws.

      Source documents will be used to help ensure that patients meet diagnostic criteria for
      schizophrenia.

      All AE (Adverse Event) verbatim descriptions will be performed (investigator terms from the
      CRF, Clinical Research File) will be classified into standardized medical terminology using
      the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA).

      Treatment emergent AEs (TEAEs) will be summarized. The incidence of TEAEs will be reported as
      the number (percentage) of subjects with TEAs by SOC (Standard of Care) and PT (Preferred
      Term). The number(percentage) of subjects with TEAEs will also be summarized by relationship
      to study drug (possibly related, probably related and not related).

      Adverse events will be summarized using the Safety Analysis Sets. The number of AEs and
      number and incidence (%) of subjects with AEs will be summarized by cohort or dose and
      overall. For clinically significant events, tome of onset and recovery will be reported.

      The number (percentage) of subjects with TEAEs leading to death will be summarized by MedDRA
      SOC and PT. A subject data listing of all AEs leading to death will be provided.

      The number(percentage) of subjects with SAEs will be summarized by MedDRA SOC and PT.

      The number (percentage) of subjects with TEAEs leading to discontinuation from study drug
      will be summarized by MedDRA SOC and PT. A subject data listing of all AEs leading to
      discontinuation from the study will be provided.

      All safety analysis will be performed on the Safety Analysis Sets. Safety data will be
      summarized on an "as treated" basis using descriptive statistics (e.g. n, mean, standard
      deviation, median, minimum, maximum, for continuous variables: n(%) for categorical
      variables). Safety variables include TEAEs, clinical laboratory parameters, vital signs,
      SST). Study Day 1 for all safety analysis will be defined as the date of the first dose of
      study drug.

      The primary analysis of the primary efficacy endpoint will be based on a one-sample two sided
      t-test. Missing values will be imputed using the last observation carried forward (LOCF). The
      ASEX at the end of the 3 months of treatment is considered to be lower than baseline if the
      2-sided p-value of the one-sample t-test statistic is less than or equal to 0.05. As
      additional information, the two-sided 95% confidence interval for the change from baseline in
      ASEX score will be provided based on t-distribution at the end of the 3 months of
      aripiprazole once monthly treatment and at each scheduled visit.

      As sensitivity analysis, the primary analysis will be repeated based on the observed data;
      also, a mixed effect analysis of covariance regression will be used to model the change from
      baseline in ASEX at scheduled visits. Baseline ASEX scores will be the fixed effect, subject
      will be the random effect, and scheduled visit will be the repeated factor in the model.

      The key secondary analysis will be analyzed in the same way as the primary efficacy analysis

      The study -conduct duration is approximately 4 months. Screening for subjects will last
      approximately 8 months for a total study duration of 12 months.

      it is projected that a minimum of 22 subjects will be enrolled with an estimate that 19
      subjects will complete the study.
    
  