
    
      Purpose Low back pain (LBP) is among the top three most common diseases worldwide resulting
      in a life with pain-related disability. In patients with persistent LBP over 3 months, the
      risk for chronic pain increases dramatically and effective interventions should aim to
      prevent pain persistence without overtreatment. Therefore, during an acute LBP episode, the
      most common recommendations are to use pain medication to alleviate pain and to keep patients
      physically active. Non-opioid and opioid pain medication is increasingly used to control
      pain. Despite the frequency of LBP, only few high-quality studies assessed the efficacy of
      pain medication. Since the 1990s, the use of opioid pain medication for non-cancer pain has
      soared and resulted in an epidemic of opioid dependence and abuse in the U.S. This, despite
      the fact that randomized clinical trials found little or no additional efficacy of opioids
      compared to non-opioid medication in LBP. Moreover, opioids are associated with potentially
      severe side-effects, including confusion, sedation, respiratory depression and dependence.
      Therefore, non-opioid pain medications that are safe and effective are urgently needed to
      control pain.

      Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are considered to be effective for LBP and
      recommended by guidelines. However, adverse events including kidney injury and
      gastrointestinal bleeding, limit the use of NSAIDs in many patients. Metamizole is an
      effective non-opioid analgesic and antipyretic with a favorable gastrointestinal and renal
      safety profile and therefore, a valuable treatment option in many LBP patients with
      contraindications for NSAIDs. Metamizole has been increasingly used in many countries such as
      Germany, France, Spain, and Switzerland. Despite its increased use, the role of metamizole
      for the treatment of LBP is unclear and has so far not been systematically studied. This
      surprising lack of efficacy data may be due to an ongoing controversy over the risk of
      metamizole-associated agranulocytosis, a serious hematological adverse event. Even though the
      overall risk of agranulocytosis is increased compared to other drugs, it only occurs in a
      small proportion of susceptible patients and the overall safety profile of metamizole is
      still favorable compared to other analgesics such as NSAIDs or opioids, which carry their own
      specific risks.

      Many patients have reservations against regular intake of pain medication and limit physical
      activity to keep pain manageable without medication, which is against the guidelines'
      recommendation. However, education to encourage activity may help to improve pain control and
      function as well. In a busy primary care practice extended educational sessions that have
      been shown to be effective are not feasible. A short educational intervention that provides
      evidence-based information on the nature of LBP and promotes physical activity may also
      improve outcome.

      Objectives This study aims to assess (A) whether metamizole is non-inferior to ibuprofen in a
      new episode of acute or subacute LBP and (B) whether a short educational intervention
      including evidence-based patient information is superior to usual care alone.

      Methods The EMISI trial is a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial (RCT) using a
      factorial design recruiting patients consulting general practitioners (GP) practices and the
      outpatient Division of the Department of General Internal Medicine at the University Hospital
      Bern, Switzerland. Patients are randomized into one of four groups (1:1:1:1): metamizole +
      educational intervention vs. metamizole + standard care vs. ibuprofen + educational
      intervention vs. ibuprofen + standard care. Patients assigned to the educational information
      will receive an information leaflet and a phone call by a member of the research team to
      discuss evidence based information on LBP. All patients will receive usual care provided by
      their GPs that includes additional pain medications and non-pharmacological measures at the
      GPs discretion.

      The primary outcome (A) Comparison of ibuprofen vs. metamizole: change from baseline pain on
      the numeric rating scale (NRS) to day 14 (non-inferiority).

      B) Comparison of the short intervention vs. usual care: change from baseline Core Outcome
      Measures Index (COMI) sum-score to 42 days follow-up (superiority).

      Statistical analysis Analysis will include an intention-to-treat (ITT) and a per-protocol
      (PP) analysis for the comparison of the primary between metamizole and ibuprofen outcome (NRS
      change from baseline to follow-up at 14 days). Both analyses need to meet non-inferiority in
      order to claim success. The comparison of the primary outcome between the intervention and
      the usual care group (COMI change from baseline to day 42) will be performed according to
      intention-to-treat principle. Based on the sample size calculation for both interventions,
      120 patients will be included into the study.
    
  