
    
      Effective perioperative analgesia is the key to postoperative rehabilitation. It has been
      suggested that a decrease in postoperative pain and opioid use ameliorates the return of
      normal bowel function after general surgery. Conventional analgesic treatment involves the
      use of intravenous, oral and transdermal formulations of drugs. Repetitive administration is
      required for sustained pain relief. Common side effects (postoperative nausea and vomiting,
      postoperative ileus) of these analgesics may have a detrimental effect on postoperative
      recovery and led to a prolonged hospital stay. An intriguing body of evidence suggests that
      short-term administration of intravenous lidocaine may produce pain relief that by far
      exceeds both the duration of the infusion and the half-life of the drug thus reducing
      concomitant analgesic medication can be reduced and its side effects enabling a more rapid
      postoperative recovery with less complications. Lidocaine is a commonly used local anesthetic
      and an antiarrythmic agent. It has been shown to preserve neuroelectric function in animal
      experiments. Intraoperative administration of lidocaine in a standard antiarrythmic dose has
      been shown to decrease the occurrence of cognitive dysfunction in the early postoperative
      period after coronary artery bypass surgery. Lidocaine can induce a significant re-duction of
      several components of chronic pain in patients with poststroke or spinal cord injury related
      pain. Sodium channel blockers (e.g. lidocaine) are approved for intravenous administration in
      the treat-ment of neuropathic pain states. In addition lidocaine has anti-inflammatory
      properties and preclinical studies have suggested antihyperalgesic effects on the peripheral
      and central nervous system. Lidocaine decreases the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of
      inhaled anesthetics and has been used clinically to reduce the requirements for other
      anesthetic drugs. IV application of lidocaine is said to decrease the duration of bowel
      dysfunction and postoperative pain intensity.

      We hypothesise that i.v. application of lidocaine in a standard antiarrythmic dose can
      significantly improve acute rehabilitation after laparoscopic urological surgery and so
      shorten the hospital stay. We expect that the intraoperative inflammatory response can
      significantly be reduced.
    
  