
    
      -  Grenoble and Toulouse will test the prandial algorithm with several carbohydrate intake
           and a primer of 50% or 75% of the total bolus. Groups of patients are described as
           follows:

             -  Group I: patients have a meal with the usual carbohydrate intake. The meal bolus is
                made according to the current treatment.

             -  Group II: patients have a meal with a "low" carbohydrate intake (50% reduction of
                carbohydrate).

             -  Group III: patients have a meal with a "strong" carbohydrate intake (increase 50%
                of carbohydrate).

             -  Group IV: patients of group IV have each meal with carbohydrate intake but their
                usual bolus will be omitted.

             -  Inclusion visit V1: The study will be proposed at the patients who meet the
                inclusion criteria. After signing the consent, the investigator shall designate one
                group for each patient.

             -  Visit V2 (24 hours before the visit V3): Installation, calibration and education of
                two glucose sensors dexcom G4 ™ will be performed by a nurse. The patient will keep
                two sensors until the end of the study (end of V4).

             -  Visit V3 (algorithm test): Patient will be fitted with its insulin pump and the two
                sensors dexcom G4 ™. These will be coupled by the engineer LETI to the computer on
                which is installed the control algorithm to be tested. Lunch will be taken at 1 pm.
                The algorithm will provide proposals insulin every 15 minutes until 6 pm.

             -  Visit V4 (patient control): Patient will be fitted with two sensors dexcom G4 ™ and
                its insulin pump programmed according to the usual algorithm. The meal will be
                taken at 1h PM. Patient can leave the site at 6 pm after removal of sensors.

        -  CHSF (Centre Hospitalier Sud Francilien) will test the algorithm glycemic control during
           physical activity of moderate (50% VO2max) or high intensity (75% VO2max) for 30 minutes
           on a bicycle ergometer. In different situations, three patient groups will be created:

             -  Group A: Patients practice an "average" physical activity(50% VO2max) with usual
                temporary basal reduction (usually 50% of reduction during the test and 2h next).

             -  Group B: Patients practice an "intense" physical activity (75% VO2max) with usual
                temporary basal reduction (usually 80% of reduction during the test and 2h after).

             -  Group C: patients practice an "average" physical activity (50% VO2max) but without
                concomitant reduction of temporary basal.

             -  Inclusion visit V1 : The study will be proposed at the patients who meet the
                inclusion criteria. After signing the consent, the investigator shall designate one
                group for each patient.

             -  Visit V2 : Patient will be equipped with two sensors dexcom G4 ™ and a heart rate
                monitor. Calibrated meal is expected at 11h 30 pm. The patient will be administered
                his insulin dose according to his usual algorithm. The physical test will begin
                three hours after the meal. It will be carried on bicycle ergometer for 30 minutes
                at an medium or high intensity. (Average = 50% VO2max, or high level = 75% VO2max).

             -  Visit V3: The same test is repeated for each patient during this visit. Its insulin
                pump will be controlled by the doses proposal of the algorithm after manual
                validation by the investigator. These will continue until the next morning, and the
                patient will spend overnight in the hospital.
    
  