
    
      This is a prospective observational study on liver transplant recipient patients, until
      postoperative day seven. After approval of the ethical committee and written informed
      consent, all liver transplant recipients meeting inclusion criteria are enrolled in the
      study. Patient characteristics like the cause of liver failure, CTP scoring, MELD Na scoring,
      graft vs recipient weight ratio, age, weight, height, BMI, pulmonary and other comorbidities
      are noted. Both lung ultrasound and CXR are done simultaneously in all patients on: one day
      prior to surgery and post-operatively from day 1 to day 7. Ultrasound is done by an
      experienced anesthesiologist with good experience in lung ultrasound, while the CXR was
      interpreted by the another physician. Based on the findings in the different regions of the
      thorax, a lung ultrasound score (LUS) is calculated as the following:- Each hemithorax is
      divided into anterior-lateral sectors (from parasternal to posterior axillary lines) and
      posterior sectors (from posterior axillary to paravertebral line). Each sector then divided
      into upper and lower halves taking the third intercostal space as reference, so that 4 areas
      could be finally identified for each hemithorax. The probe was set perpendicular, oblique,
      and parallel to the ribs to assess the degree of lung aeration with a total of 8 zones to be
      examined using a linear and convex probe. Image interpretation will be according to Lung
      Ultrasound Score. Lung ultrasound score varies from 0-3 [0 = normal aeration; 1 = moderate
      loss of aeration (interstitial syndrome, defined by multiple spaced B lines, or localized
      pulmonary edema, defined by coalescent B lines in less than 50% of the intercostal space
      examined in the transversal plane, or subpleural consolidations); 2 = severe loss of aeration
      (alveolar edema, defined by diffused coalescent B lines occupying the whole intercostal
      space); 3 = complete loss of lung aeration (lung consolidation defined as a tissue pattern
      with or without air bronchogram)]. The LUS is calculated as the sum of the 12 regional
      scores. Along with the LUS, other complications like atelectasis, pulmonary edema,
      consolidation, effusion and collapse are also noted. The LUS will be correlated with
      clinically relevant perioperative pulmonary complications (POPC) and the length of the ICU
      stay. The clinically relevant POPC are defined when any of the following present:

      1.Increase in RR >25/min 2. The need of FIO2>10% 3. Increase Need of PS by 5cm of H2O and
      need of PEEP by 2cm of H20 4.The need of IMV, reinitiation of NIV, and insertion of ICD. Both
      CXR and lung ultrasound findings are compared with respect to the day of appearance of
      complications on CXR and ultrasound. In addition the data will be collected for the total
      duration of the complication, total length of icu and hospital stay.

      .
    
  