
    
      1. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE:

           We extended the pilot study (IRB STU27549) of our objective measurement of skin
           pigmentation with correlation to the self-reported skin reaction to sun exposure to a
           larger sample with special emphasis on people with skin of color and compare the results
           to those obtained by spectrophotometry. We found that forty-two percent (114 of 270) of
           the participants' responses to the burning and tanning questions could not be classified
           using standard Fitzpatrick skin phototype (FST) definitions. At present, we seek to
           determine the accuracy of an adapted Skin Sun Sensitivity Scale for individuals of all
           pigmentation varieties (FST I through VI) as compared with spectrophotometric
           measurements assessing FST.

           Fitzpatrick Skin Phototyping Skin phototyping has usually been determined subjectively
           by trained investigators or clinicians using sun burning and/or sun tanning responses.
           In addition, subject self-report of ease of sunburning and tanning is used in surveys to
           determine the risk of developing skin cancer. (Table 1) Responses to the Fitzpatrick
           Skin Phototype (SPT) questions may be unreliable due to recall bias, subjective bias by
           clinicians and subjects, lack of cultural sensitivity of the questions, and the
           subjects' use of sun protection behaviors from early childhood such that the subject may
           not have experienced sunburn.

           Table 1. Skin type; Erythema and Tanning Reactions to the First Summer Exposure I Always
           burns, never tan (painful burn at 24 hrs and no tan at 7d) II Burn easy, then develop
           light tan (painful burn at 24 hrs and a light tan at 7d) III Burn moderately, then
           develop light tan (slightly tender burn at 24 hrs, moderate tan at 7d) IV Burn
           minimally-rarely, then develop moderate tan (no burn at 24 hrs and a good tan at 7d) V
           Never burns, always develops dark tan VI Never burns, no noticeable change in appearance

           Unreliable Sunburning History A limitation of the 6 integer Roman numeral Fitzpatrick
           SPT was reliance upon a history of sunburn after the first exposure of the summer. For
           those who reside in regions that have sun exposure all year (e.g. Arizona, Florida,
           California), the sunburning-tanning question after the first exposure of the summer was
           often irrelevant. Lastly, in the 1990s people began to use sunscreens to prevent
           sunburns, thus, those with sun sensitive skin may never have experienced sunburn and
           were unable to answer the question about ease of sun burning.

           Multi-ethnic Populations There has been a tendency to group all people of a similar
           ethnic group into a single category of SPT, which introduces potential bias into the
           subjective assessment of SPT by investigators. For example, Hispanic whites are often
           considered "brown" and assigned to Skin Type IV (Table 2). The heterogeneity of those
           with multi-ethnic backgrounds makes it difficult to assess susceptibility to skin cancer
           on the basis of skin color, which is predominantly determined by pigments such as
           hemoglobin, melanin, bilirubin, and carotene.

           Skin Phototyping by Sunburning Ability. Skin Phototype Appearance Sunburning ability I
           Very white or freckled Always burn II White Usually burn III White to Olive Sometimes
           burn IV Brown Rarely burn V Dark brown Very rarely burn VI Black Never burn

           Over the last 3 decades, the Fitzpatrick SPT evolved from its original purpose of
           determining the amount of ultraviolet light (UVL) for treatment of psoriasis patients
           living in New England to become an assessment tool for skin cancer risk. As part of this
           evolution, the original 4 skin types (I-IV), that assessed sun reactivity with
           standardized questions about the ease of sun burning and tanning reactions to the first
           summer sun exposure, were modified by adding SPT V and VI to include those with brown
           and black skin.

           Our research demonstrated that the SPT modifications to include people with skin of
           color were neither culturally sensitive nor accurate as people of color were unable to
           respond to the questions about their experience with sunburn and tanning. People with
           skin of color did not report becoming red or pink but rather experienced "irritation"
           after sun exposure. In our recently reported work, we proposed a modification of the FST
           questions to allow people with skin of color to be able to respond (Survey questions
           1and 2). We now wish to test the responses of people to these self-report questions and
           compare the responses with the melanin index as determined by spectrophotometry.(Survey
           question 9)

           Spectrophotometry The "gold standard" method of assessing skin pigmentation is
           reflectance spectrophotometry (RS). Pershing et al performed seminal research comparing
           the area under the curve obtained by RS to profile the constitutive skin color with
           clinicians' assessment of SPT. For skin types I-III, Pershing et al (2008) found
           inconsistency between clinicians' and reflectance spectrophotometric (RS) assessments of
           SPT. The clinicians adjusted the patients' SPT as determined by their historical sun
           burning and tanning response by factoring in observed hair and eye color. For example,
           red-haired individuals determined by RS to be SPT III were listed as SPT I by clinical
           dermatologists. Subjective assessment of SPT by clinicians was heavily influenced by
           patients' hair and eye color. The Pershing study, which accrued 125 subjects did not
           accrue sufficient numbers of subjects with skin of color (Skin types III-VI) to be able
           to report meaningful results. (I 20; II 53, III 21, IV 10, V 16, VI 5)

           It should be noted that the area under the curve obtained by RS includes the red
           reflectance, thus, it is does not solely represent skin pigmentation. Skin pigmentation
           or melanin provides photoprotection and can be calculated as melanin index, MI. (see
           following section on Melanin Index) Even as early as 1961, the potential for confounding
           of the MI obtained by RS by dilatation of superficial blood vessels was recognized. The
           device, Mexameter MX 18, internally corrects for the red reflectance in calculating the
           melanin index. The melanin index is derived from the multilayered skin model and
           Lambert-Beer's law.

           Significance:

           While those that are at risk to develop skin cancer have less melanin content (skin type
           I) than those at low risk (skin type VI), people with skin phototypes in the mid-range
           (III and IV) believe that their natural skin tone is protective against sunburns, thus,
           they fail to use sun protection. When people with skin type III and IV are exposed to
           more intense ultraviolet light in more southern latitudes than Chicago they are
           surprised by the sunburn they experience. In our proof of principle research, people
           with skin type III and IV, who viewed the image of their skin on the computer screen,
           perceived that the "color was grainy" and made the conclusion that the "holes" in their
           skin pigment made it possible for them to burn

           This study will further objectively measure the MI of people with skin of color. Thus,
           it is essential that we accrue a representative sample of people with skin of color with
           all ethnic groups represented over the greatest range of skin types for those
           self-identifying themselves as members of the group.

        2. STUDY OBJECTIVES:

      Our principal objective is to correlate the melanin index under usual conditions by
      spectrophotometry with the adapted Fitzpatrick SPT as determined by the patients' responses
      to the adapted questionnaire.
    
  