
    
      Opioid use disorder (OUD) is a chronic, relapsing disease and a major source of morbidity and
      mortality in the United States. Medications for opioid use disorder (i.e., methadone;
      buprenorphine) have been shown to reduce opioid use in diverse populations; however,
      long-term use of these medications and engagement in care are often suboptimal. Depression
      has been shown to contribute to medication discontinuation and care disengagement. Behavioral
      activation (BA) therapy is an evidence-based, behavioral treatment that has been shown to be
      effective in treating comorbid depression and substance use in diverse populations with
      smoking, alcohol, stimulant, and poly-substance use disorder. BA utilizes therapeutic
      techniques that help patients gradually increase goal-directed, potentially rewarding and
      pleasurable activities while decreasing the intensity and frequency of adverse events and
      consequences in order to improve mood. Given that BA utilizes strategies that can support
      individuals in alleviating depression and build the capacity to navigate life challenges,
      pairing BA with medications for OUD could help to ensure continued engagement in care and
      improve OUD treatment outcomes.

      This study, therefore, seeks to determine the feasibility of study procedures, enhance
      participant acceptability, and demonstrate preliminary efficacy of the CoMBAT (Combined
      Medication and Behavioral Activation Treatment) intervention. We will enroll 80 individuals
      currently being treated with methadone or buprenorphine for OUD in a pilot randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) of the CoMBAT intervention. Prior to randomization, participants will
      receive 2 health navigation and standard substance abuse counseling sessions. Participants
      will then be equally randomized to either: 1) the 8-session CoMBAT intervention; or 2)
      standard of care. The primary outcome is engagement in care. Secondary outcomes include
      self-reported days of opioid use and opioid positive urinalysis. Intervention feasibility and
      acceptability will also be assessed. Participants will complete major assessment visits
      (survey and toxicology testing) at baseline and 3- and 6-months post-randomization. Patient
      medical records and pharmacy data will also be used to verify self-reported data.
    
  