
    
      The investigators propose to evaluate a multi-component integrated HIV/HTN care intervention
      through a cluster randomised controlled trial. A cluster has been defined at the level of the
      district which is the randomisation unit. A total of 26 districts will be randomised.
      Selected health facilities within the 13 intervention districts will receive the
      multi-component intervention of combined HIV and (hypertension) HTN care which includes; 1)
      Training and capacity building on the INTEGRATED HIV/HTN model and NCD care; 2) the
      Integrated HIV/HTN care delivery model by promoting HTN screening and care in HIV clinics; 3)
      Health management information system (HMIS) enhancements through mentorship and coaching on
      the use of NCD registers and NCD patient cards and HTN data capture in the EMR system; and 4)
      Short messaging system (SMS) and/or WhatsApp for data coordination and communication among
      providers, DHOs and the study team (who acts as mentors). The 13 control districts will
      continue implementing the current standard of care as per MoH guidelines.

      The investigators will test the hypothesis that a multi-component intervention of combined
      HIV and HTN care, based on the PRECEDE framework, to continuously identify barriers and
      facilitators leads to better health outcomes including dual control of HIV/HTN among adults
      in HIV care in the intervention compared to control facilities.

      Specific Objectives are as follows;

        1. To determine the effectiveness of an integrated HIV/HTN care model on HTN and dual
           HIV/HTN control among adult patients in HIV clinics.

        2. To assess the barriers and facilitators of the integrated HIV/HTN care model for HIV
           patients at different levels.

        3. To determine the cost, cost-effectiveness and incremental gain costs of the integrated
           HIV/Hypertension care model approach.
    
  