
    
      TV-AssistDem is an interactive platform which has been designed and developed adapting the
      functionalities and content to best fit PMCI/MD, in a process involving the structured
      participation of PMCI/MD, their informal caregivers, and clinicians.

      QUALITY ASSURANCE PLAN. The researchers will review and report the process during the trial
      covering participant enrolment, consent, eligibility and allocation to trial groups, policies
      to protect participants, including reporting of harm and completeness, accuracy and
      timeliness of data collection.

      STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES. Participants will be recruited over a period of three months
      by physicians (primary care, psychiatry, neurology, and geriatrics), neuropsychologists and
      dementia and mental health nurses. Participants will not receive financial reimbursement for
      taking part in this trial. Participants will be identified from people with self- perceived
      cognitive impairment or caregiver´s perception of cognitive impairment that has been present
      for more than six months and who meet all the study eligibility criteria (listed in section
      Eligibility). The Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and Geriatric Depression Scale
      (GDS-15) will be used to screen PMCI/MD at recruitment. Participants can be under primary
      care services as well as secondary care services. Participants will also be identified from
      patient databases such as those integrated in the network.

      DATA DICTIONARY. All variables collected in this study are listed and described in an
      electronic case report form, with associated guidelines, to ensure consistency in all
      gathered data. The following data will be collected in this trial:

        -  Sociodemographical data.

        -  Medical history - PMCI/MD only.

        -  Quality of Life-Alzheimer's Disease Scale (QoL-AD Scale) (1-3).

        -  European Quality of Life 5 Dimensions 5 Levels (EuroQoL-5D-5L) (4,5).

        -  Zarit Burden Interview (ZBI-12) (6,7).

        -  Treatment adherence: Pill/dose count (8-10) and Morisky-Green Test (11).

        -  Functional decline: Lawton - Brody Instrumental Activities Of Daily Living Scale (IADL)
           (12).

        -  Service Utilisation: Client Service Receipt Inventory (CSRI) (13,14).

        -  Data from the TV-AssistDem application focusing on User-behaviour and usage of core
           services.

        -  Usability Evaluation: System Usability Scale (SUS) (15,16).

      SAMPLE SIZE ASSESSMENT. The main outcome measure is the total score of the QoL-AD, which
      ranges from 13 to 52. According to recent studies (17,18) , the standard deviation of the
      total score of the QoL-AD is 7. For a minimum important clinical difference of 2.77 on the
      total QoL-AD score, with a standard deviation of 7, the effect size is 0.39.

      To compare two groups (Intervention and Control) using a two- sample, two-sided t-test with a
      5% statistical significance level, the minimum number of evaluable PMCI/MDs required in each
      group is 100 (200 overall), to give a power of 80%. If there would be a drop-out rate of 20%
      of the PMCI/MDs then the number of PMCI/MDs registered on the study would need to be 120 in
      each group (240 overall).

      STATISTICS ANALYSIS PLAN. The flow of individuals will be shown schematically with counts and
      percentages in a CONSORT diagram. The analysis will be made following an intention-to-treat
      procedure. All variables collected will be summarized by group and by site at baseline and at
      final follow-up. Statistics considered for presentation for continuous measures in summary
      tables will be the mean, minima and maxima, and standard deviation, and if the criteria of
      normality are not met, the median and the first and third quartiles. Categorical variables
      will be summarized using counts and percentages. The baseline variables of the experimental
      group and the control group will be compared using the Chi-Square test for categorical
      variables and analysis of covariance for continuous variables.

      For the primary outcome, a Linear Mixed Model analyses will be carried out as this approach
      is optimal to include subjects with missing data. First, an unadjusted analysis will be
      carried out and secondarily, in case that potentially confusing factors differ between the
      experimental group and the control group, despite the randomization, a supplementary
      multivariate analysis will be carried out. For secondary outcomes a Linear Mixed Model and
      Generalized Mixed Model analysis will be used for continuous and categorical variables
      respectively. Analysis will be two-tailed and alpha level set at 0.05.

      ECONOMIC ANALYSIS. A cost-effectiveness and/or cost-utility analysis from a Health Service
      perspective (financer perspective) will be performed. The time horizon is two years and will
      include only direct costs. This refers to direct health costs (medication and healthcare use
      of services including outpatient and emergencies visits and hospital admissions). The
      Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) will be calculated to estimate the benefit calculating
      the utility improvement measure by EuroQoL-5D-5L.

      USER-BEHAVIOUR ANALYSIS AND USABILITY EVALUATION. Data on various platform usage variables
      will be collected for the intervention group. Regression analysis will be used to assess the
      relationship between the primary and secondary outcome variables and the usage variables in
      order to indicate which aspects of the computer platform use most affect the outcomes. The
      results of the usability tests will be analyzed using statistical methods to quantify the
      error rate, effectiveness and learning curve of the TV-AssistDem platform.

      PLAN FOR MISSING DATA. Each researcher is responsible for ensuring that any missing data will
      be reported as missing in the study database. Procedures can sometimes be considered when
      using statistical methods that fail in the presence of any missing values, or when in the
      case of multiple-predictor statistical models all the data for an individual would be omitted
      because of a missing value in one of the predictors. For analyses involving multiple
      regression analysis, a multiple imputation approach will be considered and used if
      statistically sound, depending on the proportion and pattern of missing values.

      METHODS TO ENSURE VALIDITY AND QUALITY OF DATA. Accurate and reliable data collection will be
      assured by verification and cross-check of the case report form (CRF) against the
      researcher´s records (source document verification). Source document verification will be
      conducted for 5% of data in subjects. A comprehensive validation check program utilizing
      front-end checks in the CRF will verify these data. Discrepancies and queries will be
      generated accordingly in the CRF for online resolution by the researcher at the site. In
      addition, the CRF data will be reviewed on an ongoing basis for medical and scientific
      plausibility.
    
  