
    
      Study design: This is a randomized controlled trial study, including patients ventilated in
      one respiratory intensive care unit (RICU). Two suction systems (The novel VSSS and
      conventional CSS alone) will be compared at time point before (baseline), immediately after,
      3 min after, and 5 min after suctioning.

      Background: Sputum suctioning is a routine clinical procedure that is crucial for keeping the
      airway open, to reduce the incidence of respiratory-tract infections. In most circumstances,
      a conventional catheter with a single-lumen channel is used for sputum suctioning. However,
      this procedure Involves blind manipulation of the catheter on the part of the clinician and
      thus depends largely on the clinician's skills and experience. Therefore, complications occur
      in some patients, especially on the changes of the parameters of the heart-lung system. In
      addition, because clinicians cannot directly target sputum in the trachea, the efficiency of
      the procedure may be reduced.

      Recently, a visual sputum suctioning system (VSSS) was developed in our research group. It
      integrates a 0.9-mm micro-imaging fiber into a 3.7-mm double-lumen catheter.

      In vitro tests investigators found that the ability to visualize the airway allows targeting
      of sputum, which compensates for the smaller lumen and makes the suctioning procedure more
      efficient overall. In addition, in animal tests investigators found that the VSSS collected
      more sputum and caused less tracheal mucosa damage than conventional suctioning.

      Purpose: The present study investigated the safety and efficacy of sputum suctioning system
      with this double-lumen catheter in mechanical ventilated patients in respiratory intensive
      care unit (RICU). The purpose of this study was to compare the weight of secretions
      collected, vital signs, and tracheal wall injury between two groups of patients randomized to
      have VSSS combined with closed system suction (CSC) suction and patients having CSC suction
      alone. investigators theorized that the VSSS collected more sputum and caused less change of
      vital signs than conventional CSC.

      Registry procedure: All requested information will be recorded on case report forms and
      explanation will be reported for any missing data. False data will be clearly corrected, and
      signed by investigator or authorized person.

      Monitoring will be realized by the co-investigator in association with the clinical research
      associate.

      Sample size assessment: Number of subjects: 40 patients. Three months should be necessary to
      include these patients.

      Statistical analysis: Investigators determined that 20 patients per group would provide a
      power of 95%, with a α level of 5%.

      Results will be expressed as means ± Standard Deviation. SPSS 10.0 (Chicago, Illinois, USA)
      for the statistical calculation was used. P values < 0.05 were considered statistically
      significant. Investigators used the nonparametric t test for normally distributed data, and
      the nonparametric Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney rank test for other data.Investigators used
      repeated-measures analysis of variance at four time points (before suctioning, immediately
      after suctioning, 3 min after suctioning, and 5 min after suctioning) to analyze changes and
      differences in PaO2, heart rate, and mean arterial pressure.
    
  