
    
      Despite a variety of scoring systems (Glasgow-Blatchford-Score, etc.) timing of endoscopy in
      case of suspecting nonvariceal bleeding in the upper gastrointestinal tract is still
      challenging.

      While very early endoscopy (within 12 hours) is required in some cases, European Society of
      Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ESGE) - guidelines recommend performing emergency endoscopy
      within 24 hours in other cases. However, a recent study (Siau et al. 2019) showed that even
      this time window is only kept in 59% of cases. Therefore this study examines, whether the use
      of the HemoPill Acute ® capsule in case of suspected nonvariceal upper gastrointestinal
      bleeding, can identify cases in which endoscopy can be delayed to 48-96 hours without risk to
      the patient.

      In this study, after the routine administration of a proton pump inhibitor, hemodynamically
      stable emergency patients suspected of having non-variceal bleeding in the upper
      gastrointestinal tract receive a novel blood detection capsule (HemoPill Acute ®) for
      swallowing, whose result is available after 2 hours.

      In case of blood detection in the upper gi-tract (capsule positive), the endoscopy will be
      performed within 12 hours.

      If no blood is found in the upper GI tract (capsule negative), endoscopy will be performed
      after 48 to 96 hours, with the patient being monitored in hospital until then. In these
      cases, if clinical bleeding occurs before the planned endoscopy, the patient will receive an
      unscheduled emergency endoscopy.

      Further treatment is carried out according to current clinical standards. 30 days after
      discharge, the patients will be asked by telephone about their further clinical course and
      possible complications.

      This study is supported by Ovesco Endoscopy AG by making the capsule available free of
      Charge. The study is planned to recruit 72 participants over 48 months in several centers. If
      this procedure is found to be safe, the HemoPill Acute ® capsule can be used to reduce the
      number of emergency endoscopies.
    
  