
    
      Early therapeutic mobility (ETM) activity has been recommended to facilitate recovery and
      improve outcomes for the survivors of critical illness who experience prolonged mechanical
      ventilation. The effective dose (i.e., type, frequency and duration) of ETM activity is not
      known and there are limited reports about the application and effects of ETM in mechanically
      ventilated intensive care unit (ICU) patients. Three inflammatory biomarkers, interleukin
      (IL)-6, IL-10 and C-reactive protein, are potentially altered by a single episode of ETM
      activity. Systemic markers of physical health (i.e., vital signs, delirium, muscle strength,
      ventilator associated pneumonia, and duration of mechanical ventilation) may also be
      positively influenced by ETM. The primary aim of this interdisciplinary study is to compare
      the immediate effects of frequency--single and twice daily episodes--of ETM activity and the
      effects of type--low and moderate intensity--of ETM activity on molecular biomarkers of
      inflammation and systemic markers of physical health in mechanically ventilated adults. This
      is an experimental design, using repeated measures; subjects will be randomized to receive
      either one or two episodes of ETM activity daily during week days while in the ICU. Type of
      activity will be determined by patient condition. The research questions are:

        1. a. What are the differences between the frequency (once versus twice daily) of ETM
           activities on inflammatory biomarkers: interleukin (IL)-6, IL-10 and C-reactive protein
           (CRP)? 1.b. What are the differences between the type (low or moderate) of ETM
           activities on inflammatory biomarkers: IL-6, IL-10 and CRP?

        2. a. What are the differences between frequency of ETM activities on systemic markers of
           physical health: vital signs, delirium, muscle strength, ventilator-associated pneumonia
           and duration of mechanical ventilation? 2.b. What are the differences between type of
           ETM activities on systemic markers of physical health: vital signs, delirium, muscle
           strength, ventilator-associated pneumonia and duration of mechanical ventilation?

      Data will be collected for a maximum of 3 contiguous days in ICU patients who are
      mechanically ventilated for >48 hours, then weekly to examine short-term patient responses to
      ETM activities in this preliminary study. Daily episodes of activity will be provided by a
      study interventionist. Repeated measures MANCOVA and ANCOVA will be used to answer the
      research questions. This collaborative study evaluates a biobehavioral methodology within an
      interdisciplinary team consistent with the biobehavioral methods to improve outcome research
      (PA-07-008) and the mission of the National Institute of Nursing Research to improve
      treatments and health based on evidence.
    
  