
    
      There is very little known about the dynamic conditions inside a prosthetic socket, despite
      several research efforts based on pressure sensors, static X-ray images and/or computer
      simulations (FEM). The man reason is the inability of current measuring devices to track with
      enough resolution the in-vivo high speed kinematics of the stump-socket interface. Socket
      manufacturing and rectification in the field still relies on the experience and skill of the
      technician and feedback from the patient. This results in considerable dissatisfaction among
      the users and poor quantification of the socket fitting problems.

      For lower extremity amputees, a well-fitting socket is an important element for a successful
      rehabilitation. The socket provides the interface between the prosthesis and residual limb,
      which is designed to provide comfort, appropriate load transmission, and efficient movement
      control. Attaining these objectives is extremely challenging, with up to 55% of lower limb
      amputees reporting dissatisfaction with socket comfort, residual limb pain, and/or skin
      breakdown. In addition, current techniques used to produce sockets with suitable
      characteristics are labor and cost intensive, and depend on the work of skilled prosthetists
      that are relatively scarce compared to the number of amputees. Currently, there are more than
      500,000 lower limb amputees in the U.S. alone, with 60,000 new ones every year. For upper
      extremity amputees the issues related to the efficiency of movement, load transmission and
      comfort become even more challenging due to the different nature of the associated motor
      skills and performing tasks. Similarly there are l7,350 annual upper limb amputations distal
      to elbow in individuals under 21 years of age in the US. In most developed countries there
      are 1.55 amputees per 1000 people. Most amputees wear a prosthesis for about 70 hr/week and
      use crutches or wheelchairs as alternative assistive devices when performing certain tasks.
      Current solutions do not meet the patient specific needs.

      It is suggested that our findings can further the understanding of the effects of slippage or
      harmful relative motion between stump and socket. Eventually new - and scientific based -
      guidelines for the fitting of artificial limbs could be recommended.
    
  