
    
      One of the main reasons of resistance to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) is that there
      are alternative mechanisms for persistent activating EGFR downstream signaling, including
      both RAS/Erk and PI3K/Akt kinase pathways. Therefore, simultaneous inhibition of both
      pathways would be necessary to reduce tumor cell survival more effectively. One of the
      candidate combinations is concurrent use of EGFR-TKIs and statins, which are irreversible
      inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase and have been used to
      treat hypercholesterolemia through blocking the mevalonate biosynthesis pathway. Beside the
      cholesterol lowering effect, statins have been shown to induce apoptosis in several tumor
      types. It affects the synthesis of other products of the mevalonate pathway such as
      isoprenoids, which are used as substrates for prenylation. Attachment of isoprenoids to RAS
      proteins facilitates their anchoring to the cell membrane where they carried out their roles.
      By interrupting the biosynthesis of mevalonate, statins inhibit activation of RAS and
      downstream signaling cascades, including the RAF/MEK/ERK and PI3K/AKT, which play critical
      roles in regulation of cell survival and proliferation. Therefore, it seems to be a promising
      therapeutic approach overcoming tumor resistance to EGFR-TKIs, which is associated with RAS
      activation.

      According to the recent clinical result of phase II trial, a randomized phase II study of
      gefitinib with or without simvastatin in previously treated patients with advanced NSCLC
      conducted by Han et al.37 gefitinib plus simvastatin combination produced higher response
      rates than gefitinib alone in patients with non-adenocarcinoma (5/13 [39%] v 1/13 [8%],
      P=0.06). This finding suggests that simvastatin may enhance sensitivity to gefitinib in
      non-adenocarcinoma that is relatively resistant to gefitinib. Moreover, by Mantha et al.35
      demonstrated that the combination of gefitinib and lovastatin showed significant synergic
      cytotoxic effects in vitro in a total of 16 squamous cell carcinomas, NSCLC, and colon
      carcinoma cell lines. Of special interest, these cell lines did not possess the activating
      mutations of EGFR, which confer increased sensitivity to gefitinib. Nevertheless, combining
      lovastatin with gefitinib induced more significant inhibition of AKT activation than either
      agent alone. Additionally, lovastatin significantly enhanced the sensitivity to gefitinib
      treatment regardless PTEN loss in glioblastoma cell lines. These results suggest that statins
      can augment EGFR inhibition.
    
  