
    
      Background Nasal high flow oxygen (NHF) is a new and promising tool for oxygen therapy in
      critically ill patients: NHF allows accurate delivery of the set FiO2, anatomical dead space
      clearance due to a washout effect in the upper airways and provides a small, variable amount
      of positive end end-expiratory pressure. Different studies have investigated its safety and
      efficacy in several clinical setting and, recently, a randomized controlled trial showed that
      NHF, as compared to NIV, may reduce the intubation rate in severely hypoxemic patients with
      de novo acute respiratory failure (AHRF).

      Prone positioning (PP) is a simple and cost-effective strategy that since 1980s has been used
      in mechanically ventilated patients with acute respiratory failure to treat oxygenation
      impairment. In the acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) PP reduces intrapulmonary shunt
      (Qs/Qt) and enhances lung recruitment, modifying both lung ventilation (VA) and lung
      perfusion (Q) distribution, finally generating an improvement in VA/Q matching and reversing
      oxygenation impairment. In addition, the reduction of transpulmonary gradient (mean pulmonary
      arterial pressure-pulmonary artery occlusion pressure) due to a higher pulmonary arterial
      occlusion pressure allows pulmonary vascular recruitment, possibly lowering dead space
      fraction. Indeed, prone positioning sessions have been shown to reduce right ventricular
      afterload, increase cardiac index in subjects with preload reserve and reverse acute cor
      pulmonale in severe ARDS patients. Finally, a large randomized study detected a relevant
      survival benefit by prone positioning in patients with moderate to severe acute respiratory
      distress syndrome (ARDS) undergoing invasive mechanical ventilation and managed with the ARDS
      network peep-FiO2 table strategy.

      Theoretically, PP benefits may concern also spontaneous breathing patients, in whom it could
      possibly contribute to the success of the noninvasive strategy. Data concerning PP
      application in such context are limited to small case series and a retrospective study
      involving patients undergoing NIV or oxygen therapy and suggesting good patients tolerance,
      significant improvement in oxygenation during the procedure and no increase in nurse
      workload. In particular, in the retrospective study by Pesenti and co. 43 procedures in 15
      patients were analysed: three patients (20%) received mild sedation without dosing
      adjustments over the course of the study, median [IqR] duration of prone positioning was
      3[2-4] hours and only in two cases (5%) pronation had to be interrupted after 30 minutes due
      to patient's discomfort, while no other respiratory or technical complications, such as
      displacement of indwelling catheters, facial oedema, pressure sores, pressure neuropathies,
      compression of nerves, and retinal vessels or vomiting, have been documented. Given its high
      tolerability, simplicity to use and positive effect on patients' comfort when compared both
      to NIV and to low flow oxygen delivered through a face mask, NHF may be the optimal strategy
      for the respiratory management of spontaneous breathing patients during prone positioning.

      Interestingly, a recent electrical impedance tomography study on 20 healthy volunteers during
      NHF showed a more homogeneous dorsal-to-ventral ventilation pattern in PP, as compared to the
      supine position: notably, a dorsal-to-ventral more uniform air distribution may benefit
      hypoxemic patients, given that PaO2 response to oxygen supplementation can be fostered by
      more homogeneous regional lung inflation and better oxygenation has been shown to be a
      predictor of NHF treatment success.

      The investigators designed a pilot feasibility study to assess the safety and efficacy of
      prone positioning in patients wit AHRF undergoing high flow oxygen therapy via nasal cannula.

      Methods:

      Setting: 21-bed medical-surgical ICU, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario "Agostino
      Gemelli", Rome, Italy..

      Patients: adult hypoxemic (PaO2/FiO2 < 200 mmHg) non-hypercapnic patients with acute
      respiratory failure will be assessed for the enrolment. To validate the presence of the
      oxygenation criteria, each eligible patient, in the absence of exclusion criteria, will
      receive 15 minutes of heated and humidified 50% oxygen at a rate of 50 l/min via a
      non-rebreathing face mask. An ABG will be then collected and PaO2/FiO2 ratio computed: given
      the high flows used, actual FiO2 will be approximated to the set one. Patients with a P/F
      ratio<80 mmHg and/or a RR>40 bpm will be excluded for safety reasons.

      Protocol Eligible patients will undergo NHF for 1 hour in the supine semi recumbent position
      (baseline, BL step). Oxygen therapy will be commenced at 60 l/min and flows will be decreased
      in case of intolerance. Humidification chamber (MR860, Fisher and Paykel healthcare) will be
      set at 37 °C or 31 °C according to patient's comfort. FiO2 will be titrated to obtain and
      SpO2 >92 % and <98 %.

      Afterwards, the patient will be placed in the prone position for 2 hours (Prone step). During
      pronation FiO2 will be increased up to 80% and then gradually decreased to the baseline value
      within the first 10 minutes of prone positioning. Any further modifications in the NHF
      settings will be discouraged over the entire course of the study; nonetheless, if needed to
      achieve the SpO2 target, an increase in FiO2 will be allowed and recorded.

      As suggested by Pesenti and co., in conscious and cooperative patients pronation will be
      performed by 2 operators and the attending physician, while in patients with impaired
      mobility up to 5 operators will be necessary. Evaluation of gastric residual volume through a
      nasogastric tube will reduce the risk of aspiration and application of appropriate skin
      protections will avoid pressure sores. In addition, careful application of appropriate
      cushions will enhance patient tolerance to the manoeuvre.

      For safety reasons, enteral feeding, whether prescribed, will be interrupted 1 hour before
      prone positioning and re-established after the study ending.

      After a 2-hour PP period, the patient will be rotated and will undergo 1 hour of NHF in the
      semi recumbent supine position (Supine step).

      As already stated, FiO2 will be increased up to 80% for the procedure and then gradually
      decreased to the baseline value within the following 10 minutes.

      In case of intolerance to PP, all clinical data will be collected and the patients will be
      promptly rotated in supine position. The reasons for prematurely unproning the patient will
      be accurately recorded. In case of sudden worsening of the oxygenation impairment or
      haemodynamics, 100% FiO2 will be set and the patient will be promptly positioned in the
      supine semi-recumbent position.

      Measurements Patient's demographics will be collected at study entry: initials, age, sex,
      height, weight, BMI, cause of hospital and ICU admission, SAPS II, Apache, SOFA, date and
      time of ICU admission, date and time of enrolment, comorbidities, NYHA category prior to
      respiratory failure, body temperature, chest x-ray (jpeg images), chest CT scan (if
      available).

      At study enrolment an electrical impedance tomography (EIT) belt will be placed around the
      thorax between the 5th or 6th parasternal intercostal space and connected to a dedicated
      device to record electrical impedance signals.

      During the study, each patient will undergo a standard ICU monitoring: ECG, Invasive blood
      pressure, SpO2, respiratory rate, diuresis.

      At the end of the BL period, and then on a hourly basis the following data will be collected:

        -  Respiratory rate, SpO2, pH, PaCO2, PaO2, SaO2, PaO2/FiO2;

        -  Heart Rate, arterial blood pressure;

        -  Dyspnoea, as defined by the Borg dyspnoea scale;

        -  Discomfort, as defined by a visual analogic scale (VAS) adapted to rate the procedural
           pain of ICU patients;

        -  End expiratory lung impedance (EELI), tidal volume distribution and global and regional
           lung dynamic strain (Change in lung impedence due to tidal volume/EELI). At the end of
           each step, ten-minute EIT signals will be recorded and offline reviewed using a
           dedicated software. Image acquisition rate will be 30 Hz. Lungs will be divided into
           four regions (ventral, mid-ventral, mid-dorsal and dorsal): the percentage of impedance
           variation related to tidal volume and the percentage EELI in the four regions as
           compared to the absolute values will be calculated.

        -  PTP of the esophageal pressure

        -  Esophageal pressure inspiratory swings

        -  Respiratory system, lung and chest wall mechanics, according to the method proposed by
           Mauri et al. (Am J Resp Crit Care Med 2017)

        -  Pendelluft phenomenon

      As a safety tool the following adverse events will be assessed in each of the three study
      periods:

        -  The number of displacements of the nasal cannula

        -  The number of oxygen desaturations (SpO2 <90%)

        -  Episodes of haemodynamic instability (Systolic arterial pressure<80 mmHg or FC>120 BPM)

        -  Displacement of venous line (peripheral or central), if documented

        -  Displacement of arterial line, if documented

        -  Displacement of urinary catheter, if documented.

      At the end of the study, the nurse in charge will be asked to anonymously rate the additional
      workload due to PP (in minutes) and to judge the feasibility and safety of the procedure
      using two analog scales ranging from 0 (completely unfeasible/unsafe) to 10 (totally
      feasible/safe).

      Sample size Given the pilot, physiological and exploratory design of the study, a formal
      sample power analysis was not performed. It is planned to enrol 15 patients over a period of
      12 months.
    
  