
    
      Although anesthesiologists recognize that residual neuromuscular block can adversely affect
      postoperative recovery, a high percentage of patients continue to arrive in the PACU with TOF
      ratios < 0.9. An important reason this problem occurs is that anesthesiologists rarely use
      quantitative neuromuscular monitoring in the operating room. In current anesthesia practices,
      clinicians typically use standard peripheral nerve stimulators (qualitative neuromuscular
      monitors) and / or clinical tests of muscle strength to detect residual muscle weakness at
      the end of surgical procedures. Qualitative nerve stimulators/monitors are routinely used in
      the operating rooms; TOF electrical stimuli are applied to a peripheral nerve, and the
      contractions of the innervated muscle observed. However, visual or tactile assessment of TOF
      stimulation using these monitors is only effective in detecting profound levels of muscle
      weakness (TOF ratios < 0.4) Therefore, qualitative nerve stimulators are unable to reliably
      detect clinically relevant neuromuscular block (TOF ratios of 0.5-0.9). Clinical assessment
      of patients for signs of muscle weakness (head-lift, hand squeeze) is also an insensitive
      method of detecting residual neuromuscular block, since many patients can perform these tests
      with TOF ratios as low as 0.5.

      In order for clinicians to reliably exclude residual neuromuscular blockade, quantitative
      neuromuscular monitoring should be used. At the present time, only one stand-alone
      quantitative monitor has been produced for clinical use, the TOF-Watch (Blue Star
      Enterprises, Chanhassen, Minnesota-no longer manufactured). This technology
      (acceleromyography (AMG)) uses a piezoelectric crystal to sense the acceleration of muscle
      contractions, and converts this data into a displayed TOF ratio (0-100%). Although the use of
      the TOF-Watch has been demonstrated to reduce the risk of residual blockade, the routine
      application of this monitor by clinicians has been limited by a number of factors, related to
      complexity of use in the operating room.. There is an urgent need for an easy-to-use and
      accurate quantitative neuromuscular monitor in the clinical setting. Recently, a new device
      has been developed that uses electromyography (EMG) technology to assess recovery of muscle
      function in the clinical setting (the TetraGraph). This EMG device measures electrical
      activity (compound muscle action potentials) following nerve stimulation (usually at the
      thenar eminence after ulnar or median nerve stimulation). When TOF stimuli are provided, this
      data is then converted to a measurable TOF ratio (from 0-1.0 or 0-100%). In a study completed
      at NorthShore University HealthSystem, the investigators compared the applicability (ease of
      use, equipment need, etc.), repeatability (precision or internal consistency), and
      performance (agreement with established standard, bias) of this EMG technology to the
      TOF-Watch (the current clinical "gold standard" quantitative neuromuscular monitor). The
      subsequent analysis suggested that EMG monitoring accurately measures onset and recovery of
      neuromuscular function in the operating room.

      The use of quantitative neuromuscular monitoring in the operating room should allow for more
      rational management of dosing and reversal of NMBAs. Furthermore, if incomplete neuromuscular
      recovery is detected at the end of a surgical procedure, tracheal extubation can be delayed
      until full recovery of muscle strength has occurred. Therefore, fewer patients should leave
      the operating room with muscle weakness, and the risks/complications of residual blockade in
      the PACU reduced. The aim of this clinical investigation is to determine whether EMG
      monitoring in the operating room reduces the incidence of postoperative residual blockade
      (measured at the time of tracheal extubation and on arrival to the PACU). During the PACU
      admission, patients will also be assessed for potential complications related to incomplete
      neuromuscular recovery (signs and symptoms of muscle weakness, episodes of hypoxemia and
      airway obstruction, prolonged PACU length of stay). Patients will be randomized to receive
      either electromyography monitoring (EMG group-TetraGraph) or qualitative peripheral nerve
      stimulator monitoring (PNS group) in the operating room. The primary endpoint is the
      incidence of postoperative residual block (defined as a TOF ratio < 0.9 with the TOF-Watch
      monitor). Secondary endpoints include a variety of clinical recovery variables listed below.
    
  