
    
      Background:

        -  Increased understanding of the genomic variations of cancer through laboratory
           evaluations can result in breakthroughs in treatment and improved patient outcomes.

        -  Exceptional responders on clinical trials may have mutational characteristics that are
           unique and unknown, necessitating identification.

        -  Current drug development strategies employ precision oncology. This approach identifies
           molecular targets, with therapies being either chosen or developed to interact with the
           specific target.

        -  The collection and banking of a variety of tissue samples for future translational
           studies would support research and advance the mission of the NIH.

        -  Pleural effusions, ascites as well as other tissues, such as blood, CSF, tumor, bone
           marrow, and urine, provide a unique opportunity to conduct a variety of translational
           research, addressing many clinical questions.

        -  The establishment of a tissue repository would enhance the mission of the NCI, in
           helping to advance research supporting precision oncology.

      Primary Objective:

      -To establish a tissue repository for the collection and banking of tissue samples from
      patients with breast and/or other gynecologic malignancies, as well as patients consenting
      1st -3rd degree biological relatives, seen at the NIH for support of future translational
      research conducted at the NIH.

      Eligibility:

        -  Personal diagnosis of breast or other gynecologic malignancy, or be a 1st-3rd degree
           biological relative of a patient with cancer, currently or previously on a NIH clinical
           trial.

        -  All subjects (index patient with cancer and their 1st-3rd degree biological relatives)
           must sign consent and enroll onto this study, in order to donate tissue for biobanking
           on this protocol.

        -  Adults, greater than or equal to age 18, willing to provide tissue for biobanking

      Design:

        -  Samples include, but not limited to tumor (e.g., tissue, outside parrafin blocks or
           slides), blood, serum, plasma, urine, bone marrow, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), malignant
           ascites, and effusions; to be collected after subjects have met eligibility and signed
           consent. We will also obtain samples (mainly blood) from volunteer, consenting 1st-3rd
           degree biological relatives of patients with histologically confirmed cancer, to be
           paired with their family member.

        -  The following sample collection strategy is planned, other samples (if applicable) may
           be collected at the discretion of the PI:

             -  Ascites or pleural fluid: approximately 200cc-5L will be collected from patients
                undergoing therapeutic procedures.

             -  Peripheral blood: up to 30ml will be collected via either venipuncture or through
                existing intravenous access.

             -  Tumor tissue: a portion of the cores will be transferred to this study, and tracked
                via LabMatrix once clinical needs are met on the subject s main treatment protocol,
                and after subject signs consent. Biopsies will not be performed solely for the
                purpose of this study.

             -  Urine: (5-10 ml) obtained via clean catch method.

             -  Bone marrow: (1 core biopsy and half 1 ml of aspirate) obtained via routine sacral
                biopsy when clinically indicated.

             -  CSF: (1-2 ml) obtained via lumbar puncture when clinically indicated.

        -  Tissue will be accessed by study investigators. Additional CCR investigators who wish to
           use tissue from this repository must first provide a written Letter of Intent, (LOI), to
           be reviewed by an investigator appointed ad hoc committee for approval.

        -  Assays used for sample processing, establishment of cell lines, patient derived
           xenograft models, and storage are described in detail within this protocol. Also, some
           assays for future translational research are either listed or described herein. Further
           detailed description of experimental designs, along with statistical analysis, will be
           provided within future investigator-initiated sample use addendums to this protocol, or
           new IRB approved protocols, developed in order to study samples from this biorepository.
    
  