
    
      CLL is the most prevalent leukemia in the western world and is considered incurable. Standard
      therapy for CLL is typically in the form of purine analogs, alkylating agents, monoclonal
      antibodies, or combinations of these drugs. Unfortunately, despite high response rates these
      treatment strategies are considered palliative and all patients eventually experience disease
      relapse and with time become less responsive to therapy. Following standard treatment, CLL
      patients often fail to achieve a complete response, or they have minimal residual disease
      (MRD) in the marrow and this often correlates with a short time to progression and next
      therapy.

      The National California Institute Working Group and newly updated International Workshop on
      Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Working Group definition of a complete response (CR) in CLL is
      quite permissive and allows for the persistence of 30% of residual lymphocytes in the marrow.
      These response criteria were initially developed at a time treatment options for CLL patients
      were limited and relatively few CRs were obtained. However, therapeutic advances including
      monoclonal antibodies and stem cell transplant have reduced residual CLL cells to a greater
      extent than previously possible and necessitated updating of current response criteria to
      include MRD evaluation and the development of highly sensitive assays that can measure MRD
      such as multiparametric 4-color flow cytometry, allele-specific PCR, and more convenient
      investigational assays such as peripheral blood levels of CLLU-1. Regardless, the majority of
      complete responses achieved following any initial therapy still have detectable residual
      disease.

      Importantly, CLL patients who lack minimal residual disease following treatment consistently
      demonstrate prolonged progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) compared with
      those with persistent MRD. As such, the development of therapeutic strategies that have the
      potential to eradicate disease after therapy are highly desired. Such consolidation therapies
      have potential to improve the depth of a remission, prolong PFS, and potentially overall
      survival in CLL patients. The investigators propose that Revlimid might be one such therapy
      that can be used as consolidation to eradicate residual disease or improve remissions in
      patients who have received therapy and that this might lead to a prolonged disease free
      duration. The investigators hypothesize that Revlimid will be safe and well tolerated in this
      setting.

      The investigators further hypothesize that Revlimid consolidation might be effective in CLL
      patients at risk of early relapse such as those patients with leukemia cells that use
      unmutated immunoglobulin heavy chain variable regions. The investigators found that the
      relative CLLU1 expression level on blood samples mirrored the residual level of CLL cells as
      determined by 4-color flow cytometry on cells from the aspirated marrow. The investigators
      hypothesize that monitoring for expression of CLLU1 might provide a reliable means with which
      to evaluate residual disease in the context of Revlimid consolidation therapy. Previous
      single agent Revlimid studies have suggested that Revlimid treatment of CLL patients may
      positively impact immune parameters increasing the relative composition of T-lymphocytes,
      modulation of cytokines, and can lead to improvement immunoglobulin levels and or the
      development of leukemia specific antibodies, the investigators hypothesize that similar
      changes in immune parameters may occur in the context of Revlimid consolidation therapy.
    
  