
    
      Aim 1: To conduct a formative evaluation.

      The formative evaluation has three components: 1) Key informant interviews with leaders in
      the public health sector responsible for developing and implementing policy in Vietnam to
      assess contextual factors (e.g. district level policies) that may influence implementation
      and dissemination; 2) Focus groups with current smokers to inform adaptations to the current
      training curriculum and counseling manual; and 3) baseline study site assessments to assess
      organizational readiness to change and current policies and practices to inform necessary
      adaptations to the proposed system changes.The investigators will develop semi-structured
      interview and focus group guides and adapt survey tools guided by the conceptual model
      described above as well as a robust literature on factors that influence implementation and
      dissemination.

      Data collection. 1) Key informant interviews. The investigators will conduct key informant
      interviews with at least one senior level staff person from the following stakeholder groups:
      a) MOH central level agencies involved in tobacco control such as VINACOSH, and the
      Ministries of Education and Training and Science and Technology; b) Executive Directors of
      the Vietnam Medical Association and the Vietnam Public Health Association; c) WHO Vietnam; d)
      at the provincial level, a representative from the Department of Health and Preventive
      Medicine Center; and e) four district health directors in the two target provinces (HaNoi and
      Thai Nguyen) for a total of about 16 interviews. The investigators use a semi-structured
      interview guide organized by constructs found to influence implementation and dissemination
      outcomes.52-56 These include external factors (tobacco control policies, national priorities
      for resource allocation and relative priority of tobacco control, relative priority of
      smoking cessation) perceived barriers to implementing guideline recommended cessation
      services, perceived commitment of leadership in and outside the MOH, perceived challenges to
      maintaining and disseminating changes in service delivery at the local and province level.
      Recruitment for key informant interviews: Using a purposive sampling approach, ISMS will
      leverage their contacts to assist in recruiting stakeholders for the key informant interviews
      through email invitations to participate. Research staff will then follow-up by telephone to
      enroll stakeholders in the study. The investigators will conduct these interviews. 2) Focus
      groups: An experienced facilitator from ISMS will conduct six focus groups (3 in each study
      district) with current smokers (6-8 participants, 4 male and 2 female groups). The focus
      groups will assess expectations about health benefits of quitting, past cessation history,
      including availability, affordability and use of cessation medications, knowledge of
      cessation resources, and attitudes towards the proposed intervention. There is a relatively
      large database on the knowledge and attitudes about tobacco use among smokers in Vietnam.
      Therefore, the groups will focus more on access to treatment, attitudes towards
      pharmacotherapy and treatment preferences. Inclusion/exclusion criteria include: current
      smoker (smoked in past 7 days), patient of a CHC in one of the two study districts, and age
      18 and over. Recruitment for focus groups: the same methods as were used to recruit patients
      to the pilot study. Patients will be screened for current tobacco use in the CHCs, asked to
      participate if they meet eligibility criteria and given a date and time for the meeting.
      Consent will be obtained at the time of the focus group. 3) Baseline study site assessments:
      In all enrolled study sites the following will be conducted: a) an assessment of baseline
      organizational characteristics. This includes data on setting-level variables shown to
      influence the implementation of practice guidelines including number of FTE staff, clinic
      volume, policies and systems. A a practice environment checklist will be used to inventory
      current policies, workflow, systems (e.g. chart systems) and staff roles and responsibilities
      in general, and specifically related to tobacco use treatment. b)Semi-structured interviews
      with clinical and administrative key informants (clinical director, 2 CHWs and 3 providers
      per site) to supplement the checklist data and to elaborate on potential barriers and
      facilitators for tobacco use treatment. c) A provider and CHW survey (tested in the pilot
      research and based on a survey from the WHO that was validated in Vietnamese). Surveys will
      assess baseline knowledge, attitudes and current practice patterns related to tobacco use
      treatment to inform additional modifications in training materials. d) Organizational
      readiness to change: provider surveys will include the Change Process Capability
      Questionnaire(CPCQ), a validated tool that is applicable to primary care practice.

      AIM 2: To compare the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of two implementation strategies
      to increase adherence to tobacco use treatment guidelines, and AIM 3: To explore
      organizational factors hypothesized to influence the relationship between the implementation
      strategies and implementation effectiveness. The Aims will be combined for the remainder of
      the Approach section because of overlaps in design and data collection.

      A two arm, randomized trial comparing approach will be used: ARM 1) technical assistance,
      training, and clinical reminder system (TTC), and ARM 2) TTC+ referral to a CHW for
      additional counseling and follow-up. The investigators will conduct a baseline assessment of
      provider adherence to tobacco use treatment by collecting patient exit interviews (PEIs)
      (i.e., surveys conducted immediately after the patient visit) from 50 patients per site who
      meet eligibility criteria as current smokers. We will then implement the components of ARM 1
      and 2. At 12 months post implementation we will conduct PEIs with another 50 smokers per
      site. These patients will be asked to consent to follow-up surveys at 3 and 6 months to
      assess smoking abstinence.

      Study Site eligibility and recruitment. The investigators have chosen two provinces to
      represent both an urban and rural setting. Thai Nguyen and Hanoi The district we have
      selected in Hanoi is representative of those CHCs located in the central part of the city and
      the district in Thai Nguyen is representative of the rural CHCs in that province. Site
      criteria include having at least one physician, >4 allied health care professional staff, >5
      CHWs and a patient population of at least 4000. Using methods for site recruitment used by
      ISMS, the Director of the District Health Centers will introduce our study to all CHCs that
      fit these criteria through a letter of introduction and follow-up telephone or in person
      contacts. Among those expressing interest, we will randomly select 26 CHCs (13 rural and 13
      urban). Sites will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to the intervention conditions within
      urban and rural strata. We will recruit sites in 3 successive waves.
    
  