
    
      As regards the of potential impact of exercises on functional decline at best of our
      knowledge no studies have been done on preventive interventions on walking, balance and
      fatigue disorders in early diagnosed PwMS. However, preliminary studies found that walking
      exercises can improve performances in PwMS with mild disability. van der Berg et al (van der
      Berg, 2006) investigated whether four weeks of aerobic treadmill training would improve
      mobility and fatigue in PwMS. They found that aerobic treadmill training is feasible and well
      tolerated and walking speed and endurance increased after training without changes in
      reported fatigue. In agreement with this study, Sabapathy et al (Sabapathy, 2011) reported
      improvements in mobility after endurance exercise training. Recent reviews (Dalgas, 2008 and
      Heine, 2015) and a recent paper by Sandroff et al (Sandroff, 2015) suggested that endurance
      training at low moderate intensity is well tolerated, has beneficial effects and reduces
      level of fatigue in MS patients having EDSS lower than 7.

      Furthermore, the long-term effects of walking based aerobic endurance exercise on gait
      parameters were investigated by Wonnemberg et al (Wonnemberg, 2015). They found that step
      cadence decreased significantly and the step length increased significantly after 12 months
      suggesting that walking based aerobic endurance exercise may contribute to improved gait
      parameters in MS patients.

      Walking exercises can be performed using treadmills. A Systematic review by Swinnen et al.
      (Swinnen, 2012) addresses the effect of different treadmill training (TT) modalities in PwMS.
      It showed that treadmill training improves walking skills and distance. In addition,
      Braendvik et al (Braendvik, 2015) revealed that TT was superior progressive strength training
      in improving walking in mild to moderate PwMS. Peruzzi et al. (Peruzzi, 2016) found similar
      results using Virtual Reality-based TT in PwMS with mild to moderate disability. After
      training, gait speed, stride length and the ability in negotiating obstacles were improved.
      Finally Gervasoni et al (Gervasoni, 2013) showed that 3-week of treadmill training reduced
      fatigue in PwMS.

      The Hypothesis to be tested is that treadmill training can reduce subtle balance and gait
      impairments decreasing the impact of MS on the activities of daily living and, thereby,
      favorably impact on the disease progression.
    
  