
    
      Family history (FH) is one of the cornerstones of medicine, and provides a glimpse of the
      genetic make-up of a family. Family physicians (FPs) are in an ideal position to identify
      those at risk of harboring a genetic mutation requiring further genetics assessment. A
      challenge in the family medicine clinic is obtaining an adequate FH to triage appropriate
      patients for further assessment and management. Patients with an identified germline mutation
      have a variety of therapeutic options including prophylactic surgeries and high risk
      screening for hereditary cancer syndromes, cardiac devices for inherited cardiac conditions,
      and intensive statin therapy for those with hypercholesterolemia, all of which can be
      potentially life-saving.

      A systematic review showed that the application of systematic tools which enable information
      gathering, improves FH accuracy and completeness. Patient-completed FH questionnaires are
      gaining attention with evidence of reasonable completeness and accuracy. However, challenges
      have been reported in incorporating these tools including uploading FH results into the EMR
      and into management strategies.

      To address the challenge of obtaining an adequate FH and triaging appropriate patients for
      further assessment and possibly life-saving interventions, we propose to use a simple FH
      questionnaire, the "Family History Screening Questionnaire", which will be filled out by
      patients electronically with the results integrated into the EMR to identify families at risk
      of inherited diseases.

      Overarching Research Objectives:

        -  To evaluate an innovative strategy to collect family history (FH) and improve
           personalized primary care. Strategies include: a novel Family History Screening
           questionnaire (FHSQ) (app), provider alerts, seamless integration into the electronic
           medical record (EMR), electronic clinical decision support through point-of-care tools,
           and patient and provider education

        -  Primary objective: to determine if this innovative strategy will increase the proportion
           of intervention patients that have updated documentation of family history in the EMR.

        -  Secondary objective: to describe contextual factors that may influence implementation of
           this family history strategy into primary care. To explore whether the intervention led
           to increased discussion about FH and resulted in more personalized screening/management.

      This study will determine if increasing awareness of the importance of FH and facilitating
      collection through a novel FH app with physician alerts, integration into the EMR, electronic
      decision support and resources, is associated with: increased collection of FH in the EMR, FH
      discussion by patients and clinicians and personalized, risk appropriate
      screening/management. Development and implementation of this novel FH app and strategy have
      the potential to improve FH information exchange between patients and primary care providers,
      facilitate shared decision-making about personalized screening and management based on FH
      risk, reduce cancer deaths and chronic disease burden and build the foundation for
      personalized medicine.
    
  