
    
      Heart failure (HF) greatly increases mortality and lowers quality of life (QOL). HF is the
      most common indication for readmission in older adults and the most frequent reason for
      30-day readmission. Medications and restriction of dietary sodium constitute crucial therapy
      to lower HF recurrence. However, adherence to medications and dietary recommendations is low
      in HF patients. Nonadherence is often due to an interaction among the environment, the
      patient and providers. In the VALOR in Heart Failure Study, we will assess a novel quality
      improvement program (QIP) to improve HF care using a pretest-posttest design. This
      interdisciplinary theory-based prospective experimental study will target improving HF
      treatment using patient-based behavioral and checklist intervention, as well as provider and
      system-targeted checklists and treatment defaults (posttest or intervention phase); this will
      be compared to current best practice (CBP) evaluated in the pretest (pretest or
      pre-intervention) phase. It is hypothesized that the QIP, which intervenes on patient,
      provider and system levels, will improve QOL and lower HF recurrence compared to CBP.

      The primary specific aims are 1) To test the effect of QIP on HF-specific quality of life
      compared to the CBP group, and 2) To evaluate the impact of QIP group on general quality of
      life compared to the CBP group.

      Secondary specific aims are to:

      1) assess the effect of QIP on medication adherence at 3 months, 2) examine the effect of QIP
      on diet adherence at 3 months, and 3) evaluate the effect of QIP on satisfaction, and 4)
      assess the effect of QIP on intervention acceptability. We will also examine the impact of
      QIP at 3 months on keeping routine outpatient visits, health-care utilization, exercise
      capacity, weight, perceived stress, depression, cardiovascular events and deaths.

      Exploratory aim is to examine the effect of the QIP on 30 day post-discharge HF readmission
      rates compared to CBP.

      We have enrolled 136 veterans being discharged from the hospital with a diagnosis of HF.
      Patients enrolled in the pretest phase will receive the HF management based on current best
      practice (CBP). Patients enrolled in the posttest phase receive the comprehensive quality
      improvement program (QIP) that intervenes on patient, provider and system levels. The QIP
      will consist of 3 monthly phone calls to promote diet and medication adherence using the
      transtheoretical model as a behavioral framework and checklists to facilitate patients'
      self-monitoring of their diet, physical activity, weight and medication taking. Further,
      providers during the posttest phase will use checklists for inpatient and outpatient care of
      HF patients. Data, including quality of life (QOL), medication adherence, and dietary
      adherence, will be collected from patients at baseline (prior to hospital discharge) and 3
      months. Hospital readmissions, emergency room visits, and healthcare utilization will be
      tracked for 6 months. If, as expected, there are no differences in demographic or other
      confounders (EF, comorbidities, etc), the pretest and posttest groups will be compared by the
      Fisher's Exact test for discrete outcomes (30-day readmissions or ER visits). We will use the
      Student's ttest (two-tailed) for normally distributed outcomes and the Wilcoxon rank-sum test
      for categorical variables and continuous variables not normally distributed.

      This study will inform and enhance quality improvement efforts in heart failure care in VA
      New York Harbor and elsewhere. It will also provide data for a rigorous effectiveness trial
      to test this promising intervention that could reduce HF recurrence and improve QOL in HF. If
      this promising theory-driven approach can work in a clinical setting where improvements in HF
      care are so urgent, it will be an important scientific contribution.
    
  