
    
      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a worldwide problem and its incidence is steadily increasing.
      Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (K/DOQI) of the National Kidney Foundation (NKF)
      defines chronic kidney disease as either kidney damage or a decreased kidney glomerular
      filtration rate (GFR) of less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 for 3 or more months (Levey AS.,2011).
      Whatever the underlying etiology, the destruction of renal mass with irreversible sclerosis
      and loss of nephrons leads to a progressive decline in GFR. CKD progression is associated
      with high morbidity and mortality (Sanz AB.,2014) .The early detection of CKD is important
      and early treatment may reduce adverse outcomes associated with CKD and slow or even prevent
      the progression of the disease. Therefore, the detection of CKD at early stages is an
      important public health issue (Katherine T.,2015).

      Cardiovascular disease is a leading cause of death in patients with chronic kidney disease
      (CKD), for whom the cardiovascular mortality rate is 15 to 30 times higher than in the
      general population. The underlying pathological state is caused by a complex interplay of
      traditional and nontraditional risk factors that results in atherosclerosis,
      arteriosclerosis, and altered cardiac morphological characteristics. (Effat et al 2012)
      Several factors are associated with the onset and progression of CKD, such as obesity,
      hypertension and diabetes mellitus. Beyond these factors, there is evidence of a
      pathophysiological role for inflammation in CKD. Inflammation actively participates in the
      mechanisms of renal damage progression in diseases of several etiologies (Akchurin OM and
      Kaskel F, 2015). In glomerular diseases, for example, the following sequence is believed to
      occur: 1) persistent glomerular injury produces capillary hypertension, with increased
      glomerular filtration and passage of proteins into the tubular fluid; 2) glomerular
      proteinuria increases the production of angiotensin II and promotes liberation of
      inflammatory mediators (cytokines and chemokines), which induce the renal interstitial
      build-up of mononuclear cells; 3) the initial neutrophil recruiting is replaced by
      macrophages and T lymphocytes, which unleash the immune response producing interstitial
      nephritis; 4) tubular cells respond to this inflammatory process with injury to their
      basement membrane and with the epithelial-mesenchymal transition, becoming interstitial
      fibroblasts; 5) The formed fibroblasts produce collagen which, in turn, injuries the renal
      vessels and tubules, eventually generating a cellular scar (Vianna H R et al 2011).

      Inflammation begins during early stages of CKD in which neutrophil counts are increased,
      whereas lymphocyte counts are decreased during inflammation. In addition to known
      conventional indications of inflammation such as C-reactive protein (CRP), fibrinogen,
      erythrocyte sedimentation rate, several interleukins and tumor necrotizing factor alpha,
      Neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) has increasingly been reported as a measure of systemic
      inflammation (Okyay G U et al 2013 and Yilmaz G et al ,2017) . It is a simple parameter to
      assess easily the inflammatory status of a subject and has proven its usefulness in the
      stratification of mortality in major cardiac events, as a strong prognostic factor in several
      types of cancers , or as a predictor and a marker of inflammatory or infectious pathologies
      (ex., pediatric appendicitis) and postoperative complications (Forget P et al 2017). Recent
      studies have emphasized that NLR could be used as an indication for inflammation and may be
      associated with poorer prognosis in CKD (Yilmaz G et al ,2017) .

      Several recent studies have shown that mean platelet volume (MPV) is also increased during
      inflammation and may be associated with poorer prognosis in CKD (Yilmaz G et al ,2017).
      Platelet activation in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) may contribute to
      cardiovascular mortality. The relationship between mean platelet volume (MPV) and coronary
      artery disease, atherosclerotic vascular pathologies, and platelet aggregation in CKD is not
      well established (Altun E et al 2016).
    
  