
    
      This is a combined retrospective and prospective, unblinded, non-CTIMP, multicentre,
      observational study to develop and determine methods of applying CV and AI with IFA in
      surgery for clinical benefit in surgery. Surgery can be performed via a minimally invasive
      fashion whether by an endoscopic or a laparoscopic or robotic technique (the latter depending
      on surgeon's preference) as part of either a diagnostic or therapeutic intervention in the
      standard way based on the patients' clinical need. Either before or during the procedure, a
      visual contrast agent will be administered by peripheral cannula and the area of interest
      examined by use of a near-infrared scope to determine presence, persistence and
      inflow/outflow pathways of the dye. The video image will be subjected to further analysis by
      computer vision and data analytics for the purposes of elucidating specific patterns enabling
      machine learning to build algorithms for flow characterisation informed by biophysics and
      pseudo-anonymised clinical data. The developmental algorithms will be additionally informed
      by mechanistic work quantifying and localising the fluorescence agent within and around sites
      of abnormal disease by digital fluorescence scanning and near-infrared microscopy as well as
      deep characterisation of dye clearance dynamics and local tissue metabolites (particularly
      acidosis). In addition, some tissue from the resected specimens provided in the course of
      diagnostic investigation or cancer surgery will be used to develop organoids for the purpose
      of examining in vitro tumour uptake and distribution of fluorescence agents.

      In all 250 patients will be studied over the three-year period, comprising 100 patients
      undergoing anastomotic construction and 100 undergoing cancer diagnostics/resection. Some
      patients can be included in both groups). Following development (potentially earlier then
      above), prospective validation will be performed on approximately 25 patients in each group.
      The follow-up period ends 30 days after recruitment. The trial will not be blinded to
      participants, medical staff, or clinical trial staff. The contrast agents used are clinically
      approved (including indocyanine green) for such use within this study. While the validation
      component of this work will be performed prospectively, the initial model development will
      include some data from patients retrospectively who have already undergone similar
      evaluation.
    
  