
    
      There is a time between hospital discharge and patient follow-up that has been deemed by many
      healthcare workers as a "black hole " (1). It is a time during which continuity of care is of
      utmost importance, yet there is no effective uniform system in place to ensure this vital
      continuity. During the post-discharge period (time from when the patient leaves the hospital
      to the time of first follow-up appointment), new medical problems can arise and old ones can
      be exacerbated. Additionally, patients can encounter innumerable barriers to healthcare,
      including difficulty obtaining medications and securing appointments with physicians or
      specialists. Also, patients may not have received proper counseling on new discharge
      medications, including proper use and potential side effects. Despite this important aspect
      of patient care, only a paucity of literature on the topic exists. Of the literature that
      does exist, it suggests that patient education concerning discharge planning and the
      post-discharge period is an aspect of care that is in great need of improvement and an
      excellent opportunity for intervention by a pharmacist.

      This led to our research hypothesis, can a follow-up phone call from a pharmacist improve
      patient outcomes?

      The primary endpoint of this study is a reduction in the number of hospital readmissions (any
      cause) during the 30-day post-discharge period. Thirty-day readmission rates will be compared
      to see if there is a difference between the intervention group (follow-up phone call) and
      control group (no phone call). The secondary outcomes include the number of patients in the
      study group for whom medication errors, complications or misuse could be identified.

      References: (1). Kathuria, et al. Post-discharge follow-up: hospitalists dial into the "black
      hole". Hospitalist and Inpatient Management Report, June 2003
    
  