
    
      Benign prostatic enlargement (BPE) is a non-malignant growth of the prostate gland that can
      lead to a range of lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS), and in some cases eventually leading
      to retention of urine. In patients failing to wean off catheter after retention of urine due
      to BPE, surgical intervention is the standard treatment.

      Surgical intervention options have evolved from electrosurgical resection to the use of
      lasers for enucleation and ablation. Transurethral resection of prostate (TURP) was first
      performed over 80 years ago and is still regarded as the "gold standard" for the treatment of
      BPE in prostates between 30 and 80ml. While TURP results in a statistically significant
      improvement in symptoms score and and maximum urinary flow rate (Qmax), perioperative
      morbidity and long-term complications can include postoperative bleeding, urinary retention,
      incontinence, urethral strictures, erectile dysfunction, and ejaculatory dysfunction.
      Aquablation, a novel minimally invasive water ablation therapy combining image guidance and
      robotics (AQUABEAM®, Procept BioRobotics, Redwood Shores, CA, USA) for the targeted and
      heat-free removal of prostate tissue is one of the efforts in the development of new
      technology in recent years to replicate the effectiveness of TURP and at the same time with
      an improved safety profile. Safety and feasibility of Aquablation in the management of benign
      prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) have been proven successful in both canine model and human. Since
      then, two other prospective non-randomized trials demonstrated that the surgical ablation of
      the prostate using Aquablation had achieved significant and immediate improvement of
      functional voiding parameters as well as symptomatic improvement. Two randomized controlled
      trials comparing Aquablation against TURP found that Aquablation had produced a similar
      improvement in LUTS as TURP, with a better side-effect profile. AQUABEAM® is currently a FDA
      approved equipment for the ablation of prostate tissue. It is being used in US as well as in
      Europe and New Zealand.

      So far, all studies focused on the application of Aquablation in patients with LUTS only
      secondary to benign prostatic obstruction (BPO). In this study, investigators plan to
      evaluate the feasibility and safety of Aquablation in the management of another facet of BPH,
      which is retention of urine.
    
  