
    
      STUN Alcohol Use Now is an intervention designed to use primary care practice support
      services (practice facilitation or PF) to help small to medium-size practices (10 or fewer
      providers) identify and provide services for people with unhealthy alcohol use. 135 primary
      care practices in North Carolina will be recruited.

      Specific Aim 1 will evaluate the effect of PF on uptake of evidence-based screening and brief
      intervention (SBI) for unhealthy alcohol use. The investigators hypothesize that PF will
      increase screening for unhealthy alcohol use and provision of brief counseling. The secondary
      hypothesis is that practice-level and contextual factors (capacity for quality improvement,
      organizational readiness to implement change, and implementation climate) will moderate the
      effect of PF on use of evidence-based screening and brief intervention (SBI) for unhealthy
      alcohol use.

      Specific Aim 2 will evaluate whether PF increases provision, among those identified as having
      an alcohol use disorder (AUD), provision of medication assisted treatment (MAT) or referral
      to specialty care.

      In Aim 3, among practices with slower uptake of SBI after 6 months of PF, the investigators
      will also evaluate the effect of providing embedded telehealth services on use of
      evidence-based (a) SBI for unhealthy alcohol use and (b) counseling and MAT for AUD. The
      investigators hypothesize that, compared with continued PF only, practices randomized to the
      addition of embedded telehealth services will increase the number and percentage of patients
      who are: (a) provided with brief counseling for unhealthy alcohol use, (b) provided with MAT
      for AUD, and (c) referred to specialty care for AUD. The secondary hypothesis is that
      telehealth services for counseling will be acceptable to small to medium-size primary care
      practices.

      In Aim 4 the investigators will evaluate the effect of PF on the implementation of clinical
      practice and office systems changes to improve evidence-based SBI and MAT. The primary
      hypothesis is that PF will increase implementation of clinical practice and office systems
      changes to improve evidence-based SBI and MAT. The secondary hypotheses are that (a) practice
      capacity for quality improvement (QI), organizational readiness to implement change, and
      contextual factors will moderate the effect of PF on the implementation of clinical practice
      and office systems changes and (b) embedded telehealth services will increase implementation
      of clinical practice and office systems changes among practices with slower uptake.
    
  