
    
      Breast milk is the best food for premature infants due to its ability to protect infants from
      necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) and late onset sepsis. When a premature infant's mother's own
      milk supply is not enough to provide all the milk that her premature infant needs, donated
      breast milk is the next best option. One of the downsides of donor breast milk is that it
      often does not contain as much nutrition for the developing infant compared to the milk of a
      mother of a premature infant. This means a higher likelihood for poor growth in infant
      receiving mostly donor breast milk compared to mom's own milk. Due to an inability to easily
      measure the nutritional content of donor breast milk, standard practice has been to assume
      that the milk has a certain amount of fat, carbohydrates, and protein. Based on these
      assumptions, a set amount of additional nutritional fortifier is added to both donor and
      mom's own breast milk prior to it being given to the infant. Studies show that there is often
      less nutrition in the donor breast milk to start with than assumed. Technology is now
      available which uses a small volume sample to measure fat, protein, and carbohydrates in
      human milk, and hence, calculate the calories in the milk. Using this technology, in this
      study, the investigators will customize the fortification of donor breast milk by first
      measuring what is in the milk and then adding any additional fortification that is needed to
      reach the recommended goals for fat, protein, and carbohydrates. The investigators
      hypothesize that infants receiving this customized milk, so-called "target" fortified donor
      breast milk, will have better growth than infants receiving the standard amount of
      fortification added to their donor breast milk.

      The study design involves measurement of macronutrient and calorie content of donor breast
      milk using a point-of-care human milk analyzer (Miris, AB). The individual macronutrient
      (protein, fat, and carbohydrate) concentrations will be targeted in the intervention group
      such that the infant will receive protein of 4 g/kg/day, fat of 6.6 g/kg/day, and
      carbohydrates of 11.6-13.2 g/kg/day. Fortification will be added in a step-wise fashion daily
      over a 3-4 day period starting when the infant reaches about 80 ml/kg/day in feeding volume.
      Fortifiers that may be used in this study include: Abbott Similac Human Milk Fortifier
      Extensively Hydrolyzed Protein Concentrated Liquid, Abbott Liquid Protein, Nestle Microlipid,
      and Medica Nutrition SolCarb. Participants in the control arm will receive donor milk that is
      fortified in the standard fashion at this institution; that is, 4 packets of Human Milk
      Fortifier will be added to 100 ml of donor breast milk. Additional fortification such as
      liquid protein or microlipid may be added to the donor milk and mom's own milk in response to
      poor growth for participants in both groups, as is standard of care in this Neonatal
      Intensive Care Unit (NICU). Patients in both experimental and control groups will always
      receive mom's own milk first when it is available. Mom's own milk will not be analyzed and
      will always be fortified in the standard fashion for both groups. The participants will be
      studied until they reach 34 weeks corrected gestational age.
    
  