
    
      The overall goal of this study is to improve radiologic evaluation of foot and ankle
      arthritis. Today's standard of care, radiography, provides limited two-dimensional evaluation
      of joint alignment, arthritic changes, posttraumatic changes, and congenital deformities due
      to overlapping bone densities. Evaluation is even more limited in post-surgical patients due
      to overlapping metallic hardware. Computed tomography (CT), the current problem-solving tool,
      offers more "level-by-level" three dimensional information, but is fraught with additional
      cost, additional radiation dose, beam-hardening artifacts from hardware, and the need for
      additional equipment. Most importantly, patients are not weight-bearing during conventional
      CT, therefore masking the true extent of malalignment or arthritic joint space narrowing. At
      the University of Washington, physicians attempt to overcome the last problem by performing
      simulated weight-bearing CT. The study proposes an alternate solution to this problem using a
      novel application of an old method, digital tomosynthesis. Specific aims of the study are 1)
      to compare radiography, tomosynthesis, and simulated-weight bearing CT in their ability to
      detect foot/ankle malalignment, 2) to compare the abilities of these three modalities to
      detect arthritis changes such as joint space narrowing, osteophytes, and subchondral cysts,
      and 3) to compare their abilities to detect bony deformities such as acute fracture, old
      fracture deformity, or partial fusion (post traumatic or post surgical). Radiographic
      assessment will be correlated with clinical outcome using clinical notes and functional
      outcome such as the Lower Extremity Functional Scale (LEFS) questionnaire. Successful results
      from this initial study will have the potential to change practice paradigm in how to image
      foot and ankle arthritis.
    
  