
    
      The level of involvement for each network institution will vary based on the type of specimen
      to which they have access (e.g. biofluids, tissues and/or cells) and the category of
      collection (remnant specimens that were originally collected for clinical testing and/or
      specimens specifically collected for research) in accordance with the institution's elected
      preferences.

      In most cases, potential participants will be identified and approached upon presenting for
      clinical care or recruited specifically for the study using outreach programs. If additional
      screening activities are required to determine eligibility criteria, the potential
      participant may be presented with the opportunity to participate in these activities as part
      of the study. These screening activities will be minimal risk in nature and are described
      further below. Should potential participants meet screening criteria, they may then be asked
      to provide biospecimens according to current research needs. Individual participants or
      groups of participants may be sought according to specific clinical, lifestyle, and/or
      demographic characteristics. The providers of these samples may be healthy participants or
      participants with a medical condition of interest to the research community but regardless,
      all specimens collected under this protocol (whether for screening purposes and for
      distribution to researchers) will qualify as minimal risk activities.

      Biospecimens may be distributed to researchers at academic institutions, hospitals, clinical
      and government laboratories, and corporations including diagnostic, medical device,
      biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. The types of research studies and testing that
      may be performed using the biospecimens will be varied, and it is not possible to provide a
      description of all potential studies. Some researchers may perform genetic testing on the
      specimens, some may use the specimens to develop cell lines, and some may cryopreserve the
      specimens for many years, awaiting a research use. The specimens may also be used for
      educational purposes, such as training lab techs on the proper testing of samples or
      physicians on the proper reading of stained slides. The iSpecimen consent forms will indicate
      a broad scope of possible research and educational uses and activities.
    
  