
    
      Numerous clinical trials have shown the effectiveness of Bevacizumab in the treatment of
      neovascular AMD as well that non-inferiority compared to Ranibizumab in terms of clinical
      efficacy at 1 year on visual acuity measured by the ETDRS scale of patients with neovascular
      AMD.

      Regarding general tolerance, a recent meta-analysis including a large number of patients did
      not find any difference in systemic serious adverse reactions, neither any new special signal
      of tolerance with Bevacizumab. Concerning eye tolerance, there is no evidence of difference
      significant. Medico-economic analyzes carried out in other countries, as the United States or
      Brazil, have shown that Bevacizumab is cost-effective compared to Ranibizumab in AMD
      Neovascular.

      The cost-utility analysis of the different methods of care patients with AMD will rely on the
      construction of a self-centered model built from: data available in natural history
      literature AMD in the absence of treatment; results of the network meta-analysis comparing
      effectiveness and tolerance of different strategies to assess; available data on adherence
      and persistence of treatments; pharmacovigilance data on the occurrence of side effects.

      This analysis benefits from two related studies:

        -  Micro-costing, multicenter study of the preparation of intravitreal injections of
           Bevacizumab hospital pharmacy.

        -  Multicenter, prospective evaluation, cross-section, quality of life data and patient
           cost depending on the level of visual acuity.

      According to the recommendations, at the beginning of the treatment, after the diagnosis of
      neovascular naive AMD, the patient will benefit from a fixed regimen of treatment by
      intravitreous injection of Bevacizumab or Ranibizumab or Aflibercept renewed every month for
      3 months. Before each Intra-vitreous injection, the patient will be reviewed in consultation
      to collect the occurrence of events adverse reactions related to the injection of one of the
      three products. After 3 months, the monthly intra-vitreous injections will be left to the
      appreciation of the investigator.

      The follow-up of the patients, during a specialized consultation will be spread out over 6
      months according to the rhythm of a consultation by months and then 12 months.
    
  