
    
      Objective 1): To assess HPV-related Oropharyngeal Cancer (OPC) knowledge, perceptions,
      practices and barriers of general dentists and dental hygienists in North Carolina (NC).

      Objective 2): To understand key infrastructure elements and policies, as well as HPV
      prevention strategies in place at East Carolina University School of Dental Medicine
      Community Service-Learning Centers (CSLCs) and their partnering Community Health
      Clinics/Federally Qualified Health Clinics (FQHCs).

      Objective 3): Develop and assess the feasibility of a model for collaborative and effective
      HPV prevention strategies between dental practices (CSLCs) and co-located Community Health
      Clinics (FQHCs).

      Hypotheses:

      H1. It is hypothesized that HPV OPC knowledge, perceptions, and practices will be informed by
      level of HPV health literacy; where higher levels of HPV health literacy will correlate with
      higher levels of HPV prevention practices (i.e., oral cancer screening, education on HPV risk
      behaviors, HPV vaccine recommendation). The investigators expect to find gaps in one or more
      of the surveyed areas (knowledge, attitudes, societal norms, perceived behavior control, and
      current prevention practices) among dentists and dental hygienists. Last, the investigators
      expect to find barriers to HPV prevention practices among our sample.

      H2: It is hypothesized that there will be key infrastructure elements and policies identified
      through interviews that will both inhibit and facilitate the navigation of patients for HPV
      vaccination between dental clinics (CSLCs) and partnering health clinics (community
      clinics/FQHCs). The investigators also expect to find a variation of HPV prevention
      strategies currently being employed at CSLCs and partnering community clinic/FQHCs.

      H3: It is hypothesized that the investigators will employ the data identified in Objectives 1
      and 2 to develop a feasible model for collaborative and effective HPV prevention between
      dental clinics (CSLCs) and health clinics (FQHCs). Specifically, the investigators will
      address barriers identified in Objective 2 and capitalize on the facilitators identified to
      develop a model of HPV prevention care and navigation between dental clinics (CSLCs) and
      health clinics (FQHCs). This model can then be evaluated for effectiveness and serve as a
      model for replication in other rural and under-resourced settings.
    
  