
    
      Fetal monitoring relies on sensors to measure uterine activity and fetal heart rate.
      Monitoring contractions during labor using the external tocodynamometer relies on measurement
      of the activity of the abdominal wall and is sometimes unreliable and inaccurate .In cases
      that there is difficulty in monitoring uterine wall activity through the abdominal wall or
      increased risk for uterine wall rupture, the commonly used alternative is an invasive
      intrauterine pressure catheter monitor (IUPC). The IUPC is applied gently behind the head of
      the fetus after rupture of the membranes spontaneously or artificially into the uterine
      cavity. Insertion of IUPC monitor may be associated with rare but serious complications
      including placental abruption and uterine rupture. Non invasive method that will allow for
      accurate and precise monitoring of the uterine muscle activity is well under search

      Lately, a new electrohysterography (EHG) device was introduced as an alternative to the
      standard intrauterine sensors. (Nemo Healthcare's, Netherlands, PUREtrace). When muscle cells
      contract, small changes occur in the electrical potential across the cell walls. During
      contractions, the electrical activity of the uterine muscle can be measured on the maternal
      abdomen. EHG has been developed to measure the electrical muscle activity of the uterus
      directly, and by that claiming to offer highly accurate information that correlates with
      existing invasive measurement methods for uterine contractions. Vlemminx et al, showed EHG
      also appears to report a more detailed tocographic waveform, like hypertonia or unorganized
      electrical uterine activity.

      The EHG uses a Graphium electrode patch that is applied to the abdomen and records electrical
      activity non-invasively. Its' module amplifies and converts these signals to a recognized
      measurement method for uterine activity, as commonly used in fetal monitoring. This
      measurement is independent of the Body-Mass-Index, abdominal wall thickness or maternal
      position enabling monitoring obese patients as well.

      By using the Graphium electrode patch the patient comfort increases significantly when
      compared to other measurement methods. The patch is also easy to apply for the medical staff
      and does not require repositioning over time. It provides a safe and patient-friendly
      alternative for measuring uterine activity, without the need of changing the existing fetal
      monitoring infrastructure.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the accuracy of the electrohysterography compared to
      the intrauterine pressure catheter that is commonly used in delivery room in order to promote
      less invasive management protocols in the future in order to better predict uterine muscle
      dysfunction during labor.

      This is a case control prospective study. Women in second phase of labor - indicated for
      insertion of intrauterine pressure catheter due to previous uterine scar, multifetal
      pregnancy, grand multiparity or dysfunctional labor will be asked to participate . Patients
      that will give their informed consent to participate in the study, will be connected both to
      IUPC and EHG.Medical history and demographic parameters will be taken. The graphs will be
      compared and analyzed for its frequency and intensity. Delivery mode and fetal well-being
      will be recorded
    
  