
    
      Study Title:

      Outside USA [OUS] Pilot Multi-center prospective feasibility study

      Objectives:

      Primary:

      To establish the safety and preliminary efficacy of the Check-Cap System in patients with
      negative FOBT (Fecal Occult Blood Test) or FIT

      Secondary:

        -  To evaluate the safety of the device in terms of total and segmental transit time and to
           study the effect of the presence of polyps and variable colon dimensions on these
           parameters.

        -  To monitor the functionality of the activation mechanism and of the scanning circuitry
           (transmitter detectors).

        -  To collect data about the overall imaging of the colon internal surface during the
           passage of the capsule

        -  To develop a correlation map between the imaging of the polyps by optical colonoscopy
           vs. the images of same polyps by the Check-Cap capsule vs. the imaging of same polyps by
           CT Colonography (in patients which were referred after positive CTC examination)

        -  To estimate the total radiation exposure to each patient.

        -  To measure the distribution of the contrast material within the colon.

      Design:

      Prospective, Single arm, Multi-Center

      Patient population:

      Group A - First in Man:

      Male and female subjects older than 40 and younger than 75 years old that are eligible for
      CRC screening and meet the eligibility criteria for study enrollment.

      The study population will be enriched with up to 45 patients with known polyps detected by
      CTC or colonoscopy, in addition to 15 patient of the device's normal cohort.

      All patients that are eligible for enrollment in the study will be tested by FOBT (Fecal
      Occult Blood Test) After the Capsule test, they will be referred for optical colonoscopy as
      part of the study

      Group B - CE Pilot:

      Male and female subjects older than 45 and younger than 75 years old that are eligible for
      CRC screening and meet the eligibility criteria for study enrollment.

      All patients that are eligible for enrollment in the study will be tested by FIT ,. After the
      Capsule test they will be referred for optical colonoscopy Consenting patients with negative
      FIT testing scheduled for clinically-indicated optical colonoscopy without contraindication
      to either Check-Cap System imaging or optical colonoscopy, and able to undergo the bowel
      preparation necessary for optical colonoscopy.

      Sample Size:

      Total of 100 patients in both groups: A:3-5 + B: 55-57 subjects.

      Study Procedure:

        1. st visit - recruitment and screening meeting with the Principal Investigator [PI].
           Subject will receive the FIT test kit with detailed instructions for executing the test.

        2. nd visit - The FIT kits will be analyzed in order to diagnose the presence of blood in
           the stool.

           If the bowel log form is complete and the bowel frequency is not less than once per 2
           days the subject will be asked to sign the Informed Consent Form [ICF] for ingesting the
           capsule.

        3. rd visit - Subject will ingest the capsule and continue ingestion of contrast material.

        4. th visit - Subjects will return to the PI with the excreted capsule which is expected
           within 24-100 hours after ingestion.

        5. th visit - All patients will undergo standard bowel preparation and optical colonoscopy
           between 10 and 30 days following imaging with the Check-Cap System.
    
  