
    
      Improvement of clinical benefit in fragile AML patients while maintaining tolerability is an
      important area of further clinical development. Modern aggressive combination chemotherapy
      can induce CR in a significant proportion of patients with previously untreated AML, but
      relapse occurs in most unless patients undergo intensive allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation. Novel therapies are needed for these patients

      The Grb2 gene has been mapped to the human chromosome region 17q22-qter, a region that is
      duplicated in leukemias and solid tumors, which may result in an increased copy number of the
      Grb2 gene product. As Grb2 is important for the transformation of murine hematopoietic cells,
      and the proliferation of human leukemia cells that express high levels of oncogenic tyrosine
      kinases, inhibition of Grb2 may have a significant impact on the natural history of
      leukemias. The study drug (BP1001) may be able to inhibit the cells from making Grb-2.
      Researchers hope that without this protein, the leukemia cells will die.

      This represents an area in which targeted therapies might be of benefit to these patients.
      One such potential treatment is BP1001, liposomal anti-sense treatment directed against
      Growth Factor Receptor-Bound Protein 2 (Grb2). Decitabine is approved in Europe for the
      treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed de novo or secondary acute myeloid leukemia
      (AML). In vitro studies in AML cells co-incubated with BP1001 and decitabine suggests that
      treatment of AML patients with decitabine followed by BP1001 may be a combination that could
      benefit patients with AML.

      This Phase IIa, multicenter, study of BP1001 in combination with Ventoclax plus decitabine
      will enroll participants with AML who are not otherwise eligible for for intensive induction
      therapy.

      This trial will utilize an open label design to assess the safety profile, PK, PD, and
      efficacy of of BP1001 in combination with Ventoclax plus decitabine to assess whether the
      combination of either provides greater efficacy than intensive chemotherapy alone.

      There are 3 cohorts exploring three-drug combinations of BP1001, venetoclax and decitabine.

        -  Untreated AML patients will be treated with BP1001 plus venetoclax plus decitabine.

        -  Refractory/relapsed AML patients will also be treated with BP1001 plus venetoclax plus
           decitabine.

        -  A third cohort of BP1001 + decitabine is offered to refractory/relapsed AML patients who
           are venetoclax resistant or intolerant, or not considered by the investigator as optimal
           candidates for venetoclax-based therapy.

      Each cohort will continue until approximately 19 evaluable participants have been
      investigated. At that point, enrollment will be placed on hold so that the Sponsor can
      perform an administrative review of the data to determine which treatment cohorts should
      continue with enrollment.

      Should one or more cohorts continue with enrollment, the sample size will be increased up to
      54 in the refractory/relapsed AML cohorts and 98 in the untreated AML cohort. These sample
      sizes for the study are based on the primary endpoint.
    
  