
    
      Using a seamless, adaptive, phase II/III design, the investigators will determine the safety
      and efficacy of arimoclomol in patients with SOD1 positive familial ALS. Both stage-1 and
      stage-2 are randomized, double-blind and placebo-controlled in a population of patients with
      rapidly progressive SOD1 positive familial ALS. Patients with ALS, a history of a relative
      affected with ALS (i.e. familial ALS) and the presence of a demonstrable mutation in the SOD1
      gene that is known to be associated with rapidly progressive disease, will be eligible for
      inclusion in this study. Potentially eligible subjects will undergo screening via telephone
      and, if necessary, review of outside medical records. The intervention will continue for up
      to 12 months. In the event that a participant reaches a study endpoint (e.g. tracheostomy or
      permanently assisted ventilation) study drug will be terminated. Subjects who meet all
      eligibility criteria will travel a study site for final eligibility determination, baseline
      evaluation and will then be randomized 1:1 to receive either placebo or arimoclomol at a dose
      of 200 mg t.i.d. Participants will then be evaluated again in person at a study site at
      Month-2. Telephonic evaluations at Month-1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, and 10 will be performed in
      participants' homes. Safety and tolerability evaluations will be performed at each of these
      visits. Collection of blood samples for safety laboratory analyses and measurement of blood
      pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, temperature and weight will be performed at Months-1,
      3, 4, 5, 6, 8, and 10 in the participant's home by a representative of a medical monitoring
      company. A study coordinator may perform an in-person visit at Month-12, or this visit may
      occur telephonically. A final evaluation will be performed via telephone at Month-13 (30 days
      after the last dose of study medication).
    
  