
    
      Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is an affordable and non-invasive option
      for post-operative analgesia. Broadly, TENS devices deliver pulsed electrical impulses across
      skin to modulate pain. They are theorized to work through different mechanisms at multiple
      physiologic levels. Centrally, TENS units activate small-diameter sensory afferents (Aδ nerve
      fibers), which in turn activate descending pain-inhibitory networks. Peripherally, TENS
      activation of both large- and small-diameter sensory afferents blocks nociceptive signals to
      the brain and is instead perceived as TENS-induced paresthesias. Finally, TENS efficacy may
      also be mediated by µ-opioid, 5-hydroxytryptamine (HT)-1, and 5-HT-2 receptors, particularly
      at low-frequency electrical activity.2

      There are inconclusive results for the adjunctive use of TENS to modulate pain, largely
      because of a relative paucity of high-quality trials and significant inter-study
      heterogeneity due to non-standardized protocols. Moreover, most studies within the
      orthopaedic literature have been concentrated primarily within the total knee arthroplasty
      (TKA) literature and may have limited generalizability to orthopaedic trauma patients. Some
      studies have shown a trend towards decreased opioid consumption with the adjunctive use of
      TENS (vs. placebo-TENS or standard care)3,4 while other studies have shown no difference in
      pain scores in the post-operative period.5-8 To the investigator's knowledge, only two recent
      randomized clinical trial (RCT)s have been conducted on non-TKA orthopaedic populations, both
      of which show promise for the use of TENS postoperatively. One prospective double-blind
      randomized trial on arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs found a 25% reduction in post-operative
      opioid consumption when TENS was used adjunctively for pain control .9 Another single-blind
      prospective RCT on Colles' fractures reported greater postoperative pain improvements in
      patients receiving TENS vs. placebo.10

      There is a growing body of evidence to suggest that TENS therapy can reduce post-operative
      pain after orthopedic procedures. More high-quality studies are needed to strengthen this
      suggestion and to characterize specific protocols, populations, and orthopedic conditions for
      which it might work best. Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, if shown to be
      effective, stands to serve as an affordable non-opioid, non-invasive option for the safe and
      effective treatment of pain in the orthopaedic trauma patient population.

      TENS units are a non-significant risk device and, therefore, do not require an
      investigational device exemption (IDE) based upon FDA guidance.15-17 The sensor pads will be
      placed at the same time as the surgical fixation of the study injury. It does not present a
      potential serious risk to the health and welfare of patients.

      Specific Aim 1: To pilot the use of TENS among a postoperative lower extremity injury
      population as part of multimodal pain management.

      Null Hypothesis (H0): TENS cannot be delivered safely among this population. Alternative
      Hypothesis (HA): TENS can be delivered safely among this population.

      Specific Aim 2: To compare utilization of inpatient and outpatient pain medications of
      patients treated with TENS and historical controls.

      H0: Patients treated with TENS will require the same amount of opioids as historical
      controls.

      HA: Patients treated with TENS will require less opioids (lower morphine milligram equivalent
      - MME) than historical controls during hospitalization and throughout 3-month follow up.

      Specific Aim 3: To compare patient-reported outcomes of patients treated with TENS and
      historical controls.

      H0 1: Patients treated with TENS will experience equivalent patient-reported outcomes as
      compared to historical controls.

      HA 1: Patients treated with TENS will experience greater improvement in patient-reported
      outcomes (PROMIS 29) relative to baseline as compared to historical controls.

      H0 2: Patients treated with TENS will report higher pain scores as compared to historical
      controls.

      HA 2: Patients treated with TENS will report equivalent or lower pain scores as compared to
      historical controls.

      This will be a prospective observational study of patients undergoing operative treatment of
      lower extremity conditions, including fracture fixation, treatment of nonunion, and deformity
      correction. The study will be conducted at a single Level I trauma center. Enrolled patients
      will receive TENS postoperatively during hospitalization; TENS units will also be sent home
      with patients for use throughout recovery. This group will be compared to controls
      injury-matched from a prospectively collected, historical database on mobility who did not
      receive treatment with TENS.
    
  