
    
      Background: Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) is the most common compression neuropathy, with a
      population prevalence of 3%. One quarter of these patients have severe symptoms that
      necessitate surgical release. Our lab has previously demonstrated that electrical stimulation
      (ES) at 20Hz for 1 hour immediately following carpal tunnel release significantly improved
      terminal motor latency, sensory nerve conduction (1). Postoperative electrical stimulation
      enhances regeneration locally at the site of injury(2); by contrast, the conditioning lesion
      improves the rate of regeneration along the entire distal stump. The traditional conditioning
      lesion refers to a purposeful crush injury delivered to a nerve prior to its transection and
      repair. Despite 40 years of promising research at the bench, describing the conditioning
      lesion as an effective method of promoting regeneration and reinnervation in an animal model,
      translation to the bedside until recently has been impossible due to its injurious nature
      (3). Our laboratory has recently identified conditioning electrical stimulation (CES) as an
      effective method of enhancing axonal regeneration, and improve motor and sensory
      reinnervation (4). Investigators of this study have further shown that CES improves
      regeneration and sensorimotor reinnervation beyond that attainable by postoperative CES
      (unpublished data). As such preoperative CES is potentially a clinically feasible method of
      improving patient outcomes.

      Hypothesis: ES delivered prior to carpal tunnel release will improve functional outcomes in
      patients with severe carpal tunnel syndrome.

      Research Methods: Plastic surgeons in the Division of Plastic Surgeon will identify patients
      with severe carpal tunnel syndrome and obtain their consent to be considered for inclusion in
      this study. Inclusion criteria includes patients aged over 18 years who have failed
      conservative treatment, who are found to have severe carpal tunnel syndrome on nerve
      conduction studies (thenar motor unit loss minimum two standard deviations between the mean
      for the age group). Exclusion criteria includes patients with pre-existing peripheral
      neuropathies. Patients will be randomized to three treatment groups: a) CES, b) postoperative
      ES, and c) no ES. Carpal tunnel release will be performed by a plastic surgeon in the
      standard fashion without neurolysis of the median nerve.

      In clinic, skin will be cleansed with alcohol and a small gauge needle will be placed
      percutaneously in the proximal forearm, along the course of the median nerve based on known
      surface anatomy. This needle will be connected to the cathode of an SD-9 Grass stimulator.
      The anode will be attached to an electrical cable placed more distally on the forearm.
      Stimulation protocol will be based on that traditionally used for postoperative ES: 20 Hz of
      continuous stimulation for one hour, with voltage titrated to maximize voltage without
      causing patient discomfort. At the completion of one hour, the needle will be removed. One
      week later, carpal tunnel release will be performed by the plastic surgeon per standard
      technique, without neurolysis of the median nerve. Among patients receiving postoperative ES,
      the cathode will be placed next to the median nerve proximal to the carpal tunnel at the time
      of surgical release, and electrical stimulation upon completion of the surgery will follow
      the same stimulation parameters as outlined for CES.

      Primary outcomes include sensory testing (two-point discrimination, Semmes-Weinstein
      monofilament, and cold threshold), motor testing (Purdue Pegboard Test), and patient-reported
      outcomes (Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand questionnaire). These are well
      established standard testing modalities for assessing recovery following carpal tunnel
      release (5). Scores for two-point discrimination range from 1 to 20 mm with smaller distance
      reflecting better hand sensibility. Mean score for the Purdue Pegboard Test in health control
      is 12 pegs with a greater number reflecting better hand dexterity. Range of score for the
      DASH questionnaire is 0 to 100 with a higher number representing greater disability. Testing
      will be performed preoperatively to establish baseline sensorimotor function, then
      postoperatively at 3, 6, and 12 months. Outcome measures will be analyzed using two-way
      ANOVA, with post-hoc analysis of significant association (p<0.05).

      Justification: Recovery following surgical release in severe carpal tunnel is often
      incomplete, with persistent motor and sensory deficits. While postoperative ES improves
      regeneration, functional deficits persist; however, these studies have established ES as safe
      and well-tolerated by patients. By changing the timing of ES from postoperative to
      preoperative CES, animal data suggests functional outcomes can be further improved by
      upregulating regenerative pathways to maximize the rate of axonal extension. As CES can be
      delivered percutaneously in the clinic at the initial of initial assessment, prior to
      surgical release, this technique is both safe, clinically feasible and may significantly
      improve the outcomes of patients with compression neuropathies.
    
  