
    
      Sarcoidosis is a multisystem granulomatous disease of unknown cause. Although sarcoidosis
      most commonly affects the lung, it may affect any organ. Although corticosteroids are
      recognized as the drug of choice for sarcoidosis. ACTH(adrenocorticotropic hormone) is the
      only drug that is FDA-approved for this disorder. However, there is limited data on the
      efficacy of ACTH for this condition.

      Calcium metabolism is disregulated in active sarcoidosis. The primary abnormality in calcium
      metabolism stems from an increased 1-α hydroxylase activity in sarcoid alveolar macrophages
      that converts 25-hydroxyvitamin D to 1, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D, the active form of the
      vitamin. This can result in hypercalcemia, hypercalciuria, nephrocalcinosis, nephrolithiasis,
      interstitial nephritis, glomerulonephritis, acute and chronic kidney disease. Importantly,
      almost of the renal manifestations stem from disordered calcium metabolism. Unlike other
      organ manifestations of sarcoidosis, the disorder of calcium metabolism is more common in
      whites compared to african americans.Compared to hypercalcemia, hypercalciuria is three times
      more common in sarcoidosis, nevertheless, it has largely been ignored.

      In general, the patient with hypercalcemia should be advised to avoid sunlight, curtail
      intake of major sources of dietary calcium and vitamin D, and drink ample fluids.If the
      patient is symptomatic, serum calcium is greater than 11 mg/dl, the serum creatinine is
      elevated, or the patient has nephrolithiasis, drug therapy is usually required. The drug of
      choice is prednisone at an initial daily dose of 20 - 40 mg/day.Unfortunately, prolonged
      corticosteroid therapy may result in unacceptable side effects including osteoporosis. This
      is particularly important as elevated calcitriol observed in patients with sarcoidosis can
      further jeopardize bone structure by resorption. Alternative medications that have shown
      benefit for sarcoidosis associated calcium dysregulation have included
      chloroquine,hydroxychloroquine, ketoconazole.

      Not only may ACTHER GEL have obvious anti-inflammatory effects by resulting in corticosteroid
      production, but it may also activate melanocortin receptors. The melanocortin system has
      powerful anti-inflammatory properties that may be beneficial in the treatment of sarcoidosis.

      We believe that there are several specific advantages of assessing the effectiveness of
      anti-sarcoidosis therapy by examining sarcoidosis-associated disorders of calcium metabolism.

        1. The measures of granulomatous activity (serum calcium, urinary calcium, serum
           25-hydroxyvitamin D, and serum 1, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels) are directly related to
           the granulomatous inflammation of sarcoidosis.

        2. These parameters can be accurately and objectively quantified. This is an important
           issue in sarcoidosis as the endpoint for involvement of the lungs, skin, and eyes is
           problematic because it is either inexact and/or not unidimensional.

        3. These constituents can be easily used to clinically monitor sarcoidosis. This is not the
           case for other forms of sarcoidosis including involvement of the lung and skin.

             -  Although hypercalciuria and disordered calcium metabolism is not as common a
                manifestation of sarcoidosis as lung involvement, there is little evidence that the
                anti-granulomatous response to this disease is organ specific. In a randomized
                double-blind placebo control trial of infliximab for pulmonary sarcoidosis,
                extrapulmonary sarcoidosis also responded to this therapy.
    
  