
    
      Myelomeningocele and Myelic limited dorsal myeloschisis (MyeLDM) correspond to neural tube
      defects which lead to lifelong disabilities including lower extremity paralysis, sphincters
      deficiency, and cerebral complications (Chiari 2 malformation and hydrocephalus). It is
      demonstrated that fetal surgery repair of MMC with upper limit between the first thoracic
      vertebra (T1) and the first sacral vertebra (S1) improves motor and cerebral prognosis.
      Nowadays, this fetal surgery is performed either after maternal laparotomy and hysterotomy
      (open fetal surgery) or using fetoscopy. the investigators, at Trousseau Hospital (APHP,
      Paris), initiated an open fetal surgery of MMC program called PRIUM1 and 16 fetuses has been
      currently operated.

      Fetoscopic repair of MMC is proposed by several international groups in order to prevent from
      maternal and obstetric morbidity related to the hysterotomy and improve the mother's
      obstetrical prognosis by allowing vaginal delivery. Results of fetoscopic MMC repair are very
      satisfying, both in terms of repair surgery efficacy and in terms of obstetrical prognosis.
      The research team believe that it is justified to propose this minimally invasive repair
      technique using fetoscopy, for represented by sacral MMC (level S1 and lower) as well as for
      intermediate forms between open and closed dysgraphisms, represented by MyeLDM. Indeed, these
      dysraphism are associated with the same cerebral complications than MMC with upper limit
      between T1 and S1 which could be corrected with prenatal repair. In addition, the spinal cord
      protection offered by prenatal surgery could prevent from the neuroepithelium destruction
      observed during pregnancy, with a potential motor benefit for the children.

      The main objective of PRIUM 2 is to evaluate the success of fetoscopic surgical repair of
      sacral MMC or MyeLDM with a birth after 32 weeks of gestation and without severe perinatal
      morbidity and mortality.

      The secondary objectives of PRIUM 2 are to evaluate the complications of pregnancy related to
      fetoscopic surgery as well as to evaluate the prenatal and postnatal evolution of the
      cerebral complications (Chiari 2 malformation and hydrocephalus) after fetoscopic repair
      surgery of the dysraphism (up to 12 months of age).

      In this protocol, fetal sacral MMC/ MyeLDM repair surgery will be performed using gas
      fetoscopy before 26 weeks. After an exteriorization of the uterus through a laparotomy,
      humidified and warmed gas will be insufflated with low pressure (6 to 8mmHg mmHg). Fetoscopic
      repair surgery will be performed by a multidisciplinary team (maternal fetal medicine
      specialists, pediatric neurosurgeons, pediatric surgeons).

      After discharge, patients will be followed weekly by a midwife and every two weeks by a
      referring obstetrician who will perform a clinical examination and a fetal ultrasound.A post
      procedure MRI will be performed 4 weeks after the surgery. If there is no obstetrical
      contraindication, vaginal delivery will be authorized.

      The children will be followed according to the conventional management of children with
      dysraphisms and consultations at 8 weeks of life and 12 months of life will be scheduled at
      Trousseau Hospital, with the multidisciplinary team (pediatric neurosurgeons, physical
      medicine and rehabilitation specialists, pediatric orthopedic surgeons). During these two
      consultations, the children will have a complete clinical examination, a cerebral and spinal
      MRI and an ultrasound of the urinary tract.
    
  