
    
      Research Design and Methods:

      The study will be a multicenter, randomized, controlled, clinical trial comparing the
      anti-seizure effect of parenteral and/or oral labetalol (n = 4000) versus parenteral
      (intravenous or intramuscular) magnesium sulfate (n = 4000) with mild or severe preeclampsia
      who are deemed to be at sufficient risk to warrant seizure prophylaxis with magnesium
      sulfate. This allows for a 2% lost to follow-up rate. Patients receiving labetalol will
      either be given a 20 mg intravenous loading dose IV followed by a 200 mg oral dose every 6
      hours from the time of inclusion in the study until 24 hours postpartum, or will receive only
      the 200 mg oral dose every 6 hours from inclusion. Whether or not an IV dose is necessary
      will be decided by the clinician in charge. Only patients thought to be at sufficient risk to
      warrant immediate anti-hypertensive therapy will receive the initial IV dose. Patients
      randomized to the magnesium sulfate group will receive intravenous magnesium sulfate as a 4
      or 6 gram loading dose over 20 minutes followed by a 1 or 2 g/h continuous infusion until 24
      hours postpartum. The exact MgSO4 protocol used will be determined by the protocol in use at
      each institution. We have previously shown in the Nimodipine study (as have others with the
      MAGPIE study) that there is no difference in seizure rate between the 1g/hr and 2g/hr
      protocols. Patients on the labetalol arm of the study who convulse will be treated with
      magnesium sulfate. Patients on the magnesium sulfate arm will continue to receive magnesium
      sulfate. All patients who convulse will be managed per the unit's standard protocol for
      eclampsia treatment.

      Principal Outcome Measure:

      Occurrence of eclamptic seizure(s) after enrollment in the study.

      Secondary Outcome Measures

        1. Maternal:

             -  Blood pressure, pulse pressure and heart rate changes

             -  Need for additional antihypertensive medication (defined by need to control BP >
                160 mmHg systolic and/or 110 mmHg)

             -  Subjective assessment of side effects by the patient

             -  Objective assessment of new onset complications and/or side effects by the treating
                clinicians

             -  Labor and delivery parameters including; induction to delivery interval, rate of
                cervical dilatation, oxytocin dosages, length of labor, delivery route, blood loss
                at delivery, and postpartum course

             -  Type of anesthesia administered (none, local infiltration for delivery only,
                epidural for labor, epidural for delivery, spinal for delivery, combined/spinal
                epidural for labor and delivery, general anesthesia for delivery).

        2. Fetal and Neonatal:

             -  Occurrence of newly diagnosed fetal distress during labor necessitating emergent
                delivery

             -  Umbilical cord gases at delivery (if available in institution);

             -  Apgar scores

             -  Neonatal outcome as defined by NICU admission, hospital survival to discharge,
                length of hospital survival, days in NICU, need for blood transfusion, need for
                pressor agents, need for mechanical ventilation, neonatal cardiac dysrhythmias,
                neonatal cardiac failure, necrotizing enterocolitis, sudden infant death, neonatal
                sepsis, neonatal hypoglycemia, and there will be an other block for recording any
                other identified complications not mentioned.

      Institutional Review and Informed Consent Procedures:

      The protocol for this study will be approved by the Institutional Review Board of each
      participating institution and copies of the approval will be on file with the principal
      investigator prior to dispensing of the drug. All patients will give written informed
      consent, and will have the protocol described to them in their native language if they do not
      understand English.

      Study Procedures

      Informed Consent:

      The final protocol will first be approved by the appropriate IRBs of the US and foreign
      institutions as well as the data coordinating center. All women must participate in an
      informed consent dialogue and must give their written informed consent prior to enrollment
      and participation in the study.

      Eligible patients that fit the required criteria for being entered into the study, but do not
      wish to enter into the study or their primary physician doesn't wish them to participate will
      be recorded. This will allow us to determine the percentage of patients who are eligible but
      are not enrolled.

      Enrollment:

      Once delivery is planned, and inclusion criteria have been satisfied, the patient will either
      be approached and counseled by an investigator or co-investigator (who may be the patient's
      primary care physician) and informed written consent will be taken, or she will be informed
      of the study and given a consent document by the nurse to read and then telephonically
      consented by an investigator at that site. The nurse will then document on the consent form
      that the patient was consented by the physician. If the patient is telephonically consented,
      a site investigator will co-sign the consent document at a later time.

      Entry into this study will not in any way influence the obstetric management of the patient,
      and the patient will be informed of her freedom to withdraw at any time without compromise to
      the standard of her treatment. All routine patient care and routine observations will be
      carried out by the labor and delivery staff.

      Each institution in the USA will be cross-referenced to the IND number of the US Principal
      Investigator (#63,966). This IND number is only necessary for grant funding. The FDA has
      assessed this study and does not feel that it required an IND number for clinical reasons
      since labetalol is already an approved antihypertensive medication. The only reason that an
      IND number was requested was to allow us to satisfy the requirements for various Federal
      Funding agencies. The foreign institutions will not require an IND number but will all
      require an active approval from their Institutional Review Board.

      Study Interventions

      Interventions:

      Patients will be assigned to one of two treatment groups with a randomization sequence
      prepared and maintained centrally by the database. The random permuted block method of
      randomization will be used because it guarantees that at no time during randomization will
      the imbalance be large and at certain points the number of patients in each group will be
      equal. Because the study is unblinded, random block sizes will be used. Randomization will be
      stratified by clinical center, parity, and age to assure balance between the two treatment
      groups with respect to anticipated differences in the patient population and possible
      differences in patient management.

      Sufficient stocks of the study drugs are kept in the labor and delivery areas of the study
      sites to ensure no undue delay in beginning the therapy. This will reduce the chance of a
      seizure occurring after randomization but before drug administration. Since this study will
      have an intent-to-treat analysis, such patients will still be included in the analysis in the
      group to which they were assigned.

      The study drugs will be kept in appropriately secure areas in the labor and delivery suite of
      each site. This system will allow for the most efficient administration of drug after
      randomization and will limit the rate of drop out because of seizure prior to getting the
      intended drug. In this intent-to-treat analysis, each patient will be analyzed in the group
      she was originally assigned to regardless of whether or not she received the drug or not.

      All patient data will be recorded in an internet-based interactive computer database. The URL
      is www.labetalol.org. The database has been designed by MedSciNet
      (http://www.medscinet.se/msn/home.htm) who have extensive experience in designing,
      maintaining and managing large multicenter internet based studies for national and
      international organizations (WHO, Government of Sweden). The database satisfies all HCA,
      HIPPA, FDA CRF 21 Part 11, and NIH security protocols. Each study site will have a computer
      available to the research team for this study. The database is set up to ensure that correct
      and complete data are entered. The program determines eligibility and will only allow
      enrollment once the specific inclusion and exclusion criteria are satisfied. If eligible a
      consent form will be offered to the patient. Once she has signed the consent form she will be
      formally enrolled following the prompts on the screen. The computer will then randomize her
      to a treatment group. There will be prompts that will guide the research team through the
      data collection sheets. There are reminders built in to ensure that essential demographic and
      primary outcome data are entered. In addition certain fields will not allow data entry if
      other essential fields are not completed or have incorrect data entered. The program will
      query any impossible numbers that may be entered in error. This will hopefully reduce errors
      from data transcription and will ensure that the protocol is adhered to. Adverse event
      datasheets will be automatically displayed and will require completion prior to continuation
      of the study once any reportable events are noted. These and all other data will always be
      available to the (Data Safety and Monitoring Board) DSMB for analysis as outlined elsewhere
      in this proposal.

      Each PI will be responsible for ensuring the integrity of the data from their site. Prior to
      the data being stored in the main database a sign-off will be required by each site PI. In
      addition, the Study Coordinator and Study PI will be responsible for checking all data for
      quality issues and reliability on a regular basis. The main database will be monitored for
      accuracy and quality of data by the Principal Investigator at the St. Mark's Hospital site in
      Salt Lake City, Utah. All investigators will be kept current on any/all adverse event reports
      and interim analyses.

      Patients randomized to labetalol will receive two 100 mg tablets orally. The labetalol
      tablets (200 mg) will be repeated every 6 hours, unless the patient is hypotensive (BP < 90
      mmHg systolic and/or 60 mmHg diastolic). The tablets will be swallowed with a maximum of 10cc
      of water. In those patients where the clinical team desires a more rapid intravenous dosing,
      a single 20mg of labetalol will be given before the oral dose is taken. Labetalol therapy
      will be continued for 24 hours post delivery.

      If the blood pressure is not controlled (reduction in BP to < 160 systolic and < 110 mmHg
      diastolic) within 40 minutes of beginning labetalol therapy, the patient will receive an
      intravenous dose of 20mg labetalol, which can be increased in an escalating dose to a maximum
      of 80mg (20 mg, 40 mg, 80 mg) every 20 minutes as necessary to control the blood pressure
      until a cumulative maximum of 240 mg has been given. It is extremely important that the blood
      pressure is controlled as outlined in this protocol and any deviation from these instructions
      will be deemed a protocol violation.

      Even if repeated labetalol is required for blood pressure control, the patient will continue
      to receive 200mg labetalol orally every 6 hours unless she has bradycardia or hypotension (as
      defined by a blood pressure of < 90 mmHg systolic and/or < 60 mmHg diastolic). If blood
      pressure is not controlled with labetalol the patient will have her blood pressure controlled
      by the delivery team using whatever other agent they choose. In those institutions where
      intravenous labetalol is unavailable the patient will receive an intravenous dose of 5mg
      hydralazine, which can be repeated every 20 minutes as necessary to control the blood
      pressure.

      Patients randomized to the magnesium sulfate arm of the study will receive a 4-6 gram
      intravenous loading dose per institution protocol over at least 20 minutes, and this will be
      followed by a continuous infusion of 1-2 grams per hour. Magnesium sulfate levels will be
      recorded as per the usual protocol of the participating hospital only in those hospitals
      where this is the protocol. Magnesium sulfate levels are not mandatory as long as there is an
      active protocol for determining the presence or absence of magnesium sulfate toxicity.
      Magnesium sulfate therapy will be discontinued 24 hours after delivery. If the blood pressure
      is not controlled (reduction in BP to below 160 mmHg systolic and 110 mmHg diastolic) within
      40 minutes of beginning magnesium sulfate therapy, the patient will be given an intravenous
      dose of 5mg hydralazine, which can be repeated every 20 minutes as necessary to control the
      blood pressure. If the patient still needs further BP control she should be given anything
      EXCEPT labetalol for BP control, i.e. nifedipine, hydralazine, etc. Persistent blood pressure
      readings above 160 systolic and/or 110 diastolic are a protocol violation.

      Following randomization, patients will be managed as per the standard labor and delivery
      protocol for preeclampsia in that institution. The only restrictions will be that no other
      anti-seizure medications (apart from the study agents) will be given unless the patient is
      removed from the study. Use of non seizure-related drugs used will be recorded on the case
      report. The enrollment of patients in the study will not, other than in the choice of the
      anti-seizure agent, influence the obstetrical management of the patient. Routine hourly vital
      signs and fetal heart rate monitoring will be employed. A standardized case report form will
      be used for all study patients.

      Patients who experience a seizure prior to receiving their study drug, but after being
      randomized to the study, will be removed from active participation in the study and treated
      according to routine practice in that institution. Those patients randomized to labetalol and
      who have a seizure on the drug will be started on magnesium sulfate per institutional
      protocol. Patients on the magnesium sulfate arm of the study who convulse will be continued
      on magnesium sulfate per institutional protocol. Since all of the above mentioned patients
      will have been randomized they will be included in the intent to treat analysis. Outcome data
      will be obtained on all randomized patients, regardless of whether they receive study drug or
      have to stop study drug.

      Data Collection and Storage:

      All patient data will be recorded in an internet-based interactive computer database. The URL
      is www.labetalol.org and for the purposes of this grant application a testing/training
      program can be accessed by reviewers using the URL http://www.medscinet.com/labetaloltest/
      the login name: training and the password: training will allow reviewers to review the
      training web site. The database has been designed by MedSciNet
      (http://www.medscinet.se/msn/home.htm) who have extensive experience in designing,
      maintaining and managing large multicenter internet based studies for national and
      international organizations (WHO, Government of Sweden). The database satisfies all HCA,
      HIPPA, FDA CRF 21 Part 11, and NIH security protocols. Each study site will have a computer
      available to the research team for this study. The database is set up to ensure that correct
      and complete data are entered. The program determines eligibility and will only allow
      enrollment once the specific inclusion and exclusion criteria are satisfied. If eligible a
      consent form will be offered to the patient. Once she has signed the consent form she will be
      formally enrolled following the prompts on the screen. The computer will then randomize her
      to a treatment group. There will be prompts that will guide the research team through the
      data collection sheets. There are reminders built in to ensure that essential demographic and
      primary outcome data are entered. In addition certain fields will not allow data entry if
      other essential fields are not completed or have incorrect data entered. The program will
      query any impossible numbers that may be entered in error. This will hopefully reduce errors
      from data transcription and will ensure that the protocol is adhered to. Adverse event
      datasheets will be automatically displayed and will require completion prior to continuation
      of the study once any reportable events are noted. These and all other data will always be
      available to the DSMB for analysis as outlined elsewhere in this proposal. Each PI will be
      responsible for ensuring the integrity of the data from their site. Prior to the data being
      stored in the main database a sign-off will be required by each site PI. In addition, the
      Study Coordinator and Study PI will be responsible for checking all data for quality issues
      and reliability on a regular basis. The main database will be monitored for accuracy and
      quality of data by the Principal Investigator at the St. Mark's Hospital site in Salt Lake
      City, Utah. All investigators will be kept current on any/all adverse event reports and
      interim analyses. The Principal Investigator of the study, Dr. Michael A. Belfort, MD, PhD or
      a designated study co-investigator will be in contact with each of the institutions on a
      regular basis during the 5 years of the study to monitor the trial. The Trial Coordinator
      will ensure that all personnel are trained on the system. She will monitor enrollment on a
      daily basis and will be responsible for ensuring that all data are transmitted to the central
      database in a timely manner and that data integrity is maintained.

      Study Timetable

      Patient Recruitment:

      One of the major stumbling blocks in any research into the pathophysiology of eclampsia is
      the enrollment of sufficient patients to achieve statistical significance. No single center
      is capable of completing a study of the scope and nature of that proposed in a reasonable
      time period. For this reason it is essential that multicenter networks such as the one that
      we have established be used to their full capacity and supported adequately to allow this to
      happen. All of the participating institutions in our network deliver in excess of 1500
      patients per year. We have shown at the St. Marks and University of Utah sites that
      enrollment of 2 patients per week is easily attainable with on-site presence and
      encouragement. We have asked each site to enroll a minimum of 2 patients per week and we
      expect more from the larger sites (Texas Women's Hospital - 8000 deliveries per annum,
      University of Minnesota Medical Center Hospitals 10 000 patients per annum, Utah HCA
      facilities 8000 deliveries per annum). Given an enrollment of 2 patients per week from 20
      sites we anticipate annual enrollment of at least 2000 patients and that this study can be
      realistically performed within 5 years. In addition, we expect that as the LAMPET Study gains
      impetus and information is disseminated within the HCA network of obstetric institutions we
      will have more sites joining the study. There is an active program within the HCA Perinatal
      Safety Initiative that rewards facilities for Quality Programs. HCA has started a grading
      system within its obstetric hospitals that has as its acme "Center of Excellence" status.
      This status within the HCA organization confers significant advantages to the facility and is
      as such a highly sought after designation. One of the components for attaining Center of
      Excellence status is an active obstetric research program, and we expect that the LAMPET
      study will be established and ongoing, it will represent an attractive option for centers
      wishing to gain the Center of Excellence goal. As outlined above there are already a number
      of the larger HCA facilities that have committed a 0.5 nursing FTE to this project and have
      been included in the grant application. There are more facilities that have pledged support
      and committed nursing support but are not eligible for grant funding because of their smaller
      size and lower potential for enrolling the required 2 patients per week. Despite the fact
      that they will not be paid anything, their CEO's have committed up to a 0.5 nursing FTE to
      help these smaller facilities participate. We anticipate that more and more of the smaller
      hospitals will also join the study as we disseminate the project throughout the company at
      divisional meetings and national conferences. These particular sites are prepared to
      participate in this study without any support and we anticipate that as the study progresses
      and the protocol is disseminated further HCA facilities will sign up simply for the Center of
      Excellence designation. This will further ensure success of this project. HCA has a Letter of
      Agreement program that allows any hospital within the system to accept the IRB approval from
      the St. Marks site, and thus circumvents time-consuming and costly bureaucracy. This will
      allow individual physicians and groups of practitioners who wish to participate in research
      to play an active role in a major RCT. Potential Principal Investigators will be able to
      download the protocol and a template consent from the Study Website for their own use. All
      consent form and protocol changes that may be made will be vetted by Dr. Belfort to ensure
      that these are only cosmetic to satisfy the particular needs of that institution. No
      substantive changes to the protocol or consent form will be allowed.

      Timetable:

      5 years will be a realistic amount of time to successfully complete the study.

      Statistical Analysis:

      One of the most widely used procedures for interim analysis of a clinical trial is the
      spending function approach of Lan and DeMets. This method uses a function of time to specify
      the rate at which the total Type I error probability is to be spent during the trial so that
      this quantity does not exceed the desired alpha level. For this study, the spending function
      corresponding to an O'Brien and Fleming boundary will be used. With this method, the rate at
      which the type I error is spent is a function of the fraction of total information available
      at the time of the interim analysis (i.e., information time). The information time is
      determined by the type of statistical test employed. For the analysis of seizure rate, the
      information time is the proportion of the total patients randomized. The table below provides
      the Z score at each time point required for considering terminating the study early and for
      final analysis to show statistical significance at the alpha=0.05 level:

      The Lan-DeMets procedure is flexible in that the total number and timing of the sequential
      analyses need not be specified in advance. Also, there is no requirement that looks be
      equally spaced. In some clinical trials, however, a surprising development may lead to extra
      "looks" or even continuous monitoring of data. The Lan-DeMets procedure is flexible, in that
      it can switch from occasional to continuous monitoring of the data with negligible effect on
      the Type I error level.

      Data Monitoring Committee:

      An independent data monitoring committee has been established to review the progress of the
      study. The data monitoring committee will meet periodically to review trial results, monitor
      patient safety and study progress. The data monitoring committee will meet when approximately
      25%, 50% and 75% of the patients have been enrolled and delivered. However, this committee
      will be responsible for deciding whether more or less frequent meetings are necessary. The
      data monitoring committee will be completely independent of the study group and will not
      include any member of the research team or any individual with a conflict of interest.
    
  