
    
      This ongoing feasibility study is a two-armed, parallel group, randomized clinical trial.We
      will recruit 60 elderly prostate cancer survivors (age 55+ years) and their significant
      others (spouse, domestic partner, or close family member).

      Considering literature attesting to strains associated with caregiver status, we will also
      collect survey and physical assessment data to explore the intervention's effect on
      significant others.

      Recruitment occurs through Huntsman Cancer Institute's outpatient clinic and University and
      community-based strategies (for example, newspaper ads, flyers, support groups, patient
      registries).

      We will measure relevant psychosocial measures, including fatigue and quality of life (SF36 &
      EPIC), perceived stress, distress, mood, cognitive function, social connectedness,
      demographics, and leisure time, at baseline, the six-week midpoint, and one week
      post-intervention. Weekly measures of fatigue and quality of life and physical activity logs
      will also be administered.

      Biometric assessments, including balance and mobility, flexibility, blood pressure, resting
      heart rate, body mass index, and waist-hip-ratio, will be done at baseline (before
      randomization) and one week post-intervention.

      Significant others will undergo the same survey measures as the prostate cancer survivors,
      except for measures specific to prostate cancer (e.g., EPIC-26-short form).

      Participants will be recruited in two cohorts, one beginning early March and the other early
      June, 2012. The twice-weekly exercise classes will be 60 minutes in duration, running for 12
      weeks. Classes will be conducted at Huntsman Cancer Institute's Survivor & Wellness Center,
      beginning one week after baseline physical assessments. Participants will receive a DVD of
      the respective class led by trained and qualified instructors so they can supplement classes
      with home-based sessions.

      Qigong class will consist of postures, movements, deep breathing techniques, and meditation,
      including an emphasis on weight shifting, breath, and posture control.

      Non-aerobic stretching will consist of light stretching exercises that avoid focus on
      meditation. This class will serve as the control group for non-specific factors such as
      attention dose and the group setting.

      To ensure consistency of physical intensity between the two study arms, both objective (heart
      rate monitors) and subjective (self-reported ten-point Borg scale) measures will be performed
      on participants.
    
  