
    
      ATS is an ion channel disorder that causes episodes of muscle weakness and potentially
      life-threatening heart arrhythmias. The majority of ATS cases are caused by a mutation in the
      KCNJ2 gene, which is linked to potassium channels in the heart, brain, and skeletal muscle;
      other cases are presumed to be caused by an as yet undetermined gene lesion. To date, the
      treatment for ATS has been largely anecdotal, and no treatments have been formally assessed
      in a controlled clinical trial. This study will determine whether potassium supplements
      and/or acetazolamide, which is a diuretic medication, affect the duration of muscle weakness
      and heart rhythm abnormalities in people with ATS.

      Participation in this study will last about 11 months. Participants will first attend a 3-day
      inpatient visit that will include a medical history, physical examination, blood work, heart
      rhythm testing by an electrocardiogram (ECG) and Holter monitor, strength testing, a health
      questionnaire, and daily potassium supplementation. Participants will also track the number
      and length of weakness episodes that they experience while in the hospital. On the last day
      of the inpatient visit, participants will be provided with multiple bottles containing either
      potassium or placebo. Participants will then return home for an 18-week treatment period that
      will consist of six 3-week-long treatments of either potassium or placebo, with the treatment
      schedule being randomly determined. Upon completing the first 18-week treatment period,
      participants will attend a second 3-day inpatient visit that will include the same tests and
      procedures as the first. The only difference will be that participants will receive
      acetazolamide along with potassium. This will be followed by a second 18-week treatment
      period that will consist of six 3-week-long treatments of either acetazolamide or placebo. At
      the end of the second treatment period, participants will fill out another health
      questionnaire. Throughout both 18-week treatment periods, participants will phone in daily to
      track any muscle or heart problems. They will also provide blood samples on a weekly basis.
      At Weeks 2, 5, 8, 11, 14, and 17 of both treatment periods, participants will wear a Holter
      monitor for 24 hours and then mail it in. A final outpatient visit will occur 8 weeks after
      the end of the second treatment period and will include heart rhythm testing, muscle strength
      testing, and blood work.
    
  