
    
      This study was designed as a double-blind randomized prospective and cross-sectional.
      Cesarean delivery planned patients who will admit to the Obstetrics and Gynecology Clinic,
      Tokat Gaziosmanpasa University Research and Application Center between January 2021 and June
      2021 will be evaluated. Participation of the patients in the study will be based on written
      consents. All patients who meet the inclusion criteria will be randomized into two groups
      (i.e., "baseball" or single layer locked).

      This study was approved by Tokat Gaziosmanpasa University Institutional Review Board and
      Ethics Committee (Project no= 20-KAEK-311, Approval Date= 12/17/2020).

      Pregnant women who are over 37 weeks, have no pregnancy complications, and will undergo
      uterine surgery for the first time will be included in the study. Exclusion criteria are
      determined as: Preoperative hemogram value below 10mg/dL, active labor (regular contraction
      and> 4cm cervical opening), placental anomaly, previous uterine surgery, chorioamnionitis,
      premature rupture of membranes, additional disease, body mass index BMI> 35kg / m2, consuming
      tobacco and / or alcohol, needing blood transfusion and multiple pregnancy.

      Randomization will be created on a computer controlled by a statistician to create two
      groups. Before cesarean delivery, sealed, opaque and numbered envelope containing the
      definition and image of the suture technique will be reported to the surgeon. Participants
      included in the study 3 months after the operation will be called for control by an external
      observer. Follow-up data and ultrasound measurements of uterine incision scar area will be
      documented by sonographer who does not know the uterotomy closure technique applied to the
      patient.

      During the follow up examination, weight and breastfeeding status of the patient and
      ultrasound measurement of uterine length, uterine position, residual myometrial thickness,
      isthmocele depth, isthmocele width, cervical thickness, isthmocele fundus distance,
      isthmocele cervical distance, hypoechoic isthmocele width in transverse plane will be
      recorded.

      The sample size was calculated based on a study by Roberge S et al. (2016) titled Impact of
      uterine closure on residual myometrial thickness after cesarean: a randomized controlled
      trial. The mean residual myometrial thickness values of this study were found to be 3.8 ±
      1.57 in the single-layered group and 4.77 ± 1.34 in the double-stitched group. The power
      analysis performed using GPower 3.1 (http://www.gpower.hhu.de/) program, when 80% power and
      alpha = 0.05 are taken, the total sample size calculated using the student's t test was found
      to be 36 for each group. Considering possible problems, it is planned to include 80
      participants, 40 for each group. The normal distribution of the data of the measurements will
      be analyzed with the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. The data of two groups of patients will be
      analyzed with the Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) version 20 program using
      one-way ANOVA analysis, post-hoc test, T-test, chi-square and Fisher test according to the
      data characteristics. Statistical significance will be accepted as p <0.05.
    
  