
    
      The study was designed as a single-blind, two-arm, randomized controlled study with a
      12-month follow-up period. Recruitment started in February 2013 and it continued until
      January 2015. After recruitment, the patients were seen quarterly (i.e., follow-up visits at
      3, 6, 9, and 12 months). Before follow-up visits, patients were contacted by phone to remind
      them of their appointment.

      The participants were inpatients, mainly from Central and Southern Italy, and they were
      enrolled in a single center, the IDI-IRCCS, FLMM, in Rome, a large dermatological reference
      center.

      Inclusion criteria were diagnosis of Systemic Sclerosis, according to the American College of
      Rheumatology/European League Against Rheumatism (ACR/EULAR) criteria;23 age >18 years;
      ability to understand the Italian language; subjective perception of problems with opening
      the mouth, such as hardened tissues, reduced mobility, pain - confirmed by a dermatologist;
      signed informed consent.

      Exclusion criteria were edentulous patients, presence of dental conditions, documented
      dysfunction of the temporo-mandibular joint, oral neoplasia, sub-mandibular inflammatory
      conditions, patients already undergoing face massages or face physiotherapy, patients who had
      undergone mouth lipofilling, patients with severe hand disability (including deep ulcers, and
      severe pain), and patients with documented psychiatric conditions or taking psychotropic
      medications.

      Randomization The assignment to the intervention and control group was made according to a
      random sequence generated by a computer program. The randomization list was maintained by an
      investigator who was not involved in patient recruitment nor in outcome measurement.

      Each entry of the randomization list was placed in a sealed envelope, numbered in ascending
      order, and given to a research nurse after the inclusion/exclusion criteria were verified and
      the informed consent was obtained.
    
  