
    
      Participants with HBV mono infection and a measurable HBV DNA viral load attending SMRU
      antenatal clinics (ANC) on the Myanmar-Thailand border will be invited if they have a
      gestational age of at least 20 weeks. A total of 24 women: 12 participants enrolled in 2nd
      trimester (EGA 20-<24 weeks) and 12 enrolled in 3rd trimester (EGA 28-<36) with complete
      samples are required.

      Women, identified by routine antenatal care screening for HBV will be invited to participate
      if they are HBsAg positive and meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Participants will
      be provided TDF 300mg daily and will continue TDF treatment until one month after delivery.
      The TFV concentrations will be measured monthly before delivery, at delivery, in cord blood
      and 1 and 2 months postpartum. Additional dense PK blood sampling will be done in the second
      and third trimester and postpartum. Breast milk samples timed with mother blood and infant
      blood samples will be included to measure drug concentrations in breastmilk as possible
      presence of HBV DNA viral in breastmilk following cessation of TDF.

      The dense sampling for pharmacokinetics assessments will occur at least after 2 weeks of TDF
      treatment in second trimester between 22-26 weeks gestation, in third trimester between 30-38
      weeks gestation, and 4 weeks postpartum. The dense sampling will entail twelve blood samples
      in a 24 hour period (24ml of blood in total). Women will be counseled about the importance of
      adherence. Direct Observed Treatment (DOT) in the 3 days prior to the dense blood sampling
      will be performed. The woman can choose to be admitted for these days or if a home visitor
      lives close enough be supervised at home.

      The follow-up for women will be until 6 months post-partum, to check for flares. TFV
      concentrations will be collected by venous blood testing but an indwelling catheter can be
      used during the rich sampling 24 hour period. Infants will be followed up from delivery, and
      at 1, 2, 4 and 6 months of age for vaccination and growth. Infant drug exposure is measured
      at month 1 and HBV DNA will be measured at birth from cord blood and HBsAg by venepuncture at
      2 months of age.

      Study duration

      The investigators will enroll volunteers into this study after ethical approval. Because the
      investigators will enroll subjects in gestational windows the investigators expect the
      recruitment and follow up to last at least 2 years.
    
  