
    
      The IBD-patients will be prospectively documented in the BIOibd-Registry. The diagnosis is
      made in accordance with current DGVS/ECCO UC/CD guidelines. There are the following inclusion
      and exclusion criteria:

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  IBD-patients (UC/CD) aged 18-80 years at enrollment

        -  Written informed consent is given Exclusion Criteria:Lack of adequate documentation
           possibilities

        -  Malignant disease in history

        -  Planned surgical intervention

      There are three subpopulations:

        1. IBD-patients (age at enrollment: 18-80 years) receiving a newly introduced Vedolizumab
           (VDZ) therapy (n=1.800). A former therapy with other biologics is allowed. More than 30%
           of these Vedolizumab patients will be biologics-naiv.

        2. IBD-patients (age at enrollment: 18-80 years) receiving a newly introduced
           anti-TNF-alpha therapy other than VDZ (n=350) in biologics-naiv patients.

        3. IBD patients (age at enrollment: 18-80 years) with an early disease (n=350), who were
           first diagnosed < 2 years before the start of documentation in the Investigator
           initiated non-interventional study (NIS) but have not yet received and are not planned
           to receive biologics in the near future.

      Patients with IBD on Vedolizumab/anti-TNF will be documented in a prospective online
      documentation form at the participating study sites. In parallel, these sites will also
      document consecutively early disease IBD patients who were diagnosed less than 2 years
      previously. These patients will be used as a control group.The data will be documented in an
      online documentation form. After initial documentation at enrollment and during induction (0,
      2, 6 and 14 weeks), follow-up documentation using an abbreviated online follow-up form will
      be requested every 6 months during the longitudinal investigation. Any drug side effects are
      also captured online on a side effects form.
    
  