
    
      Subjects will undergo both a blood draw and a wireless capsule endoscopy (WCE).

      The blood draw will occur in the GI procedure unit on the day of subjects exam.

      WCE: Subject will only consume a clear liquid diet after noon the day prior to the exam. No
      food or beverage consumption any after 10 PM on the day before examination. Not oral
      medications after 12 AMon the day of exam (8 hours before subject's exam).

      Day of exam, subject will report to the endoscopy unit. At that time, subject will be
      prepared for examination by doctor who will apply a sensor array to the abdomen with adhesive
      sleeves. In addition, a waist belt device that holds the data recorder will be fitted to
      subject. Subjects will swallow the capsule endoscope. The capsule endoscope passes naturally
      through digestive tract while transmitting video images to the data recorder worn on the belt
      for approximately eight hours. At this point, subjects will be free to leave the University
      of Chicago hospital until they return eight hours later for disconnection of the recording
      equipment.

      Two hours after ingestion of the capsule, subject will be able to resume a clear liquid diet.
      Four hours after the study's start time, subject will be able to resume a regular diet (
      solid foods). At this time, subject will also be able to resume taking oral medications.

      After eight hours, subject will return to the endoscopy suite (DCAM 6H) for disconnection of
      the recording equipment (sensor array, data recorder, and belt). The time that the capsule
      was ingested, eating and drinking times, and disconnection time as well as any discomfort
      subject experienced will be recorded.

      Subject will be contacted 72 hours after the examination to confirm passage of the capsule.
      If they have not reported passage of the capsule with this time, subject will undergo an
      abdominal radiograph in order to determine whether or not the capsule has passed.

      Subjects will be asked to identify a non-relative control (spouses are acceptable) within
      five years of their age and of similar background without Ulcerative Colitis. There is an
      Information Handout that participating subjects will give to friends interested in
      participating. If the subject does not find anyone, they may still participate in this
      research study. The study staff will try to find someone for them.
    
  