
    
      Breast cancer is one of the most frequently seen cancers in the United States. Breast cancer
      occurs at all ages but is particularly common in post menopausal women. Obesity increases the
      risk of breast cancer primarily of the type that is stimulated by the female sex hormone
      estrogen. In obesity, fat cells produce estrogen which can alter breast tissue, while
      lowering blood estrogen reduces the incidence of breast cancer. Inflammation of fat tissue,
      the coronary blood vessels and the liver are also seen with obesity. Animal experiments have
      shown the inflammation in fat tissue increases the production of estrogen, thus reducing
      inflammation in fat tissue might lower estrogen levels and the risk of breast cancer in obese
      women. A diet high in omega-3-fatty acids, such as those found in fish oil, has been shown in
      mice to reduce inflammation and aromatase expression (rate limiting enzyme for estrogen
      synthesis) in fat tissue.

      This pilot study of five obese, post-menopausal women and an additional 12 morbidly obese
      post-menopausal women will include nutritional and medical evaluations, a four day inpatient
      hospital stay on a regular diet, to measure the inflammation and the estrogen producing
      machinery of each volunteer subject. Following these baseline measurements, subjects will be
      provided DHA supplements to take daily for three months and requested to weigh themselves
      twice weekly at home with the goal of maintaining their weight. Telephone interviews will be
      performed at scheduled points to check-in with the subjects and after six weeks a return
      visit to the OPRC will be conducted to assess progress and provide additional supplements. At
      three months each subject will be readmitted to the hospital and repeat the tests performed
      before starting on the DHA supplement. If the study shows feasibility and positive results it
      will be extended to more subjects and other interventions in the future.
    
  