
    
      The aim is to study is to evaluate low-dose tacrolimus as a treatment for HHT with the
      proposed "HHT Clinical Trial Protocol". Rare disease presents a number of challenges in
      clinical trial design, including recruitment challenges, related power limitations and less
      knowledge about outcomes measurement. Considering these limitations, as well as the large
      variability in epistaxis measures across HHT patients, a crossover-trial design, with each
      subject receiving the study drug and placebo, and therefore serving as their own control, has
      been selected, including randomization and blinding, to limit bias in measuring this
      subjective outcome.

      This study will investigate tacrolimus, given its demonstrated anti-angiogenic and
      anti-inflammatory properties, as well as compelling effects in arteriovenous malformation
      (AVM) models. Specifically, tacrolimus has been shown to oppose the gene expression
      upregulation of the identified pro-angiogenic markers, thus resulting in anti-angiogenic
      effects. There are two mechanisms to this. Firstly, recent evidence has shown tacrolimus to
      be a potent ALK1 signaling mimetic at the transcriptional level. This is particularly
      significant given that the ALK1 pathway signaling is lost in HHT via the hallmark ACVRL1 and
      ENG genes. Independent of its effect on the ALK1 pathway, tacrolimus has been shown to be a
      potent inhibitor of VGEF signaling.

      As mentioned previously, the BMP9-ALK1-endoglin-Smad1/5/9 pathway in HHT, is a novel avenue
      of interest for treating hemorrhage in HHT and also regressing vascular malformations. Given
      the upstream inactivation of the ALK1 pathway, therapeutic potential via this pathway is
      dependent on Smad1/5/8 activation and signaling irrespective of the functional status of the
      corresponding ALK1 receptors. To this end, tacrolimus has been shown to activate Smad1/5/8
      signaling in HHT patient-derived cells, thus confirming its therapeutic potential in HHT.

      Tacrolimus also has anti-inflammatory effects, via inhibition of pro-inflammatory cytokines,
      specifically IL2, which is associated with cytotoxic T cell proliferation and activation.
      Finally, recent evidence also demonstrated a reduction of vascular pathology in mouse models
      via tacrolimus administration. Tacrolimus also has the advantages of a proven safety track
      record for long-term use, given its long history in transplant medicine, and can be orally
      administered, making it more acceptable to patients. In addition to promising effects in
      laboratory-based studies, Canadian case study reported the regression of angiodysplasia and
      reduction of mucosal hemorrhage in a probable HHT patient who underwent liver transplantation
      following high-output cardiac failure and hepatic AVM development. A recent case report of
      treatment with oral low-dose -dose tacrolimus in an individual with HHT, found that
      tacrolimus dramatically improved epistaxis. Based on the evidence to date, the investigators
      hypothesize that oral low-dose tacrolimus will reduce nasal hemorrhage in HHT subjects,
      through anti-angiogenic and/or anti-inflammatory mechanisms, both of which have been
      implicated in HHT.

      This is a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial (N=30) of oral low-dose tacrolimus
      (0.025mg/kg/day and adjusted to maintain blood levels of 2-5ng/ml 6-month course) in HHT
      subjects with moderate-severe recurrent nasal hemorrhage. Drug dosing and safety monitoring
      will be tailored specifically to the agent studied. The primary outcome will be reduction of
      bleeding minutes per week. In addition, vascular malformation tissue (cutaneous) will be
      obtained pre and post-investigational product from some subject, and stained for
      inflammatory, angiogenic and BMP9-ALK1-endoglin- SMAD1/5/9 pathway markers. In addition,
      pre-excision, vascular malformations will be imaged with speckle variance optical coherence
      tomography (SVOCT), in vivo non-invasive micro-angiography, to measure lesion structure,
      vessel volume and vessel density, as previously described. Tissue and imaging may provide
      important insights into physiological mechanisms that explain clinical changes. If the drugs
      studied are effective at reducing nasal hemorrhage, this will have important clinical
      implications for HHT patients.
    
  