
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a
      coin) to 1 of 2 study groups:

        -  Group 1 will watch a DVD and receive a booklet of information about their disease type
           (knee osteoarthritis, osteoporosis, or rheumatoid arthritis).

        -  Group 2 will read a booklet about their disease type.

      All the materials including the DVD, booklet, and questionnaires will be in English and
      Spanish. You may choose which language you prefer to use while watching and/or reading the
      materials.

      You will be asked to complete questionnaires before and after watching the DVD or reading the
      booklet. We will ask you about how the material made you think and feel and how easy or hard
      the material was to understand.

      You will also fill out short questionnaires that include questions about your demographic
      information, your health, your thoughts about bone/joint disease, how you might choose
      treatments for bone/joint disease, and how you make treatment decisions. These questionnaires
      will take up to 45 minutes to complete in the clinic.

      This first visit will take about 60-90 minutes total to complete. If you are unable to
      complete this first visit today you will need to complete it within the next two weeks.

      You will be asked to fill out these questionnaires again 3 months and 6 months later, by
      mail. The study staff will mail you the questionnaires, along with a postage-paid return
      envelope that you can use to send the questionnaires back. If you prefer you can also
      complete the questionnaires over the phone or the research staff can meet you at the clinic
      or your home to complete the questionnaires at 3 and 6 months.

      Your participation on this study will be over after you have mailed back the 6-month
      questionnaires.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 828 participants will take part in this multicenter study.
    
  