
    
      All patients who present to our department with proven aneurysmal SAH and fit the inclusion
      criteria (see below) will be approached for inclusion into the trial. Written informed
      consent will be sought prior to recruitment into the study. Written assent from the patient's
      relatives will be sought in those cases where neurological impairment prevents written
      informed consent being obtained from the patient. The patient will subsequently be randomised
      into the control arm or the study arm of the trial. The control arm consists of normal
      therapeutic intervention, including external ventricular drainage if required for
      hydrocephalus. Those randomised to the therapeutic arm will have a lumbar drain inserted and
      set to drain CSF at 5 ml/hour. This will continue until CSF is no longer blood stained or
      until day 10 following insertion.

      Primary outcome measures:

      1. Incidence of delayed ischaemic neurological deficit. This is defined as new neurological
      deficit and/or impairment of consciousness without other identifiable cause at least three
      days post haemorrhage.

      New impairment of consciousness is defined as a drop in the Glasgow Coma Score of 1 motor
      point or 2 verbal/eye opening points.

      Secondary outcome measures:

        1. Modified Rankin Score at day 10 post ictus and at 6 months.

        2. Severity of delayed neurological deficit and the development of a complete infarct.

        3. Incidence of cerebrospinal fluid infection secondary to lumbar drainage

      Special note:

      If a patient has presented greater than three days following the initial bleed, any
      neurological deficit present may be a delayed neurological deficit and thus must be excluded
      from the trial. Should the lumbar drain fall out prematurely the patient will be asked
      whether they wish to continue in the study and, if so, the lumbar drain will be reinserted
      and management will continue as before. Patients showing signs of lumbar drain infection will
      have the drain removed, a sample of CSF and the drain tip sent to the microbiology laboratory
      and appropriate antibiotic therapy instituted.

      The neurosurgical unit at Leeds General Infirmary treated 313 patients with acute
      subarachnoid haemorrhage in the three years 1997-2000. Of these 243 patients would have been
      suitable for this study on the basis of their admission clinical status. The power
      calculation was derived from the estimate that 40% of patients treated with standard therapy
      will develop clinical vasospasm. If the retrospective study showed a minimum of 20%
      improvement in its outcome variables then we expect to see the same improvement. For an 85%
      power this requires 105 patients in each arm. We expect this to take 3.5 years based on the
      number of eligible patients that present to our unit with a 60-70% recruitment rate
      (approximately 30 patients per year per arm).
    
  