
    
      Statement of the problem: Zero-tolerance policies, emphasizing rigid responses to
      infractions, including removal of students from school and referrals to juvenile justice
      systems, have prevailed nationwide. Such policies disproportionately affect
      minority/disadvantaged students by severely disciplining them for minimal infractions,
      imperiling their academic performance and graduation, and potentially leading to detention or
      incarceration. In contrast, restorative justice practices elicit understanding of the
      perspectives of those involved in conflict and rule violations, addressing the effect of
      offenses, and remedying the damage, thus opening up healing opportunities and keeping
      students in the classroom. Yet, little research exists regarding their effectiveness in
      reducing negative student outcomes and developing positive school climates. Our knowledge of
      factors associated with successful implementation and fidelity, and adaptations at the
      district, school, staff, and student levels to promote their sustained use is also
      inadequate.

      Partnerships: This project addresses these gaps by developing a Community-Academic
      Partnership (CAP) to implement and evaluate a large-scale restorative practice initiative for
      middle schools. Our CAP involves a Southwestern U.S. state school district that wishes to
      remain anonymous, other key community entities, and academic researchers.

      Research design/methods: The project will: (1) Engage school district stakeholders in a
      structured planning process for incorporating tailored restorative practices within
      culturally and economically diverse middle schools to reduce adverse student outcomes related
      to discipline; (2) Produce scientific evidence regarding the effectiveness and the
      costs/benefits of restorative practices implemented in these middle schools using a
      stratified cluster randomized design and mixed methods; and (3) Build capacity within schools
      to implement and evaluate restorative practices with fidelity after implementation support
      has ended, and to facilitate cascade of practices districtwide. A combination of qualitative
      methods (interviews, focus groups, and document review) and quantitative methods (surveys and
      administrative data review) will be used to evaluate and track implementation success and
      outcomes.

      Analysis: Procedures include iterative qualitative data coding, descriptive statistical
      analysis, multilevel modeling, and cost/benefits analysis.

      Products, reports, and archiving: This project will advance a set of strategies to enhance
      child wellbeing. The CAP will disseminate these strategies and accompanying evaluation
      methods via national/state conferences, districtwide reports, peer-reviewed publications, and
      open access mediums.
    
  