
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine if the addition of 5 concurrent cycles of bevacizumab to 6 cycles of standard
      therapy (carboplatin and paclitaxel) (Arm II) increases the duration of progression-free
      survival (PFS) when compared to 6 cycles of standard therapy alone (Arm I) in women with
      newly diagnosed stage III (with any gross residual disease) and stage IV, epithelial ovarian,
      peritoneal primary or fallopian tube cancer.

      II. To determine if the addition of 5 concurrent cycles of bevacizumab plus extended
      bevacizumab for 16 cycles beyond the 6 cycles of standard therapy (carboplatin and
      paclitaxel) (Arm III) increases progression-free survival when compared to 6 cycles of
      standard therapy (Arm I) in women with newly diagnosed stage III (with any gross residual
      disease) and stage IV, epithelial ovarian, peritoneal primary or fallopian tube cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. In the event that both Arm II and Arm III regimens are superior to the Arm I regimen with
      respect to progression-free survival, to determine whether the Arm III regimen prolongs
      progression-free survival when compared to the Arm II regimen.

      II. To determine whether the Arm II or Arm III regimen increases the duration of overall
      survival when compared with the Arm I regimen.

      III. To compare each of the experimental regimens to the Arm I regimen with respect to the
      incidence of severe toxicities or serious adverse events.

      IV. To determine the impact on Quality of Life (QOL, as measured by the Functional Assessment
      of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian [FACT-O] trial outcome index [TOI]) following treatment with the
      above regimens.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the relationship between angiogenic markers and clinical outcome including tumor
      response, progression-free survival and overall survival in patients randomized to standard
      cytotoxic chemotherapy (paclitaxel and carboplatin) without bevacizumab, with concurrent
      bevacizumab or with extended bevacizumab.

      II. To assess the predictive value of a set of genes whose expression correlates with
      survival of patients with stage III (with any gross residual disease) and stage IV,
      epithelial ovarian, peritoneal primary or fallopian tube cancer.

      III. To bank whole blood for research. IV. To determine if genetic variations in genes
      associated with essential hypertension including WNK lysine deficient protein kinase 1
      (WNK1), G protein-coupled receptor kinase 4 (GRK4) and kallikrein B (KLKB1) predict which
      patients are likely to develop bevacizumab-induced hypertension.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30
      minutes on day 1. Beginning in course 2, patients also receive placebo IV over 30-90 minutes
      on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses. Beginning in course 7, patients
      receive placebo alone IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment with placebo repeats every 21
      days for up to 22 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel and carboplatin as in arm I. Beginning in course 2,
      patients also receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21
      days for 6 courses. Beginning in course 7, patients receive placebo alone IV over 30-90
      minutes on day 1. Treatment with placebo repeats every 21 days for up to 22 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: Patients receive paclitaxel and carboplatin as in arm I. Beginning in course 2,
      patients also receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21
      days for 6 courses. Beginning in course 7, patients receive bevacizumab alone IV over 30-90
      minutes on day 1. Treatment with bevacizumab repeats every 21 days for up to 22 courses in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  