
    
      Background: Depending on nature and needs, physical fitness can be divided into healthy
      fitness and physical fitness (also known as competitive fitness). Healthy fitness includes
      cardio-respiratory fitness, muscle fitness, muscular endurance, flexibility, and body
      composition. Physical fitness includes coordination, speed, explosiveness, balance, agility,
      and reaction time. Although the monitoring of fitness is very important, most of the tests
      need to be assisted by professionally trained fitness inspectors, so that the public who
      wants to regularly check their fitness status will facing a dilemma-- insufficient of
      inspectors. In the face of such a situation, the somatosensory detector may be a choice which
      is relatively objective, convenient and no need to rely on the inspectors. Therefore, the
      validity and retest reliability of the somatosensory detector need to be verified in order to
      achieve accurate and objective measurement results.

      Research purposes: To verify the retest reliability and validity of the somatosensory
      detector on physical fitness and gait performance.

      Methods: The trial will enroll 60 subjects, 30 of them were healthy individuals between the
      ages of 20 and 65, and 30 are healthy elderly than 65 years of age. The exclusion criteria
      including: (1) those who are unable to follow the instructions and who have orthopedic,
      nervous system or cardiopulmonary system disorders, or who have abnormal gait pattern, or who
      are affected by the above physiological system disorders. Subjects will receive two tests,
      there's a one-week interval between each test. In the first test, the fitness assessment of
      the fitness inspector and the somatosensory detector was performed simultaneously, and the
      fitness evaluation of the somatosensory detector was performed only for the second time. And
      use statistical software to analyze the reliability and validity of the somatosensory
      detector.

      Statistical Analysis: Using SPSS 20.0 for data archiving and statistical analysis, the
      reliability and validity of the test will be detected by intraclass correlation one-way
      random model, and presenting by the intraclass correlation coefficient and 95% confidence
      interval.
    
  