
    
      Commercial truck drivers have overweight and obesity rates that may be 20% higher than the
      general population. Obesity has established mortality and disease consequences, including
      heart disease, diabetes, and sleep apnea. Driver health is also an important safety hazard
      because obesity and sleep apnea increase the risk of crashes. Drivers experience multiple
      roadblocks to health, including an isolating job structure that restricts physical activity
      and dietary choices. Despite the growing health crisis, there is a lack of effective weight
      loss and health promotion interventions for truck drivers. We therefore developed an
      intervention that is integrated with the job structure and modern technologies of truck
      driving. The intervention is a 6-month weight loss competition supported with computer based
      training, behavioral self-monitoring, and motivational interviewing. The study is a cluster
      randomized trial where worksites (terminals) will be randomized to intervention and control
      conditions. We will collect measures from drivers at baseline (month 0), post-intervention
      (month 6), and one-year follow-up (month 18). The project will take place over five years and
      accomplish three specific aims:

        1. Determine intervention efficacy for producing changes in diet, exercise, and body
           weight. Previous weight loss interventions for truck drivers have been minimally
           effective, and there is a need to evaluate new approaches with randomized, controlled
           designs. Therefore, we will randomize matched pairs of worksites (terminals) to
           intervention and control conditions. Drivers at intervention terminals will complete
           intervention activities over a 6-month period. Drivers at control terminals will receive
           no treatment during the same time period. Primary outcomes will be changes in body
           weight, fruit and vegetable consumption, high-saturated fat and high-sugar food
           consumption, and physical activity.

        2. Determine whether baseline social support and stress moderate intervention efficacy.
           Although social support and stress have established effects on weight loss with other
           populations, we know little about the role of social support and stress during
           interventions for truck drivers. Therefore, we will measure social support and stress in
           home and work environments at each measurement time point. After the intervention, and
           again at one-year follow-up, we will test whether social support and stress factors
           moderated subsequent behavior change and weight loss.

        3. Measure the integrity of each intervention component and model how the intervention
           worked. We are evaluating a new multi-component intervention with an understudied
           population. In order to understand how the intervention worked and guide future
           research, we will measure fidelity and participation in each intervention component and
           use mediation analyses to determine how the different components affected study
           outcomes. Analyses will provide an explicit check of the intervention's theoretical
           underpinnings and assess whether proposed change processes were achieved.

      Accomplishing our aims will significantly advance weight loss and health promotion knowledge
      to the benefit of over 3 million truck drivers in the US, and potentially generalize to 15
      million additional workers who spend substantial time alone or traveling for work.
    
  