
    
      The primary objective of this study is to assess the safety and determine the recommended
      dose of AIC100 for phase II study in patients with relapsed/refractory poorly differentiated
      thyroid cancer and in patients with anaplastic thyroid cancer that are BRAF wild-type, or
      BRAF mutant anaplastic thyroid cancer after failure of BRAF-mutant specific therapy.

      Upon enrollment, patients will undergo leukapheresis for collection of autologous
      lymphocytes. The autologous T cells will be transfected and expanded in-vitro to generate the
      AIC100 product. After lymphodepleting therapy, AIC100 will be infused.

      The study drug, AIC100, consists of autologous CAR T cells containing the I domain of
      lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1) and targeting its over-expressed
      physiological ligand, intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) on thyroid cancer. AIC100
      cells also express the transmembrane domain of CD8 alpha and intracellular domains of the
      co-stimulatory receptors CD28 and 41BB, and the cytoplasmic signaling domain of the T cell
      receptor associated CD3. In addition, AIC100 cells express the somatostatin receptor subtype
      2 (SSTR2), which should enable CAR T cell imaging in the patient.

      The treatment with AIC100 is a single dose infusion. However, additional infusions may be
      administered if the following conditions are met: (1) patient shows stable disease or partial
      response per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 after 30 days, (2)
      the investigator has deemed it is in the best interest of the patient, (3) patient did not
      experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT), and (4) there are cell doses available from the
      already manufactured cell product. The cell dose for subsequent infusions will be similar to
      that of the initial dose. In individual cases and only with the explicit approval of the Data
      and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) and Food and Drug Administration (FDA), a higher dose
      could be administered. This would typically be justified by efficacy and toxicity data
      generated in other participants. Prior to additional infusions, lymphodepleting chemotherapy
      will be repeated.

      Enrollment will be staggered so that each patient will be followed for at least 30 days prior
      to enrollment of the next patient for the initial Dose 1 cohort. This is a dose escalation
      study using cohorts of 3 patients. Patients will receive a flat dose of 1 x 10e7, 1 x 10e8 or
      5 x 10e8 viable CAR T cells with a dose -1 Cohort of 1 x 10e6
    
  