
    
      Part A has been designed to identify the recommended dose of the combination of Osimertinib
      plus Anlotinib for further clinical evaluation based upon assessment of the safety and
      tolerability data collected during the first 21 days (cycle 1, 21 days per cycle). A cycle of
      study treatment will be defined as 21 days. Dosing will begin at Osimertinib 80mg QD
      continuously and Anlotinib 8mg QD from day1 to 14 of a 21-day cycle. In the first 6 patients,
      a delay of at least 21 days (the first group of 3 patients) and a delay of at least 7 days
      (the second group of 3 patients) will be mandatory between the administration of the first
      dose to the first patient and administration of first dose to subsequent patients. Patients
      will be enrolled to ensure a minimum of 3 and a maximum of 6 evaluable patients per cohort.
      Dose escalation and de-escalation will follow the scheme below, according to the following
      logic：If no dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) is observed (for definition see Section 4.1.3) in a
      cohort of 3 evaluable patients then dose escalation may occur. Dose increases will be
      permitted after review of data from a minimum of 3 evaluable patients has been performed.

        -  If one patient experiences a DLT in a group of 3 evaluable patients then the cohort will
           be expanded to include 6 evaluable patients. If only one DLT is observed in the complete
           cohort of 6 evaluable patients then dose escalation may occur.

        -  If 2 or more patients experience a DLT in a group of up to 6 patients, irrespective of
           the number of patients enrolled, the dose will be considered not tolerated and
           recruitment to the cohort and dose escalation will cease.

      Safety will be intensively monitored in part A. If RP2D was not reached in Part A, Part B
      would not be initiated. If RP2D was reached in Part A, eligible patients in part B will be
      enrolled and receive Osimertinib (80mg QD, continuously) plus Anlotinib (RP2D, QD from day 1
      to 14 of a 21-day cycle) till disease progression (PD) or unacceptable toxicity, with the aim
      to further evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy in terms of ORR, DCR, DOR, PFS,
      overall survival at 12 months.

      For all eligible patients (Part A and Part B), tissue and/or blood samples at baseline and PD
      will be collected to understand the resistance profile.
    
  