
    
      The GenePOC GBS Test performed on the GenePOC System is a qualitative in vitro diagnostic
      (IVD) test designed to detect Group B Streptococcus (GBS) DNA from vaginal/rectal swabs from
      antepartum women following enrichment in Lim broth for 18-24 hours.

      The GenePOC GBS Test utilizes automated sample preparation and real-time polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR) to detect a cfb gene sequence specific to the Streptococcus agalactiae genome.
      The GenePOC GBS Test is indicated for the identification of antepartum GBS colonization and
      does not provide susceptibility results. Culture isolates are needed for performing
      susceptibility testing as recommended for penicillin-allergic women.

      The GenePOC GBS is an IVD system is comprised of the GenePOC Diagnostics System and the
      GenePOC Group B Step [GBS] Test, the components of which are:

        1. Instrument

        2. GBS disposable microfluidic cartridges (PIE) (described in this document as PIEs because
           of the shape of the cartridge)

        3. GBS Sample Buffer Tube (SBT)

        4. Sample Transfer Device (STD).

      The GenePOC Instrument is fully automated and integrates sample lysis, dilution,
      amplification and detection of the target sequence in complex samples using real-time
      Polymerase chain reaction (rtPCR). User intervention is only required for discharging the
      patient sample into the SBT (sample Buffer Tube), transferring the sample into the PIE and
      for loading/unloading the PIEs into the instrument. The GenePOC instrument consists of a
      rotor to spin the PIEs, temperature control, fluorescence detection, a tactile user-friendly
      interface, two barcode readers, and integrated firmware and software to deliver results to
      the user. The PIE is a closed system that prevents the risk of contamination.

      Lim Broth is used for the selective enrichment of group B streptococci (Streptococcus
      agalactiae). An aliquot of the broth is mixed with GenePOC Sample Buffer Tube Reagent (SBT),
      after which a sample is transferred to the GenePOC GBS PIE. The GenePOC GBS PIE is then
      automatically processed by the GenePOC Instrument.

      On completion of a run, the user removes the processed PIEs from the instrument and discards
      them according to local biological waste management procedures.

      One GenePOC instrument per site will be allocated. The purpose of the clinical investigation
      is to enroll sufficient specimens from four (4) Clinical Centers to obtain a total of 150
      specimens positive for GBS based on the Reference Method final result.

      Subject Informed consent is not required for this clinical trial as the testing will be
      performed on excess de-identified specimens only.
    
  