
    
      Patients who test Helicobacter pylori positive, are treated with antibiotics. However, due to
      a number of factors (such as unknown treatment compliance, no standardized follow-up, ...), a
      relative low eradication percentage was reported. Therefore, the investigators want to
      measure the anticipated improvement in eradication percentage due to the standardized
      treatment schemes (1st line, 2nd line and further) and the optimized communication with the
      general practitioner and patients.

      If a patient is eligible (Helicobacter pylori positive) :

        1. The standardized eradication scheme in 1st line is:

           sequential therapy being the first 5 days (PPI 2x40mg/d + amoxicilline 2x1g/d), followed
           by 5 days (PPI 2x40mg/d + clarithromycin 2x500mg/d + flagyl 2x500mg/d)

        2. A standardized letter is sent to the general practitioner, mentioning the eradication
           scheme, and the need to test for eradication success after 8 weeks. A copy of this
           letter is being sent to the patient. An information folder about Helicobacter pylori
           infection with instructions on what is expected from the patient, is sent to the
           patient.

        3. After 8 weeks, a control helicobacter pylori breath test (An ureum breath test is a type
           of test performed on air generated from the act of exhalation ; this test is specific to
           detect Helicobacter pylori) is performed, and a questionnaire is filled in by the
           patient.

        4. If the ureum breath test is positive, a 2nd line treatment is started = tryplera
           schedule for 10 days (4x3 co/dag + PPI 2x40mg/d) (1 co tryplera contains 140mg
           bismuthsubcitrate, 125mg metronidazole, 125mg tetracycline hydrochloride)

        5. A standardized letter is sent to the general practitioner, mentioning the 2nd line
           eradication scheme, and the need to test for eradication success after 8 weeks. A copy
           of this letter is being sent to the patient.

        6. After 8 weeks, a control helicobacter pylori breath test is performed, and a
           questionnaire is filled in by the patient.

        7. If the breath test is positive, a 3rd line treatment is started, based on the results of
           an antibiogram.

        8. A standardized letter is sent to the general practitioner, mentioning the 3rd line
           eradication schedule, and the need to test for eradication success after 8 weeks. A copy
           of this letter is being sent to the patient.

        9. After 8 weeks, a control helicobacter pylori breath test is performed, and a
           questionnaire is filled in by the patient.

      Overall time-frame : a maximum of 100 helicobacter-positive patients will be recruited over a
      period of 1 year. Included patients are followed up for 30 weeks maximally.
    
  