
    
      The use of a face mask is recommended for inhaled treatments delivered from a pressurized
      metered-dose inhaler and a spacer device in infants and young children with respiratory
      disorders such as asthma.

      The nose effectively filters the air particles and it may reduce the amount of inhaled drug.
      Thus it is reported that the drug deposited in the lung dose is halved in older children
      inhaling through the nose with respect to those inhaling through the mouth.

      In very young children the efficiency of nasal filtration is unknown for inhaled treatment.
      In infants, an in-vitro study suggests that nasal breathing allows a similar or more
      important drug delivery than mouth breathing, contrary to what is observed in the oldest and
      adults.

      So it seems of great import to characterize the drug delivery in this age group comparing the
      nasal with the mouth breathing.

      The main purpose of this open randomized, ex-vivo comparative study, is to assess and to
      compare the inhalable dose of inhaled corticosteroid collected through a nasal filter and a
      mouth filter located in a partitioned face mask and delivered to an infant with asthma via a
      Tipshaler® holding chamber. 60 children, aged between 1 and 4 years old, with a medically
      diagnosed asthma will be recruited. Each child will inhale four puffs of both Fluticasone 125
      µg/puff and Beclometasone dipropionate 100 µg/puff administered by a single observer in a
      standardized and randomized way. No drug will be inhaled by the children. The drugs collected
      on the filters between the holding chamber and patient will be analysed by high performance
      liquid chromatography HPLC). Filter doses will be expressed in percentage of the total dose
      filtered. The analysis will cover the difference between oral dose and nasal dose compared to
      zero. Student's test will be performed with p < 0.05.
    
  