
    
      Barrett's esophagus (BE) is defined as a change in the esophageal mucosa from normal squamous
      epithelium to columnar epithelium with intestinal metaplasia (1). There is compelling
      evidence that BE is a precursor lesion for adenocarcinoma of the esophagus (2). There is also
      evidence that the prevalence of BE is much higher than was initially suspected, and that the
      true incidence rate of cancer in patients with BE is much lower than previously estimated.
      Endoscopic surveillance of all patients with BE is not likely to be cost effective, or save
      many lives. Therefore, it is important to understand which patients with BE are likely to
      progress to malignancy, and equally important to determine which patients are not likely to
      progress.Because progression is an uncommon event, definitive studies of natural history
      including evaluation of numerous risk factors require large numbers of patients, that can
      only be accomplished in the context of a multicenter study. This model will be a useful tool
      leading to a reduction in overall health care costs.

      An Opportunity to Generate the Essential Knowledge for Intervention. We have established an
      initial network of investigators interested in the 'Barrett's Esophagus Study' (a long term,
      longitudinal, prospective study) and collected preliminary data in patients with BE. To date,
      1376 patients from 4 centers have been entered into a central databank. We have presented
      preliminary data on the incidence and prevalence rates of high-grade dysplasia and cancer at
      national meetings. We now propose the creation of a formal consortium to perform a cohort
      study with the ultimate primary aim of defining risk factors for the development of
      high-grade dysplasia and adenocarcinoma in patients with BE. Such a multi-center,
      prospective, cohort, multi-disciplinary approach to BE was endorsed by the "NIH PRG on
      stomach and esophageal cancers" (May 2002).

      BACKGROUND & CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE Barrett's Esophagus the pre-malignant lesion for
      esophageal adenocarcinoma - a Condition of Rapidly Increasing Incidence. Patients with BE are
      at an increased risk for the development of esophageal adenocarcinoma and esophagogastric
      junction adenocarcinoma. Adenocarcinoma of the esophagus is believed to arise from BE in a
      step-wise progression from low-grade dysplasia to high-grade dysplasia, finally leading to
      frank adenocarcinoma (4,5). The cost effectiveness of surveillance endoscopy in patients with
      BE is very sensitive to the incidence of cancer (11). The exact incidence of adenocarcinoma
      in patients with BE is not known and has been reported to vary from 1 in 50 patient-years of
      follow up to 1 in 285 patient-years of follow up (18-22). The published incidence data from
      existing cohorts of patients with BE have been influenced by the small number of patients
      being evaluated, short duration of follow-up as well as by the demographics of the population
      being studied (e.g. older patients, male sex). To date, the maximum number of patients
      included in a published study determining the incidence of adenocarcinoma has been only 327
      patients (23,24). The ultimate goal of the proposed study is to establish a large cohort of
      patients with BE to address issues of incidence, progression and risk factors influencing
      progression. Such an approach was recently endorsed by the "NIH 2002 PRG on stomach and
      esophageal cancers".

      Factors predicting the development of dysplasia and cancer in BE patients are unknown. A few
      possible factors have been associated with esophageal adenocarcinoma, but not studied in BE
      patients. These include GERD symptoms, obesity, diet, smoking, prior cholecystectomy, drugs
      and H pylori infection (negative association) (25-36). The presence of hiatal hernia and BE
      length have been associated with dysplasia and cancer development in BE patients in a
      preliminary single center study (37). Reflux symptoms have also been reported to be
      significantly more prevalent among parents and siblings of patients with BE and esophageal
      adenocarcinoma than spouse control relatives (38). A few uncontrolled reports have provided
      conflicting results on the role of anti-reflux surgery and the use of acid suppressive
      medications (proton pump inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists) and their effect on the
      neoplastic progression in BE patients (39-43). However, all the studies to date in BE
      patients have been limited by small sample sizes, univariate analysis, short duration of
      follow-up, lack of adjustment for confounding variables etc. In this proposed study, risk
      factors and mechanisms of capturing data at each site and data transfer to the main study
      database will be discussed and implemented. Sample size calculations for appropriate
      univariate and multiple logistic regression analysis will be performed.

      Proposed Study will Fill Significant Gaps in Knowledge. In the recent "NIH PRG on stomach and
      esophageal cancers (May 2002)" and a workshop sponsored by the NIH & The American Digestive
      Health Foundation on endoscopic priorities (44), experts in the field acknowledged that there
      was a need for multi-center, longitudinal, studies and there were significant gaps in the
      knowledge base of BE including:

        1. Risk stratification of cancer risk

        2. Appropriate method of surveillance and technique for identifying dysplasia

        3. Frequency and benefits of surveillance

        4. Optimal management of BE such as acid suppression and endoscopic reversal techniques The
           ultimate goal of the BE Study is to address issues #1 and #3 i.e. risk stratification of
           Barrett's patients, and by developing a large, multi-site database, will prepare the way
           for future studies that can address the other key issues.

      The information gained will be clinically useful. We will define the natural history of
      progression of BE patients and to determine factors involved in this progression to
      high-grade dysplasia and cancer. The potentially unique answers obtained from the study would
      have major clinical relevance in

        -  Defining the natural history of dysplasia/cancer in BE patients and to identify risk
           factors involved in progression to dysplasia/cancer.

        -  Helping clarify what predisposes only a small subset of BE patients to develop
           dysplasia/cancer. Rigorous examination of a number of risk factors may define this
           patient group, thereby focusing our limited health care resources to the patient subset
           at increased risk for the development of dysplasia/cancer - "reduction in health care
           costs"

        -  Potential to change our current costly clinical practice of endoscopic surveillance of
           all BE patients, by limiting surveillance to the 'high-risk group' - "improve clinical
           decision making"

        -  Providing better and accurate information to our BE patients regarding their 'true' risk
           for dysplasia and cancer.

      PRELIMINARY STUDIES At this time, preliminary data have been collected from the 4
      participating centers, and merged into one single databank. These preliminary results were
      presented at the plenary sessions (45,46) of the American Gastroenterological Association
      (AGA) annual meeting in Atlanta, GA (May 2001) and at the American College of
      Gastroenterology (ACG) annual meeting in Las Vegas, NV (October 2001), indicating a common
      interest amongst the investigators and capability of working together.

      Distribution of Degree of Dysplasia. From the four participating centers, 1376 patients have
      met the study criteria and had at least one endoscopy with biopsy revealing intestinal
      metaplasia, thus confirming the diagnosis of BE. At the initial endoscopy, the distribution
      of dysplasia was as follows:

      Diagnosis Number of pts. Prevalence Low-grade dysplasia (LGD) 101 7.3% High-grade dysplasia
      (HGD) 42 3% Esophageal adenocarcinoma 91 6.7% Incidence and progression to low-grade
      dysplasia, high-grade dysplasia and esophageal adenocarcinoma. 1376 patients were enrolled in
      the prevalence phase of the study. To date, 618 patients (95% Caucasians, 14% Females) have
      had follow-up endoscopic procedures to examine the incidence of dysplasia/cancer. They have
      been followed for a total of 2546 patient-years; mean follow up 4.12 patient-years (range:
      1-22.5 yrs). Twelve patients developed cancer during follow up for a cancer incidence of 1 in
      212 patient-years of follow up or 0.5% per year. The mean time to development of cancer was
      5.3 yrs (range: 2.4-11.2 yrs). Of interest, 7 of 12 patients had high-grade dysplasia before
      cancer development while 2 had only low-grade dysplasia; 3 developed cancer from BE without
      dysplasia documented at any point. 22 patients developed high-grade dysplasia during follow
      up for an estimate of high-grade dysplasia incidence of 1 in 116 patient-years of follow up
      or 0.9% per year. The mean time to high-grade dysplasia development was 3.8 yrs (range:
      1.2-7.9 yrs). 11 of 22 patients developed high-grade dysplasia from BE without documented
      dysplasia, whereas the remaining 11 went from low-grade dysplasia to high-grade dysplasia.

      Risk Factors for BE and adenocarcinoma. The epidemiology and natural history of BE has been
      poorly studied. Some factors have been associated with an increased risk for esophageal
      adenocarcinoma in the general population (see Table 1), but risk factors for progression in
      BE patients are not clear. A number of risk factors have been suggested as factors of risk in
      BE patients including age, gender, ethnicity, GERD symptoms, family history of BE/cancer,
      alcohol, tobacco, dietary factors (fat intake, cereal fiber, calcium etc.) acid suppressive
      medications, biomarkers, genetic markers etc. Given this long list of possible risk factors,
      we propose to convene a panel of experts in a planning committee to serve as jury in order to
      determine which of the potential risk factors should be measured in a prospective study and
      how they should be measured. This would narrow and refine the list of risk factors for the
      prospective study.

      There are a lot of purported risk factors to be evaluated. Thus, there is a long list (see
      below) of potential factors of risk in patients with BE associated with progression to
      dysplasia and/or cancer:

      (1) Age (2) Gender (3) Ethnicity (4) Reflux symptoms (5) Smoking (6) Alcohol (7) Dietary fat
      (8) Dietary fiber, vegetables, fruits (9) Dietary calcium (10) Obesity (11) Family history of
      reflux, BE or esophageal cancer (12) Use of aspirin, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
      (13) Use of lower esophageal sphincter relaxing medications (14) Use of acid suppressive
      medications (15) Cholecystectomy (16) Anti-reflux surgery (fundoplication) (17) Length of BE
      (18) Hiatal hernia (19) Helicobacter pylori infection (20) Low-grade dysplasia on biopsy This
      proposal will make it feasible to narrow on the factors to be studied in the prospective
      trial.

      Statistical Analysis Prevalence and incidence rates: We expect to increase the
      baseline-screened population from 1376 to more than 2500 individuals in the final study. The
      number of patients we expect to enroll each year will be calculated and the expected number
      of new prevalence cases using the 9.7% prevalence rate with the preliminary study data will
      be estimated. In the preliminary study to date 618 patients have had at least one follow-up
      visit. Including the remaining 700 patients from the preliminary study and assuming a 10%
      rate for loss to follow up, we will have 6100-7450 patient years of follow up. The expected
      number of new incidence cases using the 1.3% incidence rate with the preliminary study data
      will be estimated.
    
  