
    
      Mechanical ventilation (MV) is one of the one organ support most frequently applied to
      patients admitted to intensive care units (ICUs). Despite considering as a life-saving
      intervention, MV may have detrimental effects, namely ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI).
      A mechanical breath with positive airway pressure may overstretch alveoli, especially in the
      non-dependent part of the lungs, and subsequently result in barotrauma and volutrauma. While
      cyclic opening and closing of alveoli during mechanical breath due to alveolar collapse at
      the end of expiration can cause atelec-trauma or cyclic atelectasis. All of these can lead to
      the activation of respiratory and systemic inflammatory response, so-called bio-trauma. To
      minimize the effects of MV on VILI, the lung protective mechanical ventilation (LPV) strategy
      have been proposed and now generally accepted as a standard practice in mechanically
      ventilated patients. The LPV strategy basically consists of ventilation with the low tidal
      volume of 6-8 mL/kg of predicted body weight (PBW) with limited plateau pressure of less than
      30 cm H2O plus applying sufficient amount of positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) to
      prevent atelectasis. The LPV strategy has been clearly demonstrated benefits in not only
      patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) but also those with normal lungs
      including lessened respiratory and systemic inflammatory response and injured lungs,
      decreased duration of MV and length of stay (LOS), improved organ failure, and decreased
      pulmonary and other complications as well as mortality. Nevertheless, the adherence rate to
      the LPV strategy reported in the literatures is only approximately 40% in mechanically
      ventilated patients. For surgical patients, approximately 65% of those admitted to ICU
      require MV support either following operation or during their stay in ICU. To date, there is
      limited data regarding MV management in surgical patients who required MV support
      perioperatively. In addition, the difference in perioperative MV practices and their
      associated clinical outcomes has been not well determined in this setting. The aim of this
      study is to explore the current practice of MV according to the LPV strategy applied to
      surgical patients admitted to surgical ICU (SICU) and their associated clinical outcome. The
      primary outcome of this study is to determine the adherence rate to the LPV strategy at the
      initiation of MV support in mechanically ventilated patients in SICU. The LPV strategy in
      this study is defined as ventilation with the tidal volume of <8 mL/kg of PBW plus applying
      PEEP of at least 5 cm of water. The secondary outcomes are factors associated with the
      adherence to the LPV strategy, incidences of pulmonary and other complications, LOS in SICU
      and in hospital, SICU and hospital discharge status, and status at 28 and 90 days following
      the initiation of MV support. Patients are divided into two groups, LPV and Non-LPV,
      according to their MV setting and clinical outcomes are statistically compared between
      groups.
    
  