
    
      METHODS: A randomized controlled trial of 50 SLE patients in which subjects receive either a
      6-week MBI treatment (n=25) or a 6-week psychoeducation treatment (n=25).

      SCREENING: At Visit 1, participants who are deemed eligible for the study will be assigned to
      either a mindfulness-based intervention group or a psychoeducation intervention group.
      Participants will also complete the following questionnaires, which will also be administered
      throughout the intervention schedule:

        1. Adverse Childhood Experience (ACE)

        2. Adult Attachment Style Questionnaire (AAS; closeness subscale)

        3. Brief Health Mindset Scale (BHMS)

        4. Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale Revised (CESD-R)

        5. Inclusion of Other Self (IOS)

        6. Interpersonal Reactivity Index (IRI; empathic concern and perspective-taking subscales)

        7. Interpersonal Regulation Questionnaire (IRQ)

        8. LupusPRO (patient only)

        9. MacArthur Scales of Subjective Social Status (Community and Socioeconomic Status)

       10. Caregiver Burden Questionnaire (support person only)

       11. Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support (MSPSS)

       12. Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS)

       13. Ruminative Responses Scale (RRS; short form)

       14. Social Interaction Phobia Scale (SIPS)

       15. State Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI-T, STAI-S)

       16. Ten Item Big Five Questionnaire

       17. Toronto Mindfulness Scale (TMS)

       18. Lupus Quality of Life

       19. CAM Health Belief Questionnaire

      INTERVENTIONS: All participants will complete either a 6-week mindfulness-based intervention
      or a 6-week psychoeducation intervention. All sessions will be in-person in a group setting,
      and accompanied by homework. For both interventions, participants will practice what they
      learned on a daily basis as their homework. However, the mindfulness intervention may also
      have video/audio homework to complete. Sessions 1-5 will last approximately 2 hours each. The
      final (6th) session will be a retreat that will last approximately 4 hours. Questionnaire
      data will be collected throughout the intervention.

      ASSESSMENTS: Assessment visits 1 and 9 will be performed by rheumatologists and include:
      complete history, physical examination, information about SLE drug treatment and laboratory
      examination. Lupus disease activity and damage will be measured by Systemic Lupus
      Erythematosus Disease Activity Index 2000 (SLEDAI-2K) and systemic Lupus International
      Collaborating Clinics/American College of Rheumatology Damage Index (SDI) respectively.
      Information on socio-demographics, clinical variables (SLEDAI-2K and SDI), co-morbidities
      (dyslipidemia, atherosclerosis, cerebrovascular disease, and others) are collected as part of
      the and will be made available for the analysis in this study. Lupus serology (including
      C3/C4, anti-ds DNA antibodies) and routine blood test (including complete blood count test
      and chemistry panel) are also collected regularly during the patients' visits to the clinic
      and will be made available for the analysis in this study.

      fMRI Tasks: Participants will complete a series of questionnaires completed within 24 hours
      after the visit via Qualtrics and a series of tasks while functional MRI data is recorded.
      After the fMRI, there will be four cognitive tasks done on the computer outside of the
      scanner. These include:

      Continuous Associative Binding (CAB): The goal of this task is to track different aspects of
      memory and decision-making, in particular the ability of individuals to form associations
      between pairs of items presented at the same time. In the tasks, participants are presented
      with pairs of images of objects (e.g., a pencil and a lamp) and their job is to indicate
      whether the have seen that exact pair of images presented together in the present block of
      trials.

      Flanker: The goal of the flanker task is to measure inhibitory control and decision-making.
      In each trial, participants are presented with a cluster of arrows pointing either left or
      right. The task is for the participant to indicate the direction the arrow in the center of
      the cluster of arrows is pointing.

      Random Dot Motion (RDM): The goal of this task is to track attention and perceptual
      decision-making. In each trial, participants see a circle filled with dots moving in
      different directions. Most of the dots are moving in random directions, but some of the dots
      are moving coherently either left or right. The task of the participant is to indicate
      (either by the keyboard or touch screen) whether more coherent dots are moving to the right
      or left.

      Balloon Analog Risk Task (BART): The goal of this task is to track risk-taking behavior,
      reinforcement learning, and decision-making. On each trial, the participant indicates whether
      they would like to pump more air into the balloon, increasing the amount of points/money they
      could earn if they collect before the balloon pops, or whether they want to collect what they
      have earned and add it to the bank. If they pump and the balloon pops, they lose the chance
      to collect that money for that balloon.

      Support people will complete a series of questionnaires completed within 24 hours after the
      visit via Qualtrics and the Handholding Task. The support person is the partner and will be
      asked to hold hands with the patient for the partner portion of the task. The support person
      will be connected to the shock device (STM100C Stimulator Module, BIOPAC Systems) for one
      round of the task, and the shock level will be calibrated to their pain tolerance.

      After the fMRI, there will be four cognitive tasks done on the computer outside of the
      scanner. These include the same tasks for the participant (listed above).

      For the scan, standard procedures for removal of all participant ferromagnetic objects (e.g.,
      wristwatches) will be implemented, and the procedures of the study will be reviewed, insuring
      that participants have an opportunity to ask any remaining questions. All standard fMRI
      safety screening procedures will be done prior to the fMRI, and female participants will take
      a urine based pregnancy test. Participants will complete the following tasks while in the
      scanner:

      Resting State Task: Mindfulness training has been shown to alter resting state connectivity
      in areas related to emotions and stress (e.g., Taren et al., 2015). Thus, we will record
      resting state data in all visits. Participants will be asked to rest in the scanner.
      Following the resting state scans, participants will also complete selected questions from
      the Amsterdam Resting State Questionnaire 2.0 to provide subjective descriptions of their
      experience.

      Hand holding Task: The handholding task is a measure the social regulation of the neural
      response to threat. Each trial involves the presentation of 12 threat and 12 safety cues in
      randomized order across blocks of approximately 7 minutes. Participants and partners will be
      told that threat cues indicate a 17% chance of mild electric shock. These basic threat
      paradigms will be repeated across 3 blocks of threat/safety cues and counterbalanced across
      subjects. These blocks will include the alone condition, and the partner hand holding
      condition in the Threat to Self task, and the partner hand holding condition in the Threat to
      Partner task. Electric shock will be delivered via an automated computer controlled device
      (STM100C Stimulator Module, BIOPAC Systems) to the ankle (4 mA, cf., Tursky & O'Connell,
      1972). The shock level will be calibrated to each participant's pain tolerance.

      Resting State Task (a second time)

      All fMRI conditions will be followed by ratings using the Self-Assessment Manikins.

      ANALYSIS: The main analysis is planned when all patients have concluded the MBI or
      psychoeducational program, all data have been entered, verified and validated and the primary
      database has been locked. Following data reduction and preparation, analysis of all
      self-report and biological (e.g., fMRI) data will be conducted using hierarchical multilevel
      modeling procedures designed to maximize sensitivity to both within- and between- subject
      sources of variation across time, including baseline measurements pre- and post-
      intervention. In addition to testing for specific group-level effects of intervention,
      individual differences in response to treatment and/or in biological measures will be
      assessed as a function of self-report data at both state and trait levels, modeled as
      interaction effects in multilevel models.
    
  