
    
      Gaucher disease is part of a rare group of genetic metabolic diseases which are caused by an
      inherited deficiency of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase. The most common form, Type 1 affects 1
      in 40,000 to 60,000 individuals in the general population. In Type 1 symptoms may appear at
      any time from infancy to old age. The disease is associated with anaemia (a decrease in the
      amount of red blood cells), fatigue (tiredness), bruising and an increased tendency to bleed.
      An enlarged spleen and liver with stomach swelling may also occur as well as bone pain,
      fractures and bone deterioration. Type 1 was formerly considered not to affect the brain or
      nervous system. Some patients with Type 1 Gaucher disease have no symptoms, while others
      develop serious symptoms that can be life threatening; latterly Parkinsonism and Dementia
      with Lewy bodies has been noted to occur with increased frequency in patients with this
      variant of Gaucher disease compared with healthy control subjects in an age-matched
      population.

      In Gaucher Disease Type 3 the brain and spinal cord are affected. Type 3 is rare and affects
      fewer than 1 in 100,000 people. The brain and spinal cord symptoms in Type 3 are less severe
      than in those who have evidence of florid neurologocal disease in infancy years of age. The
      symptoms of the brain and spinal cord appear in early to late childhood, and patients with
      Type 3 Gaucher disease live often, but not always, well into adulthood.

      Gaucher disease is not gender-specific and its signs and symptoms may appear in affected
      individuals at any age, with Type 3 being commonly diagnosed in childhood. Although
      individuals from any ethnic background may develop Gaucher disease, Type 1 Gaucher disease is
      most common among Jews of Ashkenazi (Eastern European) descent. Among this group, about 1 in
      900 people are at risk of Gaucher disease.

      There are approximately 280 people in England diagnosed with Gaucher Disease, who receive
      treatment or management at one of the treating hospitals.

      Patients with Gaucher disease have an increased risk of developing myeloma and Parkinson's
      disease. Myeloma, also known as multiple myeloma, is a type of bone marrow cancer affecting
      the white blood cells of the immune system which generate antibodies. Approximately 1 in 10
      Gaucher patients have a specific blood protein - a monoclonal antibody called a paraprotein,
      which is found in both malignant and non-malignant conditions, including myeloma.

      Parkinson disease is a neurological condition which develops over time as specific brain
      cells that control movement, die. The failure to produce less of a chemical called dopamine,
      reduces communication between brain cells involved in the coordination of movement,
      behaviour, learning and memory.

      The investigators will collect information from patients diagnosed with Gaucher disease and
      any of the conditions mentioned above (for which the patient is already being monitored).
      Further information required about their clinical status will be obtained from their past and
      on-going medical records; this will be done as the participants attend hospital as part of
      their routine care for Gaucher disease. The information we need for the research is no
      different from the information which is already recorded and will be recorded in their
      medical notes when they come to the hospital for their routine care, every 6 months.

      For the purpose of this study, the investigators will take a few extra blood samples from the
      participant. These samples will be used to conduct biochemical and cellular analysis solely
      for the purpose of this research.

      The Investigators also request permission from participants to allow access and use for the
      purpose of the research any archived biological material (blood serum and/or tissue) which
      may be available from the medical procedures that has been received in the past.

      In addition, for the purpose of this research, at each visit, investigators request that the
      participant also completes questionnaires about physical and social abilities, mental health
      and quality of life.

      All the research-specific procedures (i.e. procedures that the participant would not normally
      receive during their standard of care hospital visits) can be carried out at either their
      routine clinic appointments or at another time that the participant would find convenient.
    
  