
    
      Sleep disturbances are highly prevalent among patients admitted to any hospital ward, but in
      particular in psychiatric patients where insomnia and poor sleep quality is a major clinical
      challenge.

      Approximately 950 patients are admitted to The Acute Psychiatric Department at Oslo
      University each year. The majority of the patients (approximately 450) admitted for more than
      48 hours have a severe psychotic disorder and after being evaluated by a psychiatrist upon
      admittance, they are allocated to one of three similar wards specialized in the treatment of
      psychosis. A majority of the patients experience sleep difficulties both in terms of insomnia
      and problems regulating circadian rhythm. Psychiatric wards in general offer several
      challenges to sleep, including limited access to natural daylight, noisy environment and
      frequent observations by staff during night for risk management purposes. A part from
      offering medication which the patient often declines, staff members possess little means as
      to how to cope with noise and agitation at night time due to frustrated patients unable to
      find rest.

      In September 2019 our department started organizing the treatment for psychotic patients in
      three similar wards ("psychosis wards") and patients were allocated to a ward according to
      their date of birth. Nurses are stationed permanently at each ward, while psychiatrist and
      psychologists make up a "specialist pool" serving all three psychosis wards. One of the main
      intentions for organizing the department and treatment this way is to ensure that all
      patients with psychotic disorders receive the same treatment according to recommended
      guidelines.

      The aim of our study is to rethink our day to day psychological interventions and our around
      the clock milieu therapy for our patients with acute and severe mental illness in light of
      established knowledge on how sleep is obtained and maintained. After making physical
      adjustments to the ward environment and training allocated nurses in modified CBT techniques,
      the AkuSleep intervention will start up in March 2020 and will be carried out for up to six
      months. All patients admitted one of the psychosis wards will be offered the same customized
      treatment focusing on sleep, whereas all the patients admitted to the other two psychosis
      wards will receive treatment as usual (TAU). Upon discharge, all patients admitted to the
      Department of Acute Psychiatry who are able to give informed consent are asked to give a
      broad consent allowing us to systemize clinical information from hospital records for
      research purposes.

      The AkuSleep protocol is as follows:

        1. Identify the nature of the patient's sleeping problems and discuss suitable adjustments
           with the patient. These adjustments would typically be to focus on circadian rhythm,
           such as getting up in the morning at set times, avoiding coffee and strenuous physical
           and emotional activities at night time, avoiding staying in bed when sleep is not
           achieved and optimizing light/dark exposure. An acute ward setting such as ours is often
           noisy and many of our patients have restrictions due to security reasons which limit the
           access to natural day light. Simple physical measures will be implemented such as
           providing ear plugs, providing night lamps so that staff don't need to turn on lights on
           rounds, secure speakers so that the patients may listen to soothing music, easy blinds
           to secure a dark room at night and bean bags (or chairs) in every room so that the
           patient can get out of bed when sleep is not achieved. The use of daylight lamps will be
           offered for patients who due to security reasons or otherwise are denied access to
           natural daylight.

        2. Trained nurses will perform a short 20 minute daily session with the patient addressing
           tailored measures in accordance with the modified CBT for insomnia. Assessment of the
           individual patient's specific sleeping problems is vital for an effective treatment.
           Sleeping problems/disorders typically falls in to three categories; disturbance in the
           sleep/wake homeostasis, disturbance in the circadian rhythm and/or hyperarousal.
           Detecting the nature of the sleeping disorder, maintenance factors and individual goals
           for treatment will give way to a sleep-focused case formulation that will guide further
           strategies. The use of sleep and activity monitoring devices will be offered for those
           who find it useful. Information from monitoring devices will be used for the purpose
           psychoeducation and as basis for the sleep diary and relevant information will be
           registered in the clinical records. Data from monitoring devices will not be stored
           electronically. Intentions available for the patient and therapist are gathered from CBT
           for insomnia and will involve establishing a firm associations between bed and sleep
           through the use of stimulus control and the setting of a consistent sleep window (time
           spent in bed); activity scheduling to promote good wake-up routines and help build up
           necessary sleep pressure; targeting hyperarousal through systematic wind-down
           strategies, relaxation training etc. Psychotic symptoms such as hallucinations and
           delusions are also prone to give disturbance in the ability to either getting to or
           staying asleep. These symptoms will be incorporated in the specific formulation for
           treatment and management of the symptoms will be a part of later strategies promoting
           good sleep hygiene. The implemented measures will be monitored and evaluated throughout
           the whole period so that adjustments can be made on a daily basis and in accordance with
           the formulation and the patient's goals. The details of the individual treatment
           progress will be written in a patient owned workbook, giving all trained staff members
           an opportunity to step in at any time to continue the therapeutic work. The workbook
           will be given to the patient at their time of discharge with instructions of further
           use.

      The teaching of the nursing staff will cover topics to enable them to give psychoeducation
      about the function and the architecture of sleep, to assess sleep quality and disturbance and
      to create a case formulation. Nursing staff will be trained in specific cognitive techniques
      that target night time worries and the handling of hallucinations/voices. The interventions
      will be manualized, securing equality in treatment for all patients. A clinical psychologist
      with CBT training, stationed at the ward, will take part in the initial assessment and will
      offer support in the creating the case formulation. The standardized evaluation using symptom
      checklists and sleep checklists will also be conducted by the psychologist or doctor in
      charge. Supervision will be given in groups led by a clinical psychologist on a weekly basis
      as well as ad hoc troubleshooting and problem solving on a daily basis. The individual
      treatment will include an activity plan for each patient prepared in close collaboration with
      our wards occupational therapist concerning. This will involve good wake up routines and
      winding down-routines, light exposure to reestablish circadian rhythm and activating
      activities to counteract the need for daytime naps that disturbs the build-up of sleep
      pressure. Much of the described measures are already part our established inpatient nursing
      services or "treatment as usual". The focus of our project, however, will be to systemize
      these interventions in light of a 24 hour cycle aimed specifically to target the promotion of
      good sleep. Before discharge, the psychologist or doctor in charge will conduct a
      reevaluation using symptom checklist as well as an interview focusing on lessons learned and
      tool acquired by our patients struggling with chronic sleep disturbances in how to cope with
      these challenges after their discharge.

      All patients on all three psychosis wards will receive standard evidence based treatment for
      psychosis and affective disorders as per today. All patients on the two wards not receiving
      the treatment protocol will also be offered to wear a monitoring device on order to register
      potential sleep disturbances. All patients who choose to wear a monitoring device, will be
      offered a psychoeducative session with a psychologist trained in CBT upon discharge.

      Primary outcome will be the quantity and quality of sleep as measured by clinical records on
      sleep duration, sleep onset, number of awakenings, bed time, rise time and medication used.
      Secondary outcomes will be symptom load as measured by clinical records of nursing category
      (PK) and Brøset Violence Checklist (BVC), symptom measurements for psychosis (PANSS), for
      mania (YMRS) and global assessment of function (GAF). In addition daily dosage of medication
      such as antipsychotics, mood stabilizers, benzodiazepines and sleep inducing medication, as
      well as registered aggressive events will be measured. In most cases the patient is admitted
      involuntary and time until their legal status is changed from involuntary to voluntary will
      be calculated as a measurement of insight and health improvement. Finally, average number of
      bed days, ward level of violence and wards cost of medication for the three wards will be
      calculated and compared for all patients admitted during the study period.

      Patients admitted to an acute psychiatric ward are very often not able to give informed
      consent upon admittance due to psychotic symptoms. Those who are able to give informed
      consent upon discharge will be asked to sign a broad consent. For those patients who consent
      upon discharge, data will be gathered for all patients on all three psychosis wards and
      compared against each other. Aggregated and anonymized data will be gathered and compared
      across the three wards. We have estimated that 90 (45+45) participants are required in order
      to meet our aims. In order to provide an answer as to whether this treatment is cost
      effective for the department by comparing total number of bed days, ward level of violence
      and wards cost of medication, we have calculated that we need a larger sample size of
      approximately 200 (100+100). We have implemented the broad consent at the Department of Acute
      Psychiatry and based on our experience, only 30-40 % of the patients choose to or are able to
      consent to research even when they are stable. We therefore expect that the intervention
      period will go on for approximately 6 months in order to achieve the number needed.
    
  