
    
      Lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r) is licensed for use in combination with other antiretrovirals for
      the treatment of HIV infection. Like other agents from the protease inhibitor class, LPV/r
      inhibits the 3A isoenzyme of the hepatic cytochrome P450 system and may increase the levels
      of drugs metabolised via this route. However, LPV/r has also been shown in vivo to induce its
      own metabolism and to increase the biotransformation of some drugs metabolized by P450
      enzymes and by glucuronidation.

      Women account for an increasing proportion of the HIV epidemic in the UK. The huge reductions
      in HIV-related mortality and morbidity associated with the use of effective combination
      antiretroviral therapy have led to a shift in focus to longer term issues, including
      reproductive health and contraception. The impact of a variety of antiretrovirals on the
      plasma pharmacokinetics of oral oestrogen and progesterone preparations have been
      investigated and in general NNRTIs and boosted PIs cause a reduction in levels of both,
      particularly oral oestrogen preparations. Most package inserts for combined (oestrogen and
      progestogen) and progestogen-only oral contraceptives recommend that additional contraceptive
      methods be employed with concomitant use of enzyme-inducing agents.

      Injectable contraception provides highly effective contraception without the need for daily
      pill taking, an important factor to consider for individuals already taking regular
      medication. Depot medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA) is the most frequently prescribed
      injectable method. DMPA, like other progestogens, is metabolised by the cytochrome P450
      system but interaction studies in women on antiretrovirals are limited. A study of 59 women
      on DMPA contraception plus an unboosted PI (nelfinavir) or an NNRTI (efavirenz or nevirapine)
      measured DMPA levels and compared them with 16 women on either no therapy or NRTIs only (no
      potential for drug interaction). DMPA levels were similar in all groups and suppression of
      ovulation over a 12 week period was also similar in all groups.

      Although the high levels of DMPA achieved over the dosing interval make any pharmacokinetic
      interaction unlikely to be clinically significant, some clinicians advise a reduction in the
      interval between DMPA injections from 12 to 10 weeks in patients on an NNRTI or boosted PI;
      there is no clear evidence to support this approach. Although the described study supports
      normal dosing intervals for women on an NNRTI, the unboosted PI nelfinavir is not recommended
      as standard of care and the impact of ritonavir-boosted PIs is unclear. The summary of
      product characteristics for DMPA advises a normal dosing interval even when using a potent
      enzyme inducers, suggesting no additional intervention is required when prescribing a boosted
      PI. Formal pharmacokinetic data is crucial to clarify this important area.
    
  