
    
      Investigators expected to include in the study of 120 patients, aged between 35 and 75 years,
      belonging to the following diagnostic categories:

        -  30 patients diagnosed with TIA / ischemic stroke within 7 days of admission and evidence
           at polysomnography of central apnoea (central apnoea index> 10 / h, or Cheyne-Stokes
           breathing for more than 30% of total sleep time or mixed apneas with central apnoeas>
           50% of total apneas)

        -  30 patients diagnosed with TIA / ischemic stroke within 7 days of admission and evidence
           at polysomnography of obstructive sleep apnea (apnea-hypopnea index> 20 / h)

        -  30 patients diagnosed with TIA / stroke within 7 days of admission and no evidence of
           sleep respiratory disorders at polysomnography

        -  30 healthy controls matched for age, sex, race and BMI.

      For the study of the baroreflexes, patients will be subjected to continuous monitoring of
      ECG, beat-to-beat blood pressure measured at the finger by Portapress system, respiratory
      rate and ventilation by pneumotachograph. The tests will be performed in the supine position
      and then repeated in a sitting position. Data from such monitoring will be used for analysis
      of the harmonic components of the cardiac rate (RR interval) and the variability of blood
      pressure and respiratory rate, through the method of auto regressive analysis.

      For the study of central chemoreceptors, investigator will use the steady-state hypercapnic
      test, which measures the ventilatory response to hypercapnia at a constant level of Oxygen
      partial pressure (PaO2). The ventilatory response to hypercapnia is calculated by the method
      of linear regression and is represented by the angular coefficient of the straight line that
      describes the variation of ventilation for each variation of alveolar carbon dioxide partial
      pressure (PCO2).

      For the study of peripheral chemoreceptors will be used the single-breath or transient
      hypercapnia test. The patient makes a single deep breath of a gas mixture containing 85% O2
      and 15% CO2 and then resume normal breathing. It is expected, therefore, a period of 3
      seconds, required because the gases contained in the mixture may come from the pulmonary
      circulation to the peripheral circulation, at the level of peripheral chemoreceptors. The
      ventilation is recorded within the next 20-30 seconds, because in this time interval is
      evaluated only the sensitivity of the peripheral chemoreceptors, being the latency of
      response of the central chemoreceptors greater than 1 minute.
    
  