
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In 1982, asthma and allergy to laboratory animals among persons who worked with the animals
      gained increased recognition as an occupational health problem affecting researchers,
      veterinarians, technicians, animal handlers, and others. At that time, more than 90,000
      workers across the United States were at risk due to their exposure to lab animals in the
      more than 1,100 facilities registered by the United States Department of Agriculture. Several
      surveys of exposed workers indicated a prevalence rate of allergic symptoms due to laboratory
      animal allergy ranging from 19-30 percent in animal workers. Asthma was also a frequent
      disease among animal workers; these surveys indicated that as many as 13-14 percent of
      exposed workers had asthma.

      The problem of laboratory animal allergy and asthma involved a vast industry that included
      medical and veterinary colleges, research institutes and universities, pharmaceutical
      manufacturers, commercial laboratory animal producers, and hospitals.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Recruitment for this longitudinal study began in November 1983 and ended in July 1987. The
      initial visit consisted of an extensive interview to identify and to exclude those
      individuals with laboratory animal allergy, asthma, and other manifestations of allergy and
      to obtain an occupational history. Venipuncture was used to obtain serum for IgE and IgG
      antibody assays. Pulmonary function tests, including a methacholine challenge, were
      administered. Psychosocial questionnaires were administered. Subjects were evaluated at six
      month intervals with skin tests, venipuncture, and methacholine challenge. The degree of
      exposure to animal allergens was quantitated by aeroallergen sampling of workplace and
      personal breathing zone air and by work diaries.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  