
    
      Chronic subdural hematomas (cSDH) are extra-axial fluid collections in the cranium that can
      result in brain compression and neurological decline. cSDH commonly occurs after traumatic
      brain injury (TBI); though, many times there is no history of trauma. The incidence of cSDH
      is expected to significantly rise, due to an increasing elderly population worldwide.This is
      a common and challenging neurosurgical problem due to their ability to recur requiring
      repeated surgical reevacuation. Repeat surgery comes with additional morbidity as well as
      rising costs for both patients and hospitals. Operative decompression is the treatment of
      choice; however, an effective therapy preventing recurrence of cSDH after surgical
      intervention has not yet been found. Our long-term goal is to develop a therapeutic approach
      focused on the prevention of cSDH recurrence after initial surgical intervention.

      The current literature and our own preliminary data have demonstrated that there is local
      elevation of pro-inflammatory chemokines and pro-angiogenic factors within the subdural
      hematoma cavity of chronic subdural hematomas that are not found systemically. Interleukin-8
      (IL8 or chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 8, CXCL8) demonstrates both pro-inflammatory and
      pro-angiogenic properties. Curcumin has shown to directly inhibit the production and activity
      of CXCL-8 (IL-8) in vitro and in vivo, as well as down regulating the activity of VEGF
      (vascular endothelial growth factor) and bFGF (basic fibroblast growth factor). These
      combined effects make CC an important anti-inflammatory and antiangiogenic molecule that has
      the potential to reduce the recurrence rate of chronic subdural hematomas. The investigators
      expect that CC will prevent/reduce persistent hemorrhage within the subdural hematoma cavity,
      by blocking IL-8-induced disruption of the blood vessels. Specifically, CC is expected to
      preserve blood vessel leakage and accumulation of blood in SDH cavity, by blocking
      destructive effect of IL-8 on the vascular endothelial tight junctions.

      CC has demonstrated promising results in multiple studies related to brain injury including
      intraparenchymal hemorrhage, acute stroke, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and general injury to the
      blood-brain-barrier. 6 hours following intracerebral hemorrhage in adult mice, curcumin was
      administered in clinically relevant doses of 75-300 mg/kg. After 72 hours, there was a
      reduction in hematoma size, decreased vasogenic edema secondary to a less damaged
      blood-brain-barrier, decreased inflammatory markers, and overall improved neurological
      outcome. After discussing the role of T-lymphocytes in contributing inflammation and
      worsening neuronal injury, mouse models were used to demonstrate a suppression of
      T-lymphocyte infiltration in the brain after administration of curcumin. There was also a
      reduction in cerebral edema and improvement of neurological scores. One study administered
      low dose (80mg/day) curcumin to healthy middle-aged adults (40-60 years of age), when
      compared to a placebo group. The CC group had lower levels of plasma triglyceride, salivary
      amylase levels, plasma beta amyloid protein concentrations (protein responsible for
      Alzheimer's disease and other forms of intracerebral hemorrhage), and other beneficial health
      effects.

      It was recently detected that combining CC with piperine (black pepper extract, also known as
      peperine or BioPerine), a known inhibitor of hepatic and intestinal glucuronidation, enhances
      the serum concentration, extent of absorption and bioavailability of CC in both rats and
      humans. Therefore, CC supplement is now used in combination with the black pepper extract.
      The average amount of pepper consumed by a person during a day in the United States is 359
      mg, which translates to 18-32 mg of piperine a day. Furthermore, rat trials show a daily
      intake of 5 to 20 times the average daily dose of humans produced no clinical symptoms.
      Studies on acute, subacute, and chronic piperine toxicity show no abnormalities or clinical
      symptomatology, or significant blood chemistry data in laboratory animals. Black pepper
      extract has a high degree of safety being used nutritionally. The amount of piperine that is
      formulated in the curcumin capsules is several thousand times less than the LD50 (lethal dose
      50) established in mice and rats. Our capsule contains 270 mg of pure curcuminoids (curcumin)
      and 3mg of black pepper extract. The recommended serving size is 3 capsules a day. Therefore,
      the patients will receive 810mg of pure curcumin and 9mg of black pepper extract (peperine)
      per day, which is less than the average amount of pepper consumed by a person daily in the
      United States.

      This is a double-blinded, randomized placebo-controlled pilot study. A total of 48 subjects
      will be recruited in this study. 24 patients will receive placebo pills, and 24 will receive
      Curcumin (CC) pills. Patients who have symptomatic unilateral chronic subdural hematomas,
      with no acute component and do not meet the exclusion criteria, will be evaluated. At the
      time of consent for evacuation of the subdural hematoma, patients will also be consented for
      this trial by the research team. Participants will be instructed that they will be randomized
      to either the placebo group or the curcumin group. Participants will take one capsule three
      times a day for a maximum of 60 days. Participants will undergo standard postoperative care
      in regard to imaging and clinical follow-up. Patients will begin taking placebo or CC within
      24 hours post-operatively and able to take oral medication. It will then be continued three
      times a day (TID).

      This is a single center study that will take place at the University of New Mexico Hospital
      (UNMH). New patients admitted directly to the UNM Neurosciences Intensive Care Unit (NSICU)
      as a transfer from an outside hospital as well as patients admitted directly through the UNM
      (University of New Mexico) Emergency Department (ED), with subdural hematomas will be
      identified and recruited as potential subjects. All surgical operations will take place in
      the main operating room (OR) at UNMH. The perioperative care of the enrolled patients, as
      well as the non-surgically managed patients will take place both in the NSICU as well as the
      Neurosurgical step-down unit. Once patients have been discharged from the hospital, all
      follow-up appointments will take place in the Clinical Neurosciences Center located adjacent
      to UNMH. Patients will follow-up in the subdural clinic, staffed by Dr. Howard Yonas,
      Principal Investigator.
    
  