
    
      Indoor tanning (IT) elevates the risk for melanoma, which is now the most common cancer in
      women aged 25-29. To reduce melanoma morbidity and mortality, some states have issued
      complete bans on IT by minors, while others require parental permission for minors to indoor
      tan. Unfortunately, parental consent policies have suffered from low compliance due to
      industry non-compliance,likely due to insufficient policy enforcement, and parents' lack of
      awareness of the dangers of IT. Little attention has been paid to creating health
      communication that maximizes the effectiveness of IT policy, including both parental consent
      and bans. Mothers are an important target, because their permissiveness and IT behavior are
      strong predictors of daughters' IT. Teen girls often initiate IT with their mothers. and
      further, girls who first experience IT with their mothers begin at an earlier age, become
      more habitual tanners, and are more resistant to change.Thus, mothers of teen girls are a
      significant target for interventions to reduce IT and an effective campaign for mothers has
      the potential to reduce the prevalence of IT in adolescent girls and the incidence of
      melanoma in young women. Recent research indicates that well-crafted communication can reduce
      maternal permissiveness but such communication has not been tested as a strategy specifically
      for maximizing IT policies. A campaign that aims to a) inform mothers of IT risks b)
      highlight how their IT permissiveness will influence their child's current and future
      risks,and c) provide them with effective messages to convince daughters not to indoor tan
      will be developed and delivered via Facebook to maximize the effectiveness of
      parental-permission laws, the most prevalent IT policy in the United States. The campaign
      will be evaluated in a group-randomized pretest-posttest controlled trial that enrolls
      mothers and adolescent teen daughters aged 14 to 17 years old. Participants will be
      randomized to receive entry into one of two private Facebook groups that will deliver health
      campaigns lasting one year. In the intervention group, participants will receive a
      health-focused feed in which 25% of posts are focused on IT. In the control condition,
      participants will receive the same health-focused feed but instead of 25% of posts focused on
      IT, 25% of posts will focus on prescription drug abuse and misuse. Randomization will occur
      at the level of the Facebook private groups; 30-50 mothers from the same community will
      participate in each Facebook private group for a total of 50 Facebook groups recruited over
      the trial period. Assessment points will occur at baseline and again at 6-months and 1-year
      post-intervention. The primary outcome will be reduction in mothers' permissiveness regarding
      their teen daughter's use of indoor tanning and secondary outcomes will be increase in teen
      daughters' perception of their mother's permissiveness,and reduction in IT by both mothers
      and daughters.
    
  