
    
      HYPOTHESIS AND OUTCOMES

      Hypothesis:

        1. The beliefs and attitudes of fear-avoidance of primary care professionals are held by
           lack of knowledge about the origin and meaning of pain.

        2. The neurophysiology of pain as a biopsychosocial educational intervention using a web
           platform for primary care professionals will change their knowledge about the origin and
           meaning of pain, with the result of reducing the beliefs and attitudes of fear
           avoidance.

      Outcomes:

        -  Qualitative:

             1. To identify the fear-avoidance beliefs and attitudes of primary care professionals
                towards the treatment of chronic nonspecific low back pain in relation to the
                origin and meaning of pain.

             2. To build and develop using a web platform a biopsychosocial educational
                intervention based on the results obtained in the qualitative phase.

        -  Quantitative:

             1. To evaluate the effectiveness of a biopsychosocial educational intervention about
                pain neurophysiology and fear-avoidance beliefs related to non-specific chronic low
                back pain, using a web platform for primary care professionals.

      METHODOLOGY DESING To answer the research question a mixted-method sequential exploratory
      design will be used. This mixed-method design consists of two stages, where the results of
      the methodology used in the first phase of the study, in this case qualitative, contribute to
      the development of the second quantitative phase. In this project, both phases should have
      the same relevance for the development of an educational tool for primary care professionals.
      Using a mixed design methodology is justified in this protocol because the integration of
      both (qualitative and quantitative) methodologies occurs when data from the qualitative phase
      contributes to the construction of an educational tool.

      The process to be followed is:

        -  Qualitative: Semistructured personal interviews.

        -  Quantitative: An experimental study design in which a sample of specialized physicians
           in family and community care and nurses working in primary care health centers will be
           randomly assigned to the experimental group and the control group.

      SUBJECTS:

      - Qualitative and quantitative: To start the recruitment process, the principal investigator
      will do a presentation of the project in each of the primary care centers in the city of
      Lleida addressed to the medical and nursing staff. Professionals will be invited to
      participate in the study, either in the qualitative or quantitative phase, and will be
      provided a phone number and an email address through which they can contact the researcher
      and agree on the interview date. In the quantitative phase, health professionals who meet the
      inclusion criteria will be informed about the intervention and the author will answer any
      questions or concerns that may arise. At the end of this first contact the professionals will
      be asked to read and sign the informed consent.

        -  Qualitative: Subjects who agree to be part of the qualitative study will be contacted by
           the author and invited to participate in a deep semistructured interview. Individual
           interviews will be conducted in Spanish or Catalan and will be audio recorded with the
           consent of interviewed professionals. To increase participation, interviews will be
           conducted in designated areas in the primary health centers, during working hours. The
           duration of the interview will be approximately 1 hour.

        -  Quantitative: Subjects will be randomly allocated to either intervention or control
           group using a simple randomization method.

      Intervention group: This group will have access to the web platform where they will find
      information related to nonspecific chronic low back pain. This information will be presented
      using dynamic explanatory videos made by the author.

      Control group: They will have access to a video where medical staff and primary care nurses
      explain the content of the clinical practice guidelines for addressing back pain.
    
  