
    
      After signing the informed consent form, potential subjects will be assessed for eligibility,
      including eliciting medical and neurologic history, measurement of best-corrected visual
      acuity, visual field testing, ophthalmoscopy with optic disc edema grading, physical
      examination, and Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT). Questionnaires will be completed. Blood
      will be drawn for complete blood count (CBC), electrolytes, liver function tests, renal
      function tests, amylase if not done as part of routine care within 4 weeks and a pregnancy
      test will be performed (women of childbearing potential).

      Two visual field examinations using a size V stimulus will need to be performed at the
      Screening/Baseline Visit. The size V fields will be sent to the Visual Field Reading Center
      (VFRC) to confirm eligibility or determine that testing must be repeated for the subject.

      Eligible individuals will be randomly assigned with equal allocation to one of 3 treatment
      groups: (1) medical therapy, (2) medical therapy plus ONSF, or (3) medical therapy plus VPS.
      Acetazolamide should be started on the day of randomization. Surgery should be performed as
      soon as possible, ideally within 3 days of randomization, but not more than 7 days.

      Medical therapy will consist of a low sodium weight loss diet and acetazolamide with or
      without furosemide. Treatment will start with acetazolamide 2 grams per day, with the dose
      increased as tolerated up to 4 grams per day. If there is no clinical improvement after 2
      weeks of maximal dosage of acetazolamide, furosemide will be started at a dose of 40 mg per
      day (along with potassium) and titrated up to 160-200 mg per day. Pharmacotherapy will be
      tapered when there is improvement in the papilledema grade, substantial improvement in the
      PMD and improvement in symptoms or when there is a safety concern.

      The primary outcome is measured at the first of 6 months (26 weeks) or time of treatment
      failure. During the randomized trial, follow-up visits will occur after weeks 4, 8, 16, and
      26 (± 7 days). Safety visits will occur after weeks 1 and 2 (± 4 days). Additional office
      visits may occur as needed. Phone contacts will occur at 12 and 20 weeks (±7 days).

      After the 6-month primary outcome visit, subjects will transition to the Treatment Failure
      Identification Phase for up to 3 years. Ongoing treatment will continue following the
      guidelines for the first six months as long as treatment failure criteria are not met at
      which time treatment will be at the discretion of the Site Investigator. Investigators are
      urged to employ treatments from another arm of the study before other treatments under these
      circumstances.
    
  