
    
      The goal of this research is to measure a change in the behaviors of local villagers in the
      Mukono District (just east of Kampala, Uganda) following the implementation of the Ministry
      of Health's Village Health Team Program facilitated by US Health Volunteers. Our NGO
      (non-governmental organization), Omni Med, has partnered with the Ministry of Health in
      Kampala and Mukono to facilitate its Village Health Team (VHT) program. Our volunteers
      facilitate training of VHTs and then conduct follow up home visits with these VHTs. During
      the trainings and follow up visits we stress the health practices in the Ministry's training
      program that have been shown to make the biggest impact on local health such as: exclusive
      breast-feeding for 9 months, use of oral rehydration therapy (ORT), antibiotics for
      pneumonia, timely antimalarial use, use of insecticide treated nets (ITNs), clean water,
      improved sanitation, Vitamin A supplementation and vaccination, antenatal visits and tetanus
      immunization for pregnant women, etc. Our pre-trial assumption is that local villagers will
      use this knowledge to improve their own health; and that the VHTs are the ideal messengers to
      deliver this knowledge. While the Ministry has trained over 83,000 VHTs nationally, there are
      no objective studies measuring impact on host communities. This will be the first and could
      prove an important means to promote the program nationally and internationally.

      The primary objective of this research is to measure the efficacy of the VHT program in
      Uganda. While this program has become a priority of the Ministry of Health, there is to date
      no clear randomized, prospective trial measuring its impact. This will thus fill a current
      gap using data obtained from 1190 households. A second objective is to demonstrate measurable
      results of a global service program. There is very little impact data despite huge interest
      in service from many in the world's wealthiest countries. A third objective is to provide an
      objective measure of efficacy to the United States Peace Corps, which despite 50 years of
      activities, has little data demonstrating its true value; several Peace Corps Volunteers are
      working in this program in Mukono.
    
  