
    
      Complex catheter ablations for treatment of supraventricular and ventricular tachycardias are
      performed under moderate to deep sedation.

      These interventions include electrophysiological examinations such as cryo-pulmonary vein
      isolation as well as complex radiofrequency ablation using a 3D mapping system. In order to
      avoid complications and to achieve a successful ablation result, a quiet position of the
      patient should be ensured during the examination, which usually lasts several hours. Specific
      reasons for the need for sedation include:

        1. Femoral access The access is, in most cases, the right femoral vein. By transseptal
           puncture of the atrial septum, the catheters are inserted into the left atrium, the most
           common target structure of the above mentioned procedures. In order to insert the
           catheter safely into the left atrium, the path from the right groin to the left atrium
           is secured by a guide rail, a so-called sheath. Due to this relatively rigid guide rail,
           unconsciously movements of the patient should be avoided during the examination.

        2. 3D mapping system The 3D mapping system is used to create an individual, virtual,
           electro-anatomical map ("map of the structure and electrical activity of the heart") of
           the left atrium of the patient. The prerequisite for a millimeter accurate determination
           of the catheter position by means of magnetic fields is the patient's quiet position.
           Already deep breaths can endanger the catheter stability and thus the ablation result.
           By movements of the patient there is also the risk that the virtual 3D map no longer
           matches the real anatomy, this results in an increased risk of perforation in the left
           heart with the result of a pericardial effusion or tamponade.

        3. Patient positioning The patient has to lie flat and quiet during the procedure. Keeping
           this position presents a challenge even for younger patients and short examination times
           and is therefore impractical for the patient for several hours for reasons of comfort.

      The sedation usually consists of a combination of midazolam and propofol. At the beginning of
      the study, a midazolam bolus is administered and a low-dose propofol perfusor is started,
      which is increased during the course until an optimal sedation depth is reached. During
      ablation, opiates are also added for analgesia, depending on the procedure, consisting of
      fentanyl single doses or continuous administration of remifentanil with perfusor.

      The sedation depth is primarily controlled clinically. The above-mentioned substances all
      have a respiratory depressive effect and can cause respiratory complications, in the sense of
      hypercapnia or hypoxia. Therefore, standard monitoring involves the continuous measurement of
      oxygen saturation by means of pulse oximetry (spO2) as well as the half-hourly analysis of a
      venous blood gas analysis to evaluate the pH and to monitor the carbon dioxide partial
      pressure (pCO2). For interventions in the left atrium there is also the possibility of an
      arterial blood gas analysis from the left atrium or, if present, arterial blood gas analysis
      from an arterial sheath. If abnormalities occur in the blood gas analysis, the depth of
      sedation is adjusted accordingly or the dosage of the various components of the sedation is
      adapted. In addition, there is a continuous heart rate measurement and regular non-invasive
      blood pressure measurements. The nurse, assisting the sedation, also provides a dedicated
      sedation protocol, with explanations of any change in sedation management during the
      procedure.

      In the electrophysiology laboratory of the ulm university hospital is the option of
      continuous, transcutaneous CO2 monitoring using TCM 400 (Radiometer). For this purpose, an
      adhesive electrode (Severinghaus electrode) is attached to the forehead of the patient.
      Hereby, the measurement of the O2 and CO2 partial pressure in the underlying tissue can take
      place and with good blood flow, this value approaches the invasively gained gas values. This
      method ensures a continuous, non-invasive CO2 measurement. The collected parameters are
      stored by the TCM 400 device in an Excel spreadsheet and can be exported and analyzed after
      the procedure. The method was already used during complex catheter ablation as part of a
      small observational study, but does not yet count as standard monitoring.

      So far, it is unclear to what extent a continuous, transcutaneous CO2 monitoring can prevent
      sedation-associated complications. The aim of this research project is the prospective,
      randomized analysis of the benefits of continuous, transcutaneous CO2 monitoring + standard
      monitoring in comparison to the previous standard monitoring. In particular, it should be
      investigated to what extent sedation-associated complications, such as oxygen saturation
      decreases, hypercapnia and respiratory acidosis can be prevented by continuous,
      transcutaneous CO2 monitoring.
    
  