
    
      Adolescence is the peak period of onset for serious and persistent psychiatric disorders.
      Treatment guidelines for the management of major psychiatric disorders in adolescence
      indicate pharmacotherapy is a critical element of effective treatment. Unfortunately,
      adolescence is a particularly vulnerable window for poor medication adherence, and little is
      known about the timecourse and specific factors associated with poor medication adherence in
      this population. Given that the consequences of poor medication adherence among youth with
      chronic mental illness are far-reaching, and include hospitalization, profound functional
      impairment and even suicide, there is a desperate need for interventions targeting medication
      adherence in this population. Motivational Interviewing (MI) is an evidence-based approach
      focused on enhancing motivation for change. This model holds great promise for improving
      medication adherence in adolescents with psychiatric disorders because it is developmentally
      sensitive, acceptable to patients and providers, and readily disseminable across clinical
      settings. Research demonstrates that brief motivational interventions (BMIs) utilizing a MI
      approach result in improved treatment adherence among youth with a variety of chronic medical
      conditions. Although widely applied for adolescent substance use behaviors, BMIs have yet to
      be examined for improving medication adherence in youth with severe psychiatric disorders.
      Adolescents with bipolar disorder (BP) are an ideal population with whom to develop a BMI for
      medication adherence because adolescents with BP are among the least adherent of any
      psychiatric population. Experience developing a BMI for this challenging population will
      directly inform intervention for youth with a range of chronic psychiatric disorders. The
      purpose of the proposed study is to conduct a small randomized trial comparing CABS Standard
      Care (SC) augmented with the BMI versus SC alone. Outcomes will be assessed monthly over 6
      months. Participants will include 40 adolescents with BP. This approach is in direct accord
      with the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) Strategic Plan in which the development
      and testing of innovative interventions to reduce risk and positively alter trajectories of
      mental illness are informed by research findings regarding robust and malleable risk factors.
      Research in this area is of great public health importance, as it has the potential to lessen
      costs, disrupt the cycle of poor outcomes, and minimize the long-term debilitating effects of
      these serious disorders.
    
  