
    
      Study Design

      This is an observational study of TFV, FTC, RAL, ATZ, EFV, and MVC localization within GALT
      (terminal ileum & rectum), vaginal, and cervical tissues in the setting of undetectable
      plasma HIV. Participants will be selected on the basis of receiving either TFV/FTC/RAL,
      TFV/FTC/ATZ/r, TFV/FTC/EFV, or TFV/FTC/MVC as part of their ongoing HIV care. After
      participant education, informed consent, and screening for study eligibility, participants
      will be evaluated at baseline. All samples will be collected over the course of a 36 hour
      inpatient visit as described below.

      Study Sampling

        1. Blood plasma will be collected after enrollment (approximately 2 hours after the start
           of the inpatient visit) and before the start of bowel preparation (approximately 2-12
           hours after the start of the inpatient visit).

        2. Vaginal and cervical tissue will be collected after enrollment (approximately 2 hours
           after the start of the inpatient visit) and before the start of bowel preparation
           (approximately 2-12 hours after the start of the inpatient visit).

        3. Rectal and terminal ileal tissue will be collected at approximately 18 hours after the
           initiation of the bowel preparation.

      Pharmacokinetic Analysis All blood, cervical, vaginal, ileal and rectal tissue samples will
      be analyzed by the Clinical Pharmacology and Analytical Chemistry Laboratory (CPAC) at the
      UNC School of Pharmacy, which is directed by the principal investigator, Angela Kashuba,
      PharmD. To visualize ARV localization within a tissue, one biopsy from each tissue site will
      be analyzed by IR-MALDESI using a previously established workflow for our laboratory.

      HIV localization within tissues will be performed using in situ hybridization (ISH) in
      collaboration with the Haase lab at the University of Minnesota. This group has substantial
      experience in HIV RNA detection from human tissues, and preliminary studies have confirmed
      our ability to detect HIV RNA from serial slices of tissues.

      Localization within tissue slices will be evaluated by IR-MALDESI. Measurement of the
      distribution of each ARV within pre-specified anatomical sub-regions across a tissue slice
      will allow for identification of areas where drug is either concentrating or lacking. ISH and
      IHC analysis of serial tissue slices will allow us to co-localize ARVs with HIV and HIV
      target cells. Once these anatomical areas have been visually identified, imaging software
      will be used to isolate and quantify the signal.
    
  