
    
      Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is an auto-immune orphan disease mainly characterized by an
      alteration of the microvascular network, and by cutaneous and visceral fibrosis. Hands are
      frequently affected, as a consequence of ischemic phenomena and cutaneous fibrosis. As a
      result, patients suffer from everyday disability, with consequences on their occupational
      activities and social contact, sometimes severely altering their quality of life. To date, no
      anti-fibrosis treatment has proven effective; existing vasodilation treatments are
      unfortunately not very effective, and are associated with adverse effects or restrictions. It
      is consequently of utmost importance that an effective treatment for sclerodermic hands be
      developed. The injection of adipose autologous tissue is a common practice in plastic
      surgery, and has been known for over a century. Adipose tissue, originally used to increase
      volume, is also characterized by trophic properties associated to stromal vascular fraction
      (SVF), which contain multipotent stem cells, capable of tissue repair. Interestingly, some
      SVF cells can be angiogenic and anti-inflammatory, which could improve damage seen with SSc.
      The injection of SVF into the fingers would also make it possible to control the production
      of the extracellular matrix and to improve the balance between fibrosis and fibrolysis,
      resulting in an improvement of cutaneous sclerosis.

      A prior study (the SCLERADEC protocol: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01813279) has already allowed
      the safety and tolerance at 6 months of the subcutaneous injection of SVF in the fingers of
      twelve patients to be proven. Secondary efficacy endpoints evaluated at 2 months (M2) and 6
      months (M6) showed an improvement in disability, pain, severity of Raynaud's phenomenon,
      trophicity, the number of digital ulcers, hand mobility and in the quality of life. These
      encouraging results have encouraged the investigators to propose a trial which would bear on
      a higher number of patients and include a control group.
    
  