
    
      All patients will be offered the self-care checklist of homecare approaches at baseline.
      Patients will be treated for two months with follow up at 3 and 6 months after enrollment.
      The primary outcome measure will be an 11 point Numerical Rating Scale for average TMD pain
      during the past week. Secondary outcomes will include the Oral Health Impact Profile
      (OHIP-14), believability of the sham AMCT compared to active AMCT, expectations of and
      satisfaction with care, medication use, bothersomeness of symptoms and health care
      utilization. Our project is a collaborative effort between the Palmer Center for Chiropractic
      Research (PCCR) and the University of Iowa (UI) through the College of Dentistry and the
      General Clinical Research Center (GCRC) Oral and Craniofacial Unit. The PCCR Clinic and Data
      Core will serve as the data coordinating center and will develop a web-based data collection
      system for this project. Patient eligibility will be assessed by dental examiners at the UI
      College of Dentistry using the Research Diagnostic Criteria for Temporomandibular Disorders
      to diagnose chronic, Axis I myofascial TMD. Dental care will be provided by a dentist at UI
      GCRC and chiropractic care will be provided by a private practitioner in close proximity to
      UI. The aims of this project are to assess the feasibility of conducting a full-scale
      randomized clinical trial to evaluate the effectiveness of AMCT for patients with chronic
      myofascial TMD; determine the most appropriate control group(s) for a full-scale randomized
      controlled trial; and to estimate the sample size needed for an adequately-powered trial and
      the recruitment period that would be required. In general, there is a lack of evidence for
      the efficacy of non-surgical treatment for patients with TMD, including chiropractic
      interventions. If the beneficial effects of the AMCT are supported in this pilot study, the
      logistical information gained will allow us to plan a full scale trial for patients suffering
      pain and disability due to TMD. It is anticipated that such a trial will allow clinicians to
      make more informed recommendations for treatment of patients with TMD. At the conclusion of
      this project, we will be well-positioned to prepare an R01 level grant application.
    
  