
    
      1. Written informed consent must be obtained before any study specific procedures are
           undertaken.

        2. The process of the experiment A. head and neck cancer patients with surgery and
           radiotherapy are identified in clinic at the Department of Dentistry and the Department
           of Radiotherapy in Kaohsiung Medical University Chung-Ho Memorial Hospital.

      B. Inform these patients about the value of this clinical trial in detail, and make sure that
      they understand all the meanings of each procedure in this clinical trial. Subsequently, the
      patients who are willing to participate in this study are enrolled after completing
      institutionally approved informed consent.

      C. In order to assess the effect of supplement with L-Glutamine on the nutritional status and
      diet of head and neck cancer patients with surgery and radiotherapy, the enrolled patients
      will be divided into two groups randomly. One group is supplied with 10 g L-Glutamine and 5 g
      maltodextrin; the other group is supplied with 15 g maltodextrin as control group. The
      patients of these two groups take their supplemental nutrients three times a day,
      respectively, in a period of time of 7 days before radiotherapy to 14 days after
      radiotherapy.

      D. Meanwhile, the research assistants will monitor the patients' condition carefully by
      recording their daily diet, nutritional status and side effects caused by radiotherapy at
      three specific time-points during the whole clinic trial program course.

      E. The monitor items of patients' nutritional status include the daily diet of patients
      before and after radiotherapy by recording 24 hr recall table and food frequency table,(b)
      the physical examination of height, weight, ideal weight, tricept skinfold (TSF), mid-arm
      circumference (MAC) and mid-arm muscle circumference (MAMC), (d) prognostic nutritional index
      (PNI), (e) biochemistry inspection assessment and (g) complete blood count (CBC).

      F. The monitor items of patients' diet-related side effects caused by radiotherapy include
      (a) oral mucositis and (b) neck dermatitis.

      G. The above-mentioned monitor items will be recorded carefully by the research assistants at
      three specific time-points during the whole clinic trial program course, which are initial
      point (7 days before radiotherapy), medium point (medium date during radiotherapy) and final
      point (14 days after radiotherapy).

      H. The research assistants will help the patients make an appointment, and let them visit the
      doctor on schedule. And make sure the patients actually follow up the suggestions and obey
      the instructions during the clinic trial.
    
  