
    
      This is a pilot prospective, single-institution study in both control participants, control
      participants with mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease and participants with
      evidence of intracranial metastases who will be planned for brain radiation therapy. Control
      participant accrual will be done through advertisements. For control participants with mild
      cognitive impairment, Alzheimer's disease and intracranial metastatic disease screening and
      accrual will be completed by a member of the participant's Circle of Care. Clinical
      procedures will be completed at Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre (SHSC) by the study's
      Qualified Investigator or medical designate. Eligible control participants must meet the
      study's inclusion and exclusion criteria and MRI eligibility. Intracranial metastatic
      participants must meet the study's inclusion and exclusion criteria, MRI eligibility will be
      undergoing radiation therapy (stereotactic radiotherapy).

      The study will be divided into three parts:

      Part I (Controls)

        -  Population: up to 106 study participants, ≥18 years of age

        -  Each participant in Groups A to G and J and K will undergo a single MRI sequence with a
           single hyperpolarized 13C pyruvate injection. Participants in group H and I will undergo
           MRI sequences with two consecutive injections of hyperpolarized 13C pyruvate. The scans
           are expected to be of approximately 60 to 75 minutes in length.

      Group A: up to 6 participants ≥ 18 years of age. Group B: up to 10 male participants between
      the age of 18-39 Group C: up to 10 female participants between the age of 18-39 Group D: up
      to 10 male participants between the age of 40-59 Group E: up to 10 female participants
      between the age of 40-59 Group F: up to 10 male participants ≥ 60 years of age Group G: up to
      10 female participants ≥ 60 years of age Group H: up to 10 male or female participants ≥ 18
      years of age Group I: up to 10 male or female participants ≥ 18 years of age Group J: up to
      10 male or female participants ≥ 60 years of age with Mild Cognitive Impairment Group K: up
      to 10 male or female participants ≥ 60 years of age with Alzheimer's disease

      Part II

        -  Population: up to 5 study participants from the Odette Cancer Centre, ≥18 years of age
           with demonstrated intracranial metastasis on imaging (CT or MRI), who have been referred
           to clinic for radiotherapy consideration.

        -  Procedure: Each participant will undergo additional MRI sequences (hyperpolarized 13C
           pyruvate MRS) with an additional length of approximately 30-60 minutes that will be
           performed on the day of or in advance of the participant's routine radiation planning
           scan prior to radiation treatment. No extra visits to the hospital, beyond routine
           clinical care, are anticipated.

      Part III

        -  Population: up to 30 study participants from the Odette Cancer Centre, ≥18 years of age
           with demonstrated intracranial metastasis on imaging (CT or MRI), who have been referred
           to clinic for radiotherapy consideration.

        -  Procedure: Each participant will undergo additional MRI sequences (hyperpolarized 13C
           pyruvate MRS) with an additional length of approximately 30-60 minutes that will be
           performed on the day of or in advance of the participant's routine radiation planning
           scan prior to radiation treatment In addition, each participant will undergo one
           non-routine MRI scan with a length of approximately 60-90 minutes at a time point of 1-5
           days following radiation treatment.
    
  