
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Negative fluid balance in acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) has been shown to
      improve intensive care unit (ICU) length of stay and ventilator-free days. Although protocols
      exist for fluid management, all require invasive hemodynamic monitoring. Despite the large
      evidence base supporting the use of invasive monitoring, the majority of ARDS patients are
      now managed without invasive central lines. A non-invasive protocol for managing fluid status
      in patients with ARDS has not been rigorously implemented nor studied within a randomized
      controlled trial.

      OBJECTIVE:

      The study objective is to compare a novel non-invasive parameter-guided protocol for fluid
      management to usual care. The specific aims are: 1) to compare the incidence of new or
      worsening renal failure, the incidence of new or worsening shock, and the incidence of new or
      worsening non-shock hypotension; 2) to compare the relative effectiveness of the 2 treatment
      groups as assessed by cumulative fluid balance over 7 days; 3) to determine if the
      non-invasive protocol increases the number of ventilator-free days and ICU-free days; and
      further, to evaluate if it decreases 60-day mortality; and 4) to document the clinical
      instances where treatment digression between the 2 groups occurs.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      This study is a single-blinded, randomized control trial, comparing 1 treatment arm to usual
      care. We will treat patients with severe hypoxemic respiratory failure (including ARDS) for 7
      consecutive days. Their post-study course will be monitored for a period of 60 days or until
      death. Patients who are randomized to the intervention group will receive fluid management
      strategies that are dictated by non-invasively derived (via the "NICOM" device) surrogates of
      cardiac preload and output. Patients who are randomized to the control group will receive
      standard-of-care "best practice" fluid management, as dictated by the treating physician.
    
  