
    
      Surgical Technique

        1. 30 mls of 0.5% bupivacaine with epinephrine standard dose will be distributed into the
           trocar site wounds after desufflation of the peritoneal cavity.

        2. All the patients will be under a consistent intra-abdominal pressure using CO2 and the
           laparoscopy will be carried out using the same, routine / typical surgical instruments.

      A. Control Group (n=25): Aerosolized normal saline will be introduced at the end of the
      procedure, using a specially designed sterile catheter. The catheter will be inserted via
      trocar port under direct vision. The other end of the catheter will be connected to a 72"
      Edwards Lifesciences pressure tubing (Ref: 50P172), which will be connected to a B&D 20cc
      syringe filled with 15 ml of normal saline and inserted into a specially designed syringe
      pump and pressurizing system designed to aerosolize the specified agent. The total dose of
      patient delivered normal saline will be 10 ml, with 5 ml remaining contained and undelivered
      within the catheter and 72" pressure tubing. Routine/Typical methods of post-operative pain
      management will be employed.

      B. Aerosolized anesthetic (n=25): at the end of the procedure, the aerosolized local
      anesthetic will be introduced using a specially designed sterile catheter. The catheter will
      be inserted via trocar port under direct vision. The other end of the catheter will be
      connected to a 72" Edwards Lifesciences pressure tubing (Ref: 50P172), which will be
      connected to a B&D 20cc syringe filled with 15 ml of anesthetic agent and inserted into a
      specially designed syringe pump and pressurizing system designed to aerosolize the specified
      agent. The total dose of patient delivered anesthetic will be 10 ml, with 5 ml remaining
      contained and undelivered within the catheter and 72" pressure tubing. Routine/Typical
      methods of post-operative pain management will be employed.
    
  