
    
      After potential participants contact the research team, the research team will schedule a
      phone screening with them to make sure they meet the criteria. If they pass the phone
      screening, visit 1 will be scheduled. If they fail the phone screening, their contact
      information and response to the phone screening questions will be destroyed. If an individual
      agrees to participate, they will complete the informed consent and they will be assigned a
      unique ID number. Eligibility will be first checked. Blood pressure will be measured three
      times using an automated blood pressure cuff after participants have been seated and rested
      for at least 10 minutes for an accurate reading. For participants who do not take medication
      that managing blood pressure, if they have systolic blood pressure <120mmHg or diastolic
      blood pressure <80mmHg they will not be allowed to participate. If an individual has systolic
      blood pressure >140mmHg or diastolic blood pressure >90mmHg they will not be allowed to
      participate without approval from their physician. If they are diagnosed with
      pre-hypertension or hypertension and are currently taking medication, they will need to
      provide a physician's note to participate. They will also be asked to complete a physical
      activity measure, the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) to assess their
      activity over the last week. If they accumulated more than 150 minutes of moderate and
      vigorous physical activity per week, they will not be eligible to participate. This will be
      checked by a member of the research team to ensure that they are eligible to participate. If
      the person meets criteria (other inclusion and exclusion criteria information is listed below
      separately in Inclusion/Exclusion section), they will be provided with additional information
      about the study and be guided through the Visit 1 data collection protocol and be informed
      about plans for Visit 2 (1 week later) and Visit 3 (approximately 3 months later). The visits
      will last about 60 minutes each, with Visit 2 being up to 90 minutes for participants
      randomly assigned to the Fitbit + Behavior Change Strategies (FB+) condition described below.

      Visit 1. Visit 1 will include baseline measurements and providing participants with
      information about the monitors that they will wear to assess physical activity and sedentary
      behaviors at baseline and at the end of the intervention. They will schedule a time to come
      back the following week for their second study visit.

      Visit 2. At the beginning of Visit 2, participants will be block randomized to their
      experimental condition and informed of their condition assignment. Randomization will occur
      in blocks of 5 to ensure that groups are experiencing similar environmental (e.g. weather)
      variations that may influence physical activity behaviors. Randomization will be done using a
      random number generator. Conditions are: use of the Fitbit alone (FB) or use of the Fitbit in
      combination with behavior change strategies (FB+). Descriptions of conditions are below.
      Regardless of condition, all participants will receive information about the Fitbit and will
      be given a guided tour of the device itself and the associated software. Participants will be
      given a username and password to be used with the software and will be encouraged to utilize
      the software over the next 3 months to assist them in becoming more physically active.
      Participants assigned to the FB condition will use their Fitbit on their own for the duration
      of 3-month intervention, similar to the experience of participants buying the device
      off-the-shelf. Those assigned to the FB+ condition will discuss their perceived benefits and
      barriers of becoming more physically active with health coach. Participants will also be
      encouraged to set a goal of their choosing related to using their Fitbit to increase their
      physical activity. Weekly progress reports will be sent to participants through Email on
      Monday. Participants assigned to this group will also receive weekly (first month),
      semi-monthly (second month), monthly (third month) phone contact from the health coach to
      follow-up on the achievement from previous week(s) and re-evaluate their goals based on their
      current behaviors.

      Regardless of group assignment, during the 3-month intervention all participants will receive
      periodic (~monthly) contacts (via email or phone) from the research team asking how they are
      using their Fitbits. For participants in the FB+ group, this contact can be at the same time
      as their check-ins. During this monthly contact, participants will be asked open-ended
      questions regarding how frequently the Fitbits are being worn, how often participants are
      looking at their data, and what aspects of the monitors and associated software/apps are
      particularly useful and/or motivating for them. They will be also asked about their physical
      health and well beings related to participate in the study as a safety check.

      Approximately one week prior to the final visit (~3 months after the start of the
      intervention), participants will be asked to come to the lab for a brief visit to pick up an
      objective activity monitor (ActiGraph) and to wear them for the next week in order to assess
      physical activity and sedentary time at the end of the intervention. At this time,
      participants will also be scheduled to return for their final study visit.

      Visit 3 will be completed at the end of the 3-month trial. During this visit, participants
      will complete the same anthropomorphic, cardiovascular, and psychosocial measures assessed at
      baseline. They will be given the opportunity to complete an optional semi-structured
      interview with a member of the study team. This brief interview could be done during this
      visit or at another time that is convenient for the participant. The purpose of the interview
      would be to gather qualitative information from participants regarding their use of the
      monitors and factors that facilitated and/or impeded behavior change.

      Twelve weeks after the intervention the investigator's will ask participants to complete the
      physical activity questionnaire once again to assess for long term changes in self-reported
      physical activity and secondary outcome measures.
    
  