
    
      Objectives:

        -  To evaluate the residents' knowledge of the female pelvis anatomy at 3 months post
           intervention.

        -  To determine residents' satisfaction with Pelvic+ methodology compared to traditional
           methodology.

      Material and Method:

      Design: A multicentre, two arms, parallel randomized controlled trial (RCT) of an educational
      intervention to compare knowledge on female pelvis anatomy between Pelvic+ methodology and
      traditional methodology at baseline, at completion of intervention and at 3 months
      post-intervention.

      Setting:

      Teaching Unit of Midwifery of Catalonia. Institut d'Estudis Sanitaris, Barcelona, Spain.

      Participants: Midwives in their 1st year of training.

      Sample size: Accepting an alpha risk of 0.05 and a beta risk of 0.2 in a two-sided test, 68
      subjects are necessary in first group and 68 in the second to recognize as statistically
      significant a difference greater than or equal to 1.66 units. The common standard deviation
      is assumed to be 2.17 and the correlation coefficient between the initial and final
      measurement as 0.0001. It has been anticipated a drop-out rate of 20%.

      Randomisation:

      Prior to randomisation, consenting Teaching Unit will provide a list of their current
      residents' caseload. The number of participants on that caseload who meet the inclusion
      criteria, will be entered into the random numbers generator to create a randomly list in
      which to approach potential participants to intervention group or control group. Following
      the random list, sealed envelopes will be prepared. When the participant approach, second
      researcher will then seek informed consent to participate in the RCT consecutively. Once the
      participant has signed the informed consent to participate in the RCT, the first sealed
      envelope will be given to her/him sequentially.

      The information contained in the sealed envelope will allocate the participant to room A or
      B. Being A: control group; and B: intervention group.

      In situations where a participant, who had previously signed the informed consent and, before
      running the intervention session, decides to withdraw the study, will be removed from the
      RCT.

      Blinding:

      Principal investigator and the statistician will remain blind to group allocation. Outcome
      assessments will only be conducted by principal investigator blind to the intervention and
      control groups.

      Second researcher and professor will remain blind to questions included in both
      questionnaires: anatomy and satisfaction.

      Intervention: Pelvic+ methodology The interventional session (40 minutes total) will consist
      of two parts: The 1st one is a lecture of 10 minutes (25% out of the total time) on female
      pelvic floor anatomy. In the 2nd part, during 30 min (75%), participants, in small groups of
      4 people, will assemble the female pelvic floor interactive model, following the indications
      suggested by the second researcher. Pelvic+ is supported by an assembling manual that
      participants will be allowed to use.

      Control group: Traditional methodology A professor/lecturer of anatomy will carry out the
      session in the control group.

      The traditional session will consist of 30 minutes of lecture (75% out of the total time),
      where female pelvic floor will be presented throughout theory and images. In the 2nd part,
      during 10 min (25%), participants will review anatomical drawings /atlases.
    
  