
    
      Introduction

      Atrial fibrillation is the most common cause of cardioembolic stroke and can be detected in
      about 27% of acute stroke patients treated on stroke units in Berlin. Stroke patients in whom
      atrial fibrillation is detected benefit from anticoagulation rather than anti-aggregation as
      a secondary prevention treatment. Lesions on brain imaging that are located in more than one
      of the main arterial territories of the brain may indicate cardioembolic etiology.
      Cardioembolic etiology is mainly due to atrial fibrillation. Atrial fibrillation causes
      cardiac emboli that may embolize in all brain arteries while other embolic sources e.g.
      carotid plaque cannot. However, current data on the association between lesion patterns and
      atrial fibrillation are inconclusive.

      Purpose

      The aim of this retrospective cohort study is to investigate the relationship between lesion
      pattern on Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and atrial fibrillation. The investigators
      hypothesize that a lesion pattern with brain lesions in more than one of the main arterial
      territories of the brain (left or right internal carotid artery or posterior circulation
      territory) is associated with atrial fibrillation in patients with acute ischemic stroke. The
      findings of this study might help to identify patients with atrial fibrillation.

      Methods

      Blinded for clinical data the investigators will analyze imaging data and radiologic reports
      of 1000 consecutive stroke patients who received 3-Tesla MRI imaging including
      Diffusion-weighted Imaging (DWI) and Fluid-attenuated Inversion Recovery (FLAIR) sequence.
      DWI lesions correspond to acute stroke and FLAIR lesions to subacute and chronic stroke.
      Brain lesions will be attributed to a vascular territory (left or right internal carotid
      artery or posterior circulation territory) and the pattern consecutively categorized as
      "single", "scattered" and "multiple" as described by Braemswig et al..

      Fetal origin of the posterior cerebral artery and variability of vascular territories will be
      taken into account. Vascular territory attribution in ambiguous cases will be conducted by
      consensus between investigators. Demographic and clinical data will be collected from medical
      records. Strokes meeting the criteria for Embolic Stroke of Unknown Source (ESUS) will be
      identified according to Hart et al..

      Based on a pilot study including 250 patients the investigators estimate that atrial
      fibrillation will be present in 38% of patients with a multiple lesion pattern on MRI and in
      28% of patients with a non-multiple pattern. Based on these assumptions, 894 patients are
      required to have a 80% chance of detecting, (as significant at the 5% level), a difference of
      10% with 28% atrial fibrillation in patients without multiple lesion pattern and 38% atrial
      fibrillation in patients with a multiple lesion pattern.

      In accordance with legislation in Berlin, Germany, an ethics committee approval is not
      required for this study.

      Outcomes

      Primary outcome is multiple lesion pattern on MRI (DWI and FLAIR). Secondary Outcome is
      multiple lesion pattern on MRI (DWI lesions only) Analyses will be conducted comparing

        -  Patients with and without atrial fibrillation

        -  Patients with newly diagnosed atrial fibrillation and patients without atrial
           fibrillation

        -  Patients with newly diagnosed atrial fibrillation and patients with known atrial
           fibrillation

        -  Patients fulfilling ESUS criteria and patients who do not

        -  Patients with brain lesions outside of the overlap area of the main vascular territories
           as defined by Tatu et al.
    
  