
    
      The study will be an open controlled pilot study of 6 patients with early-onset severe
      preeclampsia. Patients will receive Atenativ in addition to conventional therapy The patients
      will be followed up within the study until three days after delivery. In addition to
      conventional therapy, i.v. administration of Atenativ will be given in a dosage aimed to
      raise the plasma level of AT initially to 120% (1.2 kIU/L) The goal is to achieve and
      maintain plasma activity of about 100% during two weeks. The dose of Atenativ is based on the
      actual plasma level of AT measured 2 hours before the dose. During the first two days of
      treatment plasma samples will be drawn for the measurement of AT activity twice a day, once
      before and 12 hours after infusion in order to monitor the dosage. Thereafter and until study
      discontinuation AT will be measured once a day. The treatment will continue for two weeks if
      plasma AT III is below 100% (1.0 kIU/L).Uterine blood flow is measured before, during and
      after the AT infusion. Demographic data, medical history and other background data (age,
      weight, height, gestational week, smoker or not, gravidity, parity, previous hypertension,
      previous medication etc) will be recorded in order to ensure that the inclusion criteria are
      met and to verify patient identity and inclusion status. The week of gestation when the
      patient is included in the study as well as the week of gestation at delivery is recorded.

      The type of delivery (vaginal or caesarean section as well as planned or acute) will also be
      recorded.. General haemostatic parameters are to be analyzed before start of treatment and
      then every day during treatment and thereafter at least twice a week. Special haemostatic
      parameters are Placental growth factor, S-Flt-1, VEGF and Syndecan-1. They will be sampled
      before start of treatment and during treatment once a week. The samples will be collected and
      frozen and not analyzed before the termination of the study.
    
  