
    
      This was a cross-sectional observational study conducted in the rheumatology clinic of
      National Center for Rheumatic Diseases, Kathmandu, Nepal. Patients with spondyloarthropathy
      (SpA) and enrolled in the cohort database from June 2015 to December 2019 were selected.
      Those taking any oral or injectable forms of biological treatment were included in the study.
      Patients less than 18 years of age, who did not consent for participation or additional
      information, who were deferred from biological treatment due to comorbid conditions like
      concurrent infections or heart failure were excluded. An informed consent was obtained from
      selected patients and any additional information required was taken via e-mail or telephone
      enquiry.

      Diagnostic & measurement tools Diagnosis of SpA was made by rheumatologists on the basis of
      the modified New York Criteria for Ankylosing Spondylitis and the ASAS criteria (Assessment
      of SpondyloArthritis International Society) for axial and peripheral SpA. Diagnosis of
      nr-axial SpA was made by MRI evidence of sacroilitis in a patient with normal radiograph with
      or without HLA B27. Disease activity was assessed using composite Ankylosing Spondylitis
      Disease Activity Score (ASDAS) and the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index
      (BASDAI).

      Socioeconomic status Socioeconomic factors studied were educational level and the primary
      occupation. Patient self-reported highest educational level was recorded and was categorized
      into illiterate, primary, secondary, higher secondary, above secondary level education.
      Occupation and social class were recorded based on self-report primary source of income. It
      was categorized into homemakers, students, service holders, business, teachers, farmers and
      others (field workers, labor workers). A dedicated research officer also took data on other
      demographic parameters and geographical location of residence. Geographical location was
      categorized into urban-rural and hilly-plain terrain.

      Indications for offering biological treatment Indications for biological or small molecule
      treatment included: a. Failure of at least 2 courses of NSAIDS, b. Failure of at least
      3months of conventional synthetic DMARDs (csDMARDs). For patients with PsA, the csDMARDs
      included methotrexate and/or leflunomide; for AS, nr-axial SpA and IBD-associated arthritis,
      it included sulfasalazine and/or methotrexate. Failure of treatment was defined as: a.
      Persistent ASDAS of ≥2.1, b. Improvement of ASDAS by less than -1.1, c. Persistent BASDAI of
      ≥4. All patients fulfilling these indications were offered biological treatment. Patients
      with no contraindication for TNFi were offered either injectable biologicals (adalimumab or
      etanercept: only TNFi available in Nepal) or tofacitinib (only small molecule available in
      Nepal) and explained about the preparatory investigations, dosage of TNFi, storage, cost,
      monitoring and side-effects.

      Data collection and analysis Complete data on baseline demographic parameters (age, gender,
      address, education, occupation) and ASDAS and BASDAI scores at initiation of treatment with
      biological or small molecule were recorded in a hardcopy data-sheet and later entered to a
      predesigned excel-sheet by a trained research officer.

      Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS version 21 (IBM Corp, USA). Simple descriptive
      statistics were used to analyze various socioeconomic and demographic parameters. Chi-squared
      test was used to analyze difference in these parameters between patients who chose injectable
      and those who chose tofacitinib. Linear regression analysis was performed to identify
      variables associated with use of any biological agent. All variables with p-value of <0.05
      were analyzed in multiple regression model to evaluate the independent association.
      Difference in mean values between two treatment groups were assessed by independent t-test.
    
  