
    
      Posterior urethral valves (VUPs) are the leading cause of subvesical obstruction in children
      with an incidence between 1 / 3,000 to 1 / 8,000 births. 25-45% of patients will have chronic
      renal failure and 10-20% will require a transplant. The association between long-term
      prognosis and bladder dysfunction is well known, leading many teams to suggest early
      initiation of treatment with anticholinergics.

      However, this treatment has never been properly evaluated. In fact, a single study carried
      out in boys with valves taking oxybutynin from the age of 3 months to 2 years without a
      control group concluded that "the early use of anticholinergics in boys with VUP presenting
      high voiding pressures and low bladder capacity has a beneficial effect on bladder function.
      It is true that in children with neurologic bladders as in Spina Bifida, early treatment with
      anticholinergics seems to provide a benefit, but VUPs are not strictly speaking neurologic
      bladders. In addition, treatment with anticholinergics can have side effects and could even
      be harmful to the bladder, leading to myogenic bankruptcy. The only way to properly assess
      oxybutynin in this population is to conduct a prospective randomized study.

      The proposed study includes a group treated with oxybutynin and a group without. Boys who
      have had valve resection for VUP within the first three months of life and who present an
      abnormal urodynamic assessment 3 months after valve resection will be included. Oxybutynin
      will be given at a dose of 0.1 mg / kg 2x / day, as syrup, in the treatment group. The
      control group will not have any treatment affecting bladder function. The pharmacokinetics of
      oxybutynin will be studied. Several urodynamic parameters including capacity or volume,
      voiding pressure and compliance will be studied. The objective is to perform a composite
      analysis that can reflect the complex functioning of the bladder. The children included will
      have urodynamics at the end of the study, after 9 months of treatment. The performance of
      urodynamic examinations will be standardized and there will be an external centralized
      analysis to validate the urodynamic results.
    
  