
    
      The COVID-19 Pandemic and the resulting mass home confinement enacted to mitigate disease
      spread has created an environment of stress and drastic disruption to daily life. Increases
      in stress, social isolation, loss of daily routine, decreased physical activity, and excess
      screen time that are likely to arise as a function of the pandemic and mitigation efforts are
      risk factors for developing insomnia. Left unchecked, this acute insomnia can become chronic,
      resulting in increased risk of negative mental health outcomes such as depression, anxiety,
      and suicidality. The current proposal aims to test whether a telehealth intervention for
      insomnia can be used to not only prevent the progression of acute to chronic insomnia, but
      also prevent the worsening of neuropsychiatric symptoms, suicidality, and quality of life in
      those most vulnerable to negative mental health outcomes.

      These aims will be achieved through a randomized 2-arm controlled trial design. 50 eligible
      adults experiencing sleep disturbances and who also have a history of depression and are in
      the at-risk group for COVID-19 will be randomized to receive either a sleep intervention
      (Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia, CBT-I; n=25) or a 7-month waitlist (n=25). CBT-I
      improves sleep patterns through a combination of sleep restriction, stimulus control,
      mindfulness training, cognitive therapy targeting dysfunctional beliefs about sleep, and
      sleep hygiene education. Neuropsychiatric symptoms, Quality of Life, suicidality, and sleep
      disruption will be assessed at baseline (Week 0) and at the end of the sleep intervention (or
      Week 7) through online surveys and clinical interviews. Neuropsychiatric symptoms (anxiety
      and depression) and sleep disturbance (Insomnia Severity Index, and sleep diaries) will be
      assayed at baseline and each week throughout treatment/waitlist to assess week-to-week
      changes following an increasing number of CBT-I sessions. Neuropsychiatric symptoms, quality
      of life, suicidality, and sleep will be assessed again at 3-months, 7-months, and 13-months
      after baseline.
    
  