
    
      The aim of this study is to determine the potential of a single-lead electrocardiogram (ECG)
      monitor CardioQvark (Moscow, Russia) with photoplethysmography function use to evaluate
      parameters systolic function of the left ventricle. Also according to the photoplethysmogram
      (PPG), using a special algorithm, the levels of systolic and diastolic blood pressure are
      calculated.

      The single-lead electrocardiogram monitor CardioQvark (it is registered with the Federal
      Service for Health Supervision on February 15, 2019. RZN (Roszdravnadzor) No. 2019/8124)
      looks like an iPhone cover and records electrocardiogram (I standard lead) and
      photoplethysmogram (pulse wave) simultaneously.

      This is a prospective, single-center, non-randomized, observational study. The investigators
      are planning to include in the study 400 patients with different pathologies of the
      cardiovascular system (coronary artery disease, hypertension, valvular heart disease, heart
      failure) according to the inclusion criteria.

      Collection of medical history; physical examination (including inspection, palpation and
      auscultation, as well as determination of breathing rate, pulse rate, height, and weight)
      will be performed for the entire group of patients. Electrocardiogram and photoplethysmogram
      registration and assessment of the blood pressure using a CardioQvark monitor will be
      performed on all study participants at rest (the patient will sit quietly for 10-15 minutes
      before the examination). The reference blood pressure will be measured using a cuff-based
      blood pressure device ("Microlife BP AG1-10") that is worn on the upper arm according to the
      World Health Organization recommendations.

      All subjects will undergo an echocardiography ("Dimension/Vivid 7 PRO General Electric
      Medical System"), the examination will be performed by an experienced doctor (the doctor will
      not have data on the parameters of the pulse wave and electrocardiogram). The extended
      protocol echocardiography will be performed according to the recommendations of European
      Association of Cardiovascular Imaging (EACVI) and American Society of Echocardiography (ASE).
      All examinations will be performed consistently within one day.

      All electrocardiograms and photoplethysmograms records will be sent to the CardioQVARK server
      and processed by the algorithm using signal processing based on the wavelet transformation.
      Then engineers of "CardioQvark" (Limited Liability Company) will calculate the pulse wave
      parameters:

        -  B1 is the beginning of the wave

        -  B0 is the point of maximum increase of the anterior front

        -  SEP is the peak of the ejected pulse wave

        -  DER3 is the first positive peak of the third derivative

        -  SEPMAX is the point of the first inflection of pulse wave

        -  SRP is the peak of the reflected systolic wave

        -  DP is the peak of the diastolic wave

        -  End is the end of the wave

        -  perfusion index

        -  augmentation index.

      A spectral analysis of the electrocardiogram will be performed using a continuous wavelet
      transform, the principles of which are based on the Fourier transform:

        -  TpTe - time from peak to end of the T-wave

        -  VAT - time from the beginning of the QRS to the R-peak

        -  QTc - corrected QT interval.

        -  QT / TQ - the ratio of QT length to TQ length (from the end of T to the beginning of the
           QRS of the next complex).

        -  QRS_E - the total energy of the QRS wave based on the wavelet transform

        -  T_E - T-wave total energy based on wavelet transform

        -  TP_E- energy of the main tooth of the T-wave based on the wavelet transform

        -  BETA, BETA_S - T-wave asymmetry coefficients (simple and smooth versions)

        -  BAD_T - flag of T-wave quality (whether expressed in the current lead

        -  QRS_D1_ons - energy of the leading edge of the R-wave (based on the "first derivative"
           wavelet transform)

        -  QRS_D1_offs - energy of the trailing edge of the R-wave (based on the "first derivative"
           wavelet transform)

        -  QRS_D2 - peak energy of the R-wave (based on the "second derivative" wavelet transform)

        -  QRS_Ei (i = 1,2,3,4) - QRS-wave energy in 4 frequency ranges (2-4-8-16-32 Hz) based on
           wavelet transform

        -  T_Ei (i = 1,2,3,4) - T-wave energy in 4 frequency ranges (2-4-6-8-10 Hz) based on
           wavelet transform

        -  HFQRS - the amplitude of the RF components of the QRS wave. The engineers will not have
           echocardiography results.

      The investigators will evaluate parameters of the pulse wave (photoplethysmogram) and
      electrocardiogram and compare the results with echocardiography (ejection fraction, left
      ventricular outflow tract velocity time integral (VTI), left ventricular global longitudinal
      strain (GLS)).The mathematical model for determining the systolic dysfunction of the left
      ventricle will be built on the basis of the parameters of the photoplethysmogram and the
      electrocardiogram.

      Intergroup analysis of significant differences, correlation analysis and Bland-Altman method
      will be used for statistical data analysis. All statistical analyses will be perform using a
      computer program for statistical processing of data SPPS (statistical package for the social
      sciences) Statistics Version 26.

      It is planned to obtain comparative characteristics of the pulse wave and electrocardiogram
      parameters registered by the CardioQvark monitor and the indicators of systolic function of
      the left ventricle detected during echocardiography. The result of this study will be the
      identification of the parameters of the pulse wave and electrocardiogram that will correlate
      with systolic dysfunction of the left ventricle. It is planned to determine the diagnostic
      effectiveness of this method. The accuracy of the blood pressure measurement using the
      CardioQvark monitor will also be evaluated.

      Thus, a quick and convenient assessment of systolic function of the left ventricle and blood
      pressure measurement will be available. So, study results will improve the diagnosis and
      treatment of cardiovascular disease.
    
  