
    
      This prospective trial is designed to evaluate whether investigational 18F FLT imaging can
      identify the burden of hematopoietic disease both subjectively (by pattern of hematopoiesis
      in medullary spaces) and objectively (by SUV determination, secondary endpoint). Because
      patients with high risk acute leukemia, CML, and MDS have poor prognosis with high risk for
      relapse, novel ways to evaluate the success of therapies would be valuable. 18F FLT is
      3'-deoxy-3 18F-fluorothymidine, a radiolabeled thymidine analogue, reveals hematopoietic cell
      proliferation, and can identify residual leukemia disease.

      This study will enroll patients onto two arms:

      For Group A Patients (post immunotherapy with co-enrollment on separate protocol or other
      immunotherapy): Patients will be imaged within one week prior to receiving immunotherapy:
      termed Baseline Scan and then imaged approximately 28 days after immunotherapy (+14/-7 days
      after therapy) termed Follow-up scan.

      For Group B Patients (after other therapies): Patients will receive their baseline scans
      within one week prior to starting cancer therapy and their follow up scan 28 days after
      cancer therapy (+14/-7 days).

      Baseline 18F FLT scans will be obtained within 14 days of standard of care clinical restaging
      and up to 7 days prior to initiating either immunotherapy (arm A) or standard cancer therapy
      (arm B). Patients will then receive scheduled treatment plan. Patients will receive scheduled
      clinical follow-up with clinical restaging bone marrow tests and if clinically indicated,
      restaging with CNS evaluation, or other tests such as PET/CT for evaluation of extramedullary
      disease.

      Follow-up will occur weekly to assess for toxicities of 18F FLT imaging for 4 weeks. The
      follow up 18F FLT image will occur 4-8 weeks after initiation of treatment for the cancer and
      is planned to occur at the time of clinical restaging for response to therapy (+ 14 days/-7
      days).

      Patients will also undergo sampling for blood biomarkers of residual disease and immune
      activity against disease. Finally, patients will report symptoms and quality of life measures
      using the PROMIS measures.

      Patients will be recruited from the blood and marrow transplant and oncology clinics at
      institutions by the treating physicians who may identify whether this study is appropriate to
      bring to the attention of the patient and/or his or her guardians.
    
  