
    
      The diagnosis of RP was according to the typical clinical history of night blindness,
      characteristically findings of "bone-spicule" change in the fundus, and varying degrees of
      peripheral visual field constriction. According to the affected loci in the fundus, we
      defined a typical type of RP as the retinal pathological change was around the banded area
      outside the main vascular arcs, and a central variant of RP stood for those with bone-spicule
      change appeared at the macula.[17] The exclusion criteria included eyes with histories of
      trauma, intraocular laser treatment, intraocular surgery, presence of retinal diseases, high
      degree of myopia with refraction more minus than -8.0 D or hyperopia with refraction more
      than +5.0 D. Patients with systemic diseases that may affect retina like diabetes or
      hypertension were also excluded.

      Visual acuity was examined with a Snellen visual chart with a calibrated luminance. Then
      according to the equation that Snellen VA equals to 1/MAR (MAR= minimal angle of resolution),
      Snellen VA was converted into logMAR for statistics. For calculation, visual acuity of hand
      motion was converted into 20/2000 and light perception was converted into 20/20000 of Snellen
      fraction. Visula field examination was evaluated using Goldmann kinetic perimetry with
      varying sizes and illuminations of testing light spots. Then the degree of the widest visual
      field isopter was recorded. EOG: is used to assess function of retinal pigment epithelium.
      During dark adaptation, resting potential decreases slightly and reaches a minimum ("dark
      trough"). When the light is on, the resting potential increases ("light peak"). The ratio of
      light peak voltage versus dark trough voltage is known as the Arden ratio. The EOG was
      performed with pupil dilated, first in the dark for 15 minutes, and then in the light for 15
      minutes and the Arden ratio for analysis was recorded.

      Color sense discrimination test was evaluated using Farnsworth Munsell 100-Hue test (Munsell
      FM 100, X-Rite, USA). Each patient arranged four trays of colored caps in hue order. There is
      a predetermined sequence for each tray. The closer the patient's arrangement is to the
      correct sequence, the better the patient's color sense discrimination. The Farnsworth-Munsell
      100-Hue Test Scoring Software was used to score the results of Farnsworth-Munsell 100-Hue
      Test. The results are displayed in polar or linear format, and the total error score was
      recorded for calculation.

      OCT was performed with the ultimate commercial OCT units (OCT3, Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc,
      Dublin, CA) to measure the macular thickness under papillary dilatation by an experienced
      examiner. The retinal thickness was calculated using OCT retinal mapping software (version
      6.1 a), which measured thickness of nine divided macular regions after six scans with 6 mm
      long centered on the patient's fixation point by means of an inner fixation target (Figure
      1), and expressed as a color-coded map. Internal fixation was essentially chosen due to
      better reproducibility. We defined the foveal area as the area centered at fixation with a
      diameter of one millimeter, the inner ring as the area between circles with diameter of one
      and three millimeters, and outer ring as the area between circles with diameter of three and
      six millimeters (Figure 2).

      We analyzed and compared the patients' characteristics, results of visual function tests and
      macular tomography in these two groups of RP. Then we tried to find out if there were
      correlations between macular tomography and visual function tests
    
  