
    
      A parallel arm randomized controlled trial comparing a group receiving Scheme Therapy plus
      current usual practice versus a group receiving current local practice only. The trial will
      take place in KASHANI Hospital (in Isfahan).Recruitment of the participants will be
      identified and recruited by the neurologists of the hospitals who take part in the programme,
      when they come for a medical examination.

      After giving their informed consent, the patients will be entered onto the trial database and
      randomized to either the schema therapy or control using software allocated The intervention
      is the schema therapy focuses on the management of anxiety and is based on self-efficacy,
      self-management . It consists of 20 once-weekly sessions of 90 minutes (with a 15 Min break),
      with homework activities between the sessions. It is designed for groups of 8 people and will
      be delivered by two psychologists. The programme is standardized: Power Points presentations
      support each session and a detailed therapist manual and companion patient workbook accompany
      the programme.

      For the ST group an evaluation will be administered pretest and post-test six months after
      the end of the schema therapy programme and at the same times for those in the control group.
      Socio-demographic and medical data, age, sex, level of education, marital status, number of
      children and professional status; date of diagnosis, disease type, level of disability (EDSS,
      Kurtzke, 1983) and information on relapses and treatments, are evaluated. The main criteria
      is the impact of schema therapy on anxiety evaluated by the BAI (beck anxiety inventory ) and
      level of cortisol at 6 month after the start program . Secondary criteria are: impact on the
      psychological dimensions assessed by Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), intensity
      of fatigue assessed by Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS), sleep quality evaluated by the
      Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index(PSQI) depression by BDI (beck depression inventory ) and
      quality of life evaluated by (Multiple sclerosis impact scale) MSIS29.
    
  