
    
      The BEEP proposal tests whether a 12 week exercise program alone or combined with a 12
      session education program will benefit the physical, emotional and social well being of
      individuals in early to mid stages of Parkinson's Disease and whether these benefits are
      maintained once the programs are complete.

      This is a single blind randomized control trial with pretest and posttests after a 3 month
      intervention and subsequent follow-up testing at 3 months and 9 months post intervention. The
      Intervention groups (group exercise, group exercise and education) will be compared to a
      control group and to each other. Each group will have 15 participants.

      The study compares the interventions and control groups to determine the following health
      outcomes:

        -  physical performance

        -  levels of physical and social activity

        -  perceived quality of life

        -  perceived self efficacy for managing chronic neurological disease

      Analysis of variance will be used to test for group differences.

      The Interventions: Exercise Group: Two, 75 minute sessions per week for 24 sessions. Program
      components include flexibility and strengthening exercises, balance and posture training,
      practice of functional tasks and endurance training. Education and Exercise Group: Exercise,
      same as for Exercise Group, delivered simultaneously to both intervention groups.

      Education: One, 75 minute session per week for 12 sessions at RUH, including:

        -  disease process and clinical presentation

        -  medication use in PD

        -  benefits of exercise

        -  managing movement difficulties and tips for performance of functional activities

        -  assistive devices for improved independence and safety

        -  driving

        -  prevention of falls: movement strategies and home modifications to increase safety

        -  speech, swallowing and facial expression

        -  nutrition and weight maintenance, managing constipation

        -  managing changes in mood & emotions, managing personal relationships

        -  coping with life changes caused by PD

        -  relaxation methods

      Monitoring will occur to limit "informal" education that might occur during the exercise
      program from this group to the pure Exercise Group.

      Control Group: no intervention The proposed study will add to the body of evidence evaluating
      the immediate and longer term benefits of group exercise programs for individuals with PD and
      will evaluate the benefits gained by adding an education program to an exercise program
      intervention.
    
  