
    
      This study will test an adherence intervention (iTAB-CV) delivered via interactive text
      messaging which first targets behavioral intent and then adds cues/reminders and
      reinforcement to form the habit of taking antihypertensives in non-adherent individuals with
      BD. Thirty eight individuals with BD and HTN being treated with evidence-based
      antihypertensive agents and mood stabilizing or antipsychotic medications who are
      non-adherent with their HTN medicine will be enrolled.

      This study uses a prospective cohort design with participants serving as their own control.
      Investigators will test the iTAB-CV intervention quantitatively for feasibility and
      acceptability as well as for efficacy in increasing adherence to antihypertensives,
      decreasing systolic blood pressure, and increasing adherence to BD medication.

      All study participants will be followed for a 3-month period. iTAB-CV, delivered via mobile
      phone, is intended to be a brief adjunct to standard primary care and mental health
      treatment. All individuals will continue to receive treatment as usual with their regular
      provider(s). Individuals who meet eligibility criteria will have a 30 day run-in period in
      which their medication adherence will be measured with TRQ and MEMS but without an additional
      intervention. Following the run-in period, Stage 1 of the iTAB-CV intervention will be
      introduced. Researchers will conduct an interview in order to customize iTAB-CV for each
      participant at the baseline session. In the first month of iTAB-CV, participants will receive
      alternating daily texts with psychoeducational and motivational content once daily and a
      daily mood rating request to both monitor their mood and to determine engagement with the
      iTAB-CV intervention. In the second stage of iTAB-CV, participants will receive daily texts
      which will include medication reminders, contextual cues, and immediate reinforcement for
      medication taking behavior in addition to the content from stage 1.

      Assessments that include evaluation of treatment adherence, psychiatric symptoms,
      self-efficacy for medication taking behavior, illness beliefs, medication attitudes, and
      habit strength for both antihypertensive and BD medications will be conducted at four time
      points over a 3-month time period (screening, baseline/week 4, week 8, and week 12). Blood
      pressure will be measured at each of the four contacts. Individuals who drop out of the
      intervention, and who agree, will be followed up with outcomes assessments over the same
      3-month time period that they would have been evaluated had they remained in the study.

      About one month after study completion, a member of the research team will call each
      participant and ask questions about their bipolar and blood pressure medication taking
      habits.
    
  