
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and feasibility of short term fasting in combination with PD-1
      inhibition therapy for patients with advanced malignancy.

      Ia. To estimate the percentage of patients who adhere completely to short term fasting (STF)
      in combination with PD-1 inhibition therapy for 3 cycles.

      Ib. To estimate the percentage of patients who develop unacceptable fasting-related toxicity.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure how many patients can adhere with STF for at least 2 cycles in combination with
      PD-1 inhibition.

      Ia. To estimate the percentage of patients who adhere to STF in combination with PD-1
      inhibition therapy for at least 2 cycles, or a total of at least 6 out of 9 days.

      II. To measure all grades of fasting-related toxicity. IIa. To estimate the percentage of
      patients who develop any grades of fasting-related toxicity, including acceptable
      fasting-related toxicity.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. The efficacy of combining STF with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibition will be assessed by Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1 response rate, as measured at
      the time of tumor assessment after 3 cycles of treatment.

      II. The immune-related toxicity of combining STF with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibition will be recorded
      at the start of each cycle, and graded per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      (CTCAE) v 4.0.

      III. Quality of life during STF combined with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibition will be recorded using
      the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G) version 4, questionnaire tool.

      IV. Fasting-related biomarkers to measure the impact of STF during PD-1/PD-L1 inhibition
      include measurement of serum insulin/IGF-1, PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling, MAPK pathway signaling,
      and markers of oxidative stress.

      V. Immune biomarkers will be analyzed using immunohistochemistry and ribonucleic acid (RNA)
      expression studies.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo STF for 47-48 hours prior to immunotherapy and for 24 hours after
      immunotherapy with standard of care pembrolizumab given intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes,
      nivolumab IV over 30 minutes, cemiplimab IV over 30 minutes, avelumab IV over 60 minutes,
      atezolizumab IV over 60 minutes, or durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 3. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up in 3-6 weeks.
    
  