
    
      This study will assess the safety of seasonal influenza vaccination in children who received
      one or two doses of the adjuvanted H1N1 vaccine last year. It will also measure residual
      immunity to the H1N1 virus and immune responses to the seasonal vaccine. It will be carried
      out before the new vaccine is released for general use so that we have an accurate picture of
      vaccine safety and responses for other Canadians.

      A total of 200 children (50 at each site) 12-59 month olds, are being asked to participate in
      this study. A research nurse will conduct a telephone screening with potential participants
      to determine if they are eligible for the study. Volunteers must have had one or two doses of
      the adjuvanted H1N1 vaccine before January 31, 2010. To eligible participants do not need a
      previous years seasonal flu vaccine(TIV)however, this will be recorded.

      The study involves 1-2 vaccination visits 28 days apart. Those children who have not received
      a previous dose of TIV will receive a second dose at visit # 2. After each vaccination, there
      will be contacts 1 and 7 days later for a description of any symptoms experienced. A blood
      sample will be requested at at each study visit (2 or 3 visits depending on previous TIV
      history) to measure immune responses to the seasonal vaccine.

      The study will take 21-42 days to complete, depending upon whether or not the child received
      a previous dose of seasonal TIV vaccination. The 4 study sites are in Vancouver, Calgary,
      Montreal and Halifax.

      Each subject's parent will be asked to keep daily notes of any changes at the injection site
      (pain, redness, swelling) and any general symptoms (such as irritability, drowsiness,
      decreased appetite, sleep disturbance,sweating and shivering, including your axilla or rectal
      temperature, for 7 days after each vaccination. Major health changes will be assessed for 21
      days post vaccination.
    
  