
    
      Population Participants will be included from the Catalan Down Syndrome Foundation (FCSD).
      After obtaining a written informed consent, approved by the ethical committee, a total of 60
      adult subjects of both sexes with SD and without dementia will be included. Forty subjects
      with a diagnosis of severe OSA (AHI> 30) without significant comorbidities or excessive
      daytime sleepiness (Epworth <12) and 20 subjects without OSA.

      Objectives:

      The general objective is to evaluate cognitive and/or behavioural dysfunction in adults with
      Down syndrome that can improve with CPAP treatment.

        -  By evaluating sleep, cognitive function and behaviour aspects in adults with Down
           syndrome with and without OSA.

        -  By assessing the changes in sleep, in cognitive, behavioural function, and brain
           connectivity measures after 6 month of treatment in subjects with DS and severe OSA.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Assess the relationship between the severity of OSA (AHI, hypoxemia, sleep
           fragmentation) and severity in cognitive impairment.

        -  Identify possible sleep and anthropometric parameters that could suggest a worsening in
           cognitive function in subjects with DS and OSA.

      Methodology:

      Open pilot study with randomized therapeutic intervention of parallel groups and blind
      evaluation in neuropsychological assessment.

      Patients with severe OSA will be randomized to i) conservative treatment (CT) or to ii) CPAP
      and conservative treatment.

      Patients included in the study will be monitored and followed for 6 months. Patients with
      severe OSA will perform follow up visits to monitor the objective compliance and side effects
      of the treatment in the 1st, 3rd and 6th month.

      At baseline and after 6 months of treatment, in the three groups of subjects (i) Subjects
      without OSA, ii) Subjects with OSA and CPAP treatment, and iii) Subjects with OSA+ TC
      treatment , it will be performed:

        1. Sleep evaluation:

           Subjective sleep quality (Pittsburgh sleep quality index) and daytime Somnolence
           (Epworth Sleepiness Scale) Nocturnal sleep by polysomnography (PSG) Sleep-wake pattern
           by actigraphy

        2. Neurocognitive function with an extensive neuropsychological battery assessing mainly
           memory, attention and executive functions for DS population. (CAMCOG-DS, Cued Recall
           Test (CRT), different subtests of the Barcelona Test battery: orientation in person,
           time and space, language items (comprehension, reading and writing), verbal abstraction
           and oculomotor praxis, cats and dogs test, Attention cancellation test, verbal fluency
           test.

        3. Measures of cerebral functional connectivity: through measures of consistency, mutual
           information, probability of synchronization and transfer entropy.
    
  