
    
      Background:

      Approximately 12,000 patients are diagnosed with stage III NSCLC in the UK each year and
      their survival is ~15% at 5 years. As the majority of patients are not suitable for the gold
      standard treatment (concurrent chemo-radiotherapy (CTRT), novel strategies integrating
      radiotherapy (RT) technological advances and radiobiological knowledge need to be evaluated
      in patients treated with the alternative treatment option, sequential CTRT. There is solid
      evidence that improving local control in lung cancer leads to increased survival. Strategies
      to improve local control in stage III NSCLC include dose escalation and individualisation
      which are limited by the dose delivered to surrounding normal tissues. We hypothesise that
      this will be facilitated by the use of IMRT.

      Objectives:

      To demonstrate the feasibility of delivering isotoxic RT using IMRT and hyperfractionated
      accelerated RT in stage III NSCLC patients who are not suitable for concurrent CTRT.

      Endpoints:

      Primary endpoint: Delivery of isotoxic IMRT to dose >60 Gy EQD2 (total biologically
      equivalent in 2 Gy fraction).

      Secondary endpoints: Estimation of the suitability for lung isotoxic IMRT, estimation of
      proportion of patients with acute grade 3+ non haematological toxicity, estimation of late
      toxicity, estimation of local control/overall survival and development of a robust Quality
      Assurance (QA) process for lung IMRT.

      Design:

      Prospective multicentre, non-randomised feasibility study with early stopping rules.

      35 patients will be recruited in this prospective multicentre feasibility study. Stopping
      rules are in place to ensure the safety of patients. We estimate that this regimen would be
      of added value to a national randomised phase II trial if 80% of the patients can be planned
      to a dose >60 Gy EQD2.

      Intervention:

      Patients with stage III NSCLC, PS 0-2, not suitable for concurrent CTRT, will be treated with
      individualised doses of radiation based on pre-specified normal tissue doses (spinal cord,
      brachial plexus, lung tissue, heart and great vessels/proximal bronchial tree). Radiotherapy
      will be delivered twice-daily over a maximum period of 4.5 weeks using IMRT and the dose of
      radiation will be increased until one or more of the organs at risk tolerance or the maximum
      dose of 79.2 Gy is reached.
    
  