
    
      This is a phase II study to evaluate the efficacy of once weekly carfilzomib, lenalidomide,
      dexamethasone, and isatuximab (KRDI) in patients with newly diagnosed, transplant-eligible
      multiple myeloma. The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study
      treatment including evaluations and follow up visits. The study treatment portion of this
      study is comprised of an induction phase and a maintenance phase.

        -  Induction Phase :

             -  All participants will receive the same study drugs (carfilzomib, isatuximab,
                lenalidomide, and dexamethasone) for up to 8 cycles. Each cycle is 28 days in
                length.

             -  All participants will perform stem cell collection after 4 cycles of therapy. Based
                on the recommendation participants may or may not proceed to an autologous stem
                cell transplant (SCT) as part of induction therapy.

        -  Maintenance Phase: During maintenance, participants will receive the study treatment for
           up to two years after induction until progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity

      It is expected that about 50 people will take part in this research study.

      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational drug combination to learn whether the drug
      combination works in treating a specific disease.

      "Investigational" means that the drug combination is being studied.

      The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved carfilzomib or isatuximab as a
      treatment for relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma.

      The FDA has also approved lenalidomide and dexamethasone as a treatment option for
      transplant-eligible multiple myeloma.

      However, the FDA has not approved the combination of isatuximab, carfilzomib, lenalidomide,
      and dexamethasone as an approved regimen. The combination is considered to be investigational
      for the treatment of individuals with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma.
    
  