
    
      Korean men have been known for very high smoking rates and the highest cancer death
      smoking-attributable fraction. In contrast, Korean women reportedly smoke at low rates
      compared to the general U.S. population. However, recent population-based survey data
      indicate steady increases in smoking prevalence of Korean American women. Particularly, it
      has been found that they tend to initiate smoking as they acculturate into social norms of
      American women. Preliminary data of the applicant and others suggests interventions must be
      culturally adapted and a motivation-based and family-involved approach is most promising. The
      training plan will help the applicant develop an independent program of drug abuse research
      that focuses on better understanding and treating tobacco dependence among Asian Americans,
      including evaluating culturally competent and gender-specific interventions. The research
      plan will examine the impact of culture and gender on nicotine dependence and utilize
      National Institute on Drug Abuse behavioral therapy development methods. The proposed
      research plan has two-phases and evaluates tobacco dependence treatment with Korean Americans
      (N = 164, 50% women). Phase 1 is a no-control group study (Stage Ia) that is aimed at
      developing an intervention manual of Group-based Motivational Interviewing (GMI)
      intervention, therapists' adherence and competence scales, training program, and small
      feasibility intervention study with 20 Korean-American (offered separately for men and
      women). Phase 2 is a randomized controlled trial (Stage Ib) with 144 Korean Americans that is
      conducted to assess feasibility and relative effectiveness of the GMI behavioral intervention
      in conjunction with Nicotine Replacement Therapy (NRT) in comparison with a brief group
      medication management of NRT. Gender-interaction effects of psychosocial variables on
      treatment outcomes will be assessed, including acculturation and depression. This award will
      help prepare the applicant for an independent research career focusing on Asian Americans and
      Nicotine Dependence, including adapting and testing new interventions for different
      populations.
    
  