
    
      A. Anemia is the most common hematological abnormality during pregnancy and was found to
      affect 24.1% of pregnant women in a WHO study.2 The most common types of anemia affecting
      pregnancy are iron-deficiency and acute blood loss. Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid,
      has been well documented to play an active role in the absorption and metabolism of iron from
      the gut.6 Vitamin C has been used in studies to treat anemic non-pregnant women resulting in
      significant increases in hemoglobin levels. Similar effects have been found in multiple
      studies using vitamin C as adjunct treatment for hemodialysis patients with non-responsive
      anemia.10,12 Vitamin C has already been extensively studied in pregnant women for its effects
      on preeclampsia, preterm birth, neonatal morbidity and other outcomes, and found to have no
      adverse effects in doses as high as 1000mg daily or in combination with other medications.8
      After an extensive literature search, very few studies have been performed assessing the
      effect on hemoglobin levels after vitamin C supplementation. One study by Sharma et al.
      supplemented pregnant women with 500mg vitamin C and found a 18.04% increase in hemoglobin
      compared to 5.49% in the control.11 A Cochran Review of 29 studies did not discuss or
      evaluate the effects of vitamin C on anemia.8 Due to the minimal side-effect profile and
      potential benefits of successfully treating anemia, further research in the area is needed.

      V. SPECIFIC AIMS OR OBJECTIVES A. To perform a double-blinded, randomized placebo controlled
      trial of 1000mg vitamin c supplementation on iron-deficiency anemia in low-risk pregnancies.

      VI. SIGNIFICANCE TO PATIENT, INSTITUTION, PROFESSION, OR ALL A. Anemia has been associated
      with adverse maternal and fetal outcomes, to include, but not limited to low birth weight,
      preterm delivery, perinatal mortality and postpartum depression.1 Per ACOG guidelines, all
      pregnant women should be screened for anemia, evaluated for causes and provided supplemental
      iron. A study by Sharma et al has already demonstrated a significant increase in hemoglobin
      levels in pregnancy with 500mg vitamin C supplementation.11 Due to the paucity of research of
      vitamin C in pregnancy, further studies are needed to determine reproducibility.

      VII. METHODS A. The investigators plan to enroll 200 patients total, 100 per arm. Potential
      subjects will be screened by study personal from the new intakes for prenatal care in the
      Five Rivers Center for Women's Health. A complete blood count (CBC) is obtained as standard
      of care at the first prenatal visit. The CBC includes hemoglobin level, hematocrit, and red
      blood cell indices (i.e. MCV and MCH). Pregnant women in the first half of their pregnancy
      who are found to have a hematocrit level less than 33% (Caucasian and other races), and less
      than 31% (African American women), will be potentially eligible for enrollment. Women who are
      noted to be anemic per these thresholds will have iron studies (iron, transferrin, ferritin)
      and hemoglobin electrophoresis (if not already performed), as part of the standard of care
      for the evaluation of anemia during pregnancy.1 Inclusion criteria consists of gestational
      age at enrollment less than 20 0/7 weeks, singleton gestation, iron deficiency anemia defined
      as maternal serum ferritin levels less than 15 micrograms/dL, and planned delivery at Miami
      Valley Hospital. Exclusion criteria consist of vitamin C use >150mg/day (typical prenatal
      vitamin contains 60mg Vitamin C), diabetes (gestational, types 1,2); chronic medical disease;
      known or discovered hemoglobinopathy (including heterozygous states); known metabolic disease
      that may contribute to impaired iron absorption (including a history of bariatric surgery,
      renal disease and an inability to tolerate oral iron); known fetal abnormalities;
      participation in another interventional trial; illicit drug or alcohol use. All
      risks/benefits will be reviewed and all questions answered prior to the patient being
      enrolled. Written informed consent will be obtained by a study investigator or qualified
      personnel. Gestational dating will be based upon the best obstetrical estimate.

      B. A compounding pharmacy will make 30,000 placebo capsules containing an inert substance
      (i.e. silica based cellulose), identical appearing to 30,000 capsules of 500mg vitamin C. The
      pharmacy will package 300 pills of either placebo or vitamin C into 200 boxes, labeled only
      with the project name and a number. A key containing the known substance of each box and
      number will be kept by the pharmacy until the end of the study. The boxes will be stored in a
      secured area of the principal investigators office. The boxes will be taken to Five Rivers
      Women's Health Clinic to be distributed to enrolled patients. Once enrolled, patients will be
      given a random box and instructed to take 1 pill twice daily. Patients will be instructed to
      record pill usage daily for compliance. The patient's name and assigned box number will be
      kept in a locked cabinet. At the end of the study, the two keys will be compared to determine
      who received placebo or vitamin C. Both groups will receive prescriptions for ferrous
      sulfate, 65mg taken once daily; docusate sodium to be taken as needed for constipation; and
      prenatal vitamins once daily. Patients will receive follow up labs as part of the standard of
      care for anemia, to include at 28 week, and at delivery. All data will be collected in an
      Excel spreadsheet, with patient identifiers removed. Data will be analyzed by applying basic
      T tests and the Mann-Whitney-U test to determine the changes in lab values of hemoglobin,
      hematocrit, iron, transferrin, ferritin between experimental and control before and after
      treatment.
    
  