
    
      This study involves participating in eight videoconference group treatment sessions and
      telephone interviews over the course of approximately eight to nine months. All study
      procedures will take place over videoconferencing computer software, online, or by telephone.
      There are no in-person visits for the study. Participants wear an activity monitor for about
      two and a half months starting two weeks before treatment begins. They will also complete
      brief online surveys twice a day, once in the morning and once in the evening, for about two
      and a half months starting two weeks before treatment begins. These surveys will be completed
      on a computer, tablet, or smartphone.

      Extended Assessments

      During the study, participants would also complete four extended assessments with a research
      staff member. The first interview is completed before treatment begins, the second is
      completed after treatment ends, the third is completed three months after treatment ends, and
      the fourth and final is completed six months after treatment ends. The first two extended
      assessments (Pre- and Post-Treatment) are completed with a research staff member verbally
      over the telephone. The final two extended assessments (3-month and 6-month Follow-up) may be
      completed either with a research staff member verbally over the telephone or independently
      online.

      Online Surveys

      About two weeks before treatment starts, participants begin doing brief (~2-5 minutes) online
      surveys twice a day. The online surveys can be completed on a smartphone, tablet, laptop, or
      desktop computer. Automated notifications in the morning and in the evening reminding the
      participant to to complete the brief survey twice a day.

      Activity Monitor

      Participants wear an activity monitor 24 hours a day for the 2.5-month Monitoring Period
      (which spans two weeks before treatment to one month after treatment). The activity monitor
      is worn on the non-dominant wrist, like a wristwatch.

      Weekly Interviews

      Beginning two weeks prior to treatment, participants will be contacted weekly by a staff
      member to complete a telephone survey. Participants complete 10 total surveys over the course
      of 10 weeks, concluding about one month after treatment ends. Each survey takes approximately
      10-15 minutes.

      Treatment

      Participants are randomly assigned to one of the three treatment groups. Treatment consists
      of eight group treatment sessions completed remotely over a videoconferencing platform. There
      will be, on average, two sessions per week, and each session will take up to 90 minutes. Each
      treatment session will take place over the internet on a computer, tablet, or smartphone
      using the videoconference application. Each session will be led by the same study clinician,
      who is a trained clinical psychologist. Participants will be required to use a video camera
      and audio through either a microphone or phone for each group treatment session.

      All three treatment interventions will involve educating participants about pain, discussing
      the impact of pain, and discussing different ways to manage it in hopes of decreasing pain
      and its impact. The three treatments are: (1) Mindfulness Meditation, (2) Cognitive Therapy
      and (3) Activation Skills.

      Each treatment intervention will have home practice activities to complete between sessions.
      Home practice activities may include, but are not limited to, creating thought records,
      listening to pre-recorded guided practices, and keeping track of activities and goals.
      Participants also receive a treatment workbook with materials to refer to and discuss during
      the group sessions as well as additional materials to read between sessions.
    
  