
    
      Informed consent will be obtained within the first 24 hours of admission. Written informed
      consent will be obtained from the subject or a legally authorized representative.

      Visit Schedule:

      V1 (Day 0 of Hospitalization):

      Demographic and clinical information including age, gender, race, smoking status, number of
      pack-years of smoking, body mass index, waist hip circumference, co-morbidities such as
      diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, depression, coronary artery disease and
      chronic kidney disease, history of previous exacerbations, detailed occupation history, and
      detailed medication history with emphasis on cardiovascular medications will be conducted.
      The COPD Assessment Test (CAT) questionnaire and the modified Medical Research Council (mMRC)
      assessment will be administered. Bed-side spirometry will be conducted. Blood will be drawn
      for lab tests (about 30 mL or 6 teaspoons). Electrocardiography (ECG), lung ultrasound and
      echocardiography will be performed.

      V2 (hospital discharge day or day 3 of hospitalization whichever is earlier):

      Blood will be drawn for lab test- CRP only ( about 5mL or 1 teaspoon). Participant will be
      scheduled for a follow-up visit at the Lung Health Center.

      V3 (Day 35- Follow-up visit at Lung Health Center):

      The COPD Assessment Test (CAT) questionnaire and the modified Medical Research Council (mMRC)
      assessment will be administered. The following Pulmonary Function Tests will be conducted:
      Spirometry, lung Volumes and DLCO. Six-minute walk test will be conducted. Blood will be
      drawn for lab tests (about 30 mL or 6 teaspoons). Electrocardiography, lung ultrasound and
      echocardiography will be performed.

      Telephone follow-up: The participant will be called once every 6 months for one year, to ask
      about COPD symptoms.

      Description of procedures:

      Questionnaires:

      Dyspnea: will be assessed using the modified Medical Research Council (mMRC). The mMRC scale
      is a simple grading system to assess a patient's level of dyspnea, ranging from 0 for minimal
      to 4 for severe dyspnea.

      COPD related Quality of life: will be assessed using the COPD Assessment Test (CAT) The CAT
      questionnaire consists of 8 simple questions which are graded from 0 to 5. The total score
      can range from 0 to 40. A change of 2 units is considered clinically significant (minimal
      clinically important difference).

      Pulmonary Function Tests (PFTs):

      Bedside spirometry will be performed using a handheld spirometer, and the following
      parameters will be recorded: forced expiratory volume in the first second (FEV1), forced
      vital capacity (FVC), FEV1/FVC ratio , forced expiratory flow in the middle 25 to 75% of flow
      (FEF25-75%), inspiratory capacity (IC), and peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR). A subsequent
      full set of pulmonary function tests will be obtained in the recovery phase on day 35 using a
      hand held spirometer and body plethysmography. This will include FEV1 , FVC, FEV1/FVC,
      FEF25-75%, IC, PEFR, total lung capacity (TLC), residual volume (RV), and diffusing capacity
      of carbon monoxide (DLCO).

      Blood: will be collected to measure markers of systemic inflammation such as C-reactive
      protein (CRP), fibrinogen, IL-6 and TNF-alpha, and measures of cardiac function such as
      troponin and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP).

      Six-Minute Walk Test: The 6 minute walk test measures the mean distance walked on a 100 meter
      straight, hard-surfaced coarse in 6 minutes while being continuously monitored by the study
      coordinator.

      Ultrasound of lungs: B mode ultrasonography will be used to assess pulmonary congestion.

      Echocardiography: Parameters of systolic and diastolic function will be assessed using 2D and
      Doppler echocardiography using standard echo windows.
    
  