
    
      The investigators aim to develop a novel positive psychology intervention that is adapted for
      patients hospitalized for an acute coronary syndrome (ACS). A treatment cultivating positive
      emotions in this vulnerable population could provide broad and significant health benefits,
      and may have distinct-and more powerful-effects than simply attempting to dampen negative
      emotions.

      In this study, the investigators will use mixed methods (qualitative and quantitative) to
      take the first step towards developing such a treatment, with a major focus on the
      qualitative aspects of the patient assessments/interviews.

      In this project, the investigators hope to do the following:

        1. Identify, through qualitative research, deficits in positive emotional and cognitive
           states prior to, during, and after cardiac admission: What positive emotions are lacking
           in hospitalized ACS patients?

        2. Explore strategies to enhance positive emotional and cognitive states in ACS patients.

        3. Identify links between these positive states and health behavior (diet, physical
           activity, and medication).

        4. Identify other barriers to compliance with health behaviors. What other factors
           adversely influence compliance with health behaviors in this population?

        5. Use quantitative measures of positive affect to ensure that the investigators are
           adequately capturing information about optimism and other positive states

        6. Develop a preliminary positive psychology-based intervention using the above information

        7. Explore the feasibility of using methods to objectively measure aspirin adherence and
           physical activity in this population.

      To accomplish these goals, the investigators will interview 30 ACS patients during admission
      to the inpatient cardiac unit and 12 weeks after discharge. The investigators will identify
      15 patients who demonstrate suboptimal adherence as reported by the Medical Outcomes Study
      Specific Adherence Scale (MOS-SAS) and 15 patients who demonstrate good adherence to
      health-related behaviors.

      For these interviews, the investigators will first ask about positive emotional states that
      patients have experienced. the investigators will then inquire about potential ideas for
      increasing these positive emotional states by asking patients what has worked for them in the
      past and what they have noticed seems to work for others. The investigators will also
      describe some positive psychology exercises to the patients and ask whether they think those
      exercises would be effective at increasing positive emotional states. Next, the investigators
      will ask about health behaviors in which the patient has engaged. The investigators will
      explore the relationship between these behaviors and positive emotional states. Finally, the
      investigators will explore with patients some barriers to completing health behaviors and
      solicit suggestions for overcoming or mitigating these barriers.
    
  