
    
      Fever is associated with higher stroke mortality and poor outcome, but it is yet unknown
      whether this association is causative or epiphenomenal.

      In temporary brain ischemia rodent models hypothermia results in a significant increase in
      the number of surviving neurons and smaller infarction size as measured with histological
      examination after death.

      Therapeutic effect has been shown in clinical trials in comatose cardiac arrest patients and
      newborn infants with perinatal hypoxic-ischemic brain injury.

      Design: A prospective, open, randomized single-center study.

      Study population: 36 patients, 18-85 years of age presenting with symptoms of acute ischemic
      hemispheric stroke with persisting significant neurological deficit (NIHSS 7-20 or NIHSS 2
      for dysphasia or NIHSS 3 for paralysis of upper or lower limb) at 2 hours after thrombolysis.

      Method: Patients are randomized to hypothermia- or control-group via randomization envelopes.
      Patients assigned to receive hypothermia are cooled to a core temperature of 35°C for 12
      hours by means of a non-invasive temperature management system and cold i.v. fluids.
      Induction of hypothermia is initiated within 6 hours of symptom onset. After 12 hours of
      successful cooling the target temperature is gradually raised to achieve slow re-warming of
      0.2°C/h until the core temperature reaches 36.8°C.

      Patients are breathing spontaneously and shivering is controlled with following medication;
      dexmedetomidine 0.2-0.7 µg/kg/h (i.v.), buspirone 5-20 mg x 3 (nasogastric tube), and
      meperidine 25mg (i.v.) when needed.

      Core temperature, blood pressure (BP), oxygen saturation, ECG and EEG are measured
      continuously and registered hourly. Blood tests will be taken before, during and after
      hypothermia. Brain CT will be controlled when normothermia is reached, no later than 30 hours
      from symptom onset. Brain MRI will be performed 3-7 days from symptom onset.
    
  