
    
      The aim of the study is to evaluate the efficacy, safety, tolerability, acceptability and
      palatability of PMF104 compared to Klean-prep® in children aged from 2 to less than 18 years
      old requiring a diagnostic procedure of the colon.

      Patients will be stratified according the following age strata:

        -  Children from 2 to less than 6 years of age (PMF104 PD1/13)

        -  Children from 6 to less than 12 years of age (PMF104 PD2/13)

        -  Children from 12 to less than 18 years of age (PMF104 PD3/13) The study will consist of
           a Screening Visit (V1), a Randomisation Visit (V2), a Drug Administration (Day 1), a
           Diagnostic Procedure (i.e. colonoscopy; V3) and a Follow-up Telephone Contact (FU).

      At Screening Visit (V1) children will be evaluated for study eligibility, up to 11 days
      before the colonoscopy.

      At Randomisation Visit (V2), if eligible, they will be randomised according to a single blind
      randomisation schedule in a 1:1 ratio to PMF104 or Klean-prep®; they will also receive the
      instructions to be followed for bowel preparation, and the questionnaire to be answered on
      the day of the bowel preparation. In case the Investigator will consider it as appropriate,
      the child will be hospitalised in the clinical facility the day before the colonoscopy in
      order to perform bowel preparation.

      The day before the colonoscopy study drug will be administered orally starting in the
      mid-late afternoon (4-6 p.m.), as single dose.

      The day of colonoscopy the diagnostic procedure will be performed blindly by an endoscopist
      unaware of the treatment administered to the subject, and both primary and secondary
      endpoints will be assessed.

      On day 31 ± 2 (i.e. 30 ± 2 days after the day of the bowel preparation intake), the subjects
      will be contacted by a telephone call, to inquire about possible adverse events occurred
      after hospital discharge.
    
  