
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety of neoadjuvant radiotherapy in combination with cetuximab,
           docetaxel, and cisplatin in patients with resectable locally advanced esophageal cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the feasibility and efficacy of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the duration of response and patterns of failure in patients treated with this
           regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Chemoimmunotherapy: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours once weekly in weeks
           1-3 and docetaxel IV over 1 hour and cisplatin IV over 1 hour once in week 1. Treatment
           repeats every 3 weeks for 2 courses.

        -  Chemoimmunotherapy and radiotherapy: Patients are sequentially assigned to 1 of 2
           treatment levels.

             -  Treatment level 1: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 1 hour once weekly, cisplatin
                IV over 1 hour once weekly, and undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, in
                weeks 7-11.

             -  Treatment level 2: Patients receive cetuximab, cisplatin, and radiotherapy as in
                treatment level 1. Patients also receive docetaxel IV over 1-2 hours once weekly in
                weeks 7-11.

      Cohorts of 7-20 patients are treated at treatment level 1 or 2 sequentially, as long as no
      more than 2 of 7 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), until the safe treatment
      level for future study is determined. The safe treatment level is defined as the level at
      which no more than 2 of 7 and no more than 6 of 20 patients experience DLT. At least 20
      patients are treated at the safe treatment level.

        -  Surgery: Between 4-8 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy and
           radiotherapy, patients undergo surgery.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6
      months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 27 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  