
    
      Leishmaniasis is a protozoal disease transmitted by sandflies and is endemic in many parts of
      the world including Central and South America, Europe, Southwest Asia, Africa, and the Middle
      East. Infected humans may develop cutaneous (Old or New World), mucocutaneous (New World), or
      visceral leishmaniasis. The disease is a medical threat for military soldiers assigned in
      endemic areas and currently a major cause of morbidity in soldiers deployed to the Middle
      East and a complication of military exercises in Panama, Honduras, and South America. Sodium
      stibogluconate (SSG) is an Investigational New Drug (IND) product that has been in use by the
      Department of Defense (DoD) for over 20 years for the treatment of cutaneous, mucosal and
      visceral leishmaniasis. The primary objective of this protocol is to treat
      laboratory-confirmed leishmaniasis with SSG 20mg/kg/d intravenously (IV) for 10 days or 20
      days; visceral leishmaniasis will be treated with SSG 20mg/kg/d IV for 28 days as a second
      line of therapy for those failing or intolerant of Ambisome; and mucosal leishmaniasis will
      be treated with SSG 20mg/kg/d IV for 28 days. Subjects will be monitored daily and outcome
      measured at the end of therapy by the degree of healing of cutaneous lesions or resolution of
      laboratory abnormalities and symptoms in the case of mucosal and visceral leishmaniasis.

      Pentavalent antimonials (Pentostam, Glaxo Smith Kline, United Kingdom) has been used to treat
      leishmaniasis for more than 50 years. This drug has not been licensed for commercial use in
      the United States, likely because of limited commercial marketability. Worldwide and within
      the DoD, there is a great deal of experience and use of Pentostam for the treatment of
      leishmaniasis. SSG is a pentavalent antimony (Sb) complexed to a carbohydrate whose exact
      structure and mechanism of action are not known. It is provided as a 100 mg antimony/mL
      solution that contains a preservative, m-chlorocresol. The kidneys excrete most of the dose
      within 24 hours. In 1984, the World Health Organization recommended the daily dose of
      antimony in the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis to be increased to 20 mg/kg/day. A
      randomized controlled trial of 40 subjects with American, New World, cutaneous leishmaniasis
      (ACL) found 100% cure rates with 20 mg/kg/day Sb for 20 days but only a 76% cure if 10
      mg/kg/day for 10 days was used. A comparison of three treatment schedules in 36 subjects with
      CL (single rapid infusion, continuous 24 hour infusion, or every eight hour doses) found no
      advantage over using once daily dosing. A review of the controlled trials of SSG concludes
      that a recommended course of therapy is 20 mg/kg/day with no upper limit to dose for 20 days
      for CL and 20 mg/kg/day for 28 days for visceral or mucocutaneous leishmaniasis. The
      Pentostam® package insert suggests that 10-20 mg/kg/day with a maximum dose of 850 mg for a
      minimum of 20 days be used; however, based on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
      (CDC) and Walter Reed Army Medical Center (WRAMC) experience and their practice guidelines,
      20 mg/kg/day with no upper limit to dosage is used. In this protocol there will be no upper
      limit to the dose. WRAMC recently published their CL treatment experience primarily in New
      World leishmaniasis comparing SSG 20 mg/kg for 10 or 20 days and found 100% of volunteers in
      the 10-day group were cured. In this study 15% were Leishmania major infections. Comparable
      results are expected for Old World leishmaniasis based on clinical experience and current
      literature.

      Detailed toxicity data for the 20 mg/kg/day dose are provided by several studies. Percentages
      from the WRAMC experience are included here. Subjective musculoskeletal complaints are common
      (58%), as well as elevated hepatocellular (67%) and pancreatic enzyme levels (97%) and
      nonspecific electrocardiogram (EKG) changes (T wave changes). These side effects are usually
      reversible, and no deaths have been associated with SSG at WRAMC. Other SSG toxic effects
      include headache (22%), rash (9%), thrombocytopenia, depression of various hematologic cell
      lines (44%), phlebitis, anaphylaxis, inflammation around lesions, and transient coughing
      after infusion. Other associated symptoms include anorexia, malaise, myalgia, abdominal pain,
      headache, lethargy, sweating, vertigo, facial flushing, initial worsening of skin lesions,
      epistaxis, jaundice and peripheral neuropathy. In our above-mentioned 10 versus 20 days
      study, the adverse events (AE) were significantly decreased in the cohort receiving the 10
      days versus 20 with myalgias in 42% (versus 68%), with less chemical pancreatitis and fewer
      hematologic parameter disorders. Angioedema during SSG infusion has recently been described
      in two subjects at WRAMC. Both subjects responded quickly to benadryl treatment without
      complications. Both subjects were subsequently skin tested with SSG intradermally for
      hypersensitivity and one reacted.

      Alternative heat therapies have been used to successfully treat CL. Laboratory investigation
      showed that Leishmania infection is sensitive to heat. Various forms of heat application in
      human CL has shown variable efficacy. The TTI Thermomed™ device is currently U.S. Food and
      Drug Administration (FDA), section 510-K cleared for use in the treatment of CL. This device
      uses localized current field radio frequency. Other therapies that may be effective for
      treating CL include topical paromomycin and oral fluconazole.
    
  