
    
      This is a Phase II, multicentre, single-arm study following a Simon's two-stage optimal
      design

      Screening phase At screening, the investigator or his/her authorized designee will assign a
      unique number to patients being considered for the study. The patient should provide a signed
      Informed Consent Form prior to any study screening evaluations. Once the patient Informed
      Consent Form has been signed and eligibility is confirmed (all inclusion/exclusion criteria
      has been verified), the patient can be enrolled. All screening evaluations will be performed
      within 28 days prior to Treatment Day 1. Patients may be re-screened.

      Treatment phase Eligible patients will receive Fulvestrant plus palbociclib. Patients will be
      treated with fulvestrant 500 mg i.m. on Days 1, 15 and 29 and every 28 days thereafter and
      palbociclib125 mg oral day 1 to 21 every 28 days.

      Dose adjustment (reduction, interruption) according to toxicity of study treatment will be
      allowed. Study treatment will continue until one of the following conditions apply -
      whichever comes first:

        -  tumor progression

        -  unacceptable toxicity according to investigator's judgment

        -  death

        -  discontinuation from the study for any other reason Further treatments after
           discontinuation will be at the investigator's discretion. During the study, visits will
           be performed monthly and at the end of treatment. Tumor assessment will be performed
           every 3 cycle of treatment.

      For each patient enrolled in the present study a blood sample (mandatory) at study enrollment
      and at disease progression (mandatory) will be provided. Additionally, a tissue sample from
      the most accessible metastatic site will be collected at study enrollment and at disease
      progression (optional). Blood and tumor samples will be used to investigate the mechanisms of
      response and resistance to therapy with palbociclib in combination with fulvestrant.
    
  