
    
      Patients with HIV have high rates of heavy drinking and alcohol problems, and face serious
      medical consequences from this use. Some research suggests that alcohol can increase viral
      load and decrease CD4 (cluster of differentiation 4; e.g., T helper cells) count, although
      this literature is conflicting. It also increases risk for liver damage, as does hepatitis
      co-infection, making liver disease a leading cause of death for patients with HIV. Patients
      with alcohol problems are also less adherent to antiretroviral therapy (ART), and some
      intentionally skip ART to try to avoid hepatotoxic effects of combining ART with alcohol.
      Some studies also show alcohol's interference with other aspects of engagement in HIV care.

      Approximately 25% of HIV-infected patients are co-infected with HCV. Although HCV alone can
      lead to liver damage, HIV accelerates this progression, as does heavy drinking. Further,
      individuals with HCV who drink heavily may be less likely to access HCV medication. Despite
      serious health risks associated with alcohol use, some research suggests that HIV/HCV
      patients drink more than HIV mono-infected patients.

      Growing recognition of alcohol-related harm in HIV patients has stimulated the development of
      drinking reduction interventions for HIV infected heavy drinkers, some of which have been
      successful. Some interventions for HCV mono-infected drinkers and liver disease patients have
      also shown promise. Yet there are no known successful interventions that target HIV/HCV
      co-infected patients, a group with elevated drinking and particularly high consequences of
      drinking. Interventions for HIV patients address HIV health, but do not address liver
      fibrosis, which is an urgent threat to survival for co-infected patients. Interventions for
      liver disease patients discuss fibrosis to motivate drinking reduction, but neglect HIV and
      important topics such as ART adherence. Given that the drinking interventions for HIV and
      liver disease patients both effectively target drinking in medical patients, albeit through
      attention to different medical issues, such approaches can and should be integrated to
      provide an intervention that best meets the needs of patients with both HIV and HCV, a
      particularly high-risk group. In order to meet this need, an intervention will be tested for
      HIV/HCV co-infected drinkers. A total of 60 patients will be recruited and randomized to
      receive either the newly developed intervention or an educational control.
    
  