
    
      No registry is involved.

      The Research Questions include:

        1. Do families receiving Wraparound intervention achieve higher parenting and family
           functioning outcomes than treatment as usual?

        2. Do children of Wraparound families achieve higher levels of child well-being, safety and
           permanency than those receiving treatment as usual?

        3. Do parents receiving Wraparound intervention achieve greater reductions in addiction
           severity, trauma symptoms, and more sustained recovery than those receiving treatment as
           usual?

        4. Does participation in a Wraparound lead to greater engagement in services and
           development of family strengths?

        5. What factors lead to higher levels of engagement and better outcomes?

        6. What are the barriers and facilitators associated with engagement and outcomes?

      The data collection and analytic plan described in this document include only those
      activities planned for research questions 1-3.

      Recruitment. Enrollment into the study will begin fall 2020 and run through spring 2023 for a
      total of 30 months. The project has seven referral sites: four departments within
      Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center (DHMC) (Obstetrics, neonatology, pediatrics, addiction);
      the Division of Children, Youth, and Families Claremont District Office; the Claremont Family
      Court; and Teaching Loving Connections (TLC) Family Resource Center. The investigators plan
      for a rolling recruitment process, aiming for 40 participants enrolled per year. (Wraparound
      case-loads should not exceed 10 families and there are 2 Wraparound coordinators). Based on
      estimates of eligible families from each of the main referral sources each year and on the
      over-recruitment plan, the investigators expect to recruit approximately 24 cases from the
      four Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center access points (total per year), 24 from Division of
      Children Youth and Families access point, 4 from Family Court per year, and 4 from Teaching
      Loving Connections TLC Family Resource Center (56 per year). Following referral and
      eligibility assessment (i.e., meeting inclusion criteria), written consent will be obtained
      by a study team member.

      Randomization. Upon completion of signed consent and following baseline assessments, the
      investigators will stratify families into two subgroups: those involved with New Hampshire
      Division of Children Youth and Families (e.g., child in out of home placement; child
      protective services assessment or open cases) at time of enrollment and those not involved
      with Division of Children Youth and Families. The investigators will then use block
      randomization methods (sampling without replacement) to assign enrolled families into either
      the Wrap intervention group or treatment as usual. Block randomization methods achieve more
      balanced groups with smaller samples and stratification will minimize potential confounding
      associated with current involvement with New Hampshire the Department of Children, Youth, and
      Families.

      The evaluation team will carry out the randomization procedure to reduce risk of selection
      bias by referral source or program staff. Group balance (size, Division of Children Youth and
      Families involvement, other demographics) will be monitored by the evaluation team at least
      semi-annually (which should be sufficient given the 12-month intervention) and any
      adjustments to the sampling procedures will be reviewed with the Data Safety Monitoring Board
      and national cross-site evaluation liaison before executing. When cases from either group are
      lost to follow-up or Wraparound caseloads drop below 10 families per Wraparound coordinator
      at any given time, the investigators will randomly select families from a short-term wait
      list or if necessary, re-engage referral sites to enroll and consent at least four families
      from which to randomize into the intervention and treatment-as-usual groups to restore target
      sample size.

      Data Collection. Outcomes will be measured on five domains: Family Functioning (primary),
      Child Well-Being, Child Safety, Child Permanency, Parent Recovery. Outcome measures for the
      domains of family functioning (primary outcome; parenting and parent depression), child
      wellbeing (child behaviors/functioning), and parent recovery (addiction severity, trauma
      symptoms) will be collected from participants in both study arms at baseline, 6 months
      (mid-point), and 12 months (post-intervention/treatment as usual). The battery of outcome
      measures will take around 60 minutes to complete at each of the 3 time points. Child safety
      and permanency data, as well as parent engagement in substance use disorder treatment and
      recovery services will come from New Hampshire Department of Health and Human Services
      administrative records.

      The project coordinator or Wraparound coordinator will conduct the baseline Wraparound data
      collection on both intervention and treatment-as-usual families before randomization to
      reduce the risk of bias. Midpoint and endpoint assessments will be conducted by members of
      the evaluation team to help reduce bias. Midpoint and endpoint assessments will not be
      blinded.

      The investigators will also gather state-level Department of Health and Human Services
      administrative data on all recovery domain adults and all children involved in cases whether
      in the Wraparound intervention or treatment as usual groups. The investigators will request
      all available data for adults (from when they turned age 18 through the end of the grant -
      Sept. 2024) and lifetime data (from birth through end of grant) for children who are a part
      of the case. The investigators estimate 2 children per family. Not all enrolled families will
      have had past involvement with the Division of Children Youth and Families. The investigators
      estimate that 75% of cases will have past or current Division of Children Youth and Families
      involvement and have administrative data on children. A data share agreement between New
      Hampshire Department of Health and Human Services, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Health, and Dartmouth
      College is underway.

      Data Management. All participant data will be stored in a Health Insurance Portability and
      Accountability Act-, and Service Organization Control 1/2/3-compliant, password-protected,
      encrypted database serving as the central project data management system. Each case and case
      member (parent, child, other guardian/caregiver) will be assigned a unique case identifier at
      the time of enrollment and consent into the study. The only people who will have credentialed
      full access to the data will be members of the evaluation team. Other project team members
      will have limited credentialed access to be able to enter data on children and parents and
      view data reports (individual or aggregate). A Data Share Agreement is in progress to assist
      with administrative data sharing between Dartmouth-Hitchcock Health, Dartmouth College, and
      the New Hampshire Department of Health and Human Services.

      Analyses. Given the complexity and multi-level nature of the data in this study (e.g.,
      children nested in families; families referred from different access points), the
      investigators will employ a range of analytic methods.

      Child-Level Outcomes: The investigators will use generalized linear mixed models (GLMM) to
      evaluate the effect of the Wraparound intervention on child well-being over time and compared
      to the children in the treatment as usual group. They will use generalized linear mixed
      modeling, which models both fixed and random effects and provides flexibility for modeling
      outcomes with binary or non-normal distributions and clustered or grouped data. Link
      functions within generalized linear mixed models will model outcomes measured on binary or
      dichotomous scales (e.g., logistic/logit link), continuous scales (e.g., regression/identity
      link), and counts (e.g., Poisson regression/log link). Most of the child well-being measures
      will be continuous in nature, but some safety and permanency data will be binary. Analyses
      will also control for potential covariates associated with the different referral/access
      point (e.g., those involved and not involved with New Hampshire Division of Children Youth
      and Families).

      Child well-being measures differ by age group. One measure is used with very young children
      (Infant-Toddler Sensory-Profile, children 0-18 months), and two versions of another measure
      (Child Behavior Checklist) are divided by age (10 months - 5 years; 6 -18 years). Scores from
      the two versions of the Child Behavior Checklist can be combined.

      Parent- and Family-Level Outcomes: The investigators will use Repeated Measures Analysis of
      Variance and McNemar's Chi-square to demonstrate the effects of program participation on
      parent (e.g., recovery measures, parenting skills) and family outcomes. Where covariates are
      important to model, they will use repeated measures Analysis of Covariance and logistic
      regression. Multiple regression will identify factors that explain family engagement and
      perceptions of support.

      Adverse events. The study team, Wraparound coordinators, and evaluators (during midpoint and
      endpoint assessments and check-ins) will closely monitor adverse events. They will report any
      adverse event (e.g., suicide attempt, drug overdose) immediately to the Institutional Review
      Board and Data Safety and Monitoring Board (already established) to carefully consider
      whether the study impacted these events, how to best support the participant, and how to
      otherwise report and mitigate the events.

      Change management. Not applicable. No registry.

      Sample size and power. With a minimum of 80 parents for whom self-reported family functioning
      and recovery outcomes are expected in each group, the investigators have ample power (0.99)
      to detect a medium effect size across three time points (η2=.06), assuming moderate
      correlations (0.3) between the 3 time points and alpha of .05. For parent administrative data
      gathered from the New Hampshire Bureau for Drug and Alcohol Services, the investigators
      estimate 1 parent per family, leading to 80 per group. However, the investigators expect 90%
      (n=72 per arm) of these parents to have administrative data available in the Bureau for Drug
      and Alcohol Services. This analysis will be powered at .99 to detect a medium effect size
      with an alpha of 0.05.

      For children, the investigators estimate having 65 children in each group for whom the same
      child well-being measure (Child Behavior Checklist) will be available. (the investigators
      will only collect this measure on 1 focal child per family). For this child well-being
      outcome, the investigators estimate power at .99 to detect differences of medium effect size
      (η2=.06) across three time points assuming moderate correlations (0.3) in the measures
      between time points and an alpha of 0.05. In terms of child safety and permanency
      administrative data comparisons, the investigators estimate 2 children per family (n=160; 80
      per group). However, the investigators expect about 75% of children to be involved with the
      New Hampshire Department of Children Youth and Families and only those with this involvement
      will have administrative data (child safety, permanency) available. The investigators
      therefore estimate 60 in each group. The analyses are still powered at .99 to detect a medium
      effect size with an alpha of 0.05.

      All outcomes data (at the individual level) will also be used in a national cross-site
      evaluation to study intervention effects with a combined sample across all grantees.

      Plan for missing data. The outcomes analyses will utilize an intention to treat approach to
      minimize potential for bias based on drop out from the intervention and loss to follow-up,
      and imputation to account for missing data.
    
  