
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of bortezomib and paclitaxel administered in
      combination with carboplatin in patients with advanced solid tumors.

      II. Compare the tolerability and efficacy of the different sequences of this regimen in these
      patients.

      III. Determine the clinical toxic effects and pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these
      patients.

      IV. Determine, preliminarily, the therapeutic activity of this regimen in these patients.

      V. Evaluate p53 accumulation as a marker of PS-341 activity, and the effect of
      paclitaxel/carboplatin on PS-341 induced accumulation of p53.

      VI. Exam the effect of PS-341 on the levels of other proteasome targets, e.g. mdm2, p27, p21,
      cyclins B, D1,E; IκB and other ubiquitinated proteins in tumor tissue, when available.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of bortezomib and paclitaxel. Patients are assigned
      to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

      Group A: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on
      day 1 and bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 2, 5, and 8.

      Group B: Patients receive bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, and 8 and paclitaxel
      IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 2.

      Treatment in both groups repeats every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. After 6 courses of paclitaxel and carboplatin, patients with stable or
      responding disease may continue with bortezomib alone at the discretion of the investigator.
      Cohorts of 3-6 patients in each group receive escalating doses of bortezomib and paclitaxel
      until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose
      preceding that at which at least 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed at 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 24-96 patients will be accrued for this study within 25 months.
    
  