
    
      Endoscopic examinations and particularly long-lasting interventions can be uncomfortable for
      patients. Pain and vasovagal reactions are common. Therefore, the implementation is generally
      recommended under sedation and also carried out in practice here.

      In interventional and longer lasting interventions (for example, endoscopic ultrasonography,
      ERCP) as opposed to purely diagnostic examinations is often deep sedation.Use of propofol in
      terms of sedation efficacy and the wake-up time or quality is superior to the use of
      benzodiazepines (plus opiates), while patient safety is the same.

      The vital signs monitoring to avoid complications is dictated by current national guidelines.
      Necessary measures of monitoring include pulse oximetry and blood pressure measurements. In
      patients with severe heart disease an ECG recording should be used additionally. Moreover,
      the guidelines require that the sedation is clinically monitored continuously to avoid an
      unwanted anesthetic stage.

      Such evaluation, however, is often difficult under clinical conditions and even
      counterproductive, since a constant response and tactile stimulation of the patient (to check
      clinically the depth level of sedation ), interrupts endoscopic complex intervention.
      However, clinical most relevant aspect is the avoidance of unrecognized transition of
      patients from the stage of deep sedation in an anesthetic stage.

      Current recommendations do not take into account new study results from a gender perspective,
      which showed that women and men need a different wake-up time using the EEG derivation means
      by using the Narcotrend after total intravenous anesthesia, which may be due to different
      total doses of sedatives needed. However, the research group has been demonstrated in a
      previous study that most likely caused by the use of EEG monitoring (Narcotrend) an effective
      adaptation of sedation, in particular a more rapid recovery time by a lower dose of the
      administered sedative for a continuous sedation stage D0-D2 endoscopic retrograde
      cholangiopancreatography-(ERCP). In the presented study the investigators evaluate the extent
      of gender differences in the wake-up time after sedation with propofol during when using EEG
      monitoring.

      Included are patients who undergo endoscopic ultrasonography, which is performed under
      sedation with propofol.
    
  