
    
      The worsening heart failure epidemic is a significant driver of health care expenditure with
      increasing costs, lost productivity and increased suffer of patients. Thus, there important
      to develop strategies to improve heart failure care and reduce hospital readmissions. Some
      progress in heart failure management has been made with new drug therapies and remote
      monitoring of patients with heart failure.

      This project aims to provide data which may add to the existing literature regarding the use
      of telemedicine for safe transfer of ultrasound data of relatively inexperienced users for
      qualitative and quantitative interpretation by experts at a different location. The authors
      will study whether diffusion of focused cardiac ultrasound to outpatient heart failure
      clinics with support of cardiologist provided by telemedicine is feasible and provides
      reliable data. Firstly, the investigators will study the use of high-end ultrasound machines
      connected to a wired broadband network with a CE-classified software providing safety and
      anonymization of all transferred data.

      This project could be of significant importance for further support for widening the use of
      ultrasound diagnostics, even when the expert is not at the same location as the health-care
      provider performing the ultrasound acquisition. For the patients this may allow for better
      and faster diagnostics, and thus treatment. For the health-care system this may both improve
      quality of diagnostics and therapy, and be cost-saving as well. Lastly, this could make the
      way for further innovations which again can improve diagnostics and thus therapy.

      Aims

        1. To study the feasibility of implementing focused echocardiography and ultrasound
           examinations to assess volume status in a heart failure clinic where the caregiving
           nurses acquire the ultrasound images but have access to the near real-time
           interpretation by the cardiologist only by telemedicine.

        2. To study the reliability of the measurements of cardiac size and function indices in
           ultrasound recordings acquired by heart failure nurses, provided to another location for
           interpretation by cardiologists by telemedicine, in comparison to reference imaging.

        3. To study the clinical influence of implementing ultrasound examinations performed by
           nurses to assess volume status and cardiac function at outpatient heart failure clinics
           when the support and collaboration with the specialist is available by telemedicine
           only.
    
  