
    
      The main rationale of endodontic treatment is to eliminate micro-organisms from the infected
      root canal system by adequate chemo-mechanical debridement followed by a three-dimensional
      hermetic seal to provide a conductive environment for peri-radicular healing. However, Even
      with the utmost care in performing root canal therapy, it has been reported that the
      prevalence of post-operative pain after single visit endodontic treatment has been reported
      to be between 3 to 58%.

      Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and Steroids have been advocated for control
      of post-operative pain following root canal treatment in teeth with symptomatic irreversible
      pulpitis. Ketorolac tromethamine, a potent NSAID that is over 400 times a selective inhibitor
      for COX-1 over COX-2 as compared to other drugs. In a recent study by (Evangelin et al 2019),
      assessing the influence of ketorolac tromethamine and dexamethasone when used as root canal
      irrigant on the expression of substance P and IL-8; showed that dexamethasone irrigation
      achieved the least post-operative pain and the least requirements for analgesics, whilst
      ketorolac tromethamine had better control on the expression of substance P and IL-8 as
      compared to dexamethasone.

      Additionally, a more recent strategy for reduction of post-operative pain is cryotherapy.
      Such treatment modality is aimed to expose the body to very cold temperature, resulting in
      vasoconstriction and decreased permeability thus reducing the amount of fluid leaking into
      the peri-radicular tissues as exudate which commonly occur after chemo-mechanical
      preparation. Analgesia is closely related to the nerve conduction velocity of the nociceptive
      sensory nerve fibers. Thus, cooling induces analgesia by slowing the velocity of nerve
      conduction as well as decreasing the activation threshold of tissue nociceptors resulting in
      cold-induced neuropraxia. Thus the analgesic effect of cooling is produced by combination of
      decreased release of chemical mediators of pain and a slower propagation of neural pain
      signals.

      In our study, ketorolac tromethamine, dexamethasone and cryotherapy are supposed to be used
      as root canal irrigants during root canal treatment to assess their effectiveness in reducing
      post-operative pain following single visit endodontic treatment in patients with symptomatic
      irreversible pulpitis, as well as their efficacy in reducing the expression of IL-8.
      Randomized clinical trials are the gold standard of interventional trials resulting in the
      highest level of evidence that contributes effectively in the clinical decision-making
      process as to the best intervention for the patient's condition providing the most effective
      clinical outcomes for the satisfaction of the patient. Thus the aim of the study is to
      compare the effect of using cryotherapy versus ketorolac tromethamine and dexamethasone
      irrigating solutions on the intensity of post-operative pain and reduction of expression of
      Interleukin-8(IL-8) post-instrumentation in patients with symptomatic irreversible pulpitis.
    
  