
    
      Hopelessness is associated with a 3.4 times increased risk of mortality or nonfatal
      myocardial infarction in patients with ischemic heart disease (IHD), independent of
      depression. Hopelessness has been identified in 27-52% of patients with IHD and can persist
      for up to 12 months after hospital discharge. Hopelessness, a negative outlook and sense of
      helplessness toward the future, can be a temporary response to an event (state) or a habitual
      outlook (trait). Hopelessness is associated with decreased physical functioning and lower
      physical activity (PA) levels in individuals with IHD. Low levels of PA independently
      contribute to increased death and adverse events in patients with IHD. Rates of PA in IHD
      patients continue to be unacceptably low in both hospital-based cardiac rehabilitation and
      home settings. Hopelessness frequently compounds this issue. The links among hopelessness,
      PA, and mortality and morbidity for patients with IHD remain unknown. While research has
      investigated strategies to increase PA among IHD patients in general, the study team is the
      only group to design an intervention to promote PA specifically in hopeless IHD patients.
      This research, based on Self Determination Theory and Cohen's Stress and Coping Social
      Support Theory, has shown feasibility and preliminary efficacy for a motivational
      intervention that integrates social support from both the patient's nurse and significant
      other to promote increased PA. The purpose of this randomized controlled trial is to
      establish the effectiveness of our 6-week mHealth intervention (Heart Up!) to promote
      increased PA in hopeless patients with IHD. The study team will enroll 225 hopeless IHD
      patients from a large community teaching hospital in the Midwest. Patients will be randomized
      (75 per group) to one of three groups: 1) motivational social support (MSS) from a nurse, 2)
      MSS from a nurse with additional significant other support (SOS), or 3) attention control
      (AC). Data will be collected at baseline, months 2, 6, 9 and 12 using an accelerometer for PA
      and valid and reliable instruments of physical and emotional health and behaviors. The
      specific aims are to: 1) test the effectiveness of 6 weeks of MSS and MSS with SOS on
      increasing mean minutes per day of moderate to vigorous PA, measured by an ActiGraph
      accelerometer; 2) determine the effects of change in minutes per day of moderate to vigorous
      PA on state hopelessness, measured by the State-Trait Hopelessness Scale; and 3): determine
      if social support (measured by the ENRICHD Social Support Inventory) and motivation (measured
      by the Exercise Self-Regulation Questionnaire) mediate the effects of the Heart Up!
      intervention on PA. The specific aims of the supplement are to: 1) determine how the
      potentially negative impact of COVID-19 shelter-in-place/physical distancing measures on
      mental, social, and behavioral health outcomes are limited (moderated) by the RCT
      intervention and 2) using the Coronavirus Impact Scale, we will determine how the direct
      impact of COVID-19 life changes on mental, social, and behavioral health outcomes are limited
      (moderated) by the RCT intervention. The findings from this study could transform care for
      IHD patients who are hopeless by promoting self-management of important PA goals that can
      contribute to better health outcomes. This proposal supports NINR's investment in
      self-management to improve the quality of life for individuals with chronic illness.
    
  