
    
      Patients referred to the general surgical service will initially be managed as per routine
      practice. They will be assessed by a member of the surgical house-staff, simple baseline
      investigations (full blood count, serum amylase, C-reactive protein, plain radiography) will
      be requested. Patients will then be reviewed by a registrar or consultant. At this point, a
      proportion of patients will have clear indications for surgery e.g. free gas on an erect
      chest x-ray or peritonitis. A further subgroup will be more appropriately managed by further
      tests on an out-patient basis and these patients will be allowed home. Some patients will
      have a clear diagnosis e.g. pancreatitis. Patients in each of these groups will be managed
      according to the usual practice of the responsible consultant surgeon.

      There is a final subgroup of patients who are the population of interest for this trial.
      These are patients in whom no clear diagnosis or safe decision to operate or discharge is
      possible. Such patients are usually admitted for a period of observation with further
      investigations or interventions ordered as their clinical picture evolves.

      These patients will then be randomly assigned to one of two management options: an active
      observation arm (control) or early laparoscopy arm.

      Active Observation: Patients randomised to this group will receive routine practice and will
      serve as the trial control group. They will be reviewed regularly by the responsible surgical
      team. Further investigations and interventions will be requested at the discretion of the
      responsible team.

      Early laparoscopy: Patients randomised to this group will be listed for a diagnostic
      laparoscopy in the emergency theatre . The aim will be to undertake this procedure within 12
      hours of randomisation. The procedure will be performed by the duty consultant surgeon or his
      / her nominated deputy as is usual practice. Findings at laparoscopy which require surgical
      intervention e.g. appendicitis will be treated as part of the same procedure as is routine
      clinical practice.

      Follow-up: Each patient will be followed-up on a daily basis by a member of the trial team
      whilst an in-patient. Complications, further investigations and interventions, unplanned
      critical care admissions, death, length of hospital stay and final discharge diagnosis will
      all be recorded. Following discharge, each patient will be reviewed at four weeks and six
      months. SF36 questionnaires will be completed at each of these visits. In addition, the
      Hospital In-patient Episode database will be interrogated for further admissions to other
      hospitals within six months of randomisation
    
  