
    
      The prevalence of antimicrobial resistant pathogens has dramatically increased among
      hospitalised patients worldwide. While various management strategies have effectively reduced
      the burden caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, resistant pathogens with a
      preference towards intestinal colonization are currently on the rise. E.g.,
      vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE) and extended-spectrum beta-lactamase producing
      Enterobacteriaceae (EPE) now constitute a significant threat to hospitalised patients
      worldwide, as infections due to these organisms require prolonged treatments and result in
      inferior outcomes. Similarly, the burden of disease caused by Clostridium difficile infection
      (CDI), the main cause of healthcare-associated infectious diarrhoea, has increased driven by
      the emergence of hypervirulent strains such as ribotypes 027 and 078. Molecular studies have
      demonstrated that increased population-wide exposure to broad-spectrum antibacterials is a
      crucial step in the initiation of outbreaks by selection and expansion of resistant C.
      difficile.

      This is a comprehensive, multinational, multi-centre clinical study aiming to assess the
      impact of inappropriate antibacterial prescription on intestinal domination by EPE or VRE or
      infection with C. difficile. To achieve this goal, the study will closely follow the
      progression from first acquisition of drug-resistant organisms to infection with these
      bacteria at an individual patient level.

      In this study, we will establish the sequence and factors involved in acquisition,
      colonization, selective pressure, bacterial overgrowth/domination/ and infection for EPE, VRE
      and C. difficile. We hypothesize that IC (Infection Control; prevention of pathogen
      acquisition) and AMS (Antimicrobial Stewardship; prevention of clonal expansion) measures
      leading to a higher share of appropriate anti-infective use are effective strategies to
      prevent this development. The study programme will allow an accurate estimation of the
      preventable share of healthcare-acquired colonization and infection by VRE, EPE, and C.
      difficile.

      No direct interventions will be performed with study patients. Instead, study centres will
      assess quality indicators for implementation of IC and AMS measures by active observation and
      aggregation of data. Patients fulfilling all inclusion- and no exclusion criteria will be
      asked for their consent to be recruited prospectively into a cohort study. During the
      observational phase, participants will be monitored for receipt of antibacterial treatment
      and regular stool samples will be obtained and stored. An interdisciplinary, international
      AMS Board will comprehensively assess antibiotic treatment via review by a panel of experts.
      After the observation is completed, stool samples will be batch-tested for intestinal
      domination by the target pathogens of this study. Statistical analyses will be performed to
      investigate an association between inappropriate antibiotic use as opposed to appropriate or
      no antibiotic use and intestinal domination. If domination is detected, further analyses for
      phenotype, quantity, resistance, and molecular biology will be performed. Finally, the
      baseline sample will be tested for presence of the dominant species to understand the source
      of the pathogen, i.e. nosocomial versus outpatient acquisition.
    
  