
    
      Peripheral vascular disease (PVD) has high prevalence of 10-15% in Australia and is caused by
      atherosclerotic occlusion of the arteries supplying the lower extremities which reduces blood
      flow and leads to intermittent claudication and critical limb ischaemia. No effective
      medication is currently available. Although surgical or endovascular revascularisation are
      available treatments, not all patients are suitable for the procedure, and grafts can fail,
      and dilated arteries can restenose. Structured exercise, both supervised and home-based,
      improves walking endurance in patients with PVD to a similar extent as revascularisation and
      effects are longer lasting but the pain associated with exercise is a major limitation.
      Therefore, there is a need to develop safe interventions synergistic with exercise that can
      prompt revascularisation and preserve limb viability.

      Angiogenesis plays an essential role for recovery from critical limb ischaemia. Hypoxia
      inducible factor 1α (HIF1-α), a master regulator of angiogenic genes, has been implicated .
      Under normal conditions, HIF1-α is targeted for proteasomal degradation through the activity
      of prolyl hydroxylases (PHDs). PHDs require iron for their activity and their inactivation by
      metal chelators or pharmacological inhibitors stabilises HIF1-α and has been shown to improve
      blood flow in the ischaemic limb. However, metal chelators cannot be used as an intervention
      due to their toxicity.

      Recent studies have shown that supplementation of carnosine (β-alanyl-L-histidine), a
      naturally occurring histidyl dipeptide in skeletal muscle with an excellent safety profile,
      improves exercise performance in athletes as well as in patients with chronic heart failure.
      The investigators and others have shown that carnosine supplementation also improves
      cardiometabolic risk factors. No clinical trial has yet to investigate whether carnosine
      improves walking endurance in patients with PVD. Carnosine has anti-inflammatory,
      antioxidative, anti-glycating and anti-atherosclerotic properties. It also has the ability to
      chelate metals, form conjugates with reactive aldehydes, and has lactate buffering capacity.
      In addition, carnosine has been found to be very effective in reducing ischaemia-reperfusion
      damage in several organs. Our preliminary results using a murine model of hind limb ischaemia
      (HLI) showed that administration of carnosine over 21 days increased HIF1-a and VEGF levels
      in the ischaemic muscle and improved tissue perfusion. Furthermore, mobilisation of
      pro-angiogenic endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) and the ambulatory movement were increased
      in carnosine treated HLI mice compared to controls. The investigators propose a randomised
      clinical trial to investigate whether administration of carnosine for 6-month in addition to
      exercise could improve walking endurance and quality of life in patients with PVD compared to
      placebo and exercise.
    
  