
    
      Several million Americans receive treatment for heel pain each year, with more than two
      million patients treated each year for plantar fasciitis and fasciosis alone.(2) Conservative
      treatment options for recalcitrant heel pain include rest, stretching, strengthening and
      massage, progressing to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), cox-2 inhibitors,
      steroid injections or iontophoresis with continued recalcitrance.(3;4) Orthotics, heel cups,
      night splints and plantar strapping are other conservative options frequently recommended by
      treating physicians.(4) Patient outcomes and response to conservative measures is usually
      positive, with non-responsive cases, approximately 2% - 10% of all presenting cases,
      receiving surgical care. Extracorporeal shockwave treatment (ESWT) has recently been
      advocated for the recalcitrant cases and has shown to be effective in 60-80 percent of the
      cases.(5-7) In general, non-surgical treatment of plantar fasciosis and tendinosis is
      believed to be unsuccessful, so that surgical treatment is required in about 25% of patients;
      however, results of traditional surgical treatments have been reported to deteriorate with
      time.(8)

      Clinical experience following RF-based plasma microtenotomy has demonstrated excellent
      success in treating chronic, refractive tendinosis of the lateral epicondyle in the elbow.(9)
      The investigators reported that this technique was technically simple to perform and was much
      less invasive than conventional surgery. Patients had a rapid and uncomplicated recovery and
      reported minimal to no pain 7-10 days following the procedure; their pain relief persisted or
      improved through 24 months. Magnetic resonance imaging correlated well with clinical results.
      The RF-based plasma microtenotomy procedure is also being used successfully in tendons in the
      shoulder, knee, foot and ankle and in the plantar fascia. A randomized controlled study was
      conducted with the aim of determining whether bRF-based microtenotomy was effective for
      treating chronic supraspinatus tendinosis (10). Longitudinal postoperative recovery through
      one year for patients treated using RF-based plasma microtenotomy was compared to patients
      undergoing subacromial decompression. Both patient groups demonstrated significant
      improvement after each respective procedure and longitudinal recovery profiles were
      statistically similar. Early experience using this procedure for foot and ankle tendons,
      including the Achilles tendon, posterior tibial tendon, peroneal tendon, and plantar fascia
      revealed over 90% good to excellent results, reflecting the results shown by patients treated
      for tendinosis in the elbow (11)

      Further investigation of optimal placement of this surgical approach into the standard of
      care treatment paradigm for treating plantar fasciosis and Achilles tendinosis would be
      beneficial. It is not known whether this RF-based plasma microsurgery might be more optimally
      placed earlier on within the standard of care treatment algorithm.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the magnitude of improvement for pain and
      functional symptoms over a two year period after enrollment into the registry study in
      patients presenting with chronic heel pain and undergoing standard of care treatment.
      Standard of care will include traditional conservative care measures, ESWT,
      radiofrequency-based plasma microdebridement, scalpel debridement and/or surgical release.
    
  