
    
      OVERALL AIMS OF THE STUDY:

        1. To compare the efficacy of two common treatments by determining whether inhalation
           treatment with racemic adrenaline is more effective than saline inhalations in acute
           bronchiolitis in children younger than 12 months throughout an hospital admission, as
           well as to define the optimal inhalation treatment intervals.

        2. To identify clinical and virological risk factors for development of persisting
           obstructive airways disease after an initial bronchiolitis, and to assess if specific
           vira or subsequent asthma development influences the efficacy of bronchiolitis
           management.

        3. To assess whether hospital admissions for bronchiolitis has increased in parallel with
           the increase in childhood asthma seen in the last 10-15 years.

      METHODS AND STUDY PROGRESSION

      Design:

      This multicenter study will be performed after initial appropriate common training by all
      participating.

        1. Treatment study: The study will follow the standard operating procedure of Good Clinical
           Practice, including a clinical monitor from Oslo University Hospital, Ullevål who will
           provide study quality assurance in all centers. Two main groups randomised into RA vs
           saline, each divided into two arms of the active drug/NaCl groups: fixed or on demand
           inhalations. The trial will be double blinded by the pharmacy. One glass with sufficient
           medication for the entire hospital stay will be designated per patient throughout. No
           cross-over. Outcomes will be analysed by intention to treat, with treatment given and
           recorded throughout the hospital admission. No interim analyses are planned since the
           study compares two established treatment modalities used for the last decades.

           Inclusion into the treatment study provides the basis for the follow-up (prognosis) part
           of the study.

        2. Prognosis: 18 months follow-up study (clinical assessment) of all subjects in the
           treatment study.The prognosis study will also retrospectively answer whether treatment
           efficacy depend upon later allergic disease development.

        3. Epidemiology: a retrospective chart study for hospital admissions for bronchiolitis
           within populations referred to the collaborating centres in HSØ from 1995-2009

      Methods:

      a. Treatment: Randomisation: block randomisation. Randomization will be performed by computer
      programs by the ORAACLE statistician, and provided to the Pharmacy preparing and labeling the
      vials for each patient.

      Treatment: Nebulised racemic adrenaline vs saline throughout the hospital stay. Inhalations
      given on demand (parents/nurse) vs fixed x 4--12. Open saline inhalations may be given at any
      time, other inhalations is not allowed. Neither is systemic corticosteroids (which is not a
      proper treatment for acute bronchiolitis, according to Norwegian guidelines). All other
      treatment will be given according to usual local practice.

      Study end-points:

        1. Treatment study: Completion of the study at discharge + possible re-admission according
           to protocol. Need for intensive care management or assisted ventilation (continuous
           CPAP-Ventilator) in which conventional management will be given. Treatment failure when
           the child is assessed severely ill and in need of open label treatment. These data will
           be recorded and analysed to see if there is a difference between the two treatment
           groups. We expect a small number of drop-outs, which should not make it necessary to
           expand the study above our goal of 500 patients.

        2. Prognosis study: Number of children with recurrent bronchial obstruction (wheeze),
           secondary: asthma diagnosis, the "Oslo severity score".

        3. Hospital admissions first time, secondary: re-admissions or multiple admissions

      Methods:

      Clinical scores will be assessed before and 30 minutes after inhalation the first time, and
      subsequently once a day during ordinary doctor visit.

      Global clinical assessment completed by nurses and parents will be done every morning and
      evening until discharge. Time at start, end and hours with naso-gastric tube feeding as well
      need for supplementary oxygen will be recorded daily and complications and adverse event will
      be recorded as they appear.

      Nasopharynx aspiration is done at inclusion and is analysed by local routine, usually within
      24 hours (except Sundays). Half of the aspirate will be frozen for batch PCR analyses at the
      virological laboratory (Oslo University Hospital) after all patients are enrolled.

      Blood tests are sampled at inclusion. General analyses (see table 6) and sample to biobank
      for epigenetic analyses.

      Saliva are sampled at inclusion and the following morning. Deemed fit for discharge will be
      decided by the attending physician. Minimum requirement is clinical score 3 or less at least
      2 hours after last inhalation.

      Urine tests are sampled at inclusion. Will be analysed at leukotrienes and arachidonic acid
      metabolites (eoxines) and other relevant inflammatory and infection markers.

      Outcomes measured upon inclusion, after first inhalation (clinical score) as well as
      throughout the hospital stay according to flow-chart.

      Main outcome: No of hours before deemed fit for discharge from hospital

      Secondary:

      Need for feeding support (no. of hours) Need for supplementary oxygen. Clinical score
      throughout admission Complications (presence of and time to confirmed) such as atelectasis
      Global assessments (parents and nurses) Need for ICU treatment Data from each hospital will
      in addition to collated data analysis be assessed independently.

      Illness caused by different vira will be compared in regard to treatment efficacy.

      b. Prognosis: This follow-up-study will be performed in collaboration between the principal
      investigator and the collaborating physicians at the local paediatric departments. The
      clinical follow-up visit includes a structured parental interview, application of the "Oslo
      severity score"20 for obstructive airways disease, assessment of atopic eczema and rhinitis,
      skin prick test as well as blood sampling for analyses including IgE and DNA for epigenetic
      studies (see table 4) .

      c. Epidemiology: Retrospective study of all children 0-18 months admitted to hospital with
      the diagnosis of bronchiolitis. The study will mainly be a hospital registry study, but with
      20% random chart scrutiny to ensure appropriateness of diagnosis.

      Ammendment: Two further substudies were included;

      a) Quality of life after bronchiolitis b) A population-based control group of 241 children
      from Oslo and Fredrikstad were included.

        1. Description Quality of Life:

           ITQOL was sent to all children included in the RCT cohort, as well as the control group
           (see below) 6-9 months after enrollement in the study, as well as prior to the 18-month
           follow-up study.

           Main objective: To assess if quality of life after acute bronchiolitis in infancy is
           associated with development of persisting obstructive airways disease or allergic
           disease in early childhood.

           Specific aim 1: What is the quality of life in infants and parents 6 and 18 months after
           hospital admission for acute bronchiolitis? Specific aim 2: Is quality of life in
           infants and their parents 6 and 18 months after hospital admission for acute
           bronchiolitis related to recurrent or persisting obstructive airways symptoms? Specific
           aim 3: Is a possible association between quality of life and persistent obstructive
           airways disease modified by allergic sensitisation, gender or type of virus infection
           during the bronciolitis

        2. Description Control group:

      Since we established the "Bronchiolitis" cohort of children admitted to hospital for acute
      bronchiolitis, the prognostic perspective of this three-phase study has gained increasing
      focus. This relates in particular to immunological influence of different viral agents during
      the acute disease, as well as Quality of Life and the role of early "stress" in relation to
      development of allergic diseases in children with as well as without acute bronchiolitis in
      early life.

      The aims are to assess physiological, immunological, environmental and "stress" (including
      psychosocial) factors in the development of allergic diseases, including asthma, atopic
      eczema, allergic rhinitis and allergies in children who have been hospital admitted due to
      acute bronchiolitis in infancy as well as children of the same age who have not been admitted
      for bronchiolitis.

      Control children will be consecutively included at 2 Well-baby clinics in Fredrikstad and
      Oslo, respectively, total number 150 (100 + 150, respectively) ensuring similar variability
      of demographic data (age and ethnic background) as the enrolled bronchiolitis children.
      Inclusion will be assessed mid-way for adequate demographic variability.

      Inclusion criteria: children 1- 11 months (inclusive) of age presenting to the Well-Baby
      Clinics, Exclusion criteria: Significant cardiac, previous severe respiratory disease,
      neurologic, immunologic, oncologic or other disease that may significantly influence the
      outcomes, including Down's syndrome.
    
  