
    
      Approval will be obtained from VA primary care staff leaders at Palo Alto Division and VA
      Palo Alto Community Based Outpatient Clinics (CBOCs) to mail notes and a study information
      card to patients who do not have stop codes for mental health or integrated care in their EMR
      records for the past six months. The study information cards will describe the study, how to
      enroll, and will direct the Veteran to REDCap eligibility screening questions. When
      eligibility is confirmed, REDCap will automatically alert research assistant to enroll
      participant and randomize.

      Primary Care Mental Health Integration staff at each clinic may also refer patients to the
      study by entering referral information directly into secure, encrypted REDCap files or by
      handing the patient a study information card.

      Community veterans will be invited via social media marketing. Ads will link to a study web
      site. Study web site will link potential participants to REDCap eligibility screening
      questions. When eligibility is confirmed, REDCap will automatically alert research assistant
      to enroll participant and randomize.

      Veterans who decide to be in the study will be assigned by chance to one of three groups: An
      On Your Own group, a Peer Support group, or a Wait group. Veterans assigned to take the
      Moving Forward course with peer support or on their own will complete the course online and
      practice the problem-solving skills they learned for six weeks. Finishing the Moving Forward
      course takes a total of about four hours. Veterans in the peer support group will speak with
      a Veteran who is experienced with the course on the phone for 15 to 20 minutes once a week
      during the study about using the ideas and exercises in the course to solve problems.
      Veterans assigned to the wait group will answer questions online about problem-solving skills
      and their well-being at the start and after six weeks). They will be able to take the course
      if they would like to after the six weeks have passed. Veterans in the On Your Own and Peer
      Support groups will answer questions online at the beginning, middle, and end of the study
      about problem-solving skills, their opinions about the course and about peer support (if they
      got it), and their well-being. This will take 10 to 15 minutes each time.
    
  