
    
      HTLV-1 has been linked to a chronic, slowly progressive neurologic condition termed HTLV-1
      associated spastic paraparesis or tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) which affects about
      1% of the infected individuals. The disease is thought to be due to a T cell viral induced
      immunopathological process. A high frequency of HTLV-1 specific CD8 T cells are found in
      patients with HAM/TSP. The immune system of patients infected with HTLV-1 appears to be
      dysregulated, and increased spontaneous T cell proliferation can be demonstrated in vitro.
      This is in part due to continuous antigenic stimulation and due to transactivation by the
      HTLV-1 encoded Tax protein of host immunomodulatory genes such as CD80, CD86, IL-2 and its
      receptor. In addition, an increased viral load has been demonstrated in symptomatic
      individuals compared to asymptomatic HTLV-1 carriers. It is thought that the local immune
      response to the virus within the central nervous system plays a role in the pathogenesis of
      progressive spastic encephalomyeloneuropathy of HAM/TSP. Therefore, reduction of spontaneous
      T cell proliferation and viral replication, as well as decrease of the compromise of the
      blood brain barrier may ameliorate the immune-mediated component of the process which leads
      to inflammatory destruction of nervous tissue in HAM/TSP.

      Currently there is no clearly defined, effective treatment of patients with HAM/TSP.
      Corticosteroids are the mainstay of therapy but provide mostly only transient symptomatic
      relief. Treatment with human interferon has been shown to improve acute and chronic hepatitis
      through its anti-viral and cytostatic effects. Further, patients with relapsing-remitting
      multiple sclerosis, a disease thought to be at least in part a T cell mediated,
      immunopathological process, exhibit a marked reduction of the frequency of new lesion
      formation while on this medication. This latter effect may in part be explained by an
      anti-inflammatory effect of interferon which allows repair of the blood brain barrier. To
      evaluate possible role interferon beta in the treatment of HAM/TSP, we studied its effect on
      induction on regulatory factors and spontaneous in vitro proliferation of peripheral blood
      lymphocytes (PBLs) from HTLV-I infected individuals. Recombinant interferon beta-1b inhibited
      spontaneous proliferation of PBLs from asymptomatic HTLV-1 carriers and patients with HAM/TSP
      in a dose dependent manner and induced expression of interferon regulatory factor-2 which is
      associated with down regulation of proinflammatory cytokines such as interferon gamma. These
      preliminary results indicate that treatment with interferon-b may ameliorate the immune
      dysregulation induced by HTLV-1 and may have therapeutic effect in the treatment of HAM/TSP.

      Twelve patients will be treated with administration of recombinant human interferon-beta1a.
      Assessment of efficacy will be based on reduction of spontaneous proliferation and proviral
      load. As a secondary measure the clinical response of patients will be evaluated. The study
      will entail an 8-week pretreatment period, a 28-week treatment phase with escalation of the
      interferon-beta1a dose, and a 12-week post-treatment phase. In cases where dose escalation
      leads to intolerable side-effects, patients will be continued at the highest tolerated dose
      of medication. Spontaneous proliferation, viral load, and clinical parameters will be
      determined monthly.
    
  