
    
      ◦Quality assurance plan that addresses data validation and registry procedures, including any
      plans for site monitoring and auditing.

      Data for the primary outcome medication adherence will be monitored electronically and data
      will be downloaded during regular clinic visits and automatically downloaded to a protected
      study server. The quality of electronically monitored medication adherence data depends on
      whether the electronic monitors are used adequately. The research team will monitor adequate
      use of these electronic monitors at the start of the study.

      Data for secondary outcomes will be collected through questionnaires and the research team
      will follow-up on participants not completing those. Statistical analysis plans will be
      uploaded before data collection is completed and the database is accessed.

      ◦Data checks to compare data entered into the registry against predefined rules for range or
      consistency with other data fields in the registry.

      The quality of electronically monitored medication adherence data depends on whether the
      electronic monitors are used adequately. At study exit, data will be discussed with all
      patients. When electronic monitoring data is completely missing or suggests very low
      adherence (depending on the sample distributions, but this could be e.g., <50% of doses
      taken) in the presence of well-controlled symptoms; and the participant self-reports poor use
      of the electronic monitor, then a sensitivity analysis will be conducted with those
      electronic monitoring data replaced by the participants' self-reported adherence.

      Physical activity, will be self-reported. The validity of this self-report will be examined
      against electronic physical activity measures used by participants in the treatment arm.

      ◦Source data verification to assess the accuracy, completeness, or representativeness of
      registry data by comparing the data to external data sources (for example, medical records,
      paper or electronic case report forms, or interactive voice response systems).

      Not applicable

      ◦Data dictionary that contains detailed descriptions of each variable used by the registry,
      including the source of the variable, coding information if used (for example, World Health
      Organization Drug Dictionary, MedDRA), and normal ranges if relevant.

      Not applicable

      ◦Standard Operating Procedures to address registry operations and analysis activities, such
      as patient recruitment, data collection, data management, data analysis, reporting for
      adverse events, and change management.

      Patient recruitment Heart failure patients in outpatient clinic will be approached by the
      health care professional to inform them about the study and subsequently an information
      letter will be handed over. This letter contains information concerning the nature, purpose
      and duration of the study as well as possible objections, risks of participation and the
      possibility to withdrawal at any time without the need to specify the reason. Subsequently,
      the treating physician, or the researcher, will explain all study procedures and answer any
      questions. In case the patient is willing to participate and deemed eligible, he/she is asked
      to sign the informed consent form, preferably in presence of their partner, family member or
      friend.

      Data will be handled confidentially and will not be distributed to third parties. After
      informed consent, each participant will be given a unique code consisting of letters (the
      code name of the study) and a number (e.g. 001). The key linking to the patient identity will
      be stored in a secured file and only the involved investigators will have access to this key.
      Personal data will be handled in accordance with the Dutch Personal Data Protection Act. The
      research data will be stored for 15 years after finalisation of the project. The data
      required for the trail will be collected and stored in the electronic Case Report Form (eCRF)
      using Castor (Castor EDC 2019.1.15 or further, Ciwit B.V., The Netherlands) and afterwards
      exported to SPSS statistics 25 or R for the analyses. Only the involved investigators will
      have unrestricted access to all pseudonymized data. Patients in the intervention group will
      monitor their behaviour. For medication adherence applies each time they open the MEMS bottle
      or push the button the date will be registered. The MEMS cap is ISO 9001 certified,
      CE-marked, HIPPA compatible, compliant with FDA 21 CFR part 11 and GDPR compliant. Stored
      information can be transferred at any time through the MEMS Reader to the MEMS adherence
      software for immediate analysis and interpretation. The data transmission can be done using a
      dedicated MEMS USB NFC reader. The data is securely transferred and stored encrypted on
      AARDEX servers using end-to-end encryption. Data storage is secured by continuous backups and
      data replication. The data is only accessible when logging in with the correct credentials
      (login/email and password), and only be accessible for the HCP (direct feedback) and the
      researcher (data analysis).

      For the activity tracker applies the following; the data from the activity tracker is in the
      possession of the patient itself, and will share these data with the HCP. During wear-time,
      the activity tracker continuously collects data about the stepping, time of the patient. Data
      collection and storage of the activity tracker is GDPR compliant and data is stored on secure
      servers protected with pseudonymization and encryption.

      Study related correspondence, signed Informed Consent forms, and source documents are to be
      maintained by the study site and archived in a locked cabinet for a minimum of 15 years after
      the end of this study. Source data will be entered at worksheets in the eCRF and afterwards
      exported to SPSS statistics 25 or R for the analyses.

        -  Sample size assessment to specify the number of participants or participant years
           necessary to demonstrate an effect.

           136 patients will be recruited (based on a Sample size calculation: effect size: 0.5223;
           1-β=0.80; α=0.05, and assuming a 15% dropout).

        -  Plan for missing data to address situations where variables are reported as missing,
           unavailable, non-reported, uninterpretable, or considered missing because of data
           inconsistency or out-of-range results.

      Depending on the type of missingness (e.g., at random, completely at random) appropriate data
      imputation procedures will be used if no alternative data sources for the missing datapoint
      is available

      ◦Statistical analysis plan describing the analytical principles and statistical techniques to
      be employed in order to address the primary and secondary objectives, as specified in the
      study protocol or plan.

      Primary outcome variable Linear mixed-effects models will be used to assess the effects of
      AIMS-HF versus treatment-as-usual on dosing adherence measured with MEMS. Baseline dosing
      adherence will be used as covariate and intervention assignment as the treatment variable
      (0/1). Mean dosing compliance will be calculated per 3-month period and included as repeated
      time points.

      Secondary study parameter(s) Regression analyses will be conducted for the secondary outcomes
      (questionnaires), where the baseline value of the dependent variables and the treatment
      variable (0/1) are included as the predictors.

      Tertiary study parameter(s) To explore the effects on event-free survival (time to the first
      event) Kaplan-Meier survival analysis will be conducted.
    
  