
    
      In a 2-year cluster randomized controlled field trial of 408 ethnically diverse, older adults
      (50+ years old) in 12 low income community centers serving seniors in San Diego County the
      investigators will investigate:

        1. The efficacy of PEP4PA (Peer Empowerment Program 4 Physical Activity) to reduce
           disparities in PA by increasing the percentage of participants achieving 150 minutes of
           PA per week at 6 and 12 months. Hypothesis: Participants in PEP4PA will significantly
           increase PA minutes in moderate intensity (measured objectively by accelerometry) to a
           greater extent than older adults receiving usual care (e.g. normal PA programing) in
           control centers and a greater percent will meet NHANES criteria for weekly PA.

        2. The efficacy of PEP4PA to improve physical functioning, blood pressure (BP), depressive
           symptoms and quality of life. Hypothesis: Participants in PEP4PA will significantly
           increase their physical functioning (measured objectively by the short physical
           performance battery and 6 minute timed walk), decrease their systolic BP (mmHg) and
           reporting of depressive symptoms, and improve their quality of life scores (measured at
           baseline, 6 & 12 months) to a greater extent than older adults in control centers.

        3. Assess the incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) of PEP4PA in terms of cost per
           MET hour and cost per QALY compared to usual programming in the control centers at 12
           months.

        4. Evaluate the impact of PEP4PA on secondary outcomes such as sedentary time and sleep
           quality (measured by accelerometry), cognitive/executive functioning, and walking routes
           (from GPS) at 12 months.

      Exploratory aims: 5. Examine individual, interpersonal, organizational, and environmental
      factors that affect implementation & behavior change. 6. Assess the efficacy, effectiveness
      and ICER of PEP4PA at 24 months
    
  