
    
      Purpose of the project

      The overall purpose of this study is to assess the effectiveness of a generic PtDA-template
      adapted to patients choosing between surgical and non-surgical treatment for LDH, on SDM,
      decisional conflict, decision regret and treatment outcomes in a randomized controlled trial.
      Development of an effective PtDA has the potential to decrease patients' decision regret and
      optimize treatment results and thereby in the future lead to higher patient satisfaction and
      fewer patient complaints. Using a generic PtDA-template, makes it feasible to adapt the used
      method to other spine-departments or other orthopedic-surgeries.

      Background

      Shared decision making (SDM) is a systematic approach aimed at improving patient involvement
      in preference-sensitive health care decisions. It is a process, wherein clinicians actively
      involve patients during the task of making decisions , based on best clinical evidence and
      patients' informed preferences.

      Most people with lumbar disc herniation (LDH) improve with nonsurgical treatment. However, in
      Denmark, patients with ongoing severe pain and disability after 12 weeks of conservative care
      are recommended a surgical evaluation. Apart from the presence of a neurologic deficit, there
      are no clearly defined indications for surgery. A variety of factors, such as level of pain,
      walking capacity or functional limitations, can influence the judgment of the physician to
      advocate surgery or not. Indications for surgery are thus assessed, for each particular
      patient, by the individual surgeon. Even though surgical patients show a more rapid relief of
      pain and recovery, the evidence of surgery being superior to conservative treatment in the
      long term is nevertheless inconclusive. This underlines the concept that the choice of having
      surgical or non-surgical treatment for LHD is preference sensitive, meaning that treatment
      options should be offered and should matter to patients. A qualitative study by Andersen
      showed that the current lack of evidence for a superior treatment choice and the presence of
      uncertainties in risks and benefits are important to discuss with patients with LDH.
      Currently, there are no standard procedures used to actively involve patients in such
      decisions. SDM is required to accomplish the preference sensitive approach for patients with
      LDH.

      Patient decision aids (PtDA) are tools designed to facilitate SDM, and are intended to
      complement counseling with health professionals. Such a tool could help patients become
      involved in decision making by making explicit the decision that needs to be made, providing
      information about the advantages and disadvantages of treatment options (or tests), knowledge
      of treatment outcomes, and by clarifying personal values. Decision Aids compared to usual
      care seems to improve decision quality and patient knowledge regarding options and reduce
      their decisional conflict. Some studies also show that PtDAs enable patients to be more
      actively involved in decision making, and improve the accuracy of risk perceptions when
      probabilities are included A few English tools have already been designed for patients with
      LDH. However, these tools were designed to prepare the patients, prior to consultation with a
      physician and not, as intended in this project, to be used in the clinical encounter.
      Therefore, prior to this study a PtDAs have been designed and tested for use in spine surgery
      in a Danish context.

      Study 1 - Does the use of a decision aid in a spine surgery clinic facilitate SDM?

      Objectives

      The Objectives are to determine whether the use of a DA is superior to standard consultation,
      in terms of:

        1. Involving and informing the patients in the decision of treatment.

        2. Minimizing uncertainty, and other conflicting factors, when choosing treatment for
           herniated disc.

      Methods

      Design The study will be performed as a randomized controlled trial (RCT). Ten surgeons will
      be allocated to either using or not using a DA in the surgery clinic, in a 1:1 ratio.

      Intervention The intervention is the use of a PtDA for LDH, in a routine doctor-patient
      consultation, by a trained spine surgeon. All surgeons randomized to use the PtDA will go
      through a training session held by educators in communication, who is specialized in SDM.

      Study population Study subjects will be recruited from Center for Spine Surgery and Research,
      Lillebaelt Hospital, Middelfart, amongst patients being a candidate for primary discectomy
      for a LDH from L1-S1.

      Data will be collected post consultation in both arms, as the patients exit the consultation.

      Statistics (see study 2)

      Study 2 - Does the use of a decision aid in a spine surgery clinic improve outcomes?

      Objectives

      The objectives are to determine if there is a correlation between the use of a DA in the
      consultation and:

        1. Better recovery after treatment, measured by leg pain (VAS leg), back pain (VAS back),
           ODI and EQ5D, one month and one year after spine surgery.

        2. The level of decisional regret one month and one year after chosen treatment.

      Methods

      Design, intervention and study-population will be the same as in study 2. However, if
      patients end up with other surgery than discectomy they will be excluded from the study.

      Statistical analysis

      As the DQW-HD, DCS, ODI, EQ-5D and VAS Leg and Back pain scores are long ordinal scales,
      differences in scores, between the groups will be tested using nonparametric Mann-Whitney
      test for independent samples. Sample size rationale was powered from the main outcome
      variable in study 3 VAS-leg. Allowing for 30% dropout before completing the study, we need to
      enroll 70 patients in each arm. All Statistical analyses will be performed using Stata v.
      14.0.

      Research plan The inclusion started in May 2017. All the patients in the RCT are included and
      one month follow-up data are collected. Collection of one year follow-up data will has also
      begun.

      Practical framework

      All Spine surgeons at the surgery department accepted to participate in the study. Patients
      were recruited by these surgeons. The research department assists with data-collection at one
      month and one year follow-up.

      Publication and dissemination of results

      Results will be published in national and international peer-reviewed journals (i.e. The
      Spine, The Patient - Patient-Centered Outcomes Research) and presented at national and
      international conferences (i.e. Dansk Ortopædkirurgisk Selskabs årsmøde (DOS), International
      Shared Decision Making conference (ISDM), International Conference on Communication in Health
      Care (ICCH).

      Ethical aspects

      The study will be conducted according to Danish ethical principles, and notified at the
      Danish Data Protection Agency. Participants will be given written information about the
      purpose of the study and will sign an informed consent before the first questionnaires are
      completed. Surgeons give oral consent. Apart from the use of a PtDA in the consultation, all
      patients in the study receive "usual care". No changes are made in relation to which
      clinicians the patients meet or offered treatment.
    
  