
    
      All patients who meet all the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion will have a
      Stop-Bang questionnaire to define the risk of having a SAHS The assessment of results
      classifies people at high, intermediate or low risk of SAHS. Low-risk patients will follow
      conventional management according to the usual criteria of the Arrhythmia Unit.

      Patients with high or intermediate-risk will be given a Kardia© recorder and they will be
      instructed to obtain records of their cardiac rhythm every 5 days (at any time) and whenever
      the symptoms are suggestived of arrhythmia. This allows estimating arrhythmic load baseline
      in these patients.

      They will also will be given a 7-channel home respiratory polygraphy (with pulse oximetry
      record, naso-buccal air flow through nasal cannula and thermistor, snoring, thoracoabdominal
      movements and electrocardiogram). The day after conducting the home polygraphic record, the
      patient will be evaluated in the Pneumology Outpatient Department, where risk factors,
      symptoms and Epworth's sleepiness scale will be assessed, the results of the
      cardiorespiratory polygraphic record, interpreted by Pneumology Service will be given , and
      based on the above, the diagnosis of SAHS will be determined.

      Those patients diagnosed with SAHS will be treated in the Pneumology Service according to
      usual practice (dietary hygienic measures, CPAP, etc.).

      During all this time, patients will continue using their rhythm recorders as previously. The
      overall effect of SAHS treatment on AF recurrences (comparison of arrhythmic load in the
      previous 3 months with that of the 3 months post-treatment) will be evaluated.

      After 3 months of starting the treatment, a follow-up respiratory polygraphy will be carried
      out, where the relationship between the changes in AHI and desaturation index as well as
      changes in arrhythmic load will be evaluated.

      Once the follow-up respiratory polygraphy is performed, the indication of AF ablation will be
      reassessed. Patients who continue with symptomatic recurrences of AF refractory to
      antiarrhythmics will undergo ablation.

      It will be analyzed that proportion of patients initially candidates for ablation cease to
      fulfill conditions for this by a better control of recurrences and "leave the waiting list".
      Likewise, the results of the ablation of the cohort of patients diagnosed with SAHS and the
      moderate or high-risk cohort of SAHS, but with negative polygraphy and diagnosis, will be
      compared.

      The arrhythmic load after AF ablation will be analysed, during the blinding period (3 months
      post-ablation) and one year after the ablation. Patients will continue their SAHS treatment
      according to the usual practice of the Pneumology Service.
    
  