
    
      1. Aims and objectives:

           This study is to evaluate the feasibility of the individualized music playlist based on
           ISO-Principle for de-escalating agitation of nursing home residents living with
           dementia.

           Objectives are as below:

             1. To evaluate the feasibility of the intervention in terms of recruitment, retention,
                and acceptability.

             2. To examine the preliminary effects of the intervention on participants' agitation,
                stress and emotion as compared to control group.

             3. To evaluate suitability of outcome assessment instruments.

        2. Methods:

             1. Design:

                  -  A two arms randomized controlled feasibility trial.

             2. Participants and setting:

                  -  The study participants will be recruited from participating residential care
                     homes for the elderly in Hong Kong.

             3. Intervention group

                  -  Will receive usual care and a 30-minute personalized playlist with the
                     preferred music sequenced according to ISO-Principle will be provided when the
                     participant become agitated during the 6-week project period.

             4. Control group

                  -  Will receive usual care and a 30-minute audio recording of book reading wen
                     the participant become agitated during the 6-week project period. They will
                     receive a personalized playlist with the preferred music sequenced according
                     to ISO-Principle when all the data collection is done.

             5. Outcomes:

                  -  recruitment rate, attrition rate, acceptability (field observation, comments
                     from staffs), practicality (adherence to the intervention protocol), and any
                     adverse reactions.

                  -  agitation severity (Behavioural Activity Rating Scale, Positive and Negative
                     Syndrome Scale Excited Component), heart rate, emotional states (Mood scales
                     derived from DSM-V), before and after listening to the playlist

                  -  agitation frequency (Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory) and behavioral and
                     psychological symptoms of dementia frequency (Neuropsychiatric Inventory-
                     Questionnaire), at baseline and after 6 weeks

             6. Sample size:

                  -  84 participants

             7. Randomization:

                  -  Participants will be randomly assigned to either intervention or control group
                     at 1:1 ratio.

             8. Data analysis strategies:

                  -  Descriptive statistics will be used to report the feasibility indicators.

                  -  The treatment effect on agitation intensity, stress and mood as compared to
                     control group before and after listening to music or control condition for 30
                     minutes during agitated state, will be analysed using Generalized Estimating
                     Equation (GEE) method.

                  -  For evaluating the efficacy of music listening in reducing the occurrence
                     frequency of agitation and other behavioural and psychological symptoms of
                     dementia, the scores at baseline and post-intervention (i.e. after 6 weeks)
                     between two groups will be analysed with Mixed ANOVA.

                  -  Significance level is set at p<.05 with 95% Confidence Interval.

             9. Ethical consideration:

      Ethics approval will be obtained from the University before recruiting the participants.
      Proxies and participants will be informed about the possible risks and benefits of the
      participation, and it is voluntary and free to withdraw at any time. Procedural consent will
      be sought too.
    
  