
    
      As the healthcare system in America is evolving, doctors are becoming hard-pressed to see and
      treat more patients in the same amount of time. Over the past century, different forms of
      "telemedicine" have allowed doctors to treat patients from a distance, in hopes of increasing
      access to medical care. Several studies have evaluated the utility of telemedicine in the ICU
      setting, namely using video-conferencing technology to allow ICU attending physicians to
      monitor their patients with audio and video media more closely. A prospective, step-wedge
      study by Lily showed that the use of telemedicine reduced adjusted odds mortality and length
      of stay in the ICU, as well as several complications such as stress ulcers, deep venous
      thromboses, and ventilator associated pneumonia. Similar conclusions were found by a
      meta-analysis in 2011 that looked at 176 tele-ICU articles, which included 41,374 patients.
      With telemedicine technology, intensivists can theoretically have 24-hour oversight of the
      ICU from a remote location, possibly being able to oversee multiple units.

      Although the average urology patient does not require as frequent monitoring as the ICU
      patient, telemedicine may still play a role in facilitating care for the postoperative
      urologic patient. In 2004, Ellison el al conducted a study comparing patient satisfaction
      between patients seen via standard bedside rounds, patients seen via telerounds (as an
      additional visit) through a laptop computer, and patients only seen via telerounds through a
      remotely controlled robot. This study showed that telerounding (either of the latter two
      arms) was associated with greater patient satisfaction in postoperative care, which was found
      to be linked to physician availability4. In 2007, the same authors conducted a randomized
      study investigating morbidity, length of stay, and patient satisfaction between standard
      bedside rounds versus robotic telerounding. There were no differences in outcomes between the
      two groups. A significant limitation of robotic telerounding is cost. Having and maintaining
      the robot costs around $60,000 per year, although Gandas et al was able to find a positive
      financial impact when using the robot in postoperative gastric bypass patients6. However, the
      development of tablet computers, which have user-friendly video-conferencing applications,
      has made telemedicine a more affordable tool. In 2012, Kacsmarek et al conducted the first
      study using tablet computers investigating post-operative patient satisfaction. Their study
      demonstrated that tablet telerounding can significantly enhance patients' post-operative
      experience by providing quicker face-to-face access with their attending physician.

      Our study would be the first randomized study investigating the use of video conferencing via
      tablet computers versus traditional bedside rounding and its effect on clinical data such as
      length of stay and complications as well as patient satisfaction. As technology improves,
      medicine has an obligation to incorporate this technology to improve efficiency and
      cost-effectiveness. If telerounding is proven to not change outcomes or patient satisfaction,
      it saves time for the physician during office hours to see more patients or be productive in
      other ways. Telerounding could be applied in remote areas with a dearth of specialists,
      allowing these specialists' expertise to reach areas it could not before.
    
  