
    
      The current project aims to understand the mechanisms underlying communications about
      familial risk for common, complex diseases and the development of strategies by Mexican
      American families to address this risk. For the Mexican American community, the family
      culture provides an important setting within which individuals will interpret their health
      information, share health information, and formulate strategies to engage in health promoting
      behaviors. This family culture can be defined by the family social structure, the degree of
      acculturation represented by household members, as well as socio-economic factors.
      Participants for the current project will be recruited from an ongoing population-based
      cohort of Mexican American households initiated by the Department of Epidemiology at the
      University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center (UTMDACC). At least three adults, two of which
      are biological relatives, living within the same residence from 160 multigenerational Mexican
      American households will participate in this study. Medical risk information (feedback) will
      be provided to participants based upon family history information that they provide about
      four complex diseases: diabetes, heart disease, breast cancer and colon cancer. The feedback
      will be randomized in two ways varying who within the family is provided the feedback
      (Receiver of the Feedback) and what information is provided (Content of Feedback). The data
      will allow us to examine whether the family-centered feedback approach (where all
      participating family members receive feedback), rather than the individual-focused feedback
      approach (where only one participating family member receives feedback), encourages
      communications regarding disease risk among family members. The medical risk feedback will
      also be randomized as to whether they receive disease risk information only (predisposing
      risk feedback) or disease risk information coupled with personalized recommendations for
      behavior change to reduce risks (predisposing plus enabling feedback). These data will allow
      us to examine the impact of the content of risk feedback based on the CDC s family health
      history tool Family Healthware on beliefs concerning the underlying causes and
      controllability of common diseases. Cross comparisons between the data obtained from who
      receives the medical risk information and the content of that information will help in
      understanding the role of beliefs about disease and communication about family risk for
      disease in the development of shared perceptions of risk and strategies to adopt health
      promoting behaviors within the family. The role of the familial and cultural context in the
      communication and strategy development process will also be investigated.
    
  