
    
      End-stage renal disease (ESRD), defined as a condition in which the kidneys are damaged or
      cannot filter blood similar to a healthy kidney (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
      2017), is a rising global dilemma. In fact, it has been a leading cause of morbidity and
      mortality worldwide, afflicting approximately 8% - 16% of the global population (Jha et al.,
      2013) and ranking eighth among the leading causes of death. It has also been acknowledged as
      a troublesome disorder causing a myriad of health-related problems (Lowney et al., 2015),
      financial burden (Bavanandan et al., 2016), and poor survival outcomes (Halle et al., 2016).

      Hemodialysis, a form of renal replacement treatment, has been the mainstream management for
      patients with kidney diseases (Smeltzer et al., 2010) despite several health complications
      (Smeltzer et al., 2010; Lowney et al., 2015). However, dietary and fluid therapy are also
      necessary components of the management for patient with ESRD. A common concern among patients
      on hemodialysis is the non-adherence to fluid therapy. Although this management is simple, it
      remains a challenge to patients on hemodialysis because of several physiologic changes
      brought by ESRD. As a result, numerous problems such as fluid overload, electrolyte
      imbalances, and acid-base imbalances occur which are detrimental to the patient's overall
      health. Since patients on hemodialysis are the key players in promoting their health, it is,
      therefore, imperative to develop individualized and empowering strategies what will promote
      their adherence to fluid therapy. The proposed strategy in this study is the fluid
      distribution timetable, a simple and health promotive intervention involving scheduled
      distribution of pre-determined amounts of fluid intake on a daily basis. This intervention
      consider the various sources and usage of fluids per day and allocates fluid intake according
      to the patient's prescribed fluid restriction. Hence, this study determined the effects of a
      fluid distribution timetable on adherence to fluid restriction of patients with end-stage
      renal disease undergoing hemodialysis.

      This study is a single-blind, single-center, randomized-controlled pilot study at the
      dialysis unit of a tertiary level government-owned institution in Quezon City, Philippines.
      Patients were randomly-allocated to receive fluid distribution timetable with standard care
      (intervention) or standard care alone (control). Random allocation of respondents was
      conducted using computer-generated sequences of randomly permuted blocks (sizes of three,
      four, and five) at our office. Randomization was carried out by an independent statistician
      and was stratified according to their sex. During the study period, treatment allocation was
      masked from site personnel and patients. Post-hoc power analysis for two group means, using
      GPower version 3.1, revealed that a sample size of 24 patients with a 1:1.20 group allocation
      ratio yields a power of 99% at a significance of 5% (two-sided) and detects an effect size of
      0.80.

      The control group received the standard care for patients on hemodialysis. The standard care
      involves a 10 -15-minute face-to-face health teaching of their treatment regimen including
      pharmacologic management, dialysis schedule, dietary and fluid restrictions or nutritional
      therapy, care for vascular access, and other necessary lifestyle modifications. The treatment
      group, on the other hand, received a combination of the standard care and the intervention,
      the fluid distribution timetable. It is a scheduled distribution of pre-determined amounts of
      fluid intake on a daily basis depicted via a 5x6 table. The timetable includes three major
      columns. The first column has six timepoints of a day with a four-hour interval. The second
      column, which was further divided into four sub-columns, reflects the percentage of fluid
      allotment for food, activities, medication, and thirst encounters. The percentage of fluid
      allocation was computed based on the patient's prescribed fluid restriction, usual time of
      food intakes in a day, usual level of activity, time of medication intake, and common time
      they encounter thirst in a day. Lastly, the third column indicates the converted percentages
      of fluid allotment in milliliters. In designing the intervention, we selected three
      behavior-specific cognitions from the Health Promotion Model by Nola J. Pender: perceived
      benefits, barriers, and self-efficacy. These cognitions are modifiable determinants of
      behavior that promote well-being. As such, the fluid distribution timetable enumerated the
      advantages of adherence and the disadvantages of non-adherence to fluid restriction.

      Adherence to fluid restriction was measured using two indicators - thirst and interdialytic
      weight gain - and were compared using One-way RM-MANOVA and MANCOVA. Thirst was measured
      using a self-reported questionnaire the Dialysis Thirst Inventory, while interdialytic weight
      gain computed using a calibrated calculator by subtracting post-dialysis weight at the end of
      the previous hemodialysis session from the pre-dialysis weight during the current
      hemodialysis session. Secondary outcomes included baseline patient demographic and clinical
      characteristics and were compared according to treatment allocation. Both groups were
      followed-up for four weeks, assessing outcome measures during the second hemodialysis session
      for each week.
    
  