
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of postoperative adjuvant therapy with interferon alfa-2b (IFN-A)
           administered subcutaneously with or without IV induction vs concurrent biochemotherapy
           including cisplatin, vinblastine, DTIC, IFN-A and IL-2 and in melanoma patients with
           regional lymph node metastases that have been surgically resected.

        -  Determine the relative toxic effects associated with adjuvant therapy with IFN-A and
           concurrent biochemotherapy including cisplatin, vinblastine, DTIC, IFN-A, and IL-2 and
           their effect on the quality of life.

        -  Determine the prognostic value of detection of melanoma cells in the peripheral blood
           using RT/PCR for tyrosinase mRNA.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. All patients are stratified according to prognostic
      factors.

      Patients are randomly allocated to 1 of 2 treatment options. Treatment 1 uses interferon
      alfa-2b (IFN-A) therapy, and treatment 2 includes adjuvant biochemotherapy.

      Patients who are randomized to IFN-A will be further stratified and randomized to one of two
      interferon schedules.

        -  Schedule A: IV IFN-A induction 5 times a week for 4 weeks followed by subcutaneous IFN-A
           maintenance 3 times a week for 48 weeks.

        -  Schedule B: Subcutaneous IFN-A 3 times a week for 52 weeks. Adjuvant biochemotherapy
           begins immediately after registration on the study. Cisplatin is given IV on days 1-4;
           vinblastine is given IVPB on days 1-4; dacarbazine (DTIC) is given IVPB on day 1; IFN-A
           is given subcutaneously on days 1-5; IL-2 is given by continuous infusion for a total of
           96 hours on days 1-4. Each course of therapy is repeated every 21 days for 4 courses.
           Patients receiving adjuvant radiotherapy will start adjuvant systemic therapy within 8
           weeks from lymphadenectomy and a week after completion of and recovery from
           radiotherapy.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 200 patients (100 patients in each arm) will be entered.
    
  