
    
      COPD is a common chronic respiratory disease. It is characterised by repeated episodes of
      acute worsening of symptoms of cough, wheeze and breathlessness called exacerbations.
      Exacerbations result in patients having to present to hospital for treatment. In Ireland more
      than one-fifth of all inpatient hospital days for the treatment of respiratory complaints are
      for the treatment of COPD. The administration of bronchodilators (medication to open the
      airway) is a central component of the treatment of COPD exacerbation. In the hospital setting
      these are most commonly administered via a nebuliser. The standard of care in our institution
      is the Hudson micromist small volume nebuliser.

      However, previous studies have shown that Vibrating mesh (VM) nebulisers result in greater
      deposition of medication to the lungs compared to small volume nebulisers. In addition they
      resulted in greater improvements in lung function and breathlessness.

      This study will assess the efficacy of the Aerogen Ultra VM nebuliser in a real-world
      setting. The VM nebuliser is readily available for use in the clinical setting and is used to
      administer bronchodilator therapy, within the terms of its CE Mark. This nebuliser is already
      in routine use in hospitals within the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI) hospital
      group.

      Patients hospitalised with an exacerbation of COPD will be recruited. There will be two study
      groups. Group 1 (VM Group): will receive bronchodilator (salbutamol 2.5mg/ipratropium 0.5mg)
      by Vibrating Mesh Nebuliser (Aerogen Ultra) with facemask and Group 2 (Standard Hospital
      Care): will receive bronchodilator by small volume nebuliser (Hudson Micromist) via facemask
      as per standard care.

      Both groups will receive bronchodilator therapy four times a day which has already been
      prescribed by their medical team, and in accordance with recommended guidelines for treatment
      of COPD exacerbations. Patients will use the nebuliser for the duration of hospital stay or a
      maximum of 7 days. Lung function and breathlessness scores will be recorded. The aim of this
      study is to demonstrate that better medication delivery by VM nebulizer during an
      exacerbation of COPD will lead to greater bronchodilation, shorter recovery time and reduced
      hospital length of stay.
    
  