
    
      Six male and/or female adult patients (greater than or equal to 18 years old), of any
      ethnicity and race, with unresectable stage III or stage IV cutaneous melanoma with
      accessible lesions, will be eligible for enrollment and treatment with IFx-Hu2.0.

      To be eligible for this study, patients with unresectable metastatic disease must have
      failed, refused or been deemed not candidates for at least one form of systemic
      anti-PD-1-based immunotherapy as well as BRAF inhibition, if BRAF V600 mutated. Talimogene
      laherparepvec (IMLYGIC®) is indicated for local treatment of unresectable cutaneous,
      subcutaneous, and nodal lesions in patients with melanoma recurrent after initial surgery.
      Therefore, patients with unresectable cutaneous, subcutaneous, and nodal melanoma lesions
      recurrent after initial surgery must have failed, refused or been deemed not candidates for
      talimogene laherparepvec to be eligible for this study.

      Enrollees will receive IFx-Hu2.0 at a single time point. Depending on the number of
      accessible lesions, a patient could receive up to three doses across three lesions (one dose
      per lesion). Forty milliliters of peripheral blood will be collected from these patients
      prior to treatment administration and at the follow-up visit four weeks later. The target
      dose will be 100 μg of plasmid DNA per lesion injected at a final dose volume of 200 μL per
      lesion. To allow for the observation of any acute toxicity in the first subject enrolled and
      prevent any occurrence of excessive toxicities in subsequent subjects, the first subject
      enrolled will receive a single dose of IFx-Hu2.0. Subsequent subjects will be administered
      the product after at least seven days. Beyond the first subject, the maximum number of
      lesions to be injected at any given time point in the study phase proposed is three lesions.
      These samples will be used to perform complete blood counts (CBC) and clinical chemistry
      tests. A urine sample will be obtained for urinalysis for protein and blood at the same
      frequency. Blood samples will be drawn for immune response evaluation as well. At the end of
      the study period, a biopsy of the lesion injected and a non-injected lesion (if applicable)
      will be collected. If the patient has a response to therapy, the patient will have the option
      of continuing the study at three-week intervals so long as they have not progressed. Optional
      tumor biopsies and peripheral blood collections may be obtained on subsequent treatment
      cycles.
    
  