
    
      There is mounting concern about the development of Type 2 diabetes (T2D) in youth, especially
      in light of rising childhood obesity rates at younger ages. The health costs of T2D are
      notable both for the individual and society, and so interventions that can help prevent the
      development of T2D in early life are needed. Fortunately, there is promising evidence from
      the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) and other randomized trials with adults that the onset
      of T2D can be prevented through sustainable lifestyle changes. However, intervention programs
      have not been tested in young children who are "at risk" for developing the disease, even
      though this may be a critical period for obesity onset and for the formation of early eating
      and physical activity habits.

      The primary aim of the proposed study was to test a family-based intervention that targets
      improvements in excess weight gain, metabolic and cardiovascular profile, and diet and
      physical activity in 4 - 8 year old children who are "at risk" for T2D. Specifically, 60
      families were randomized either to one of two treatments: Lifestyle Modification for Diabetes
      Prevention (LMDP, N= 30) or Nutrition and Physical Activity Information (NPA, N= 30). The
      LMDP intervention trained families in behavioral strategies to increase parent and child
      intake of fruits, vegetables, and high fiber foods, to limit intake of energy-dense foods,
      and to increase daily physical activity. A physical activity "tool kit" for the home
      environment was provided to families. Supporting information about T2D and obesity, as well
      as nutrition and physical activity, also were provided. Besides the participating
      parent-child pair, other adult family members with T2D (eg, grandparents, aunts, uncles) were
      encouraged to participate. The LMDP activities were intended to reduce children's excess body
      weight and improve their metabolic and cardiovascular measures, to help prevent the onset of
      insulin resistance. The NPA intervention only received basic information on T2D and obesity,
      and nutrition and physical activity recommendations. Changes in child body composition,
      metabolic and cardiovascular measures, and behavioral outcomes were evaluated at 6 months
      (ie, end-of-treatment) and 12 months (ie, follow up). Changes in parent weight status and the
      home food environment were secondary outcomes and were assessed as potential mediators of
      child outcomes.
    
  