
    
      Human papillomavirus (HPV)-induced cervical carcinogenesis is proposed to be multi-step in
      nature. The major steps in cervical carcinogenesis include persistent infection of the
      metaplastic cervical epithelium with one or more of the oncogenic HPV infection, clonal
      progression of the infected epithelium to cervical precancer, and further invasion. Although
      these fundamental steps are well established, several new genetic and immunologic studies
      have shed light on the factors that influence each of these transitions. Over 150 different
      HPV subtypes have been identified so far, with a subset of these being classified as high
      risk for oncogenesis. Persistent infection with oncogenic HPV is the main cause of cervical
      cancer. Polymerase-chain-reaction (PCR)-based assays show that HPV DNA exist in around 90.7-
      96.6% patients with cervical cancer and in 13.4 -15.6% control women. About the detected HPV
      types in patients, in descending order of frequency, are types 16, 18, 45, 31, 33, 52, 58,
      and 35. Fifteen HPV types are classified as high-risk types (16, 18, 31, 33, 35, 39, 45, 51,
      52, 56, 58, 59, 68, 73, and 82); 3 are classified as probable high-risk types (26, 53, and
      66); and 12 are classified as low-risk types (6, 11, 40, 42, 43, 44, 54, 61, 70, 72, 81). The
      most frequently detected high risk HPV types (HPV 16, 51, 52, and 59) are similar in male of
      different sites, which is compatible with the female incidence.

      Electrosensing antibody probing system (e- Ab sensor), which was developed for the rapid and
      sensitive detection of hapten, proteins, or viral antigen in medical samples, will be used
      for analyzing the interaction kinetics between anti-high risk HPV and its antigen (high-risk
      HPV) present in patients. The system incorporates the use of engineered semiconducive
      antibodies or virus in vertical and lateral chip (eAbchip) or lateral flow through
      (eAbsignal) formats. In electrosensing antibody probing, semiconductive antibodies are bound
      as a suitable electrosensing probe, which specifically and selectively binds targeted
      molecules (high-risk HPV) in the test specimens. From assessment of the electric signature of
      semiconductive anti- high-risk HPV antibodies, the eABprobe could offer sensitive detection
      and precise quantification of high-risk HPV.

      To develop a real-time diagnostic technique with e- Ab sensor for high risk HPV detection,
      the investigators conduct a prospective clinical study. In comparison with results from
      direct sequencing of HPV, the investigators evaluate the performance of e- Ab sensor,
      including reproducibility, sensitivity, specificity, and cross-reaction (such as detection of
      low risk HPV). The potential factors which may interfere with the results would be
      investigated. e- Ab sensor threshold decisions must maximize its sensitivity. Therefore, the
      threshold value in the test group is to find the decision could have 90% sensitivity and 90%
      specificity.With such a real-time diagnostic technique, the investigators hope to obtain
      information of patients in cost-saving and time-saving way and can give patients early
      treatment and offer more individualized treatment for our patients.
    
  