
    
      Aim of the study To assess the efficacy and safety of edoxaban in a cohort of very elderly
      patients (≥80 years of age) with NVAF.

      Edoxaban has never been tested in elderly frail patients. In both sexes, there is a
      non-linear association between age and frailty. A secondary analysis according to frailty
      assessment (not-frail, pre-frail or frail) will be also performed.

      Study Design Observational prospective cohort study including patients of ≥80 years of age
      with a new diagnosis of NVAF. Edoxaban 60 mg (or 30 mg for patients with CrCL 15 - 50 mL/min
      or with body weight ≤ 60 kg) will be administered to all patients. All participants will be
      stratified according to frailty, as assessed by SHARE-FI score, to non-frail, pre-frail, and
      frail.

      Study Population Patients of both sexes, of ≥80 years of age with a new diagnosis of
      non-valvular atrial fibrillation and without contraindications to Edoxaban.

      Outcomes

      The following events will be included as outcomes:

        -  arterial ischemic events (TIA or stroke documented a CT scan; documented systemic
           embolism)

        -  major bleeding events (according to the ISTH definition)

        -  clinically relevant non-major bleeding (CRNM), defined as bleeding that did not meet the
           definition of major bleeding, but considered clinically significant (including
           spontaneous gastrointestinal bleeding or rectal bleeding; macroscopic haematuria or
           urethral bleeding requiring medical attention; skin haematoma >25 cm2; and gingival
           bleeding or spontaneous ear-nose-throat bleeding lasting ≥5 min) and/or resulted in
           discontinuation of study medication18.

        -  death (divided into cardiovascular death, fatal bleeding and other causes of death).

      Follow up Follow-up visits will be performed at 3, 6, 12 and 24 months to assess adherence
      and compliance to therapy, evaluation of relevant blood test and clinical assessment.

      Temporary discontinuation of edoxaban for a planned surgical intervention will be allowed.

      Patients will be followed until the occurrence of a first outcome event, permanent
      discontinuation of edoxaban or the end of follow-up period, whichever comes first.
    
  