
    
      To enhance outcomes for transition-age youth with mental health disorders during the
      vulnerable period that occurs during their first several months of college, the investigators
      propose an automated TM intervention, "Text to Connect" (T2C), that aims to increase mental
      health self-efficacy through psychoeducation, self-monitoring of symptoms and stressors, and
      cues to action for college-bound youth.

      Assignment of Interventions:

      The study will utilize block randomization whereby 2/3 of participants will be randomly
      assigned to receive T2C, and 1/3 to receive PE. Blocks will balance the groups on site (CCP
      versus STAR/CABS). A 2:1 randomization scheme will randomize 50 youth to either receive T2C
      (n=30) or a link to brief psychoeducational videos about mental health (PE; n=20). All
      participants will then complete a brief battery of self-report assessments online at baseline
      and again monthly through month 4. Youth randomized to receive PE will receive a text message
      with the link to the webpage with the psychoeducational videos. Youth randomized to receive
      T2C will be onboarded and initiate the TM intervention that sends automated prompts at
      minimum monthly through month 4.

      Hypothesis:

      Aim 1. To examine the feasibility of T2C for transition-age youth with psychiatric disorders
      (n=3 clinics, 50 adolescents). Youth randomized to receive T2C will:

      Hypothesis 1a. engage with T2C at high rates (>70% response rate to SMS prompts).

      Hypothesis 1b. report high levels of satisfaction (>70% satisfaction) and usability with T2C.

      Aim 2. To examine the impact of T2C versus PE on mental health self-efficacy, symptoms and
      functioning, and treatment engagement. Over 4 months, youth who receive T2C, as compared with
      youth who receive PE, will report:

      Hypothesis 2a (Primary). Greater mental health self-efficacy Hypothesis 2b (Secondary). Lower
      symptom severity and greater psychosocial functioning Hypothesis 2c (Secondary). Higher rates
      of follow-through with mental health services
    
  