
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Determine clinical response in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes and/or relapsed or
      refractory acute myeloid leukemia or acute lymphocytic leukemia treated with MS-275 in
      combination with sargramostim (GM-CSF).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the clinical activity of this regimen, in terms of changes in peripheral blood
      counts and changes in individual patient transfusion requirements, in these patients.

      II. Determine the biologic activity of this regimen, in terms of changes in the peripheral
      blood and bone marrow phenotype (i.e., induction of markers of myeloid differentiation or
      lymphoid differentiation) and changes in detectable cytogenetic abnormalities in the blood
      and marrow compartments, in these patients.

      III. Determine the toxicity profile of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive oral MS-275 on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Patients also receive sargramostim
      (GM-CSF) subcutaneously once daily on days 1-42 in courses 3 and 5 and on days 1-35 in
      courses 1, 2, 4, and 6. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for 2-6 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of 2 courses of study therapy, patients who achieve a complete or partial
      response may receive an additional 4 courses. Patients who maintain stable disease for more
      than 2 months after completion of 6 courses of study therapy may receive an additional 6
      courses at the time of disease progression, provided they meet original eligibility criteria.

      Patients undergo blood and bone marrow (BM) collection at baseline and periodically during
      study for biologic correlative studies. Peripheral blood and bone marrow samples are assessed
      for changes in progenitor phenotype and clonogenic growth by flow cytometry and for changes
      in cytogenetics (i.e., malignant:nonmalignant cell ratio in BM CD34-positive cells,
      peripheral blood monocytes, peripheral blood neutrophils, and bone marrow and peripheral
      blood lymphoblasts) by FISH. Terminal differentiation of CD34-positive progenitor cells is
      studied in vitro in long-term cultures.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 2 years.
    
  