
    
      -  Review and record the results of the test/procedures (x-rays, CT-scans, etc.) that are
           part of the subject's clinical care and the results will become part of the research
           record. In addition, laboratory results (liver function tests, chemistry, CBC with diff,
           PT and INR or PTT) will be collected from the medical record.

        -  Record the list of medications the subject is taking. Collect information on
           demographics (address, phone number, etc.) including gender, race and ethnicity.

        -  Review and record past medical and social history

      The screening procedures will take a total of about 15-30 minutes and all subjects will be
      seen in the Liver Transplant Clinic. The investigator and research coordinators will be
      reviewing the subject's medical record to collect the required information about the
      subject's medical history. We will ask the subject, if it cannot be found in the medical
      record, about past TB exposure and treatment, overseas travel, and current resident status
      (long term care facility, home, hospital, etc.)

      If the subject qualifies for the research study the subject will undergo the experimental
      procedures listed below. These procedures will take place during the visit in the Liver
      Transplant Clinic.

      As part of the liver transplant evaluation subjects will have blood withdrawn for different
      types of testing. When the blood is obtained we will collect about 3cc of blood for the new
      TB testing. This collection of the blood sample will occur while the subject is getting their
      required pre transplant blood work so that they will not need to get stuck twice with a
      needle. The results of this research testing will not be available to the subject or
      physicians but will be compared.

      The QuantiFERON®-TB Gold IT system uses specialized blood collection tubes, which are used to
      collect whole blood. Incubation of the blood occurs in the tubes for 16 to 24 hours, after
      which, plasma is harvested and tested for the presence of IFN-g produced in response to the
      peptide antigens.

      The QFT-G (IT) assay will be performed according to the manufacturer's instructions
      (Cellestis Ltd.). One mL of whole blood is placed in three separate test tubes, one
      containing no antigen (nil control), one with TB antigens (ESAT-6, CFP-10 and TB7.7) and one
      with phytohemaglutinin (mitogen or positive control). The three tubes will be incubated as
      soon as possible after collection (within 16hrs) and will incubate for 16 to 24 hours at
      37°C. Following this incubation period, the tubes will be centrifuged. The plasma will be
      removed from the tube and placed in a plasma storage container. These containers will then be
      frozen for future IFN-γ measurement by ELISA. Each institution will perform testing up to
      this point in the process. Each month, plasma samples will be posted on ice to Edmonton
      Hospital in Alberta, Canada. The samples will be batched and then undergo the ELISA testing
      process according to the manufacturer's instructions.

      A result of ≥0.35 IU/mL in the TB antigen tube will be considered a positive result. If the
      level is less than this and the mitogen control is positive (≥ 0.5 IU/mL), a negative result
      will be recorded. If the level in both the TB antigen and mitogen tube is less than the
      threshold for positive, then an indeterminate (anergic) result will be recorded. The nil
      antigen tube adjusts for background IFN-γ levels and is subtracted from the IFN-γ level for
      the TB antigen and mitogen tube.

      Once we have collected the blood sample the subject will have completed the study.
    
  