
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second leading cause of cancer-related death in the United
      States. Screening by any of at least 6 different methods is a cost-effective yet
      underutilized strategy for reducing both CRC incidence and mortality. Because these methods
      differ with respect to risks and benefits and because existing evidence fails to identify a
      single best strategy, most authoritative groups advocate a shared decision-making (SDM)
      approach when selecting an appropriate screening strategy. SDM is a sequential, interactive
      process involving information exchange, values clarification, decision-making and mutual
      agreement. To facilitate this process, patient-oriented decision aids have been developed to
      enable patients to identify a preferred strategy based on personal values and empower them to
      participate in the decision-making process. Our recent studies to date find that although
      decision aids enable patients to make informed choices, providers are often unwilling to
      acquiesce to patient preferences when they differ from their own. Since accurate risk
      assessment is a critical component of effective clinical decision-making, the investigators
      postulate that risk stratification for the point prevalence of advanced colorectal neoplasia
      will enable providers to incorporate objective risk-based criteria in their decision-making
      when considering patient preferences for screening. To that end, the investigators have
      recently developed and validated the so-called "Advanced Colorectal Neoplasia Index [ACNI]"
      that stratifies patients into low versus intermediate/high risk categories based on available
      clinical data, including age, sex, race/ethnicity, smoking history, daily alcohol intake and
      use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The overall objective of this study is to
      determine whether risk stratification using the ACNI influences clinical decision-making
      related to screening test selection and adherence to screening within a SDM framework.

      Hypothesis: Providers who incorporate risk estimates of ACN in their decision-making when
      recommending screening tests are more likely to consider patient preferences for options
      other than colonoscopy than providers lacking this information.
    
  