
    
      Objectives :

      Since it has been shown that PET CT is a sensitive modality for detecting complications of
      Gram-positive bacteremia, mainly S. aureus, we sought to examine a diagnostic algorithm of
      SAB using PET CT. Specifically, we plan to examine:

        1. In patients fulfilling current criteria for a short course of antibiotic treatment for
           SAB, are there patients who should receive longer treatment due to the presence of
           undetected foci of infection on PET CT?

        2. In patients with risk factors mandating prolonged antibiotic treatment according to
           current guidelines (without IE) and a negative PET CT, is treatment discontinuation
           after two weeks of treatment safe?

        3. For patients with primary bacteremia, does a PET CT improve outcome (relapses, length of
           stay (LOS), survival)?

      Study design:

      A prospective, interventional, non-comparative cohort study

      Setting and location:

      Rambam Health Care Campus, a primary and tertiary 900-bed university-affiliated hospital.

      Treatment algorithm:

      All patients will be managed using a uniform diagnostic/ treatment algorithm, supervised by
      an infectious disease consultant.

      Patients will be classified into two groups (table 1):

      Group 1- patients fulfilling criteria of complicated bacteremia Group 2- patients with
      uncomplicated bacteremia PET CT will be performed on day 7-14 since the first positive blood
      culture. If findings suggestive of infection will be demonstrated on FDG-PET imaging, the
      treating clinician will consider these finding, in consultation with a PET-expert radiologist
      and an infectious disease consultant. If an infection is considered likely, the clinician may
      consider attempting to obtain a tissue specimen in order to confirm the suspicion.

        1. Patients fulfilling current criteria for a short course of antibiotic treatment:
           treatment will be prolonged if PET CT demonstrates a focus of residual infection.

        2. Patients with risk factors mandating prolonged antibiotic treatment according to current
           guidelines without IE: antibiotics will be stopped at 2 weeks if PET CT is normal.

      Participant recruitment and data collection:

      Patients will be identified through a daily report of S. aureus growth in blood cultures. The
      researchers will apply inclusion and exclusion criteria on this preliminary cohort. All
      patients fulfilling inclusion criteria and providing informed consent will be consecutively
      enrolled. Patients will be followed up by clinical consultations until discharge.
      Post-discharge patients will be followed-up until 1 year after end of treatment through
      telephone interviews and through clinical consultations if re-admitted to our hospital.

      Diagnostic test:

      Imaging Protocols:

      FDG-PET/CT will be performed 60-90 min after radiopharmaceutical injection from the skull to
      the half thigh. Oral contrast will be given during the uptake time. Analysis of the PET/CT
      images include:

        1. Visual inspection to exclude misregistration between the PET and the CT components.

        2. Visual inspection of images and semiquantitative evaluation by maximum standardized
           uptake value (SUVmax) evaluation.

        3. Localizing any focus of abnormal radioactivity accumulation indicating infection.

      Analysis:

      The percentage of management changes triggered by PET CT will be documented per patient
      group. To refute the null hypothesis, i.e. no difference in patient management with or
      without PET CT, we will define that the lower limit of the 95% confidence interval (CI) for
      the percentage of management changes be >10%. Assuming a 15% rate of management changes, a
      sample of 150 will achieve the required 95% CI. If the percentage will be 20%, we will need
      only 60 patients. The number of patients to be included will depend on the percentage of
      management changes and will be monitored every 10 patients. We will compare outcomes
      documented in the study cohort to those reported in the literature.
    
  