
    
      Pheochromocytoma is a catecholamine (ex. adrenaline) secreting tumor for which the primary
      treatment is surgical resection. Due to the hormones secreted by the tumor, alpha receptors
      on peripheral blood vessels are activated, causing constriction of these blood vessels and
      dangerously high blood pressure. During resection of the tumor, the source of excess hormone
      secretion is abruptly removed, which can lead to life-threatening blood pressure fluctuations
      during surgery.

      Alpha blockers are a class of medication that blocks the alpha receptor on blood vessels.
      Given preoperatively over a few weeks, these medications negate the effects of the excess
      hormones secreted by the pheochromocytoma, reducing the frequency and severity of dangerous
      blood pressure fluctuations intraoperatively and postoperatively. Preoperative alpha blockade
      is therefore critical to safely perform surgery to resect pheochromocytoma.

      Phenoxybenzamine, a non-selective alpha blocker, is the most common medication used to alpha
      block patients prior to pheochromocytoma resection. However, due to increasing drug costs and
      increased side effects in comparison with selective alpha blockers, there is a renewed
      interest in studying alternatives to phenoxybenzamine.

      Selective alpha blockers such as doxazosin are also commonly used to alpha block patients
      prior to pheochromocytoma resection. Selective alpha blockers are significantly less
      expensive and are associated with fewer side effects than phenoxybenzamine. Most
      retrospective studies comparing phenoxybenzamine with selective alpha blockers show no
      difference in intraoperative blood pressure fluctuations, morbidity, or mortality in
      pheochromocytoma resection. However, no prospective, randomized controlled trials comparing
      phenoxybenzamine to selective alpha blockers have been performed.

      The purpose of our study is to analyze preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative
      outcomes in patients randomized to receive phenoxybenzamine (non-selective) or doxazosin
      (selective) for alpha blockade prior to pheochromocytoma resection. Outcomes will include
      postoperative morbidity and mortality, intraoperative hemodynamic instability, quality of
      life, and cost.
    
  