
    
      INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        1. Histologically confirmed World Health Organization (WHO) Grade IV glioblastoma.;

        2. Radiographic evidence of tumour progression or recurrence;

        3. The second-generation gene sequencing on pathological specimens and cerebrospinal fluid
           show at least one genetic mutation of the four genes (VEGFR，Kit，PDGFR，FGFR);

        4. ≥ 18 years of age;

        5. Karnofsky performance status (KPS) ≥ 70;

        6. Corticosteroid dose must be stable or decreasing for at least 5 days prior to the scan.

        7. a new baseline scan is required 1.7 Measurable disease as per Response Assessment in
           Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria;

        8. Estimated survival of at least 3 months;

        9. signed informed consent form;

       10. Hgb > 9 gm; absolute neutrophil count (ANC) > 1500/μl; platelets > 100,000; Creatinine <
           1.5 times the upper limit of laboratory normal value; Bilirubin < 2 times the upper
           limit of laboratory normal value; serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase (SGPT) or serum
           glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (SGOT) < 3 times the upper limit of laboratory
           normal value;

      EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Subjects with newly diagnosed GBM

        2. Pregnant women or nursing mothers cannot participate in the study. Women of childbearing
           age must have a negative pregnancy test within 72 hours prior to study entry. Women of
           childbearing potential must practice medically approved contraceptive precautions;

        3. Abnormal hematological results at inclusion with: Neutrophils < 1,500/mm3;
           Blood-platelets < 100,000/mm3

        4. Severe or chronic renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance ≤ 30 ml/min);

        5. Patient unable to follow procedures, visits, examinations described in the study;

        6. Any usual formal indication against imaging examinations (important claustrophobia,
           pacemaker);
    
  