
    
      Clinical and scientific significance. Health outcomes, as well as physical and cognitive
      function, have been shown to be negatively impacted by comorbidity beyond the bare sum of
      effects due to the single diseases. One such comorbidity is diabetes mellitus (DM), a global
      health issue and the fifth major cause of death in Taiwan from 1987 to 2001. Starting in
      2002, DM has become the fourth. Hip-fractured elderly persons with DM were shown in our
      previous studies to have significantly higher mortality and readmission rates and poorer
      recovery in walking ability and various physical health outcomes than those without DM during
      the first year after discharge. Clinical evidence has shown that elderly patients with hip
      fracture can benefit from postoperative rehabilitation, early discharge-planning programs, or
      transitional care programs. However, little is known about effective interventions
      specifically for hip fractured patients with DM.

      Research Purposes. The purpose of this study is to 1) develop a well-conceived and feasible
      protocol for hospital discharge and subacute care for hip-fractured elderly persons with DM,
      and 2) compare the costs and effectiveness of this DM-specific model with those of an
      effective subacute care model previously developed by our research team.

      Data and Methods. A clinical trial with 1-year follow-up will be used to compare the
      cost-effectiveness of the DM-specific model in 88 hip-fractured elderly patients with that of
      our subacute care model (n=88) and routine care (n=88). Patients will be recruited through
      the emergency room of Chang Gung Memorial Hospital (CGMH) at Lin Kuo. Subjects will be
      assessed before surgery, before discharge, at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after discharge for
      biometric measures, DM-related outcomes, clinical outcomes, self-care ability, health-related
      quality of life, service utilization, and costs of care. To maximize outcomes sensitive to
      the intervention, biometric measures of activity will be included, i.e., daily energy
      consumption and arterial stiffness index. DM-related variables will include haemoglobin A1c
      (HbA1c), tendon reflexes, superficial and deep sensation, peripheral pulses, diabetic
      retinopathy, signs of "diabetic foot," use of medication, and clinical procedures. The study
      has already been approved by the Institutional Review Board of CGMH. Trajectories of the
      outcome variables and their predictors will be analyzed by the generalized estimating
      equations (GEE) approach. The cost of the three care models will also be compared. Findings
      of this study can contribute to current knowledge and practice for elderly patients with DM
      recovering from hip-fracture surgery.
    
  