
    
      Currently, it is the standard of care to use the pp65 antigenemia assay to guide
      anti-cytomegalovirus therapy in hematopoietic stem cell transplant patients. Nevertheless,
      over the past two years at our institution, only approximately 10% of antigenemia-positive
      patients went on to develop overt CMV disease and only 22% of patients with documented
      clinical CMV disease had a positive antigenemia test in the two weeks prior to diagnosis
      (data on file).

      Recently, a test called CMV Real-Time PCR has been applied to the diagnosis of CMV infection.
      Preliminary data suggests that this test may be of value in detecting active CMV replication.
      Thus, it may be able to predict CMV disease and help guide antiviral therapy.

      We propose a prospective observational study comparing CMV Real-Time PCR test and pp65
      antigenemia. This will be done by taking an extra blood sample (approximately 5 mL) for the
      CMV Real-Time PCR test from hematopoietic stem cell transplant patients whenever a sample for
      the pp65 antigenemia test is drawn. No separate venipunctures are anticipated. These samples
      will be drawn on an approximately weekly basis during the first 100 days post-transplant, as
      is currently done for the pp65 antigenemia test alone. Additionally, at any time blood is
      drawn for the pp65 antigenemia test after 100 days, we will also take blood for the CMV
      Real-Time PCR test, up to one year post-transplant. The results of the CMV Real-Time PCR test
      will not be used to guide therapy. Overt CMV disease will be identified via real-time chart
      review and patient interviews by one of the investigators in the study. The primary goal of
      the study is to evaluate the ability of the CMV Real-Time PCR test to accurately detect
      active CMV viral proliferation and predict ultimate overt CMV disease as compared to the
      currently-used pp65 antigenemia test.
    
  