
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1
      overall response rate (ORR) in subsets of patients with advanced rare cancers treated with
      ipilimumab plus nivolumab combination immunotherapy.

      II. To evaluate the overall response rate (ORR) in patients with gestational trophoblastic
      tumors treated with ipilimumab plus nivolumab combination immunotherapy.

      III. To evaluate the RECIST v1.1 overall response rate (ORR) in patients PD-L1 amplified
      cancers treated with nivolumab immunotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate toxicities in each cohort. II. To estimate overall survival (OS),
      progression-free survival (PFS), clinical benefit rate; and to estimate immune related
      (i)RECIST ORR (iORR), and iRECIST PFS (iPFS) across cohorts and within each cohort.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (ALL COHORTS EXCEPT THE PD-L1 AMPLIFIED COHORT): Patients receive nivolumab
      intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 15, and 29 and ipilimumab IV over 60 minutes on
      day 1. Treatment repeats every 42 days for up to 17 cycles (2 years) in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who complete 17 cycles (2 years) of
      therapy, may continue receiving the same treatment with nivolumab and ipilimumab, or receive
      nivolumab once every 14 or 28 days (2 weeks or 4 weeks) per physician discretion in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who stop treatment prior to
      the completion of 17 cycles of therapy may receive nivolumab once every 14 or 28 days (2
      weeks or 4 weeks) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (PD-L1 AMPLIFIED COHORT): Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 15
      and 29. Treatment repeats every 42 days for up to 17 cycles (2 years) in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 17 cycles (2 years) of therapy, patients
      may receive nivolumab once every 14 or 28 days (2 weeks or 4 weeks) in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 10 years from registration.
    
  