
    
      Background and Significance:

      Smoking during pregnancy is associated with a plethora of negative effects on the fetus,
      including preterm birth, low birth weight, fetal growth restriction, placental abruption,
      fetal/neonatal death, sudden infant death syndrome, learning disabilities and attention
      deficit disorder. Quitting smoking improves the health of the fetus, and if the cessation is
      maintained, the health of the mother and other family members living in the household. Yet
      despite the commonly known evidence of the harms, as much as half of women who smoke continue
      to do so when becoming pregnant.

      Cognitive-behavioral cessation interventions for pregnant smokers have had modest success
      with quit rates that range from 10 to 30%. Interventions have included face-to-face
      counseling or telephone counseling, neither of which is easily disseminable in the health
      care setting. Using SMS (Short Message Service) text messaging to deliver counseling has the
      potential for efficacy and widespread dissemination. The only trial that used text messaging
      to target cessation during pregnancy found null results. Thus, a counseling intervention via
      SMS texting might not be potent enough to promote cessation; pregnant smokers might need more
      assistance. Scheduled gradual reduction (SGR) might be an effective strategy to supplement
      counseling. SGR first assesses smokers' patterns, then over the course of three or four
      weeks, gradually reduces the number of cigarettes smoked by lengthening the time interval
      between cigarettes. Thus, smokers might be prompted to smoke at a time when they do not want
      to smoke and might not be prompted to smoke at a time when they want to smoke. The smoking
      becomes unlinked from the cues (psychological and behavioral), and smokers must work through
      their times of craving (physiological). Therefore, when cigarettes get fewer and fewer in the
      last two weeks, smokers should have an easier time giving them up completely.

      Knowing whether an SMS text-messaging intervention plus a SMS text-based counseling
      intervention helps pregnant smokers quit could significantly improve the maternal and fetal
      health of any pregnant woman with a cell phone with texting ability. Most previous
      efficacious interventions that have helped pregnant smokers quit are not easily disseminated.
      A texting intervention could impact many pregnant women's health given the reach and
      disseminability.

      Design:

      The two-arm randomized controlled trial compares Arm 1, SGR via SMS text messaging plus SMS
      Support Messages to Arm 2, SMS Support Messages alone. The study team will conduct three
      face-to-face surveys, one at baseline (between 10 and 28 weeks of pregnancy), one in the late
      third trimester, and another at 3 months postpartum. The study team will biochemically
      validate smoking abstinence and reduction via saliva. Women randomized to Arm 1 will start to
      receive SGR messages one week after they enroll. They will receive these messages for 3-5
      weeks depending on the amount of cigarettes they smoke at time of enrollment. Women
      randomized to both arms will receive Support messages from the time of enrollment through 35
      weeks gestation.
    
  