
    
      Prospective subjects will be randomized to the PTB prevention strategy (PTB Prevention arm)
      or to standard of care management (Control arm). Subjects randomized to the preterm birth
      prevention strategy will receive either routine standard of care pregnancy management or a
      multimodal intervention protocol reserved for higher risk pregnancies based on the results of
      a commercially-available laboratory developed test, PreTRM® (Sera Prognostics, Inc). The
      intervention protocol utilizes well-established high-risk pregnancy interventions to improve
      maternal and neonatal health outcomes.

      After enrollment, all subjects will have a blood sample collected once between 19 1/7 weeks
      and 20 6/7 weeks (134-146 days) of pregnancy. Subjects will be randomized 1:1 to participate
      in the preterm birth prevention strategy arm or standard of care for pregnancy (Control) arm.
      Subjects randomized to the Control arm will not receive PreTRM® test results. Subjects
      randomized to the PTB Prevention arm will receive the results of the PreTRM® test. Results
      will be reported to the subject, the study Investigator, and the subject's primary pregnancy
      care provider as "higher risk" of prematurity (≥15%) or "not higher" risk. Subjects with
      results less than 15% risk (Not Higher Risk Group) by the PreTRM® test will receive standard
      of care for the duration of pregnancy through hospital discharge. Subjects with results at
      15% risk of preterm delivery or greater (Higher Risk Group, equivalent to 2.0-fold the
      general population risk) by the PreTRM® test will complete a second consenting process to
      receive a prespecified intervention protocol directed toward reducing risk of adverse
      pregnancy outcomes inclusive of neonatal morbidity and mortality. All subjects will be
      followed through the duration of the pregnancy and delivery, and their neonates until initial
      hospital discharge to assess the course of pregnancy, labor, and any related maternal or
      fetal complications.

      Birth outcomes will be obtained, and liveborn neonates followed through hospital discharge.
      Readmission of infants will be assessed at 180 days, 1 year and 3 years of life using the
      HealthCore Integrated Research Database to evaluate longer-term outcomes and costs associated
      with preterm delivery.
    
  