
    
      Pre-diabetes is an intermediate state of hyperglycaemia with glycaemic parameters above
      normal but below the type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) threshold. It was estimated that >25% of
      individuals who are pre-diabetic convert to T2DM within 3-5 years and 70% of individuals with
      pre-diabetes will develop into full-fledge T2DM within their lifetimes. According to the 2017
      estimate, the disease burden of pre-diabetes at Western Pacific region was 7.6% (126.7
      millions). The situation is more alarming in Malaysia where a national pre-diabetes
      prevalence of 22.1% was noted. Currently available support and self-care services offered in
      Public Hospitals such as the Diabetes Mellitus Treatment Adherence Clinics (DMTAC) are
      managed based on the in-person appointment basis. Most of the clinics are available only in
      specific locations. The need to travel long distance as well as long waiting hours has
      deterred the success of the programs. This is particularly true for the urban poor who are
      less likely to take time off from work than those from the higher income group. It is also
      noteworthy to state that the management program when available, generally target the
      diagnosed T2DM patients.

      Studies have shown that individuals with pre-diabetes can substantially reduce their risk of
      progression to T2DM via participation in evidence-based lifestyle change programs. Previous
      reports have recorded 54-58% reduction in risk for development to T2DM over 1-3 years with
      the protective benefit persisting up to 10 years following completion of the program.
      However, there are several considerations when implementing effective lifestyle intervention
      program among the pre-diabetes populations in Malaysia. The intervention program should
      easily be accessible and not confined to public primary and secondary healthcare centres
      which are already suffering from an overcapacity. Furthermore, consultation should be
      provided by properly trained healthcare professionals while the ease of communication between
      the patients and the "lifestyle coach" should be made available.

      The advancement of information technology coupled with the increasing availability and
      acceptance of internet and mobile devices provide useful opportunities for application of
      wireless and mobile technology in order to enhance self-management of chronic conditions. The
      incorporation of digital technologies can improve patient adherence and facilitate real-time
      monitoring of vital biological measurements (i.e. via wearable). Additionally, the "mobile
      health" (mHealth) services are easily scalable, thus providing opportunities to a greater
      public accessibility and narrow the disparity in access to disease management. In this study,
      the investigators propose to pilot a digital health supported pre-diabetes management program
      based in an urban community pharmacy setting
    
  