
    
      Topical photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a well-established treatment for dermatological
      pre-malignant actinic keratoses and Morbus Bowen as well as selected cases of basal cell
      carcinomas. PDT is exceedingly well suited for treatment of larger skin areas and provide
      excellent cosmetic results. PDT is based on the photosensitizing drug 5-aminolevulinic acid
      (5-ALA) that is metabolized into the light-sensitive Protoporphyrin IX, and activated in the
      skin by light in the visible spectrum. When skin incubated with 5-ALA subsequently is exposed
      to light, photoactivated PpIX catalyzes a photochemical reaction, which leads to cell
      apoptosis of the dysplastic or neoplastic tissue. The amount of PpIX fluorescence in the skin
      is estimated by PpIX fluorescence measurements on skin surface by fluorescence photographs
      and in the skin depth with fluorescence microscopy. Previous studies have suggested an
      association of the amount of PpIX in the skin and the clinical outcome of PDT.

      The highly lipophilic nature of the stratum corneum (SC) provides the main barrier for influx
      of drugs and environmental chemicals into the body (6). SC is the greatest impediment for
      uptake of 5-ALA and the formation of PpIX can be increased by modifying the SC. Pretreatment
      of the skin facilitates local uptake of photosensitizing agents and is therefore recommended
      to obtain optimal outcomes in PDT. Recently, different energy-based devices have been
      introduced for PDT pretreatment to disrupt the SC barrier and effectively increase PpIX
      accumulation. However, current light-based treatments, such as ablative and non-ablative
      lasers, are painful to patients and induce thermal damage that result in oozing, crusting or
      peeling of the skin.

      To increase cutaneous absorption with minimal damage to the skin, thermo-mechanical
      fractional intervention (TMFI) has been introduced as a new technology. TMFI rapidly transfer
      thermal energy by a metallic pyramid tip that enable skin contact through integrated pulsed
      movements. The rapid heating dehydrates the epidermis and superficial dermis and create
      micropores with no coagulative damage of surrounding tissue. The amount of thermal energy
      delivered can be adjusted by pulse duration and by the protrusion depth of the tip that sets
      the thermal matching between the tip and the skin. TMFI has in one study shown to increase
      uptake of hydrophilic drugs compared with no skin pretreatment. As TMI dehydrates the
      epidermis, hydrophilic drugs dissolved in a low viscosity liquid-based vehicle may be more
      readily distributed within the skin compared to drugs dissolved in a high viscosity vehicle.

      The investigators hypothesize that i) TMFI increases 5-ALA induced PpIX accumulation compared
      with no pretreatment and that ii) TMFI + 5-ALA in a low viscosity vehicle formulation
      enhances PpIX skin biodistribution compared with 5-ALA in a high viscosity vehicle
      formulation.

      Potentially, TMFI pretreatment could improve PpIX biodistribution and reduce photosensitizer
      incubation time to obtain sufficient PpIX accumulation. This could significantly benefit
      thousands of patients who each year undergo PDT for dysplastic skin lesions.
    
  