
    
      This study was designed as a prospective, controlled, randomized, four-armed, efficacy trial
      of patients with the diagnosis of HFpEF and New York Heart Association functional class
      II-III/IV, diagnosed according to criteria of the European Society of Cardiology. A
      computer-generated randomization scheme was used to allocate participants (in a 1:1:1:1
      ratio) to receive: 1) a home-based 12-week program of inspiratory muscle training (IMT) or;
      2) a 12-week program of functional electrical stimulation (FES) of lower limb muscles or; 3)
      standard treatment (ST) alone or; 4) combination of IMT and FES. The study is being conducted
      in a single center in Spain. Independently of staggered entry, the minimum duration of a
      patient's participation is 6 months (from first to last visit). All patients will provide
      signed informed consent and the protocol has been approved by the research ethics committee
      of our center in accordance with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and national
      regulations.

      Study population Candidate patients are selected from the outpatient's clinics of HF of the
      Hospital Clínico Universitario of Valencia.

      Study objectives The primary endpoint of the study is a clinical endpoint of three and six
      months change in peak oxygen uptake (peak VO2).

      Secondary endpoints are three and six month changes in echocardiogram parameters, QoL and
      prognostic biomarkers. The investigators also will specifically focus on number of episodes
      of worsening HF at 6 months:

        1. Change in E/e' after three and six months.

        2. Change in left atrial volume index after three and six months.

        3. Change in health-related QoL measured by the Minnesota Living With Heart Failure
           Questionnaire (MLHF) after three and six months.

        4. Change in natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) after three and six months.

        5. Change in minute ventilation/carbon dioxide production (VE/VCO2) slope after three and
           six months.

        6. Number of episodes of acute HF hospitalizations and number of episodes of worsening HF
           not requiring hospitalization at 6 months.

      Intervention

      Eligibility assessment and screening visit After reviewing the inclusion/exclusion criteria
      and signing the informed consent form, a comprehensive medical history, physical examination,
      anthropometry and examination tests will be performed. The examination tests include:
      electrocardiogram (ECG) echocardiography, cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET), 6-minute
      walk test (6-MWT), inspiratory muscle function test, QoL assessment by the Minnesota Living
      With Heart Failure Questionnaire (MLHF) and blood samples for a panel of baseline biomarkers.

      Finally, patients are randomized (1:1:1:1) to four groups: 1) ST alone or; 2) a home-based
      12-week program of IMT or; 3) a 12-week program of FES or; 4) combination of IMT and FES
      (IMT+FES) during 12 weeks.

      12-week and six months visits All patients will be evaluated after 12-week supervised
      training, and six months after randomization. Evaluation will include medical history,
      physical examination, anthropometry and functional and QoL assessment tests (ECG, CPET,
      6-MWT, inspiratory muscle function test, MLHF and blood tests).
    
  