
    
      Based on the historical clinical data of more than 1 million pediatric outpatients in the
      Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical Center, an AI diagnostic framework has recently been
      developed for common pediatric diseases [Liang H et al. evaluation and accurate diagnosis of
      pediatric disease using artificial intelligence. Nat Med. 2019;25(3):433-8]. This AI
      framework utilizes predefined schema to extract informative clinical data from free text and
      reaches clinical diagnoses by hypothetico-deductive reasoning. In internal validation, the AI
      system showed accuracy rates ranging from 0.85 for gastrointestinal disease to 0.98 for
      neuropsychiatric disorders, suggesting that it might be a promising assisting diagnostic tool
      in clinical practice. However, there is a lack of evidence-based strategy on how to handle
      the scenarios where the AI-based diagnosis and the diagnosis made by pediatricians are
      discordant. It is legitimate to assume that diseases with discordant diagnoses present more
      similar clinical features; in this case it is necessary to introduce an extra arbitrator for
      differential and decisive diagnosis. Therefore, we conduct this randomized controlled trial
      to: 1) compare the accuracy of the two diagnostic modes in a real-world clinical setting
      where the AI-based diagnosis and the diagnosis made by pediatricians are discordant by
      introducing an expert arbitrator; and 2) look further into the change of clinical outcomes
      (hospital revisit and hospitalization in the next 3 months after initial visit; average total
      outpatient cost) due to introduction of the expert arbitrator. Please note that although the
      aforementioned AI framework was designed for diagnosis of a wide range of diseases, this
      clinical trial is limited to outpatients encountered in three specialty clinics, i.e.
      respirology, gastroenterology, and genito-urology. The reason for this selection is that the
      discordant diagnoses are assumed to be more common for these two specialties according to the
      internal validation result.
    
  