
    
      Despite the well-established negative effects of postpartum depression on mother and child,
      most efforts have been directed at treating women already exhibiting depressive episodes
      rather than prevention. Emphasis on treatment neglects the large number of women with mild to
      moderate depressive symptoms, in high psychosocial risk contexts, who are at risk for
      developing postpartum depression. Interventions exist that are efficacious in preventing the
      onset and worsening of depression among perinatal women. In particular, the PI and colleagues
      have demonstrated that the Mothers and Babies Course (MB) prevents the worsening of
      depressive symptoms and onset of new major depressive episodes.

      Prior MB trials suggest the intervention is less successful for women who exhibit smaller
      changes in hypothesized intervention mechanisms and less fully engage in homework completion
      between sessions-a core component of cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) interventions like
      MB. Previous postpartum depression preventive interventions-including MB-have neglected to
      intervene with partners of pregnant women, despite the growing recognition that paternal
      depression also exerts influence on children's social-emotional development and occurs in a
      similar time-frame. Thus, in an otherwise successful intervention, these limitations-mixed
      success in improving hypothesized intervention mechanisms and limited engagement of
      fathers-may mitigate intervention efficacy. The investigators hypothesize that core MB
      modules will prevent onset of major depressive episodes and worsening of depressive symptoms.
      The investigators also conceptualize that relationships between MB modules and maternal
      mental health outcomes will be mediated by mechanisms that are the direct focus of MB
      content.

      This study addresses these limitations. The investigators will collaborate with 10-12 home
      visiting (HV) programs serving primarily low-income women. HV is an ideal setting for this
      study given the large numbers of perinatal women they serve and will build on existing
      relationships with HV programs in Illinois. In Phase 1, the investigators will recruit 108
      pregnant women for a randomized controlled trial (RCT) in which half the participants will
      receive MB and half will receive MB with a text message enhancement (MB-TXT). MB-TXT will
      provide reinforcement of key MB skills that are linked to hypothesized mechanisms of change,
      promote completion of MB personal projects (homework), and facilitate self-monitoring of
      one's mood.

      Aim 1. To determine the feasibility and acceptability of conducting the MB-TXT intervention
      protocol across three HV programs in preparation for a larger fully powered RCT. Using MB
      text messages already developed by Co-I Barrera, we will collect data on home visitor
      adherence to delivering text messages at specified intervals, percentage of clients
      responding to text messages, and client comprehension of text messages as well as perceptions
      of text messages' utility.

      Aim 2. To calculate a preliminary effect size that could be used, along with other relevant
      data, to calculate sample size for a future fully powered RCT.

      H1. Women receiving MB-TXT will exhibit greater reductions in depressive symptoms, compared
      to women receiving MB.

      H2. Women receiving MB-TXT will experience greater changes in hypothesized intervention
      mechanisms compared to women receiving MB-specifically, fewer negative cognitions and
      increased behavioral activation, use of social support networks, and mood regulation.

      H3. Women who participate in MB-TXT will report greater completion of personal projects.
    
  