
    
      Background: Since the initial Japanese description of Takotsubo's cardiomyopathy in 1991 as a
      transient systolic dysfunction of the apical or mid left ventricular segments in the absence
      of obstructive coronary artery disease, stress induced cardiomyopathy has been increasingly
      recognized in the Unites States. Takotsubo's cardiomyopathy accounts for 1.2 to 2.2 percent
      of all cases of acute coronary syndrome. The current American Heart Association Statistical
      Update estimates that approximately 1.2 million Americans will experience an acute coronary
      event in 2010. Based on this estimate, between 15 and 26 thousand Americans will have stress
      induced cardiomyopathy annually. Takotsubo's cardiomyopathy has also been described in stroke
      and critically ill patients. Post menopausal women are disproportionally affected, accounting
      for 80 to 100 percent of the patient population. These patients classically present with
      signs of acute heart failure or acute coronary syndrome after a severe emotional stress. The
      presentation may include chest pain, shortness of breath, elevated troponin enzymes, ST
      segment elevations, deep T-wave inversions, ventricular arrhythmias, pulmonary edema or
      elevated biomarkers. Cardiac catheterization reveals angiographically normal coronary
      arteries while the ventriculogram and the echocardiogram shows apical ballooning with basal
      hyperkinesis. While the majority of patients recover complete function within few days to two
      weeks, up to eight percent of the patients will die from the acute heart failure.

      The etiology of stress-induced cardiomyopathy remains speculative. Catecholamine excess
      leading to microvascular dysfunction or direct cardiomyocyte toxicity is hypothesized as the
      most likely etiology. This hypothesis is supported by the fact that most patients with
      Takotsubo's cardiomyopathy experience an intense physical or emotional stress. Furthermore,
      several other observations support this hypothesis. First, catecholamines levels are elevated
      in patients with stress induced cardiomyopathy at presentation when compared to patients with
      acute coronary syndrome. Second, multi-vessel coronary vasospasm and transient myocardial
      perfusion defects have been identified repeatedly in this population. Third, myocardial
      biopsies show myocarditis, interstitial fibrosis and mononuclear infiltrates, signs
      consistent with catecholamine toxicity. Fourth, in a mouse model, elevated epinephrine levels
      cause a switch from beta-2 adrenoreceptor mediated Gs protein signaling to Gi protein
      signaling, which is negatively inotropic. These findings all support the theory that there is
      altered sympathetic activity in patients with stress induced cardiomyopathy.

      Thus, based on the existing knowledge base of this intriguing disease, an imaging approach
      that specifically evaluates the sympathetic activation state of the myocardium would appear
      to be ideally suited to further explore pathophysiology. I-123 radiolabeled
      metaiodobenzylguanidine, (mIBG) imaging allows for direct analysis of cardiac sympathetic
      function because it is structurally similar to norepinephrine (NE), and is transported into
      the cardiac sympathetic neurons by human norepinephrine transporter 1 ( hNET1), in the
      synaptic cleft. Unlike NE, mIBG is not metabolized by monoamine oxidase or catechol-o-methyl
      transferase. mIBG requires an intact myocardial sympathetic nervous system for uptake, is
      stored in the presynaptic vesicles and is released by stimulation with acetylcholine.
      Experimental manipulation of cardiac sympathetic function alters mIBG uptake and
      distribution. Planar imaging acquisition enables evaluation of sympathetic activation, while
      SPECT characterizes regional abnormalities. Measurement of the heart to mediastinal ratio
      during early and delayed planimetry assesses the initial uptake and washout of the tracer.
      mIBG uptake follows one of three general patterns: good uptake and retention, good uptake
      with washout or poor uptake. The different patterns likely represent the level of sympathetic
      activation, increase in sympathetic tone and heart failure-induced damage to the myocardial
      sympathetic nervous system. mIBG uptake is altered in patient with diabetic neuropathy,
      congestive heart failure, myocardial infarction. The uptake and washout patterns correlate
      with severity of neuropathy, severity of congestive heart failure, congestive heart failure
      treatment response, improvement in ejection fraction, cardiac death and ventricular
      arrhythmogenic potential.

      Preliminary data in patients with Takotsubo's cardiomyopathy has shown decrease in mIBG
      uptake with an increased washout in the acute phase, with improved retention after left
      ventricular functional recovery. Furthermore, regional decrease in tracer uptake corresponds
      to the regional wall motion abnormalities. However, a systematic exploration of mIBG uptake
      patterns in consecutive patients with Takotsubo's cardiomyopathy has not been performed. Of
      note, PET imaging with 11C Hydroxyephedrine has described similar sympathetic dysfunction in
      Takotsubo's cardiomyopathy.
    
  