
    
      Human umbilical cord (hUC)-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have been shown to have
      marked therapeutic effects in a number of inflammatory diseases and autoimmune diseases in
      humans based on their potential for immunosuppression and their low immunogenicity.
      Currently, no more data is available on the safety and effectiveness of hUC-MSCs to treat
      immune thrombocytopenia patients.

      This is a single-arm study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of hUC-MSCs to treat
      refractory immune thrombocytopenia（ITP）. In addition, it is the objective of this study to
      observe the changes of immune function in refractory ITP patients after hUC-MSCs infusion,
      and to explore and reveal the mechanism of hUC-MSCs in treating ITP.

      The investigator will assess the changes of the platelet counts after hUC-MSCs infusion from
      week 1 to week 28, and observe incidence of adverse events during and after hUC-MSCs
      infusion.The investigator will complete virus detection( including HBV, HCV, HIV, Syphilis,
      etc) at week 4 and week 16 after hUC-MSCs infusion.

      The dose of hUC-MSCs will be successively divided into three increasing dose(group A:
      hUC-MSCs 0.5×10^6/kg, weekly for 4 weeks, 3 patients; group B: hUC-MSCs 1.0×10^6/kg, weekly
      for 4 weeks, 3 patients; hUC-MSCs 2.0×10^6/kg, weekly for 4 weeks, 3 patients) with 3
      patients in each group according to the dose.

      The principle of increasing dose will be carried out successively from low dose to high dose
      group. According to the results of the safety and efficacy data from these 9 patients, the
      investigator will determine one of the doses and expand the sample size to 6 cases.

      The investigator will observe the concentration of hUC-MSCs in peripheral blood from female
      patients after the first hUC-MSCs infusion at 10 time points, including 30 minutes before
      hUC-MSCs infusion, 30 minutes, 60 minutes, 2 hours, 4 hours, 8 hours, 16 hours, 24 hours,48
      hours and 96 hours after the first hUC-MSCs infusion.

      The investigator will detect antibody production of hUC-MSCs in peripheral blood from the
      first 9 patients at 2 time points, including 30 minutes before the first hUC-MSCs infusion
      and 48 hours after the last hUC-MSCs infusion.

      The investigator will observe the changes of immune function in refractory ITP patients after
      hUC-MSCs infusion at 7 time points, including one day before hUC-MSCs infusion, 2 weeks, 4
      weeks, 8 weeks, 12 weeks, 16weeks and 28 weeks after hUC-MSCs infusion.
    
  