
    
      Chronic lung disease is common in the veteran population. While chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD) is most prominent, fibrotic lung diseases, typified by idiopathic pulmonary
      fibrosis (IPF), are clearly increasing. We have developed extensive experience with a VA
      idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) population in the context of a randomized, controlled
      clinical trial of vasodilator therapy.

      Based on the current literature and our preliminary experience with exercise testing in IPF
      patients, we hypothesize that:

        1. Formal pulmonary rehabilitation (i.e., an aerobic exercise program) will result in
           improved outcomes for IPF patients, demonstrable as an:

             1. Increase in exercise tolerance as quantified by 6-minute walk test (MWT) distance;

             2. Decrease in post-exercise dyspnea as quantified by the Borg dyspnea scale; and an

             3. Overall subjective improvement in quality of life as quantified by Saint George's
                Respiratory Questionnaire.

        2. Metabolic and physiologic mechanisms of improved exercise tolerance and decreased
           dyspnea will include:

             1. More efficient oxygen metabolism demonstrated by maximum O2 uptake (VO2max);

             2. Decreased post-exercise oxidant stress demonstrated by post-exercise isoprostanes
                and plasma total antioxidant capacity (TAC); and,

             3. Maintenance of maximum inspiratory and expiratory pressures (PInmax and PExmax).

      Our Specific Objectives are:

        1. To investigate formal pulmonary rehabilitation and exercise tolerance in IPF patients

           The following important endpoints will be assessed to test the working hypothesis that
           pulmonary rehabilitation improves exercise capacity and lessens dyspnea:

             1. 6-MWT distance;

             2. Dyspnea index; and,

             3. Quality of life (Saint George's Respiratory Questionnaire [SGRQ] and International
                Physical Activity Questionnaire [IPAQ]).

        2. To assess changes in oxygen uptake, markers of oxidant stress and pulmonary function
           resulting from pulmonary rehabilitation

      To test the working hypothesis that improved outcomes are associated with more efficient O2
      utilization, decreased markers of oxidant stress and maintained effort dependent pulmonary
      function, the following variables will be measured:

        1. Peak oxygen uptake (VO2peak) during constant load exercise;

        2. Markers of oxidant stress, including plasma and urine isoprostanes; and,

        3. Maximum inspiratory and expiratory pressures (PInmax and PExmax). Completion of these
           Specific Objectives will position our research group to conduct future studies of 1)
           mechanisms of exercise limitation and 2) antioxidant therapies, both in this defined
           population and those who are at risk of developing pulmonary fibrosis. The long term
           impact of this application is thus to develop effective pulmonary rehabilitation
           strategies for IPF patients, based on knowledge of underlying changes in oxygen
           metabolism and oxidant stress.
    
  