
    
      Infective endocarditis (IE) is an uncommon but virulent infection disease. One of the most
      frequent etiology for this infection is Enterococcus faecalis. IE treatment is difficult due
      to the characteristics of the infection itself, the bacterial species and the frequent
      comorbidities of the patients. A bactericidal antimicrobial treatment is mandatory for the
      resolution of this disease, but most antibiotics do not exhibit this effect against E.
      faecalis and have prompted the combination of an aminoglycoside and a cell-wall active agent
      (generally a β-lactam) as the standard treatment. This is a lengthy treatment (4-6 weeks) and
      its primary side effect is nephrotoxicity. Furthermore, aminoglycoside resistant strain's
      rates are increasing in USA and Europe, getting more complicated to establish an effective
      antibiotic regimen. Nowadays, patients with E. faecalis IE are old and often have significant
      underlying comorbidities with an increased risk of developing nephrotoxicity with
      aminoglycoside treatment. For this reason, and for the relevance of high-level
      aminoglycoside-resistant strains, some alternatives have been explored. A double β-lactam
      regimen is an option, despite the intrinsically resistance of E. faecalis to cephalosporins.
      The most studied combination is a regimen based on ampicillin plus ceftriaxone, which has
      shown a synergistic effect in vitro. This combination is as effective as ampicillin plus
      gentamycin, but with lower nephrotoxicity. Those patients need at least 4-6 weeks of
      treatment with a prolonged hospitalization. However, after 2 week of treatment some patients
      are clinically stabilized and could be benefit of an outpatient parenteral antibiotic therapy
      (OPAT) program. For that purpose, it is essential to design a treatment regimen, which
      ensures the effectiveness and safety of the treatment, based on stability and pharmacokinetic
      and pharmacodynamics (PK/PD) studies of the administered drugs. Furthermore, the logistic and
      schedule should be simple enough to enable the inclusion in an OPAT program. In order to
      design an antibiotic regimen suitable for OPAT programs and as effective as the standard
      therapies for E. faecalis IE, we decided to start clinical trial.

      The clinical trial is designed as a phase II, crossover clinical trial. It will be carried
      out in healthy volunteers, who will receive two different antibiotic regimen based on
      ceftriaxone. One of the regimens had shown clinical effectiveness in this scenario, but it is
      not suitable for OPAT programs. In the other hand, a new treatment schema useful in OPAT
      programs is proposed, but there is still a lack of pharmacokinetic data to support it. The
      plasma drug concentrations will be measured in both cases, comparing the minimal drug
      concentration observed and the pharmacokinetic profiles of the two regimens.
    
  