
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare invasive disease-free survival of patients with hormone receptor positive
           early-stage breast cancer treated with metformin vs placebo in addition to standard
           adjuvant therapy.

      Secondary

        -  To compare overall survival of these patients.

        -  To compare distant disease-free survival of these patients.

        -  To compare breast cancer-free interval in these patients.

        -  To compare changes in body mass index in these patients.

        -  To compare adverse events in these patients.

        -  To compare other medical endpoints, including a new diagnosis of diabetes mellitus or
           cardiovascular hospitalization (including an emergency room visit or overnight stay) or
           death (stroke or myocardial infarction), in these patients.

        -  To compare health-related quality of life measured using the EORTC QLQ-C30 (supplemented
           by a trial-specific checklist), the Block Alive Screener, and physical activity items
           from the Nurses Health Study Questionnaire II on a subset of these patients.

        -  To compare embedded correlative science outcomes including plasma insulin and molecular
           markers of metformin action in these patients.

        -  To compare metabolic parameters including metabolic components of the insulin resistance
           syndrome as defined by the ATP III criteria in a subset of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to hormone-receptor
      status (estrogen receptor- and/or progesterone receptor- positive vs both receptors
      negative), body mass index (≤ 30 vs > 30 kg/m²), HER2 status (positive vs negative), and
      prior chemotherapy (any vs none). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral metformin hydrochloride twice daily (once daily in weeks
           1-4). Treatment continues for up to 5 years in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo twice daily (once daily in weeks 1-4). Treatment
           continues for up to 5 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Blood and tumor samples are collected periodically for correlative studies.

      Patients may complete quality-of-life, physical activity, and diet questionnaires at baseline
      and at 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months. (Sub-set of patients).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed annually.
    
  