
    
      Clinical Outcomes Modeling for Laryngectomy Surgery Patients and Efficacy of Hyperbaric
      Oxygen Therapy, with Ara Chalian, MD as Project Leader, will develop a predictive model for
      surgical risk among patients requiring laryngectomy due to cancer, validate the model and
      assess the efficacy of HB02 therapy for improving outcome. The focus will be to determine the
      patho-physiological basis for heightened surgical risk among post-radiation head and neck
      patients and the efficacy of hyperbaric oxygen (HB02) therapy for improving outcome.

      This multidisciplinary center will investigate the mechanisms of action, safety, and clinical
      efficacy of Hyperbaric Oxygen (HB02) Therapy. The group will evaluate if HB02 therapy will
      benefit patients who must undergo laryngectomy and reconstructive surgery after radiation
      therapy because, at pharmacological doses, oxygen augments angiogenesis and impedes specific
      types of intercellular adherence.

      The project tests two hypotheses: (1) Predictive models can be developed for sub-groups of
      head and neck cancer patients who have undergone surgery based on tumor specific site,
      previous treatment, and co-morbidity and predict which patients will have complications
      (wound infection and fistula), and (2) HB02 given by a standard protocol can modify tissue
      hypoxia and vascularity that is present in patients with previous radiation therapy to the
      neck who have recurrent or secondary cancers requiring laryngectomy. The specific aims are
      to: (1) develop a detailed database model to predict the risk of developing post-operative
      complications in complex head and neck aerodigestive tract cancer resections, (2) conduct
      prospective validation of the predictive model using data on patients treated at the
      University of Pennsylvania Head and Neck Cancer Center, (3) determine whether hyperbaric
      oxygen therapy alters post-surgical complication rates and acute and long-term quality of
      life. The studies include evaluation of clinical parameters, surgical outcome and quality of
      life measurements, and objective, laboratory-based assessments of the magnitude of
      hypoxia/vascularization in surgical zones and tumors to provide objective data on surgical
      risk and clinical responses to HB02 therapy.

      The prospective trial allows for planned follow-up and data collection for modeling and tumor
      oxygenation assessments for patients undergoing laryngectomy. The randomized trial is a
      treatment trial, comparing standard care before and after laryngectomy to the intervention of
      pre- & post-operative HBO2 in conjunction with laryngectomy. All patients receive nutritional
      counseling, speech therapy, and comprehensive peri-surgical care.
    
  