
    
      Chronic congestive heart failure (CHF) is a public health problem that entails high rates of
      morbidity and mortality, and enormous costs for health systems worldwide. In the United
      States there are 5 million people living with CHF, and each year 60.000 people reach terminal
      phases of the disease, with mortality rates of 70-80% at two years. Although the first cause
      of CHF in developed countries is atherosclerotic coronary artery disease (CAD), dilated
      idiopathic cardiomyopathy (DCM) represents almost half of the cases of newly diagnosed CHF.
      Treatment of CHF includes pharmacological and non-pharmacological strategies, including
      implantable cardioverter defibrillators, cardiac resynchronization therapy and heart
      transplantation. Despite all these advances, CHF prognosis remains poor. Cardiac stem cell
      therapy emerged more than ten years ago as a new hope for CHF patients.

      Although the most extensive evidence of the benefits of stem cell therapy for cardiovascular
      diseases refers to ischemic heart disease (CAD), initial experiences with stem cells for
      other conditions such as DCM are encouraging.

      This randomized clinical trial will include 70 patients with DCM, left ventricular ejection
      fraction (LVEF) between 20% and 45%, and who are symptomatic in New York Heart Association
      (NYHA) functional class II-III/IV. In a first-in-man pilot phase, 10 patients will be treated
      with transendocardial injections of bone marrow-derived MSCs after cardiac catheterization
      and NOGA XPTM mapping of the left ventricle. A Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will
      analyse the safety and feasibility of this first phase of the trial, and then 60 patients
      more will be randomized to receive MSCs or placebo (ratio 3:1).

      Primary objectives include safety and feasibility variables, and secondary objectives include
      efficacy variables. All patients will be studied with a complete cardiac imaging protocol
      that includes: electrocardiography, echocardiography, treadmill tests with oxygen
      consumption, holter, laboratory analyses, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), single photon
      emission computed tomography (SPECT), electromechanical mapping (NOGA XPTM) and quality of
      life questionnaires.
    
  