
    
      Purpose: This study will evaluate the inclusion of myoActivation in primary care for
      marginalized persons with concurrent opioid use disorder (OUD), chronic pain and trauma
      history. The research aims to investigate whether myoActivation improves pain intensity,
      quality of life, physical function, and reduces the need for prescribed analgesics (including
      opioids) and reported illicit drug use.

      Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize that patients with chronic pain who are treated
      with myoActivation will experience a reduction in pain and improvement in function and
      quality of life as shown by a 30% reduction on the PEG score (Pain intensity, interference
      with Enjoyment of life, interference with General activity) at 4, 12 and 24 weeks.

      Justification: Chronic pain is typically treated by prescription of analgesic medications,
      including opioids. However, many patients who have overdoses are using opioids and other
      substances (including street drugs, alcohol, and marijuana) to manage chronic pain. There are
      an inadequate number of effective non-pharmacological options to manage chronic pain and wait
      lists for local Vancouver chronic pain clinics are as long as a year. Other treatment
      modalities offered by the Vancouver Community pain service include physiotherapy, counselling
      and group therapy.

      Objectives: The investigators aim to demonstrate an improvement in pain intensity, quality of
      life, and physical function as the primary outcomes. Secondary objectives include reduced
      need for analgesic medications (including opioids) and illicit drug use.

      Research Design: This study is a prospective, mixed method design, including 1:1
      semi-structured patient interviews. It is an observational study: patients will NOT be
      allocated to treatment on the basis of randomization or their enrollment in the study, i.e.
      participants will receive routine clinical care, based on the services offered by the
      clinical team at the pain clinic, and this will not change with their participation in the
      study.

      The study will involve recruitment of sixty patients who attend the pain service on Tuesdays,
      when myoActivation and physiotherapy are offered, and who consent to being contacted for
      follow up data collection and interviews. The aim is to recruit 20 patients receiving
      myoActivation, 20 patients receiving physiotherapy and 20 patients receiving both
      treatments.At the time of recruitment, the subset of patients who have concurrent opioid use
      disorder, other addictions and / or trauma will not be known.

      Data collection includes:

        -  a baseline score of the patients' pain experience using the validated questionnaires
           PEG, Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS) and Pain Self-Efficacy Questionnaire (PSEQ).

        -  information on baseline mental health conditions - OUD, Trauma, Anxiety, Depression,
           Axis 1

        -  PEG, PCS, PSEQ scores as well as the patient reported use of street drugs and pain
           medications will be collected at 4, 12, 24 weeks using a study designed questionnaire

        -  a semi-structured 1:1 patient interview at 12-24 weeks will assess opioid/drug use, as
           well as questions related to changes to housing, finances and overall health; this will
           be conducted with 10 randomly selected participants who have received myoActivation.

      Statistical Analysis: To allow for correlation of repeated data points on the same patient as
      well as the anticipated variability in the number of data points for each patient, a linear
      mixed-effects model will be used to analyze the quantitative data, including PEG score and
      self-reported opioid use. A PEG score decrease of 30% will be taken to indicate an improved
      pain experience. The PCS and PSEQ scores will be used to interpret the severity and change of
      an individual's pain score.

      The patient interview responses will be collated for common themes and used to augment the
      quantitative data outcomes. Interviews will be recorded and transcribed. Thematic analysis
      will be used to identify key words and phrases, list noted benefits of the service, potential
      problems raised and any preferences expressed by participants with respect to the way the
      treatment is administered.
    
  