
    
      This is an open label exploratory study evaluating the efficacy and safety of ingenol
      mebutate 0.05% gel for the treatment of verruca vulgaris. The study will be conducted at one
      site with one investigator, all subjects will receive active drug. Prior to the application
      of the investigational product (IP) on Day 1, the individual warts will be pared down with a
      15 blade up to obtain debridement of intact skin to maximize exposure and allow for effective
      penetration of therapy into the lesion.

      Subjects can be screened for the study up to 45 days before Visit 1. During screening, the
      study requirements will be reviewed, written informed consent obtained, and eligibility
      confirmed. If applicable, qualified subjects can washout from prohibited medications or
      treatments prior to Visit 1 once they have been consented. These procedures may be combined
      with Visit 1.

      There will be one treatment arm, all subjects receive active ingenol mebutate 0.05% gel once
      daily for two consecutive days to lesions. Each subject will be screened for inclusion. The
      treatment will be applied to the entire wart lesion(s) and 0.5 cm margin around the
      lesion(s). All treatments will be applied in the clinic. A minimum of two (2) and a maximum
      of five (5) warts will be treated. In addition, one of the two warts will be identified for
      treatment with occlusion with a bandage each day for 24 hours after each application.

      The subjects will be evaluated at Day 1 and Day 2 when the consecutive applications of
      investigational product will be applied, then at Day 8, 29 and 57 to evaluate anticipated
      efficacy outcomes (lesion size, clearance, etc.) as well as assess for adverse events/SAEs.
      The wart that is identified for occlusion will be treated with investigational product and
      occluded for 24 hours after each application of IP. Subjects will be instructed to avoid
      excessive exposures to water or other potential contactants or irritants after application of
      the IP for the following 48 hours to avoid transfer of the IP.
    
  