
    
      Hemorrhage control by rapid application of commercial tourniquets has significantly improved
      the survival of military personnel injured on the battlefield.7,8 The U.S. civilian
      population has seen a spike in battlefield like injuries in the recent years, a prime example
      being the Boston Marathon bombing.9,10 To address this issue, the American College of
      Surgeons (ACS) formed a committee comprised of individuals from the fields of healthcare,
      law-enforcement, fire department, pre-hospital care and the military. This committee came up
      with a set of recommendation regarding first response and capacity building for hemorrhage
      control, known as the Harford Consensus.11 These recommendations include educational programs
      for lay-people in hemorrhage control with an emphasis on rapid and early tourniquet
      application. There is level 4 evidence that after adjustment for covariates, emergency
      medical providers' application of tourniquets in civilian trauma decreases mortality, though
      not to the same dramatic degree seen in the military setting.12-14 Researchers are working to
      show the effect of training of laypersons in hemorrhage control in the real world but no data
      beyond the simulation setting is currently presented in the literature.15 Various groups have
      developed training programs for hemorrhage control training, the most notable of which is the
      ACS "Stop the Bleed" Bleeding Control Basic (B-Con) training.16 B-Con has trained over
      100,000 individuals in the US since its implementation.5 Goralnick et. al. have shown that
      there is moderate retention for the retention of B-Con specifically for application of the
      Combat Application Tourniquet (CAT), which is also the type of tourniquet with the best
      evidence for its use as it is the type used by the US military.17 However, the Hartford
      consensus and the "Stop the Bleed" campaign state that "(1) commercial windlass-type
      tourniquets should be used in the prehospital setting for the control of significant
      extremity hemorrhage when direct pressure is ineffective or impractical, (2) improvised
      tourniquets should be used only if no commercial device is available."5,18 This advocacy for
      types of commercial tourniquets beyond the CAT and, more significantly, for improvised
      tourniquets has not been studied in either a simulated or real setting.

      There are multiple different tourniquet types available for which, while the principle is the
      same for all, the actual mechanism and steps for application vary. B-Con in its current
      iteration informs participants the principle is the same for both other commercial
      tourniquets and improvised tourniquets, which is to be tight enough to occlude arterial
      bleeding. Other courses which have been widely disseminated have taught how to use
      tourniquets other than the CAT, such as the Stretch-Wrap-And-Tuck tourniquet (SWAT-T).19
      Currently, the courses being offered typically only teach how to use one, and sometimes two,
      different types of tourniquets. Furthermore, as there is not broad consensus statement about
      which tourniquet type to use and teach, different groups distribute different types of
      tourniquets in publicly available bleeding control kits, and professional first responders
      carry different types of commercial tourniquets. A randomized trial has shown that among some
      of the available commercial tourniquets, the CAT, ratcheting medical tourniquet (RMT), and
      SWAT-T, the proportion of application for those without training ranges from 10.6-23.4%.

      The B-Con course presumption that participants understand tourniquet principles rather than a
      single technique, which would enable them to apply devices they have not seen before, has not
      been evaluated. In this context, the investigators would evaluate participants, immediately
      after completing the full B-Con course, on their ability to apply different commercial
      tourniquets than what they were trained on and their ability to apply a commercial
      tourniquet.

        1. Study design:

           a) Prospective open-label trial

        2. Consent:

           a) Verbal consent

        3. Protocol:

             1. All participants will receive the ACS stop the Bleed training from qualified
                instructors. This training is 45 to 60 minutes long, consisting of an audio-visual
                presentation with tourniquet application instructions followed by hands-on training
                under the supervision of an instructor. The training takes place in groups of 20 to
                50 at a time. The audio-visual part of the training takes place in groups of 20,
                which are then divided in to subgroups of 4-8 for hands-on training with an
                instructor. There is no compensation for the study participants.

             2. The evaluation of hemorrhage control competence will take place individually. A
                mannequin, the Hapmed tourniquet trainer, with a traumatic amputation of the leg
                just above the knee will be present. A reviewer will provide instructions,
                including that the lights on the leg represent continued bleeding and they will
                have a maximum of 2 minutes to apply the tourniquet. The participant will be
                provided a tourniquet and told to stop the simulated bleeding. Participants will be
                tested in all 5 types of tourniquets sequentially using the same method but with
                the order of testing varying according to the randomization. The reviewer will
                start timing after telling the participant to begin. This will then be repeated for
                the other type of tourniquet the individual will need to apply. No feedback will be
                given to the participant throughout the testing process.

           i) Supplies for the improvised tourniquet will include a T-shirt, long stretch of gauze,
           a stick to act as a windlass, and a leather belt c) Parameters measured: i) The
           participants will be timed until they feel that they have stopped the bleeding or they
           tell the instructor they are done. The maximum amount of time provided to apply the
           tourniquet will be 2 minutes based on the results of the investigators prior studies in
           which the 90th percentile for time to correct application was 117 seconds.

           ii) Appropriateness of hemorrhage control will be determined by correct placements of
           tourniquet as defined by at least 2 inches proximal to the amputation site iii) Adequate
           pressure to stop the bleeding which will be set at 250 mmHg. For unsuccessful hemorrhage
           control, the reason for failure will be recorded.

           iv) Correct tourniquet application defined by: (1) Time to application < 120 seconds (2)
           Placement of tourniquet a minimum of 2 inches proximal to amputation (3) Tourniquet
           application pressure > 250 mmHg d) All the reviewers would be physicians, nurses and
           EMTs, trained in hemorrhage-control. The complete test for each individual will not take
           more than 15 mins.

        4. Randomization for the order of tourniquet application:

           a) Permutated block randomization will be used to vary the order for application of the
           5 different types of tourniquets (CAT, RAT, SWAT-T, Sof-T, and improvised tourniquet)

        5. Pre-trial questionnaire:

           a) Study subjects will be given a pre-trial questionnaire to gather information
           regarding age, gender, and level of education. The questionnaire will also include
           questions to assess their knowledge regarding hemorrhage control and to determine their
           willingness and self-reported comfort level in acting as a first-responder in a mass
           causality scenario. Answers will be presented on a Likert-type scale or dichotomous
           yes-no.

        6. Post-trial questionnaire:

           a) After the hemorrhage control training, all participants will be given a questionnaire
           to evaluate comfort level, self-efficacy, and other questions relating to hemorrhage
           control response.

        7. Sample size calculation:

             1. Sample Size calculation was done for paired comparisons with 80% power and
                Bonferroni corrected for 4 pairwise comparisons for an alpha level of 0.0125 and
                correlation of 0.1. The largest difference was then taken as the sample size for
                each arm.

             2. The expected corrected proportions for the different tourniquets are:

                  1. CAT: 80-90% (Control)

                  2. RAT: 10-30%

                  3. SWAT-T: 10-30%

                  4. Sof-T: 20-40%

                  5. Improvised: < 10% ii) The smallest presumed difference in correct application
                     for the CAT (control) at 80% is to the Sof-T at 40%. To attain 80% power with
                     alpha of 0.0125 the required minimum sample size is 34.

             3. All sample size calculations performed using Stata v14.1.

        8. Statistical Analysis:

             1. Paired statistical tests using McNemars test will be used for the univariate
                analysis of the primary outcome of correct tourniquet application comparing the CAT
                tourniquet as a control (CAT being type of tourniquet taught in the B-Con course)
                to each of the other tourniquet types (RAT, SWAT-T, Sof-T, Improvised) for 4 total
                pairwise comparisons.

             2. Descriptive statistical analysis (ANOVA, Kruskal-wallis, Mann Whitney U test,
                Student T-test) will be used to assess the secondary outcomes of time to tourniquet
                application, estimated blood loss prior to tourniquet application, and pressure
                applied by the tourniquet.

             3. Multiple Logistic regression will be used to assess for predictors of correct
                tourniquet application for each of the different tourniquet types. The model will
                include age, gender, education level, any prior hemorrhage control training, and
                success in application for each of the other tourniquet types.

             4. Descriptive statistics will also be used to assess participants responses on the
                questionnaires. Non-parametric statistical tests (Wilcoxon signed rank test and
                generalized estimating equations) will be used to assess 5-point Likert scale
                questions.

             5. P-value for significance will be set at 0.05 after Bonferroni correction.
    
  