
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        1. Primary Objective

             -  To define the safety, tolerability, dose-limiting toxicities (DLT), of alefacept in
                relapsed/ refractory aplastic anemia (AA).

             -  To evaluate the efficacy of alefacept in refractory/ relapsed AA by determining
                overall response rates (ORR) which includes complete remission [CR] and partial
                remission (PR) rates.

        2. Secondary Objective

             -  To evaluate for predictive markers for response to Alefacept with relapsed/
                refractory AA and evaluate its effect on the PNH clone. The effects of alefacept in
                major populations of lymphocytes will be evaluated. The absolute numbers of various
                T cell populations including CD3+ T cell, CD3+/CD4+ T cell, CD3+/CD8+, CD57+
                natural killer cell count and CD4/CD8 ratio will be measured as part of an
                immunodeficiency panel by flow cytometry. The functional properties of T cells will
                be evaluated by measuring markers of T cell activation and cytokine production. The
                saturation of CD2 receptors with alefacept will be determined. Occupied CD2 will
                not be detectable by competing antibody in-vitro. The expression of CD2 within
                lymphocytes will be measured prior to the initiation of therapy and every 2 weeks
                prior to and 30 minutes after the administration of alefacept. The presence of a
                Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH) clone in patients with AA has been shown
                to correlate with increased response to immunosuppression25.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, single center study. Patients will receive intravenous
      Alefacept once weekly for a total of 12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. After completion of the 12 week treatment, patients will go through a
      12 week observation period. After completion of the study, patients will be followed
      periodically. The dose defined in the Phase 1 study will be used for the subsequent Phase 2
      study. Four bone marrow biopsies will be taken at screening, week 13, week 24, and the end of
      study.
    
  