
    
      The interscalene block main hindrance is the high risk of ipsilateral phrenic nerve block
      with sequential hemi-diaphragmatic paralysis.The combined use of conventional paracoracoid
      infraclavicular block (ICB) and suprascapular block (SSB) was not equivalent to the standard
      ISB regarding the analgesic efficacy , but has no hemi-diaphragmatic affection for patients
      undergone shoulder arthroscopic procedures.ICB can be achieved by another approach
      (costoclavicular) which blocks the brachial plexus at the mid infraclavicular fossa The
      patients scheduled for an elective arthroscopic rotator cuff repair will be randomly
      allocated by a computer-gener¬ated table into one of two study groups. The randomization
      sequence will be concealed in opaque sealed envelopes. The envelopes will be opened by the
      study investigators just after recruitments and admission to the operation room. Only
      assessors and data collectors will be blinded to the groups allocations.

      Preoperative preparation:

      Preoperative investigations will be done according to the local protocol designed to evaluate
      the patients. It includes complete blood count, blood sugar level, serum urea and creatinine,
      liver function tests, coagulation profile and electrocardiogram (ECG).

      Intraoperative Management of Patients:

      After arrival to the induction room, a 20G intravenous catheter will be placed in the upper
      limb opposite to the surgical site, and intravenous premedication (midazolam 2 mg and
      fentanyl 50 µg) will be administered to all patients. Supplemental oxygen (nasal cannulae at
      2 Lmin-1), standard ASA monitoring (5-lead ECG, noninvasive blood pressure (NIBP), and pulse
      oximetry) will be applied throughout the procedure. All blocks will be performed under
      real-time ultrasound guidance (Philips clear vue350, Philips healthcare, Andover MA01810,
      USA).

      The patients in both groups will initially receive superficial cervical plexus block. The
      block will be performed in supine position with the patients' head turned to the other side.
      Once the skin is appropriately cleaned and prepared with anti-septic, the high frequency
      linear array transducer (8-15 megahertz) will be placed over the lateral side of the neck at
      the midpoint of the posterior border of the sternocleidomastoid muscle(SCM). The transducer
      is positioned such that the tapering end (posterior border on the ultrasound image) of the
      SCM is in the center of the screen. The block needle (22-gauge, 50 mm, Stimuplex D®; B Braun,
      Germany) is then introduced from the posterior aspect through the skin and platysma and 10 ml
      of local anesthetic(LA) deposited just behind this landmark. Afterthat the patients will
      receive either ISB or ICB-SSB.

      Following completion of the assessments of sensorimotor blocks at 30 min (see below),
      induction of general anesthesia will be achieved by intravenous propofol 1.5-2 mgkg-1,
      fentanyl 1 ugkg-1, and atracurium 0.5 mgkg-1. General anesthesia will be maintained by
      isoflurane 1.5 volume % in 2 lmin-1 oxygen-air mixture 50:50 and atracurium 0.1 mgkg-1 every
      30 minutes. All subjects will be placed in the beach chair position slowly, and the surgical
      procedures will be completed by the same surgical team.

      Intraoperatively, if the patient's heart rate or blood pressure exceeded 20% of the
      preoperative value, a 50-µg bolus dose of fentanyl will be administered. Deliberate
      hypotension technique will be used to keep systolic blood pressure at 90-100 mmHg range, mean
      blood pressure at 65-75 mmHg range, and heart rate at 60-70 bpm range by nitroglycerine
      intravenous infusion at a rate of 1-2 µgkg-1min-1. If excessive unwanted hypotension
      (systolic blood pressure less than 90 mmHg or mean blood pressure less than 65 mmHg) will be
      noted, 200 ml ringer acetate fluid bolus will be administered to regain the blood pressure to
      the desired range with reducing the infusion rate of nitroglycerine or stop it temporarily.
      Otherwise, 5 mg ephedrine increments will be used to secure save blood pressure readings
      range. Bradycardia (HR less than 50 bpm) will be corrected by atropine sulphate
      administration at a dose of 30 µg increments.

      Assessment of Sensory and Motor Blockade:

        -  The extent of motor and sensory blockade will be evaluated by an anesthesiologist who
           will not be involved in the brachial plexus block 30 min after local anesthetics
           administration. Using an alcohol swab, the sensory blockade will be tested on the skin
           overlying the clavicle (supraclavicular nerves) and the lateral surface of the deltoid
           (axillary nerve). Each territory will be graded according to a three-point scale using a
           cold test: 0 = no block; 1 = analgesia (patient can feel touch, not cold); 2 =
           anesthesia (patient cannot feel touch).

        -  Motor function will be tested using shoulder abduction (axillary and suprascapular
           nerves) and external shoulder rotation (suprascapular nerve) according a three-point
           scale: 0 = no block; 1 = paresis; 2 = paralysis. blocks will be considered complete if,
           at 30 min, a global composite score six points (out of a maximum of eight points) will
           be achieved,5 incidence of complete block 30 minutes after injection will be recoded.

      Assessment of hemi-diaphragmatic paralysis (HDP) using Ultrasound:

      Ultrasound evaluation of the hemi-diaphragm will be assessed by a blinded trained
      radiologist. A low-frequency (2 to 5 MHz) curvilinear array transducer will be placed in the
      coronal plane at the midaxillary line to obtain an intercostal view. At the level of ribs
      eight to nine on the left and seven to eight on the right, the spleen or liver are centered
      with the rib shadows on either side. On deep inspiration, caudal descent of the liver or
      spleen precedes descent of the bright pleural line. The transducer will then be moved in both
      caudal and cephalad directions to visualize the end-inspiratory and end-expiratory levels of
      the pleural line, respectively, which will be then marked on the patient's skin. This process
      will be repeated before, after the chosen regional anesthetic technique and after recovery
      from general anesthesia in post-anesthetic care unit (PACU) with the patient in the same
      position. Minimal change signifies no block, but a reduction in this distance represents
      phrenic nerve block.

      Postoperative Evaluation:

      After completion of the surgical procedure, the patients extubated after fulfilment of the
      extubation criteria and then will be transferred to PACU for 2 h assessment. At PACU all
      patients will receive ketoprofen 100 mg and acetaminophen 1 gram by intravenous infusion over
      30 min. Postoperative pain will be rated on a numerical scale ranging (NRS) from 0 (no pain)
      to 10 (worst imaginable pain) at 1-hr at PACU then at 4, 8, 12, and 24 hours postoperatively.
      The patients discharged to ward after fulfilment of discharge criteria and modified Aldrete
      score ≥9. ketoprofen 100 mg/12 h and acetaminophen 1 gram/8 h by intravenous infusion over 30
      min will be continued for 48 h as parts of the postoperative pain control policy of the
      institution. Assessment of postoperative analgesia duration by recording the time of first
      request of analgesia. The duration of anesthesia time (defined as the time between the end of
      the local anesthetic injection for brachial plexus block and the postoperative administration
      of analgesic agents) will be recorded. Patients with NRS>5 will receive morphine sulphate IV
      at a bolus dose of 2-5 mg increments with maximum dose of 20 mg at 4 hours or 40 mg at 24
      hours. Cumulative and interval amount of morphine consumption in 24 h will be recorded.
    
  