
    
      Prospective Multicenter Longitudinal and cohort. The sample size of 150 patients was
      calculated in order to obtain a statistical power adequacy or higher (Type I error - Alpha =
      0.05, Type II Error - Beta = 0:20), assuming the 1-day to reduce the postoperative stay with
      use Hemopatch compared to the control (average stay little 3 +/- 2 days).

      Primary endpoint:

      - significant reduction in postoperative hospital stay

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  reduction of subhepatic blood liquid volume

        -  reduction of liver hematoma

        -  reduction of postooperative complications as deep surgical site

        -  reduction rates of reoperation

        -  reduction in readmission rates

        -  postoperative pain on the VAS scale 1-10.

      The results obtained in relation to primary and secondary objectives will be compared with a
      control group of case-matched.

      Inclusion Criteria:

      - Between the ages of 18-75 years, calculus of gallbladder (micro- and macro-lithiasis),
      polyp/neoplasm of gallbladder

      Exclusion Criteria:

      - Coagulopathies, medication with antiplatelet drugs, ASA > 3, acute cholecystitis,
      simultaneous calculus of main biliary duct, acute pancreatitis.

      The patient will enroll if cholecystectomy is performed laparoscopically, if it is not a
      complication occurred intraoperative type: iatrogenic enterotomy suture intestinal,
      iatrogenic lesion of liver parenchyma, bile duct injury. The patient will exclude from the
      study if one of these intraoperative complication will occur. The patient leaves the protocol
      if the dissection is done through energy-devices (ultrasound or radiofrequency).

      At the end of the laparoscopic cholecstectomy, Hemopatch will be inserted into the peritoneal
      cavity through the port of 10-12 mm and laid on the cavity of the gallbladder and a drainage
      will be systematically placed.

      It will be given a first-generation cephalosporin antibiotic (one shot).

      At 24 hours of VLC a liver ultrasound will be performed and recorded: evaluation of presence
      of perihepatic fluid, collection or haematoma. It will be noted the volume of drainage which
      will be removed in first postoperative day. In case of delay removal of drainage, it will be
      recorded. It will be assessed postoperative pain by VAS scales to 6-12-24 h after surgery.
      Re-operations and re-hospitalizations will be recorded in prospective data.

      Statistical analyzes were performed using the software SPSS for Mac, 22nd edition (SPSS
      Software, Inc., IL, Chicago). The differences in the distributions will be calculated using
      the chi-square test or Fisher exact test, depending on the number of cases in the various
      subgroups and by comparing means (Student t-test, one-way ANOVA test).

      The p < 0.1 will be used as the cut-off for statistical significance in the selection of
      variables of multivariate analysis in order not to drop important potential predictors.

      The statistical significance is conventionally defined with p <0.05 in all cases considered.

      All eligible patients will be adequately informed and informed consent will be signed. The
      Study will be conducted according to ethical requirements, following the Declaration of
      Helsinki, and good clinical practice.
    
  