
    
      Plaque build-up caused by atherosclerosis increases the risk of blood clots, heart attack,
      and stroke. Blockages of plaque can occur in different areas of the body. PAD, a circulatory
      disorder in which blockages occur in the peripheral arteries, is one manifestation of
      atherosclerosis. Individuals with PAD experience reduced blood flow to the legs, which may
      cause leg pain while walking. This study will use MRI techniques to examine how
      characteristics of plaque build-up in the leg arteries change over time and how this change
      affects function, walking ability, leg strength, and balance in people with PAD. Results from
      this study may be used to shape future research studies that will attempt to identify more
      effective treatments for people with PAD.

      This study will enroll people with PAD, as well as a smaller control group of people who do
      not have PAD. At an initial study visit, study researchers will interview participants to
      collect information about their medical history, daily activity level, walking ability, and
      mental functioning. Blood collection and a leg MRI will occur. Also, blood flow to the legs
      will be measured by comparing blood pressure measurements in the arms and legs. Leg function
      will be measured through a series of timed walks, leg strength exercises, and muscle power
      exercises. Questionnaires to assess participants' medical history will be completed by each
      participant's primary care doctor, and study researchers will review participants' medical
      records. Participants with knee pain will have a knee x-ray, and participants may wear a
      small device called an accelerometer for 1 week to monitor physical activity levels. During
      the second and third study visits, occurring at one and two year follow-up, blood flow, leg
      function, and leg strength will be measured. If participants cannot attend either study
      visit, researchers may visit participants at their home or conduct an interview over the
      phone. Study researchers may contact participants by phone once or twice a year for
      follow-up.
    
  