
    
      The study was based on data from Køge and Herlev University Hospital. All patients that fit
      the inclusion criteria and had an indication for shoulder replacement where included and the
      study started on the 1st of January 2017.

      Aim

        -  To determine 2-year postoperative outcome, complications and revision rates in patients
           receiving a Global Unite

        -  To compare the postoperative outcome to patients from a in matched control group

        -  To determine the influence of tuberosity placement and migration on functional outcome
           in patients with a fracture of the proximal humerus.

      The trauma mechanism of the fractures and health status of the patients were determined upon
      arrival. A preoperative CT-scan was performed in all fracture patients for preoperative
      planning. A CT-scan was also performed preoperatively in the osteoarthritis patients to
      determine the degree of bone degeneration. An x-ray was performed right after surgery, 3
      months and 24 months postoperatively.

      The patients included received a Global Unite hemiarthroplasty in the fracture situation and
      a Global Unite total shoulder in osteoarthritis patients. The patients received standardized
      postoperative analgesic treatment and physiotherapy rehabilitation and all patients had
      postoperative follow-up 3, 6 months, 1-year and 2-year after surgery. The outcome at the
      follow-up was determined by using Oxford Shoulder Score, Constant-Murley score, EQ-5-D
      questionnaire and Western Ontario Osteoarthritis of the Shoulder index

      Factors like American Society of Anesthesiologists score, body-mass index, smoking, alcohol,
      medication and comorbidity were registered. Furthermore time from injury to surgery, surgery
      time, length of hospital stay, complications (osteonecrosis, infection, loosening), revision,
      discharge type, pain score and analgesia were reported. The preoperatively function was only
      registered for osteoarthritis patients.

      The study was performed as a prospective cohort study with a historic control group. The
      fracture patients submitted for a Global Unite from February 2017 were compared to fracture
      patients receiving the Global FX at Herlev and Køge Hospital from 2013 to 2016 and the
      osteoarthritis patients receiving a Global Unite total shoulder were compared to patients
      receiving a Global Advantage at Herlev Hospital from 2013-2016. 44 patients were included in
      the control and the intervention groups, of both diagnoses, to obtain power of 80 % in power
      calculations based on Constant-Murley score. This equals a total of 88 patients in the
      intervention groups and 88 patients in the control groups. It was estimated that it would
      take 2 to 3 years to include osteoarthritis- and fracture-patients in this study.

      All surgery was performed by 5 senior consultants at Herlev Hospital and 2 senior consultants
      at Køge Hospital. The postoperative functional outcome of patients in the first half of the
      study was compared to the outcome of patients in the last half to determine a possible
      learning curve. The follow-up was performed by one independent physician
    
  