
    
      The overriding purpose of the randomized trial is to examine the effectiveness of a promising
      and efficient outpatient treatment of adolescent substance abuse delivered in a
      community-based treatment setting. Although several evidence-based treatments of adolescent
      substance abuse are emerging, none have experienced widespread adoption in community
      settings. Thus, as noted by the Institute of Medicine (1998) more than a decade ago and
      reiterated more recently, a considerable science-service gap exists in regards to treatment
      of substance abuse in adolescents and adults.

      For the proposed study, 204 adolescents meeting diagnostic criteria for substance abuse or
      dependence will be randomized to either the Contingency Management-Family Engagement (CM-FAM)
      or Treatment as Usual (TAU) conditions. A multimethod, multirespondent approach will be used
      to track clinical outcomes at 3, 6, 9, 12, and 18 months post recruitment. Clinical level
      outcomes pertain to youth substance use, criminal behavior, mental health functioning, and
      key mediators of serious antisocial behavior in adolescents (e.g., self-control, parental
      supervision, association with deviant peers). In addition, the incremental cost of CM-FAM
      will be determined for use in cost effectiveness analyses.

      Aim 1: Over an 18-month post-recruitment follow-up, determine the relative effectiveness of
      CM-FAM vs. TAU in reducing adolescent participants' substance use, criminal activity
      (including incarceration), and mental health symptoms; and evaluate the cost effectiveness of
      CM-FAM in achieving these outcomes.

      Aim 2: Examine possible moderators and mediators of intervention effectiveness. Moderator
      variables will include youth demographic and clinical (e.g., co-occurring disorders)
      characteristics. Mediator variables will include measures of self-control, parenting, and
      association with deviant peers - constructs targeted by CM-FAM.
    
  