
    
      Rationale:

      Many pharmacologic agents have been studied to reduce delirium in high risk patients, but the
      data has not shown significant or clinically important outcomes. These agents also have more
      side effect profiles such as arrhythmia and QT prolongation. Ramelteon is an effective drug
      to improve sleep quality and has a low side effect profile. Improved sleep quality and
      reduced delirium in ICU population will lead to improved acute and long-term outcomes of the
      patients and lower delirium-related healthcare cost.

      Study Hypothesis:

      It is hypothesized that those receiving ramelteon will have a higher rate of delirium- and
      coma-free days, on average, than those receiving placebo. We also hypothesize that those
      receiving ramelteon will have lower Confusion Assessment Method for Intensive Care Unit-7
      (CAM-ICU-7) scores than those receiving placebo, and that the reduction from baseline will be
      greater for those receiving ramelteon than those receiving placebo. In addition, those
      receiving ramelteon will be in the medical intensive care unit (MICU) and hospital fewer days
      than those receiving placebo. Those receiving ramelteon will have more sleep-time and fewer
      awakenings than those receiving placebo (as defined by the actigraph device). In addition,
      those receiving ramelteon will have higher subjective quality of sleep than those receiving
      placebo on patient-reported sleep evaluation questionnaire. Lastly, those receiving ramelteon
      will suffer less from post-intensive care syndrome compared to those receiving placebo.

      Study Procedure:

      Every day, investigator(s) will identify patients who meet criteria on chart review and these
      patients will be approached for consent. Consent will be obtained by patient or surrogate
      decision maker as appropriate.

      After consent is obtained, investigator will call pharmacy investigational service to provide
      patient information/patient study ID for randomization and medication allotment. Pharmacy
      investigational services will be informed whether the patient is mechanically ventilated or
      not (this is a subgroup that will require randomization in the urn randomization design).
      Patient's data will be recorded on REDcap including patient ID and delirium assessment. A
      sign will be placed at the door of the patient's room to identify patient as a study subject
      and to notify that the study subject should not be given ramelteon, melatonin, or fluvoxamine
      by the primary medical team.

      Upon enrollment, patients in Ramelteon group will receive 8 mg of Ramelteon capsule nightly
      at 9 pm and placebo group will receive the placebo capsule. Ramelteon and Placebo capsules
      will be indistinguishable from each other, even when opened to be administered via
      nasograstric or orogastric tubes. Medication administration will continue throughout the
      hospital stay, with maximum of 30 days, every night until death or discharge from the
      hospital. If a patient's code status changes to comfort measures only, study drug
      administration will be discontinued.

      An actigraph unit will be placed on patient's wrist for continuous non-invasive measurement
      of rest and activity to estimate sleep measures. The actigraph unit will be removed from the
      patient when the patient is discharged from the ICU. The data from the actigraph will then be
      extracted and analyzed by Action W software.

      Patients will be assessed by investigator daily for delirium using the Confusion Method
      Assessment for the ICU-7 (CAM-ICU-7). For patients who are on mechanical ventilation or on
      sedatives, all sedative medications will be held if the primary medical team approves.
      CAM-ICU-7 will be performed for each patient at the time of maximal awakening and after
      sedation (continuous infusion and as needed doses) is held for at least 30 to 60 minutes. For
      those patients that are able to participate, they will complete Richmond-Campbell Sleep
      Questionnaire (RCSQ), which is a two minute questionnaire, to assess their previous night's
      sleep. The CAM-ICU-7 and RCSQ assessments will continue throughout the hospitalization after
      ICU discharge, until discharge from the hospital or up to 30 days. Patients will not be
      monitored upon discharge from the hospital (ie. discharged to nursing home, skilled nursing
      facility, home).

      Patients will be contacted via telephone to conduct two surveys to assess post-intensive care
      quality of life at 1-, 3-, and 6-months after ICU discharge. Telephone Interview for
      Cognitive Status (TICS) will be used to assess for cognitive impairment, and
      EuroQol-5Dimensions (EQ-5D) will be used to assess for health quality including mobility,
      self-care, activity level, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression.

      Data Safety Monitoring Plan:

      We will have two faculty membersfrom the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep
      Medicine at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University as data safety monitoring
      members for this study in the event a study-related adverse event occurs.
    
  