
    
      This investigation will be a randomized, observer-masked, controlled, split-body,
      human-subjects clinical trial. Of note, we will be using standard-of-care local anesthetics
      under their FDA approved purpose and do not plan to research a possible change of indication
      or use of these drugs as part of this research project.

      Enrollment. Subjects will be volunteers of both sexes, age 18 and older. Volunteers will be
      solicited using newspaper advertisements, fliers, the CTRI Research Match, and an existing
      database of volunteers (IRB approved). If a volunteer meets inclusion/exclusion criteria and
      desires study participation, written, informed consent will be obtained. Selection for
      inclusion will not be based on race or socioeconomic status. The study population of interest
      includes men and women of all races and socioeconomic status. A urine pregnancy test will be
      administered to all women of childbearing age following written informed consent but before
      any study interventions. This urine test will be administered by CTRI nursing staff using
      standard, FDA-approved urine pregnancy testing devices.

      Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria. See section #10 below.

      Perineural catheter insertion. Following written, informed consent, subjects will be admitted
      to the UCSD CTRI Center for Clinical Research Services (CCR) inpatient unit and have
      demographic/morphometric data recorded (e.g., age, weight, height). An intravenous line will
      be placed in an upper extremity, followed by external monitors (pulse oximeter, blood
      pressure, and EKG), and oxygen by nasal cannula. Sedation will be provided with intravenous
      fentanyl (50 μg) and/or midazolam (1 mg), or oral valium (10 mg) and/or dilaudid (4 mg), as
      necessary. Subjects will then have bilateral adductor canal perineural catheters placed using
      standard UC San Diego techniques.

      Treatment Group Assignment. Subjects will act as their own controls: The dominant side (left
      or right) will be randomized to one of two treatment groups: ropivacaine 0.2% administration
      as either a basal infusion (8 mL/h) or bolus doses (8 mL administered hourly). The
      non-dominant contralateral side will receive the other possible treatment. Randomization will
      be based on computer-generated codes. Randomization will be in blocks of two, and stratified
      by sex. An infusion pump with study infusate will be attached to each of the perineural
      catheters and initiated at Hour 0. The basal rate and bolus volume will depend upon the
      treatment group (note that the basal rate and bolus volume differ for each treatment group,
      but the total dose of local anesthetic is the same for each):

      Treatment Group Basal Rate (mL/h) Basal Dose (mg/h) Bolus Volume (mL) Bolus Dose (mg) Total
      Dose (mg/h) Basal Infusion 8 16 0 0 16 Bolus Doses 0 0 8 16 16

      The tubing from the pumps to the subjects will be gently wound at least 5 rotations and
      covered with opaque tape, masking which perineural catheter is receiving which treatment
      (ropivacaine is clear, so the flow through the clear tubing from the tape to the perineural
      catheters will not be visually distinguishable).

      Local Anesthetic Administration. The infusion pump administering the basal infusion will be
      initiated at Hour 0. The infusion pump administering bolus doses will administer a 8 mL bolus
      dose each hour beginning at Hour 0. Perineural catheters will be removed after 8 hours.

      To check the perineural catheter placement accuracy, the adductor canal nerve block will be
      evaluated 8 hours after local anesthetic initiation and considered successful when subjects
      experience a decreased sensation to cold of the skin in the saphenous nerve distribution as
      compared with their ipsilateral upper extremity. Subjects will be deemed non-responders if
      both extremities failed to exhibit any increase in tolerance to cutaneous electrical current
      by Hour 8. For unsuccessful perineural catheter insertion, non-responders, or if a perineural
      catheter is inadvertently dislodged prior to the measurement of the primary endpoint, the
      data will not be included in the analyses and the subject dropped from the study.

      Food and Drink: Both food and accompanying beverages/water will be provided by the hospital
      and served by the nursing staff immediately following catheter insertion. Meals will be
      provided without charge to the study subjects. There is no restriction on oral intake
      following catheter insertion. Subjects will remain within the CTRI-CCR until the following
      morning for the final measurement.

      Outcome Measurements. We have selected measures that have established reliability and
      validity. Staff blinded to treatment group assignment will perform all measures and
      assessments. Measurements will be performed prior to local anesthetic administration
      initiation ("baseline"; Hour 0); as well as hourly following local anesthetic infusion/bolus
      initiation through Hour 14 (and one final measurement set prior to discharge the following
      morning at approximately Hour 22; see Table below). For all measurements, the dominant side
      will always be tested first, followed by the contralateral side.

      Tolerance of transcutaneous electrical stimulation: Evaluated in the seated position using
      transcutaneous electrical stimulation (TES) in the same manner as described throughout the
      anesthesia literature (this is a "gold standard" for regional anesthesia studies). EKG pads
      will be positioned over the proximal patella and quadriceps tendon 1 cm medial of midline and
      attached to a nerve stimulator. The current will be increased from 0 mA until the subject
      reports slight discomfort (or, up to a maximum of 80 mA), at which time the current is
      recorded as the TES value and the nerve stimulator turned off.

      Quadriceps femoris muscle strength: Evaluated using a portable isometric force dynamometer to
      measure the maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) in a seated position. The primary
      end point will be the quadriceps femoris maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC)
      expressed as a percentage of the pre-ropivacaine (baseline) MVIC: post / pre x 100; with the
      two sides of each subject compared with each other at Hour 8.

      Statistical Analysis Plan. We will assess the noninferiority of the bolus method (hourly 8 mL
      ropivacaine 0.2% bolus doses) compared to basal infusion (ropivacaine 0.2% 8 mL/h continuous
      basal infusion) on the primary endpoint of tolerance to cutaneous current at 8 hours using a
      1-tailed t-test at the 0.025 significance level with an a priori-specified noninferiority
      delta of 10 mA. A value of 10 mA is determined a priori to be the smallest difference that
      would be clinically important between groups. This value is considered the minimally
      clinically-relevant current since it approximates the tolerated electrical current range at
      baseline of the general population-in other words, natural variability and therefore a
      relatively small amount of current to detect. A positive test for noninferiority will be
      accompanied by the 95% confidence interval (0.025 in the hypothesized direction) for the
      difference in means not including the noninferiority delta.

      Secondary analysis will assess noninferiority of the bolus to the basal infusion method on
      mean tolerance to cutaneous current across all time points measured, using a noninferiority
      delta of 10 mA as above. In this repeated measures setting, noninferiority will be assessed
      in the context of a linear mixed model adjusting for the within-subject correlation (using an
      auto-regressive correlation structure). If the time-by-group interaction is non-significant
      (P>0.20) we will assess noninferiority collapsing over time and constructing a 1-tailed
      t-test (using noninferiority delta of 10 mA) based on the model-based treatment effect for
      bolus versus basal infusion. In presence of a group-time interaction noninferiority will be
      assessed separately at each time point and a Holm-Bonferroni correction made for multiple
      comparisons to maintain the hypothesis-wise type I error at 0.025.

      We will also assess noninferiority of bolus to basal infusion on the secondary endpoint of
      quadriceps femoris MVIC (22 hours total) using a mixed effects model as described above.

      The rejection region for a noninferiority test includes superiority, by definition (i.e.,
      "not worse" implies either equivalent or better). Therefore, if bolus is found to not only be
      noninferior, but also superior, we will be able to claim superiority. This will be evidenced
      by the 95% CI for the difference between means falling above zero.

      Although we hypothesize that the bolus method will be noninferior to basal infusion, it is
      possible that basal infusion would be noninferior to bolus. Therefore, we will also conduct
      the above tests assessing noninferiority of basal infusion to bolus. If noninferiority is
      found in both directions, we will claim equivalence at ±10mA. SAS software 9.3 (SAS
      Institute, Cary, NC, USA) and R software versions 2.15.3 (The R Foundation for Statistical
      Computing, Vienna, Austria) will be used for all analyses.

      Sample Size Estimation. Sample size calculations are based on the primary aim of determining
      the relationship between perineural ropivacaine delivery technique (basal vs. bolus) and
      continuous adductor canal nerve block effects. To this end, we will perform a noninferiority
      trial with the primary endpoint designated as the maximum tolerance to transcutaneous
      electrical stimulation at Hour 8. With 24 subjects we will have approximately 90% power (88%)
      at the 0.025 significance level to detect noninferiority of bolus ropivacaine to basal
      infusion ropivacaine on mean tolerance to transcutaneous electrical stimulation at Hour 8
      using an a priori noninferiority delta of 10 mA. Based on previously-published data, this
      conservatively assumes a standard deviation of tolerance difference between legs of 15 mA.

      We will apply the same analysis of percent change from baseline at Hour 0 to the secondary
      outcome measures. We will also examine the time profiles of the responses over time with
      spaghetti and mean plots. Further secondary analyses will include mixed-effects modeling of
      the repeated hourly measures to confirm the analysis of percent change at 8 hours. These
      models will account for the hierarchical correlation of paired measures from each subject
      over time. We will use these models to test the effects of subject characteristics, including
      handedness, sex, height, weight, body mass index, and age.
    
  