
    
      The pathogenesis of bacteraemia for human restricted pathogens such as Streptococcus
      pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae type b and Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi (ST), have
      thus far only been investigated in imperfect animal models. The Salmonella Typhimurium mouse
      model is widely employed however there are key differences compared with S. Typhi. These
      bacteria are both genetically distinct and cause a different human disease phenotype . Data
      from a human model would be invaluable in furthering our understanding of bacteraemia in the
      human host. Animal studies with Salmonella species and other bacterial species show some
      evidence that there may be population bottlenecks in the development of blood stream
      infections.

      Inoculation with many microorganisms is often sufficient to cause a blood stream infection in
      a susceptible host, typically inoculation with a single microorganism is not. There are two
      principle theories as to how bacteraemia arises. The first is independent action whereby the
      bacteraemia that results from bacterial inoculation is derived from a single founder organism
      ('the bottleneck hypothesis'). Each organism has a chance of being that founder organism. A
      greater number of organisms make bacteraemia more likely. The second theory is synergy where
      there is cooperation between bacteria, multiple bacteria traverse the barrier to infection
      and therefore the bacteraemia is composed of multiple variants.

      The aim of this research project is to investigate the population bottleneck theory in the
      pathogenesis of bacteraemia in human infection model using a challenge combination of two
      isogenic strains of S. Typhi.

      The primary objective of the study is to compare the number of participants who develop
      bacteraemia post challenge from each S. Typhi variant or a combination of the two strains.
      From animal models the investigators hypothesize that in an individual participant a single
      strain will be isolated more commonly than a combination of the two. The secondary objectives
      are to quantify the burden of bacteraemia of the two strains and to characterise the stool
      shedding in participants given a mixed inoculum.

      Exploratory objectives include comparison of the number of participants who develop
      bacteraemia at various timepoints until 72 hours from each S. Typhi variant or a combination
      of the two strains. From animal models it is expected that any so-called 'primary
      bacteraemias' may involve a combination of the S. Typhi strains. The researchers also
      anticipate that stool cultures from study participants may culture a combination of the S.
      Typhi strains initially but that if a single isolate is cultured from the blood that this
      will be reflected in stool culture. The investigators will explore if quantitation of S.
      Typhi is possible in stool. They will also seek to evaluate the host immune response to
      challenge in terms of cytokine and blood transcriptional signatures.

      This is the first time in which the bottleneck theory has been explored in a human model of a
      bloodstream infection. It will not only be significant for understanding the pathogenesis of
      S. Typhi but also for other bacterial pathogens. If this hypothesis is supported this implies
      that the barrier for vaccine prevention of bacterial infection may be lower than previously
      thought, perhaps only very few or even a single organism must be prevented from invasion to
      provide individual protection.
    
  