
    
      The main objective of this study is to determine the safety and tolerability of combined
      abaloparatide + bevacizumab in MDS patients. This will be a single center, single arm, phase
      1 trial in MDS patients. In cycle 1, patients will be treated with single-agent, subcutaneous
      (SQ) abaloparatide at a dose of 80 mcg/day for 28 days. This will enable the investigator to
      monitor for any potential toxicities of single-agent abaloparatide in the MDS patient
      population. Following cycle 1, patients will have a bone marrow aspirate to determine the
      impact of abaloparatide treatment on bone marrow stromal cell and hematopoietic cell
      populations. In cycles 2-4 (each cycle is 28 days), patients will be treated with SQ
      abaloparatide at a dose of 80 mcg/day and intravenous (IV) bevacizumab 5 mg/kg on days 1 and
      15. At the end of study, patients will have a bone marrow aspirate and biopsy to assess
      disease response and to determine the impact of combined abaloparatide + bevacizumab on bone
      marrow stromal cell and hematopoietic cell populations. After completion of trial therapy,
      another bone marrow aspirate and biopsy will be done 3 months later to assess the delayed
      impact of treatment. The investigator has chosen a phase 1 trial design because this
      combination has not been previously evaluated for toxicity. Since safe and effective doses of
      both abaloparatide and bevacizumab have already been identified and both drugs are Food and
      Drug Administration (FDA)-approved, the investigator does not feel there is a need to
      dose-escalate. The investigator will carefully monitor for therapy-limiting toxicities (TLTs)
      throughout the course of the study and impose an early stopping rule for toxicity. To monitor
      for TLTs, patients will have laboratory tests weekly and clinic visits every other week
      throughout the course of the trial. TLT is defined in the protocol with grading of adverse
      events defined by the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0.
      Response will be defined according to 2006 IWG working criteria for MDS. Patients who have
      achieved complete remission (CR), partial remission (PR), marrow CR, and/or hematologic
      improvement at any time during the 7 month trial period will be considered responders.
      Eligible subjects will have a diagnosis of MDS or non-proliferative chronic myelomonocytic
      leukemia (CMML) based on 2016 world health organization (WHO) criteria, and associated signs
      of bone marrow failure characterized by at least some degree of cytopenia involving at least
      one cell line such as anemia, thrombocytopenia or leukopenia. Patients will not be allowed to
      receive concurrent active chemotherapy or growth factors.
    
  