
    
      Previous studies with low level laser therapy have reported beneficial effects on the level
      of pain in patients with a variety of chronic pain conditions.

      We designed this controlled, double blind, randomized study to determine in the active laser
      group would have a reduction in the need for 'PRN pain medication'.

      Screening Testing

        1. Urine-toxicology screen.

        2. Assessment of level of activity and range of motion and functional capacity evaluation
           for upper and/ or lower extremity.

        3. Current drug history and use of analgesic medications including both opioid and or
           non-opioid analgesic medications.

        4. Drug history and current medications along with non-traditional alternative treatments
           such as (e.g. acupuncture, massage, herbal treatments, etc.)

      Protocol Outline After obtaining written informed consent, patients will be asked to complete
      all the pre-screening and "entry" questionnaires (e.g., SF-36).

      11- point Verbal Rating Scale (VRS) for pain at rest and with physical activity (0= none to
      10= severe), level of physical activity (0=inactive to 10= fully active), and quality of
      sleep (0=poor to 10=excellent).

      Current analgesic [pain] medications both daily and PRN medications. Randomized into active
      (Phoenix Thera-Lase [ PTL]) or "Low level" PTL group using a computer generated random
      numbers table.

      Treatment Sessions After obtaining written informed consent for participating in the study
      and signing the standard HIPPA forms, the patient will be asked to describe the location of
      their current pain symptoms.

      Pre-treatment baseline assessments VRS for pain at rest and with physical activity (e.g.
      walking, climbing stairs) Kinesiology functional capacity evaluation (FCE) for upper and/ or
      lower extremities or low back (depending on location of pain).

      Current opioid and non-opioid analgesic medication usage Clinical opioid withdrawal scale
      (COWS) at baseline (the COWS will be repeated at the end of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd week of
      treatments).

      Treatment sessions - Active or low level therapy for 20 - 40 min on Monday, Wednesday, and
      Friday for 3 weeks.

      Post- treatment sessions VRS for pain at rest and with ambulation immediately after each
      treatment

      After the end of 3-week treatment period Repeat pre-screening questionnaires. Kinesiology
      functional capacity evaluation (FCE) for upper and/ or lower extremities or low back
      (depending on location of pain).

      Long-term Follow Up 30-days after the last treatment session, a standardized follow-up
      questionnaire will be administered.
    
  