
    
      Background: Chronic systemic exposure to very high concentrations of cobalt or chromium
      following large diameter metal-on-metal hip resurfacing or hip replacement (MOMHR) associates
      with cardiac, thyroid, visual, hearing, and peripheral neurological deficits. Chronic
      exposure to lower circulating metal levels also associates with changes in cardiac function
      and bone metabolism in case-control analyses. However, it remains unclear what the risk of
      these problems is in the general population exposed to MOMHR.

      Aims: We aim to establish the prevalence of cardiac, endocrine, neurological disorders, and
      distant site fracture history (forearm, spine) in recipients of MOMHR, and establish whether
      this differs to that found in the general population of the same age and sex distribution,
      and also to recipients of hip replacement using a conventional bearing.

      Methods: We will use NJR data linked to the Clinical Practice Research Dataset (CPRD) to
      establish the prevalence of cardiac, endocrine, neurological disorders, and distant site
      fracture history (forearm, spine) in the 3 study populations.

      Outcome measures: All defined as the event occurring at any point following MOMHR surgery.

      Primary outcome measure:

      History of cardiac failure, as defined by IDC9-CM code 150, or equivalent CPRD codes

      Secondary outcome measures:

        1. History of treated or untreated acquired hypothyroidism (ICD9 244.8), or equivalent

        2. Fracture history at a site distant to the ipsilateral hip (ICD9 820.00 to 826.1)

        3. Acquired neurological disorders, including extra-pyramidal disorders (ICD9 332 and 333),
           spinocerebellar degenerative disease (ICD9 334) and other paralytic syndromes (ICD9 344)

        4. Acquired blindness and low vision (ICD9 369)

        5. Acquired hearing loss (ICD9 389)

      Analyses will be conducted with age, sex, and joint disease diagnosis matching. Analyses will
      be stratified by sex to establish whether any differences are sex specific, and adjusted for
      age and other comorbidities, including history of type 2 diabetes, pre-existing ischaemic
      heart disease, hypertension, and pre-existing use of drugs that may affect cardiac function.
    
  