
    
      Music therapy (MT) interventions are a cost-effective, accessible, and holistic treatment
      option with social, rhythmic, creative, sensorimotor, and respiratory components, giving them
      the potential to improve the quality of life for a diverse array of disorders. Despite this,
      the literature surrounding MT is controversial due to the lack of standardization in clinical
      and research practice. Interventions range from passive listening of participant selected
      music to clinician lead improvisational sessions. This inhibits a mechanistic understanding
      of how MT functions, and what components produce therapeutic effects. Controlled studies that
      target physiological outcomes are vital for the development of evidence-based MT treatments.

      Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a leading cause of disability for U.S. and affects more
      than 16 million Americans each year. Existing interventions struggle to combat this societal
      burden and fail to reach the large number of treatment resistant patients, creating an urgent
      need for the development of new treatment paradigms. Hyperactivity of the
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and dysregulation of the autonomic nervous system
      (ANS) have been implicated in MDD. Listening to music has been shown to alter stress hormone
      levels and heart rate variability (HRV), physiological correlates of the HPA axis and ANS
      respectively. Active music-making's effects on these correlates has yet to be studied. Since
      active musical engagement involves multiple sensory inputs-proprioceptive and motor in
      addition to auditory-it has the potential to heighten physiological changes associated with
      listening to music alone. By contrasting a structured participation MT intervention with a
      listening control, the investigators will target the effects of active participation in
      music-making as a potential treatment for MDD.
    
  