
    
      Suspected pulmonary embolism [PE] is a frequent clinical problem and remains a diagnostic
      challenge. The diagnostic approach of PE relies on sequential diagnostic tests, such as
      plasma D-dimer measurement, lower limb compression ultrasonography, ventilation-perfusion
      lung scan or helical computed tomography [hCT] and pulmonary angiography. In addition, the
      diagnostic workup is usually stratified according to the clinical probability of pulmonary
      embolism.

      First-generation hCTs were based on a single-detector technique and had a limited 70%
      sensitivity. Moreover, in two recent outcome studies, a proximal deep venous thrombosis
      diagnosed by lower limb compression ultrasonography was found in 15% of patients with a
      normal single-detector hCT. However, in management studies, the association of a normal lower
      limb compression ultrasonography and a normal single-detector hCT has been proved safe to
      rule out PE in patients with a non-high clinical probability, with a less than 2% rate of
      thromboembolic events during a 3-month follow-up in patients left untreated based on that
      combination. Hence, lower limb compression ultrasonography must be combined with a
      single-detector CT to safely rule out pulmonary embolism.

      More recently, the multi-detector hCT has become widely available. These new scanners allow
      one to improve image definition and to diminish slice thickness without increasing
      acquisition time and, hence, to better visualize the segmental and sub-segmental pulmonary
      arteries. In a recent study [CTEPm], the investigators evaluated the performances of a
      multi-detector hCT. The rate of false negative results, assessed by the rate of patients with
      proximal DVT on ultrasonography and a negative hCT, was much lower using the multi-detector
      CT [0.9%, 95% confidence interval: 0.3-3.3%] than with the single-detector technique [15%].
      This raises the possibility that hCT might be used as a single test to rule out PE in
      patients with an elevated D-dimer level. Indeed, ELISA plasma D-dimer measurement in patients
      with a non-high clinical probability of PE remains a logical first step since it safely rules
      out PE in approximately 30% of patients. Such a strategy should now be validated in a
      prospective randomised outcome study to compare its safety and cost-effectiveness with that
      of a previously validated strategy combining D-dimer, lower limb compression ultrasonography
      and hCT.

      Therefore, the investigators plan to compare the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of two
      distinct diagnostic strategies for suspected pulmonary embolism in emergency center patents
      in a non-inferiority trial. The strategies are: 1) an algorithm based on clinical assessment,
      D-dimer and multi-detector hCT (DD-hCT); and 2) a previously validated strategy that includes
      lower limb compression (DD-US-hCT). The main outcome will be the rate of thromboembolic
      events during a formal 3-month follow-up in patients not anticoagulated on the basis of a PE
      ruled out by the diagnostic criteria in each study arm. A secondary outcome will be the costs
      of diagnosis in each study arm, including the costs of suspected and/or confirmed
      thromboembolic events during follow-up.

      In addition, the investigators aim to prospectively and pragmatically validate the revised
      Geneva score for assessing the clinical probability of PE by using it in the sequential
      diagnostic work-up for PE. Classification performances of this score will be assessed by
      checking its capacity to discriminate between patients having a low, intermediate, or high
      probability of PE.

      Finally, in a nested study, the investigators aim to compare the clinical usefulness of a
      complete lower limb compression ultrasonography versus a classical "4-points ultrasonography"
      (ultrasonography of the proximal veins) in the patients from the ultrasound arm of the study
      (DD-US-hCT). Indeed, preliminary data indicate that complete ultrasound detects a DVT in a
      higher proportion of patients with PE than proximal ultrasound (US) and, hence, has the
      potential for further limiting the requirement for chest imaging in patients with suspected
      PE. Because finding a distal DVT is of uncertain clinical significance, such a finding will
      not be reported to the clinicians in charge of the patient and those patients will undergo a
      helical CT and be treated (or not) according to the CT result. Outcome measurements will be
      the number of patients in whom hCT could have been avoided by ruling in the diagnosis of PE
      in the presence of a distal DVT (proportion of patients with both distal DVT on
      ultrasonography and pulmonary embolism on multi-detector hCT) and the number of patients who
      would have been unduly anticoagulated if considering the presence of a distal DVT in the
      complete compression ultrasonography (proportion of patients with distal DVT on
      ultrasonography, but without pulmonary embolism on multi-detector hCT, and without a
      thromboembolic event during the 3 month follow-up).
    
  