
    
      Transcutaneous vagal nerve stimulation (tVNS) is a non-invasive treatment option for
      epilepsy. TVNS works via electrical stimulation of the vagal nerve in the outer ear area via
      two steel electrodes and is performed for about 4 hours per day. Its mechanism of action is
      unknown. We hypothesize that expression of microRNA (miRNA), and/or release of cytokines,
      chemokines or neuropeptides is involved in the anticonvulsant activity. TVNS might also
      influence the cerebral resting state as measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging
      (fMRI). Due to it's anatomical connections, stimulation of the vagal nerve may furthermore
      result in altered gastric motility.

      This study aims to detect levels of miRNA, cytokines, chemokines and neuropeptides in the
      blood of healthy volunteers before and after 4 hours of conventional tVNS or sham tVNS.
      Cerebral resting state and gastric motility will be measured by fMRI.

      To this end, 60 healthy volunteers will be recruited and divided into 2 groups. 30 healthy
      volunteers will be treated with tVNS (25 Hz) for 4 hours (tVNS group). 30 healthy volunteers
      will be treated with sham tVNS (1 Hz) for 4 hours (control group).

      On day 1 of the study, participants will be randomized to one of the two groups. Blood will
      be drawn from all participants at baseline. Both groups receive a standardized breakfast.
      TVNS ear electrodes will be put into place for 4 hours without electrical stimulation.
      Thereafter, blood will be drawn.

      On day 2 of the study, blood will be drawn, and all participants receive a standardized
      breakfast again. Afterwards, tVNS (25 Hz) will be performed in participants of the tVNS
      group, and sham tVNS (1 Hz) will be performed in participants of the control group. TVNS or
      sham tVNS end after 4 hours. Blood will be drawn immediately after stimulation end.
      Thereafter, MRI will be performed in all participants (fMRT resting state, gastric motility).
      This ends the study for the participant.
    
  