
    
      Specialized imaging techniques now available allow a unique opportunity to characterize the
      micro-environment of the human body. Magnetic Resonance (MR) vascular wall imaging and
      angiography (MRA) are developing techniques that permit non-invasive evaluation of arterial
      and venous structures without the need for x-ray based catheter angiography. In addition,
      vessel wall imaging provides unprecedented non-invasive tools to assess vascular endothelial
      function. While dramatic progress has been made to cardiovascular MR imaging in the last few
      years, there are still substantial limitations in the resolution, accuracy, and
      reproducibility of MRA and wall imaging in the comprehensive structural and functional
      evaluation of coronary artery. The first aim of this study is to develop and optimize
      clinical imaging protocols and techniques for fast high-resolution coronary MRA and wall
      imaging for the assessment of coronary and other main arteries structural, distensibility,
      and endothelial functional parameters. Technique optimization and performance evaluation will
      be accomplished in normal subjects without known or suspected coronary atherosclerosis. The
      second aim of this protocol is to evaluate early MR imagery signs of arterial structural,
      distensibility, and endothelial functional disorders associated with atherosclerosis in a
      cohort of patients with known or suspected coronary atherosclerosis. Results from accelerated
      high-resolution MRA will be correlated with corresponding Computerized Tomography Coronary
      Angiogram (CTA) results. The third aim of this protocol is to develop, implement, and
      optimize new non-invasive methods for characterization of the micro-environment in the
      thoracic and abdominal area utilizing specialized techniques such as MR Spectroscopy, MR
      Elastography, and blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) imaging. The long-term objective
      of this study and research initiative is to optimize coronary MRA, wall, and body imaging
      techniques to the point that it can reliably be used for routine prevention and assessment of
      early atherosclerosis and other diseases.
    
  