
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate the efficacy of positron emission tomography (PET) utilizing 3'-deoxy-3'-(18F)
           fluorothymidine (^18F-FLT) to correctly identify response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in
           women with locally advanced unilateral breast cancer.

        -  Correlate PET-^18F-FLT results with histological response.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the correlation of early changes in tumor uptake of ^18F-FLT after the first
           course of chemotherapy with complete response after treatment completion.

        -  Evaluate the correlation of early changes in tumor uptake of ^18F-FLT with histologic
           response in biopsies obtained after 1 course of chemotherapy.

        -  Determine if the initial intensity of tumor uptake is a predictive value of response to
           chemotherapy.

        -  Determine if initial intensity of tumor uptake of ^18F-FLT varies according to
           histologic type of tumor, indices of proliferation, and tumor cellularity before
           therapy.

        -  Determine if the tumor uptake of ^18F-FLT during therapy varies according to histologic
           type of tumor, indices of proliferation, and tumor cellularity before therapy.

        -  Evaluate the role of TK1 on the kinetics of ^18 F-FLT.

        -  Analyze serum.

        -  Research biomarkers of genomics, transcription, and proteomics.

        -  Evaluate the toxicity of ^18F-FLT.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive 3'-deoxy-3'-(18F) fluorothymidine (^18F-FLT) IV and undergo positron
      emission tomography (PET) before the first and second courses of neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
      Patients receiving bisequential chemotherapy undergo ^18F-FLT-PET before the change in drugs
      (usually the fourth or fifth course). All patients undergo a final ^18F-FLT-PET after the
      last chemotherapy course but before surgery.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed for 1 month.
    
  