
    
      Background:

      Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a highly debilitating disorder with a lifetime
      prevalence of approximately 2% is equally distributed among men and women. OCD generally
      starts at an early age and usually develops a chronic course if left untreated. Many patients
      with OCD receive treatment after years of delay due to both patient and health care factors;
      therefore, OCD affects educational achievement, ability to work and interpersonal
      relationships. Moreover, it poses a considerable burden and distress to family caregivers
      [1], and accounts for one of the ten most disabling mental health conditions worldwide [2].

      The role of the microbial community in health and disease has been a neglected subject in
      human research until recently, despite the fact that human microbes comprise about 1-3 % of
      our body mass [3]. Gut microbes play important roles in nutrient metabolism, production of
      vitamins, and prevention of pathogens from colonizing our intestine [4]. Recently, microbiota
      in the gut has gained increasing interest due the extensive connection between the gut and
      the brain [5]. The bidirectional communication through neural, hormonal, and immunological
      signaling involving the central, autonomic, and enteric nervous systems forms the
      microbiome-gut-brain axis [6]. Skin microbiota is highly diverse and a number of factors
      affect bacterial composition, including sex, handedness, and time since last hand washing [7,
      8]. In psychiatry, dysbioses have been reported in anorexia nervosa, major depression,
      autism, and other major psychiatric disorders [9, 10].

      Association between OCD onset and infection has long been known. PANS/PANDAS are acute-onset
      forms of OCD associated with autoimmune reactions from pathogens such as streptococcus
      infection [11, 12]. The connection between bacterial pathogen and immunological response,
      which generates OCD symptoms, is further evidence for the importance of the
      microbiome-gut-brain axis in OCD. Lately, there have been numerous hypotheses regarding the
      importance of gut microbiome and OCD symptoms [13, 14]. However, neither skin nor gut
      microbial composition have ever been studied in OCD patients. Especially given the centrality
      of washing and cleaning in OCD, the study of skin and gut microbiota in OCD is a logical next
      step.

      Aim 1. Characterize composition and diversity of the gut microbiome in individuals with OCD,
      OCD with washing compulsion and healthy controls.

        -  We hypothesize that OCD patients will show evidence of gut dysbiosis (imbalance) marked
           by lower microbial diversity and specific taxonomic and gene content differences
           compared to healthy controls. Primary outcome is α-diversity, which refers to the number
           of species (richness) at one site. Secondary outcome is β-diversity, which refers to the
           differences in species composition between participants and taxonomic abundance of
           bacterial groups (at the phylum, class, order, family, and genus levels). These measures
           yield information about individual microbial composition at each site and homogeneity in
           a group of people.

        -  We hypothesize that reduced α and β diversity in gut microbiome correlate with severity
           of obsessive-compulsive symptoms measured by Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale
           (Y-BOCS), and Obsessive-Compulsive Inventory Revised (OCI-R). We predict that greater
           symptom severity is associated with lower diversity. A significant negative correlation
           will be supportive evidence for the microbiome-gut-brain axis.

        -  We hypothesize that there will be significant richer α diversity in gut microbiome
           composition after successful psychotherapy (change in Y-BOCS score).

      Aim 2. Characterize composition and diversity on the skin (palm and forehead) on patients
      with OCD, OCD with primary washing compulsion and healthy controls.

        -  We hypothesize that OCD patients with washing compulsion will show evidence of a skin
           dysbiosis marked by lower microbial α and β diversity and specific taxonomic and gene
           content differences.

        -  Disrupted microbial diversity and abundance from the skin will correlate with time spent
           on washing and properties of the skin surface documented by high definition photography.

        -  Individuals with washing contamination that cease washing more than one hour per day
           will reacquire normal skin flora, which more closely will resemble healthy controls.
           This would provide important information regarding the plasticity of the skin
           microbiome. Moreover, skin health will improve in terms of troubles with eczema or other
           skin diseases.

      Method:

      Recruitment: Healthy controls will be recruited through advertisement or included from
      previous studies with their consent. Male and female patients between 18-45 years of age from
      the OCD-clinic at Huddinge Hospital with a DSM-5 diagnosis of OCD and fear of contamination
      will be invited to participate. Age matched controls will be recruited who have no personal
      or family history of OCD. Exclusion criteria for all groups include history of GI tract
      surgery (other than appendectomy or cholecystectomy); history of inflammatory bowel disease,
      irritable bowel syndrome, celiac disease, or any other diagnosis that could explain chronic
      or recurring bowel symptoms, antibiotic use in the past 3 months; pro-biotic use in the past
      4 weeks; pregnantcy. Intellectual disability, autism spectrum disorder and psychosis.

      Assessment: All participants will meet an experienced psychiatrist for diagnostic assessments
      including M.I.N.I. interview. Participants will be asked to complete self-assessment forms on
      the Internet and answer questions about their dietary habits for the last three months.
      Weight and height for body mass index (BMI) calculation will be measured. All assessment
      forms, information from interviews and medical examination will be documented in their
      medical record. Further information (e.g. antibiotics and previous therapies) will be
      collected from their medical records with the participants' consent.

      The investigators chose the following questionnaire battery to capture all relevant outcome
      variables (OCD-symptoms), nutrition, and stool characteristics and frequency.

        -  Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS): A commonly used clinical,
           semi-structured interview assessing severity of OCD symptoms.

        -  Obsessive-Compulsive Inventory Revised (OCI-R -): An18 item self-report questionnaire
           estimating OCD symptom dimensions.The OCI-R yields a total score and 5 subscales:
           checking, hoarding, neutralizing, obsessing, ordering and washing.

        -  Meal Q questionnaire: A web-based food frequency questionnaire normed in Sweden will
           validate energy and macronutrient intake, which affects the microbial composition.

        -  Bristol Stool Scale: A medical diagnostic scale designed to classify the form of human
           faeces into seven categories.

      Furthermore, the investigators will collect demographic information of all patients: age,
      sex, age at onset, occupation status, somatic health, and psychiatric comorbidities.

      Stool sampling procedure: Patients and controls will be provided with clear instructions for
      home fecal sample collection. Patients will collect two stool samples at the beginning of
      treatment and two at the end of treatment. Controls will collect two samples at one time
      point only. Participants will collect stool at home using convenient kits that will be sent
      to the KI biobank. Fecal microbial DNA will be isolated using a phenol chloroform extraction
      method combined with physical disruption of bacterial cells and a DNA clean-up kit (QiaAmp
      DNAstool minikit, Qiagen, CA).

      Skin sampling procedure: All participants are asked not to wash their hands before sampling,
      preferably after a two hours ERP session with a psychologist. Time since last handwash will
      be registered as a covariat in the statistical analysis later on. The palm surface of both
      hands is swabbed separately with cotton tipped swabs moistured with solution of 0.15 NaCl and
      0,1% Tween 20. The samples are subsequently placed in 15-ml polypropylene tubes and stored at
      -20 degrees Celsius for 72 hours before DNA extraction using Mobio UltraClean Plant DNA
      isolation Kit (Mobio Laboratories) [7].

      Exposure and Respons Prevention therapy (ERP): an evidence-based psychotherapy administered
      by experienced psychologists, either individually, in groups, face-to-face or through
      internet. A minimum of five exposure and respons prevention sessions is required in order for
      it to be considered an ERP treatment.

      Sample storage in biobank: All samples will be stored at Karolinska Institutets (KI) biobank.
      Application for biobank storage of samples is in progress according to rules and regulations.

      Metagenomic sequencing: The investigators will use two approaches: sequencing of the 16S rRNA
      gene and shotgun metagenomics [21]. Whole-genome metagenome shotgun sequencing can provide
      functional information on which genes are present in the microbiota of patients. This method
      can also provide a more detailed taxonomical resolution that 16S rRNA sequencing.

      16S metagenomic sequencing technique: DNA amplification of the V1-3 regions using forward
      primer (8f:5'-AGAGTTTGATCMTGGCTCAG-3') and reverse primer (518r:5'-ATTACCGCGGCTGCTGG-3') by
      PCR. 454 pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA genes will be performed on a Life Sciences Genome
      Sequencer FLX machine (Roche, Florence, SC, USA). Sequences that are less than 200 base pairs
      (bp) or greater than 1,000 bp in length, containing incorrect primer sequences, or containing
      more than one ambiguous base will be discarded. 16S rRNA sequence data generated will be
      processed by the Quantitative Insights Into Microbial Ecology (QIIME) pipeline. Sequences are
      clustered into Operational Taxonomic Units (OTUs; similar to species level) based on their
      sequence similarity at a 97% threshold using BLAST and assigned taxonomy using the Greengenes
      database. Principal coordinates (PCs) will be generated using unweighted and weighted UniFrac
      distances.

      Metagenomic shotgun sequencing: will be prepared and sequenced at the CTMR under the
      direction of Prof Engstrand and Dr Schuppe-Koistinen. Sequencing will be performed using the
      Illumina HiSeq 2500 platform in High Output Mode. To efficiently utilize the flow cells,
      about ten samples will be multiplexed, with dual indices, per lane of the flow cell. Prior to
      downstream bioinformatics analysis, raw sequence data will be quality filtered and trimmed to
      remove bases with Phred quality scores less than 20.

      Statistical analysis: Downstream bioinformatics analysis will consist of: i) taxonomic
      composition estimation to identify what microorganisms are present in the samples at
      strain-level resolution [ConStrains, kraken, metaphlan2]; ii) functional annotation and
      profiling using both reference gene catalog-based methods and hidden Markov model-based gene
      family approaches to determine microbial gene content and abundances [concoct, mocat2],
      including determination of the antibiotic resistance potential (antibiotic resistome); and
      iii) computing descriptive statistics and identifying groups within the data, as well as
      performing statistical analyses between subgroups using additional metadata, where available
      [hirbin, stats]. Bioinformatics analyses will be performed on the Swedish National
      Infrastructure for Computing's (SNIC) cluster computing resources at UPPMAX. Differences in
      alpha diversity (expressed as number of observed species and Chao-1 estimator), beta
      diversity (UniFrac distances), and taxa abundance of bacterial groups (at the phylum, class,
      order, family, and genus levels) will be analyzed. Since response variables are not predicted
      to be normally distributed, non-parametric testing will be used.

      Determination of sample size: As no previous studies have been conducted on OCD, the
      investigators consulted similar studies conducted on patients with depression and anorexia
      nervosa. All have included between 20-30 patients which was sufficiently large to detect
      significant differences in alpha and beta diversity. As this is an initial study on OCD and
      the investigators are conducting two samplings on two occasions for cases, the investigators
      anticipate that this will be an adequate sample size to indicate whether skin and intestinal
      dysbioses exist in OCD warranting a larger investigation.

      Timeline: Ethical application has been approved
    
  