
    
      There has been an increasing focus on the adverse impacts of irritability, defined as
      increased tendency towards anger.In children, irritability manifests as a persistently
      negative mood and frequent temper outbursts. Severe, persistent irritability has been
      conceptualized as Disruptive Mood Dysregulation Disorder (DMDD) with 3% of children meeting
      criteria for it. Most youth with DMDD have Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)
      but only a subset of patients with ADHD exhibit impairing irritability. Even in children not
      meeting full DMDD criteria, irritability causes a range of impairments and is a risk factor
      for depression, suicide and substance use. Irritability has been identified as
      transdiagnostic entity meriting investigation as a target for personalized intervention.
      Irritability levels are only minimally correlated with severity of ADHD symptoms or
      impairments in executive functioning, suggesting that irritability is distinct and not simply
      a manifestation of severe ADHD. Presently, the first line treatment for irritability in
      children with ADHD is to optimize the dose of the CNS stimulant. However, there is great
      heterogeneity in response, with some children experiencing complete remission of their
      irritability and others experience worsening irritability. Increased irritability is one of
      the most common reasons why parents stop these medications. It is unknown what drives this
      heterogeneity in response as no reliable treatment markers have been identified. The
      unpredictability of CNS stimulants has led to the increasing use of atypical antipsychotics
      for the off label treatment of ADHD. While effective, these medications are associated with
      concerning side effects.

      In order to identify markers of treatment response, it is necessary to delineate the causal
      pathways underlying irritability. However, the mechanisms driving irritability are largely
      unknown. Two areas theorized to contribute to irritability are impairments in learning from
      experience (instrumental learning) and sensitivity to reward and loss. There are objective,
      reliable methods for measuring these domains in children through the use of event related
      potentials (ERPs), synchronous neural activity derived from the electroencephalogram (EEG) in
      response to a stimulus. Reward positivity (RewP) is an ERP occurring in response to feedback
      on task performance that can be broken down to separately analyze response to gain (delta
      frequency) and loss (theta frequency). No prior work has examined these components of RewP
      with irritability but others have found unique associations of each with depression. As
      irritability is an established risk factor for depression, it is reasonable to surmise that
      RewP may predict irritability as well. Error related negativity (ERN) reflects the
      preconscious detection of potential conflict, serving as an early warning signal for errors
      and a first step to adapting behavior in response to achieve a desired goal (e.g.,
      instrumental learning.) A subset of children with ADHD exhibit a suppressed ERN on cognitive
      tasks, and ERN amplitude is associated with task performance. When suppressed, CNS stimulants
      normalize ERN, which is correlated with improved task performance. We theorize that
      abnormalities in RewP to reward and loss on a monetary guessing task will predict the
      severity of irritability, while ERN amplitude on a response inhibition task will predict the
      degree of improvement in irritability after dose optimization of CNS stimulants. These
      associations will be assessed in 47 children with ADHD and elevated levels of irritability
      using daily parent ratings gathered before and after optimization of CNS stimulant. To
      address the great variability in a child's daily behavior, we will use the recommended
      collection format of ecological momentary assessment (EMA) to gather multiple daily ratings
      of irritability. Lastly, there is a longstanding concern that CNS stimulants may lead to
      rebound irritability late in the day as their effects fade. It is unclear if this simply
      represents a return to the premedication baseline that parents perceive as more severe after
      observing improved behavior earlier in the day or a true worsening in irritability.
      Therefore, we will use EMA to compare changes in irritability during medicated times of day
      versus unmedicated times, theorizing that greater daytime improvement will be associated with
      parents rating worse evening behavior.

      Aim1: Examine the capacity of lab measurements of reward sensitivity to predict irritability
      in ADHD children H1: After controlling for relevant covariates, gain-related delta and
      loss-related theta activity in the EEG during a reward-guessing task will each correlate with
      levels of the child's irritability.

      H2:Children with elevated levels of both loss related theta &gain-related delta will exhibit
      the greatest irritability.

      Aim2: Examine the capacity of ERN amplitude during a response inhibition task done in the
      unmedicated state to predict the capacity of CNS stimulants to reduce irritability in
      children with ADHD.

      H1: Smaller baseline ERN will predict greater improvement in irritability with optimization
      of stimulant dose.

      Aim3: Examine the phenomena of rebound irritability with wear-off of the therapeutic effect
      of CNS stimulants.

      H1: Greater reductions in irritability when the CNS stimulant is active will be associated
      with parents reporting increasing irritability after the stimulant has worn off.
    
  