
    
      To date, none of the methods used to test for coronavirus infection provide reliable
      information about the status of an individual's infection. Common tests based on PCR, carried
      out on the basis of samples taken from the human respiratory tract, give a positive answer in
      far from all cases. Antibody tests may not record the initial stages of the disease, or may
      not reveal residual immunity in those who have been ill, while giving cross-reactions to
      other common coronaviruses.

      A comprehensive assessment of the biological parameters of the virus and the parameters of
      the immune response to infection is required. In this regard, we propose an integrated
      approach, including the use of PCR testing technology, analysis of the immune response in the
      form of antibodies of all major classes (IgG, IgA), determination of inflammation markers,
      C-reactive protein, detailed blood test, ferritin and troponin.

      In addition, an analysis of the genetic diversity of strains of the pathogen COVID-19
      circulating among various groups of the population of the Russian Federation will be carried
      out.

      To collect and analyze data, it is planned to enter information into a special electronic
      system and analyze the collected data with a wide range of informative methods that allow
      "layer by layer" to compare and collect a complete picture of what is happening.

      Objectives of the study:

        1. Identifying the percentage of infected in the population in Moscow, the Moscow region
           and some other regions where the epidemic situation in connection with SARS-CoV-2
           remains tense;

        2. Study of genetic diversity (including metavirome) and dynamics of structural variability
           of the causative agent of coronavirus infection in the studied regions;

        3. Studying the features of the formation and tension of immunity in patients who have
           undergone coronavirus infection of varying severity;

        4. Clarification of the mechanisms of occurrence and development of coronavirus infection.

      In the study of biological samples obtained from research participants, methods of
      proteomics, peptidomics, next generation sequencing (NGS), physicochemical methods of
      analysis will be used.
    
  