
    
      The present study received approval from the Human Research Ethics Committee of the State
      University of Paraíba (Brazil) under process number 00460133000-11 in compliance with
      Resolution 196/96 of the Brazilian National Health Council.

      A school-based, cross-sectional study was carried out involving male and female children aged
      three to five years enrolled at private and public preschools in the city of Campina Grande,
      Brazil. Campina Grande is an industrialized city in northeastern Brazil with a population of
      386,000 inhabitants and is divided into six administrative districts. The city has
      considerable cultural, social and economic disparities, with a mean monthly income per capita
      equal to US$ 110 and a Human Development Index of 0.72 [11]. The participants were selected
      from a total population of 12,705 children in this age group and corresponded to 6.41% of the
      entire population and therefore representative of preschool children in Campina Grande.

      A two-phase sampling method was used to ensure representativeness. A list of preschools was
      obtained from the Municipal Secretary of Education of Campina Grande. To ensure the
      representativeness a sample calculation was done. Through a stratified sampling procedure,
      preschools were selected at draw from each district of Campina Grande. Then the number of
      schoolchildren from each preschool was proportional to the number of schoolchildren enrolled
      in each district. The sample was obtained from the proportion estimation calculation.
      Preschools were randomly selected by draw from each district in the first phase and children
      were randomly selected from each preschool in the second phase. Eighteen of the 127 public
      preschools and 15 of the 122 private preschools were randomly selected by lots. The sample
      size was calculated with a 4% margin of error, a 95% confidence level and a 50% prevalence
      rate of perceived impact on child and family OHRQoL. A correction factor of 1.2 was applied
      to compensate for the design effect [12].

      The minimum sample size was estimated at 720 schoolchildren, to which an additional 20% was
      added to compensate for possible losses, giving a total sample of 864 schoolchildren.
    
  