
    
      The role of radiation therapy remains to be defined in unresected MPM or after P/D. For the
      latter, local control remains the primary objective but radiotherapy (RT) is a challenge
      because of the risk of pneumonia in the intact lung. There are no specific clinical data to
      support the use of adjuvant radiation therapy after P/D or definitive radiation therapy after
      biopsy-based diagnosis for patients not amenable to surgery.

      However, recent publications on Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy (IMRT) and conventional
      fractionation after P/D or biopsy have shown the feasibility and acceptable toxicity profile
      of the treatment.

      The investigators submitted a retrospective analysis of accelerated hypofractionated
      Intensity modulated arc therapy (IMAT) using TomoTherapy in MPM following P/D or diagnostic
      biopsy. In the investigators experience of MPM, treatment of the intact lung with pleural
      IMAT using helical Tomotherapy is a safe and feasible option with an acceptable lung toxicity
      profile. The results obtained in terms of toxicity were encouraging. In fact, the
      investigators only observed one case of G3 pneumonia, and the patient in question is still
      alive and off oxygen therapy. Patient compliance with this short-course treatment was also
      very good.

      Overall, the investigators found that accelerated hypofractionation with IMAT was feasible at
      the dose delivered and had an acceptable toxicity profile. So the investigators want to
      propose this protocol for treatment of MPM in intact lung to improve local control.

      In patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma who underwent pleurectomy / decortications
      (P/D) or only diagnostic biopsy, it is difficult to deliver a tumoricidal dose of radiation
      to the pleura due to the presence of the ipsilateral lung. In recent years, the investigators
      have implemented a technique for irradiation of the pleura in intact lung, using accelerated
      hypofractionation with Tomotherapy in an attempt to reduce as far as possible, the dose to
      the ipsilateral lung. The aim of the treatment was palliation. The investigators analyzed the
      data of 36 patients with MPM, with a long follow-up without recording death cases related to
      radiation treatment or radiation pneumonitis grade 4.

      In view of these data, the aim of this study is to increase the dose of treatment in patients
      suffering from MPM after P/D or biopsy.

      The study will evaluate the feasibility of the treatment through the study of pulmonary acute
      and late toxicity; The treatment will be delivered using Tomotherapy that allows to adopt
      dose accelerated hypofraction criteria. Treatment duration is 5 consecutive days.
    
  