
    
      Objective:

      The ultimate goal of this project is to enhance the capacity of non-mental health clinicians
      working in an Emergency Department (ED) to recognize and initiate further evaluation of
      children and adolescents at risk for suicide.

        -  Aim 1: To re-validate the Risk of Suicide Questionnaire (RSQ), a screening tool that
           assists non-psychiatric clinicians in rapidly detecting suicide risk in pediatric
           patients, in a pediatric ED mental health population.

        -  Aim 2: To determine the utility of a suicide screening tool, a revised version of the
           Risk of Suicide Questionnaire, to detect suicide risk in pediatric patients presenting
           to a pediatric ED for non-mental health reasons.

      Study population:

      This is a multi-site study and will include all patients admitted to three pediatric EDs (the
      Children s National Medical Center (CNMC) ED, Children s Hospital Boston (CHB) ED, and
      Nationwide Children s Hospital (NCH) ED), ages 10 to 21, during the data collection days of
      the study period. Both patients admitted for mental health and non-mental health reasons will
      be included in the study.

      For ease of reading, from here on in, the three pediatric EDs participating in this
      multi-site study will be referred to as the PEDIATRIC ED.

      Design:

      This will be a prospective instrument development / validation study. During 5 to 10 weekdays
      of the month, all mental health patients and a random subset of non-mental health patients
      admitted to the PEDIATRIC ED will be approached after their triage assessment. Following
      informed consent and assent, a 17-item suicide assessment tool created for this research
      project (RSQ-Revised), as well as a brief background questionnaire will be administered.
      These questions will be validated against a gold standard suicide assessment questionnaire,
      which will be administered to the subjects directly after the RSQ-Revised. The study aims to
      develop a brief suicide screening tool to be used at triage for all patients entering the ED.

      Measures

      Measures include the proposed 17-item screening questionnaire and a gold standard assessment
      of suicidal ideation in adolescents, the Suicide Ideation Questionnaire (SIQ).
    
  