
    
      A database of over 1200 patients will be created by the retrospective capture of the
      following data in UZ Leuven database:

      Injury mechanisms data:

      In order to create a map of injury patterns, severity and criteria that allow for identifying
      which accident circumstances ageing adults should reasonably be protected against, including
      a kinematics tolerance curve for the elderly brain that can be used for protection purposes,
      a retrospective analysis of data related to injury mechanisms, registered in the patient's
      clinical records, will be performed for the cohort of patients.

      Clinical data:

      Data regarding the following parameters will be retrospectively collected in UZ Leuven
      database for the studty cohort: age, sex, cause of injury, GCS, pupillary reactivity,
      hypoxia, hypotension, hypothermia and Marshall CT classification at the time of admission.
      Moreover, Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOSE) at 6 months after the accident, obtained in the
      context of routine clinical practice, will also be considered.

      These data will be correlated with the results obtained during the injury patterns, injury
      severity and risk profiles mapping, in order to better understand what accident types are
      most risky to eventually result in poor outcome.

      Economic data:

      In order to know what is the economic impact that TBI in the elderly has on society, hospital
      costs for the clinical management in the study cohort will be retrospectively extracted from
      the financial database of UZ Leuven.

      All these data will be anonymized and no informed consent will be used in this part of the
      study.

      Current status assessment:

      In this part of the project, all the patients ≥65 years old admitted to UZ Leuven due to TBI
      between 1999 and 2019, and fulfilling previously explained inclusion and exclusion criteria,
      will be contacted through a phone call by an investigator of this project, and offered to
      participate in the study.

      UZ Leuven administration (MIR) has access to a central national database, so the list of
      patients will be screened prior to the start of the phone calls in order to exclude the
      patients that are deceased and avoid calling them.

      The informed consent form will be distributed among the patients via post or e-mail,
      depending on their preferences. Patients will have to send the signed informed consent form
      back to the researchers via post or e-mail in order to be assessed.

      Once the researchers receive the signed informed consent form, patients will be called again
      and they will have the cognitive and quality of life evaluation, which consists of:

      -Cognitive evaluation: the Telephone Interview for Cognitive Status (TICS) tool will be used
      to study cognitive functions in the cohort. It is a 11-items screening test for cognitive
      functions, including word list memory, orientation, attention, repetition, conceptual
      knowledge and nonverbal praxis. The necessary time to perform it is 10 min or less.

      Moreover, the patients' level of education will be asked, registered and correlated with
      clinical data, cognitive functions and quality of life outcomes.

      -Quality of life evaluation: the Quality of Life after Brain Injury (QOLIBRI) tool will be
      used to assess the quality of life in the cohort. It is a 37-item questionnaire with six
      subscales that measure quality of life in the domains of cognition, self, daily life and
      autonomy, social relationships, emotions, and physical problems. The approximate time
      necessary to fill this questionnaire in is 10 min.

      Once the investigators get the signed informed consent, injury mechanisms data, clinical data
      and clinical-care related economic data will be collected from UZ Leuven database and
      correlated to the cognitive and quality of life outcomes. Also, for all the patients in the
      study cohort that live in the surrounding areas of Leuven and have UZ Leuven as a reference
      hospital after TBI, a retrospective revision of the clinical records will be performed for
      the identification of diagnosis for neurodegenerative diseases that developed after TBI.

      Based on previous statistical figures, the investigators expect to have a cohort of over 500
      patients for this current status assessment.
    
  