
    
      Background: The Care Quality Commission (2016) notes that the Royal Bournemouth and
      Christchurch Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (RBCH) has implemented a number of initiatives
      aimed at improving care given to people with dementia. However, feedback from patients with
      dementia indicate that improvements are still required (Care Quality Commission, 2016).
      Therefore, the main aim of this study is to explore how a systems based approach can be used
      to help with the discharge planning process and the reduction of falls amongst people with
      dementia by conducting interviews with hospital staff and carers of people with dementia.

      Research question: How can a systems perspective contribute to reducing length of stay for
      people with dementia in an acute hospital through improvements in discharge planning and
      falls prevention?

      Setting: This study will be conducted at the Royal Bournemouth and Christchurch Hospitals NHS
      Foundation Trust.

      Duration:This study is not expected to last longer than three months.

      Methods: The researcher will interview hospital staff and carers of people with dementia for
      a period of approximately thirty minutes. This study will use a hospital systems approach to
      identify the following: 1) communication and interpersonal strategies used by professionals
      in the discharge planning process and the reduction of falls, 2) the effectiveness of
      equipment such as manual handling aides in helping with the discharge planning process and
      the reduction of falls amongst people with dementia, 3) the impact of policies in the
      discharge planning process and the reduction of falls, and 4) the influence of the ward
      environment in helping with the discharge planning process and the reduction of falls. These
      questions are embedded in Edwards's (1972), Hawkins's (1987) and Zecevic et al.'s (2007)
      theoretical framework (interactions, environment, policies and equipment).

      The findings from this study will be used to inform practice.
    
  