
    
      The most popular sport worldwide is football and there is, therefore , interest in detecting
      factors that may interfere with their practice. These factors are already investigated in the
      literature , in particular kick, gesture performed frequently , whereas in most situations is
      through him that achieves the main goal: to score. For this particular effort is needed
      balance to run it , and based on this body balance the ankle joint , responsible for the
      sense of position and movement of the body . Any deficit in the joint may interfere with the
      functional performance of the individual. The football players can use rigid or elastic
      bandages to prevent and optimize its performance . The use of bandages in different
      conditions is being studied , however analyzes performed during sporting gestures are scarce
      . Therefore , this study aims to evaluate the influence of two types of bandage ankle dynamic
      balance and activity power of the support limb during kicking through biomedical
      instrumentation muscles . Participate in the study 180 individuals practicing football ,
      where half will consist of professional athletes and half will consist of sedentary
      individuals who have committed the sport of football at some point in life, aged 20 and 35
      years of both sexes . All will perform the task of controlled shot on a force platform with
      one foot . Electrical activity through electromyography superfíciedos long and short fibular
      muscles , tibialis anterior and gluteus medius is collected.

      The Gesture Controlled Shooting ( GCC ) will consist of the following phases :

        -  At the signal of the researcher , the individual should go to the center of the platform
           and reach , stand on one foot for execution of the kick, whereupon the cycle throughout
           the GCC ;

        -  After shooting the ball vertically , the participant will expect it to reach the maximum
           height and during the descent of the ball, run the kick with the member that is not
           supported on the platform , and the same shall be held at a convenient time for hit the
           target ;

        -  The effort must be made to the medial region of the foot ;

        -  The goal of the task is to hit the ball on target , accurately ;

        -  After foot contact with the ball for the execution of the kick, the individual should
           remain with leg support with visual focus directed to the target until the moment the
           search signal for it to leave the platform with the foot that held the kick and
           following with the foot that was in contact with the force platform ;

        -  Cycle the task will be completed .

           18 kicks will be performed, and 9 will be with the dominant leg and 9 with the
           non-dominant lower limb in each of the following situations : without bandage , bandage
           with rigid and elastic bandage .

      To analyze the data , will be used ANOVA test for a significance level of 5 % . After the
      tests , the correlation is also carried out Pearson between the data obtained in the three
      situations of shooting . Therefore it is expected that the dynamic balance and muscle
      activation is influenced positively with the use of different types of taping , possibly
      showing what kind of application is most effective for use the sport of football.
    
  