
    
      This personalized Cognitive Remediation (CR) confirmatory efficacy trial will be conducted at
      behavioral health facilities offering CR, located within the New York metropolitan area.
      Participants for this study will include adults diagnosed with schizophrenia or
      schizoaffective disorder, age 18-68, who have identified cognitive health as a pertinent
      treatment for recovery goal attainment and are seeking CR services. Individuals referred to
      CR may be referred for research by their treating clinician or may be self-referred.
      Consented individuals will receive a numeric study ID which will be used to de-identify all
      data collected for research.

      Time 1 (baseline) outcomes assessments conducted by the research team include early auditory
      processing (EAP) ability, cognitive ability, and functioning. Participants will be classified
      as EAP impaired (EAP-) or EAP intact (EAP+). Following completion of Time 1 assessments,
      assignment to treatment condition will be stratified by EAP ability and randomized to Brain
      Basics (BB, n=100) or Brain Training (BT, n=100). Participants will be invited to participate
      in a separate EEG assessment of Mismatch Negativity (MMN).

      CR will be conducted by trained clinicians at each performance site. CR will entail 30,
      60-minute sessions administered two times a week (approximately 15 weeks). All participants
      will continue to receive recovery oriented therapeutic activities. Participants will be
      scheduled to repeat behavioral assessments at Time 2 (post-treatment) and Time 3 (follow-up)
      with a research team member who is blind to treatment group. The EAP- group receiving Brain
      Basics will also repeat EEG paradigms at Time 2 to explore mechanisms of change related to
      the CR intervention.

      Verbal learning will be the primary outcome with functional capacity the secondary outcome.
      EEG is exploratory and will examine neurophysiologic markers of need for and response to EAP
      training. Mediation analysis will examine whether gains in cognition (verbal learning)
      mediate the gains in EAP and functioning. This will inform our understanding of EAP as the
      therapeutic change mechanism for about half of CR participants and confirm that EAP training
      need not be given to those CR participants with baseline intact EAP.
    
  