
    
      The University of Tennessee Health Science Center (UTHSC) Memphis Hepatitis C Cooperative
      Research Center was established in 2000 to support clinical and basic research in
      understanding the basis for chronic disease in hepatitis C (HCV) infection and response to
      therapy in clinically infected patients. The primary research goal is to understand why
      African American (AA) patients with chronic hepatitis C are more susceptible to chronic
      infection and why their response rate to combination therapy is only 50 percent or less of
      that for non AA patients. The present study will support this ongoing work by continuing to
      provide clinical samples from patients with chronic hepatitis C who are undergoing treatment.
      The specific aims for the 2005-2010 Hepatitis C Cooperative Research Center are: to determine
      how human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class II-dependent immune regulation and T cell
      specificities affect differences in immune responses to HCV and response to therapy in AA
      patients compared to non AA patients; to determine if there is a difference in
      interferon-induced signaling between patients that respond to therapy and those that do not;
      and to measure and compare the sustained virologic response to standard treatment for
      hepatitis C between AA and non AA patients. Researchers plan to continue enrollment of
      patients to the "African American Response to Therapy for Hepatitis C" study (112 African
      American patients and 20 Caucasian patients) in order to meet the current specific aims.
      Participants will include adult African American and Caucasian patients with compensated
      chronic hepatitis C who have not been previously treated with interferon and/or ribavirin.
      Patients meeting the entry criteria will be enrolled. The total number of patients to be
      enrolled is 260 over a 10-year period. In the next 5 years 132 subjects (112 African
      American, 20 Caucasian) will be studied locally. Patients will be recruited primarily from
      the clinical practices of the hepatologists at UTHSC. Patients will also be selected from
      referrals at local Gastroenterology Hepatology clinics and the Memphis Department of Veterans
      Affairs (VA) Hospital. Patients will be treated with weight based pegylated interferon
      alfa-2b once weekly and weight based ribavirin twice a day. Duration of treatment with both
      pegylated interferon alfa-2b and ribavirin will be for up to 72 weeks. Treatment will be
      discontinued at 24 weeks if there is persistent viremia and the patient wishes to discontinue
      therapy. Ribavirin will be administered orally at a dose of 13 +/- 2 mg/kg per day twice
      daily, with 200 mg capsules. Pegylated interferon alpha-2b will be administered by the
      subcutaneous route.
    
  