
    
      The Institute of Medicine's Committee on Unintended Pregnancy urges increasing access to
      contraception through broadening the range of health professionals that provide birth
      control. Evidence-based family planning practice no longer requires a physical examination
      before prescribing hormonal contraceptives to women. Community pharmacists efficiently
      provide emergency contraceptive pills (ECP) and women report satisfaction with the direct
      access. These women, as well as many women purchasing less effective over-the-counter (OTC)
      contraceptive methods, could benefit from more pharmacist-dispensed birth control choices,
      such as hormonal methods. The Direct Access Study will assess the feasibility of pharmacists,
      under Collaborative Drug Therapy Agreements with independent prescribers, providing hormonal
      contraceptives in community pharmacies. Specifically, the study will evaluate the impact upon
      hormonal contraception initiation and continuation rates when women's care is managed by
      pharmacists.

      Using Collaborative Drug Therapy Agreements jointly developed with licensed prescribers
      (physicians and nurse practitioners), pharmacists in four Fred Meyer pharmacies will identify
      women who are at risk of unintended pregnancy and will offer to evaluate them for their
      suitability to safely use oral contraceptives, contraceptive patches, or the contraceptive
      vaginal ring. Through self-administered medical and contraceptive history questionnaires,
      interested women will select the most suitable contraceptive methods. Pharmacists will then
      complete the screening process and prescribe hormonal contraceptives according to the
      protocol guidelines.

      Pharmacists will encourage women to follow up with a primary care practitioner or family
      planning clinic for cervical exams and reproductive tract infection screening as indicated.
      Pharmacists will have authority to provide an initial 3-month prescription and an additional
      9-month prescription if blood pressure is normal at a three-month revisit. Effectiveness of
      pharmacists' interventions will be measured by initiation and continuation of hormonal
      methods by women to whom pharmacists have offered them. Feasibility will be determined by
      measurement of both acceptability and sustainability. Acceptability will be measured by
      surveys of women, pharmacists, and prescribers. Sustainability will be measured by economic
      and work-flow outcomes for the pharmacies, including evidence that women, private third-party
      payers, and public payers are willing to pay for the services. If safety is documented after
      preliminary analysis, injectable contraceptive methods will be added to the study.
    
  