
    
      Background:

      Sleep disturbances are among the most common and severe symptoms reported in the Primary
      Brain Tumor (PBT)population and incidence rates are associated with oncologic therapies,
      particularly radiotherapy. Smart wearable devices have the potential to provide detailed
      information about sleep and circadian rhythms in human subjects with lower potential for data
      loss, as devices sync automatically and require less charging time. Measurement of sleep
      through smart wearables, also eliminates the difficulties of recording in a sleep clinic and
      allows for longer monitoring periods. Previous smart wearable research in healthy controls
      has found that the Fitbit Charge 3TM model performs better than actigraphy and is the most
      comparable to polysomnography, the gold standard of sleep detection. Currently, there are
      very few studies examining sleep or circadian rhythms with these devices in the PBT
      population.

      Objectives:

      -To assess detection of sleep disturbances in PBT patients using the physiological sleep
      measurements attained from smart wearable devices, as well as, the correlation with
      self-reported sleep instruments.

      Eligibility:

        -  PBT patients must be enrolled on the Natural History Study (NHS) trial in the
           Neuro-Oncology Branch (NOB) (all tumor types and grades eligible).

        -  Participants with histologically documented PBT.

        -  Concurrent enrollment in other NOB trials is permissible.

        -  Ability of subject to understand and the willingness to sign a written consent document.

        -  Adults (greater than or equal to 18 years of age) who are English-speaking and able to
           self-report symptoms.

        -  Exclude participants without tissue diagnosis.

        -  Participants who are unwilling or unable to synchronize or link their Fitbit smart
           wearable device to their personal smart phone are excluded

      Design:

        -  A total of 160 PBT participants will participate in this observational study.

        -  Participants will be sampled in a cross-sectional design at 1 of 4 timepoints across the
           disease course. The study will collect sleep, activity and heart rate information over a
           one-month period via Fitbit wearable device, which will be provided to patients at no
           cost. This data includes fine measurements of sleep including sleep stages, latency,
           fragmentation and efficiency, as well as, daytime napping duration and bout number.
           Additionally, circadian rhythms parameters will be calculated to determine features
           associated with chronodisruption including amplitude dampening, precision of rhythm
           onset/offset, and rhythm stability. The study will also include the collection of
           established self-reported patient reported outcome (PRO) measures for sleep and
           circadian rhythms. Participants will be given sleep diaries to be completed at-home for
           the fourth week of recording and will be asked to fill out the PRO measures during that
           fourth week at the completion of the study.

        -  Descriptive statistics, T-tests, Wilcoxon rank sum tests, and multiple logistic
           regression models will be used to evaluate the feasibility of the Fitbit device for
           measuring sleep disturbance and circadian disruption in participants. Pearson or
           Spearman correlations will be used to evaluate the relationship between the Fitbit
           wearable biological measures of sleep and circadian rhythms and self-reported PROs.
    
  