
    
      Objective:

      The objective of this pilot study is to characterize the abnormal neuronal firing patterns of
      basal ganglia and thalamic neurons and those in the premotor cortex in patients with
      treatment-resistant movement disorders undergoing deep brain stimulation (DBS) surgery.
      Neuronal activity will be studied in a decision-making task guided by reward. Secondary
      objectives will involve study of how activity in the brain is modulated in such a task and
      how DBS can influence the cerebral activity related to decision-making.

      Study population:

      Fifteen adult patients with treatment-resistant movement disorders (Essential tremor or
      Parkinson s disease) who are undergoing deep brain stimulation surgery at Suburban Hospital,
      Bethesda, Maryland, will be studied.

      Design:

      This is a physiology study of medically refractory patients who have been scheduled for
      implantation of a deep brain stimulation device into basal ganglia or thalamic structures.
      Prior to surgery, patients will learn a rewarded visual-motor task and undergo
      magnetoencephalography (MEG). The task will be repeated during DBS surgery, with collection
      of information on electrical activity including single neuronal unit and local field
      potentials. The task and MEG will be repeated 3 and 6 months after surgery.

      Outcome measures:

      The collected data will be analyzed for coherence patterns during rest and rewarded
      movements. We plan to characterize and quantify the oscillatory activity present in motor
      circuits of patients during rewarded visually guided movements. We hypothesize that during
      visually guided movements, neuronal coherence will be significantly increased relative to
      resting periods. Activity during surgery will be compared with MEG recordings in the same
      task both before and after surgery. By understanding the alteration in oscillatory patterns
      in these patients, we hope to improve DBS stimulation paradigms in order to optimize
      treatment protocols.
    
  