
    
      Estimation of the hydration state of chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients is an important
      aspect of clinical practice. Deterioration in renal function often leads to volume overload
      with resulting hypertension and there is no simple and accurate technique available to
      measure body hydration at the moment.

      In hemodialysis (HD) patients, one limitation to adequate ultrafiltration necessary to
      achieve optimal hydration status (dry weight) is inadequate vascular refilling from the
      interstitial space. Blood pressure may decrease due to limitation of vascular refilling even
      when dry weight is far from being achieved. Therefore, an objective and accurate method to
      provide hydration state would be very useful for clinical practice. Whole body bioimpedance
      techniques have been used to measure body fluid volume for many years. However, it is
      difficult to accurately indicate the hydration state by body fluid volume of normal
      variations, and the accuracy of measurement is influenced by various body compositions.
      Recently, the investigators have proposed that hydration can be approached using a calf
      bioimpedance technique by monitoring change in resistance during HD. Since the lower limbs
      tend to contain more fluid than other body segments in ambulatory people due to the effect of
      gravity, measurement of the calf provides more accurate information about body hydration in
      the HD patient.

      In this study, the investigators hypothesize that:

        1. Since the degree of hydration is greater in the leg than in the arm and the trunk due to
           the effect of gravity, monitoring change in resistance in the whole or part of the leg
           will provide information as to whether optimal hydration status (a state in which excess
           extracellular fluid is absent) has been attained. The investigators postulate that a
           change in the slope of resistance curve (CSR) in the calf approaches zero as optimal
           hydration status is achieved.

        2. Optimal hydration status can be approximated by comparison of two values: (1)
           measurement of local electrical resistivity in the interstitial compartment and (2)
           known range of resistivity in healthy subjects (HS). Combination of the normalized
           resistivity (μ) and CSR are considered as indicators of physiological optimal hydration
           status. Physiological optimal hydration status, as an objective index, is a major goal
           of hemodialysis so that the excess body water can be maximally removed according to this
           value. In practice this can be approached but should never be exceeded.

      Because flattening of the curve should be verified by the near normal resistivity, a group of
      healthy subjects would have to be added to provide a normal range of resistivity at all ages
      and both sexes.
    
  