
    
      Alcohol abuse inflicts enormous physical, emotional, and financial burdens on the individual
      and society at large. Knowing who is at risk for alcohol abuse, and why, is crucial for the
      development of effective prevention and treatment strategies. Alcohol abuse has been
      traditionally considered a male-oriented problem and as a consequence research on risk
      factors specific to women has been minimal. However, the sex gap in substance abuse is
      closing rapidly, and findings from both animal and human studies suggest that females are
      actually more vulnerable to drug use than males. As such, there is an urgent need to identify
      sex differences in risk factors for alcohol abuse in order to develop sex-specific prevention
      and treatment efforts. One clear candidate risk factor is poor inhibitory control, both in
      terms of baseline levels of inhibition and sensitivity to the disinhibiting effects of
      alcohol. Recent studies suggest that sex hormones affect inhibitory control in drug-free
      individuals, potentially contributing to sex differences in baseline levels of inhibition.
      However, the degree to which fluctuations in sex hormones influence sex differences in
      inhibition-related brain function in sober and intoxicated individuals is not known. The
      proposed project will determine the neural and hormonal mechanisms underlying sex differences
      in sensitivity to the disinhibiting effects of alcohol in heavy drinkers.

      The overall objective of the research is to identify hormonal determinants of alcohol effects
      on brain activation during response inhibition (BARI) in young adult female and male
      drinkers. BARI will be assessed using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) during
      performance of the stop signal task. This task reliably activates right-lateralized
      prefrontal regions implicated in inhibitory control. This study will assess BARI during IV
      alcohol (60mg%) and saline infusion in women during the early follicular and mid-luteal
      phases and in men at matched intervals.
    
  