
    
      Almost 35 years ago, Dr Peter Safar wrote that "cerebral recovery from more than 5 min of
      cardiac arrest is hampered by complex secondary derangements of multiple organ systems after
      reperfusion". Actually, these 5 "golden" minutes determine the ability of cerebral neurones
      to regain ordinary function after anoxia. The ordinary function of cerebral neurones is
      conduction of electrical impulses across their length from the post-synaptic membrane of
      dendrites to the presynaptic membrane of an axon. The process is based on exchange of Ca2+,
      Na+ and K+ between the extra- and intracellular space of cerebral neurones, and therefore a
      lot of energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is needed to remove Ca2+ and Na+
      from the intracellular space of these cells. Cardiac arrest (CA) initiates a switch to
      glycolytic metabolism with very low production of ATP and the increased levels of lactate and
      H+. Both acidosis and the lack of ATP inhibit the ions pumps, which are responsible for
      handling excessive intracellular accumulation of Ca2+ and Na+. Preclinical studies
      demonstrate that acute hypoxia results in an uncontrolled release of glutamate with
      consequent stimulation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors causing also an excessive
      Ca2+ influx. Meanwhile, the ATP reservoir in neurones can be completely depleted after 5
      minutes of no-flow state. In case of oxygen supplying restoration, two molecules of ATP are
      initially required to split glucose and restart the cellular respiration. Thus, the presence
      or absence of these two molecules of ATP in neurones actually determine restoring of both
      oxidative phosphorylation and the ordinary function of the neurones. Finally, prolonged
      intracellular Ca2+ overload results in increased mitochondrial permeability causing following
      release of cytochrome C from mitochondria, and consequent cleavage and activation of
      caspase-3. Caspase-3 is an essential protease, which is involved in the early stage of
      apoptosis and it is generally accepted as a hallmark of irreversible cell death.
      Interestingly, in an experimental study with rats, the activation of caspase-3 was observed
      in a significant number of neurones of the cerebellum and neocortex only after 9 hours
      following asphyxial cardiac arrest.

      Today, only therapeutic hypothermia has been shown to have a beneficial impact on the ion
      pump dysfunction, and thereby reduce neurotoxicity. Interestingly, in hibernators,
      hypothermia is also believed to protect against hypoxic brain damage. Meanwhile, if naloxone,
      a non selective opioid receptor antagonist, is injected during the maintenance phase of
      hibernation, arousal is quickly achieved and the protective effects are vanished. Delta
      opioid peptides, previously discovered to induce hibernation have also been shown to protect
      rats from hypoxic brain damage. Based on the ability of opioids to reduce the level of cyclic
      adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), and consequently to block Na+ channels, it would be logical
      to propose that opioids might prevent the disturbance of ionic homeostasis during acute
      hypoxia. Indeed, preclinical studies demonstrate that opioids can preserve cellular integrity
      status during acute hypoxia in many organs and tissues including: intestine, skeletal muscle,
      myocardium and brain. Moreover, Morphine has been shown to significantly increase the
      survival of mice and rats in acute hypoxia conditions. In the experimental model with rats
      exposed to hypoxic gas (5% oxygen, 95% N2) for 70 min, all seven rats in the naloxone
      pre-treated group died at the end of the experiments while only one out of seven rats died in
      the Morphine (5 mg/kg) pretreated group, and five from the seven rats died in the control
      group. In the experiments where the rats were exposed to 8 min anoxia, pre-treatment with
      Morphine (5mg/kg), or Ketamine (40 mg/kg), resulted in higher survival in both groups as
      compared to the control group (data not yet published). No publications looking at the
      survival rate in animals with treatment by Morphine before cardiac arrest have been published
      yet. Meanwhile, two recent retrospective studies demonstrated that patients who were treated
      with opioids before or during cardiac arrest had a statistically significantly higher
      survival rate and much better neurological outcome compared to untreated patients. Recently
      published data shows that the Na+ influx initiating the action potential in neurones consumes
      one third the ATP of synaptic potentials associated with Ca2+ influx. In theory, Ketamine
      that inhibits the synaptic potentials by NMDA receptor blockade, might save much more ATP in
      the neurones compared to Morphine, which inhibits only Na+ influx and accordingly the action
      potentials. Certainly, after restoration of blood flow, the residual saved ATP may contribute
      to restoration of both neuronal oxidative phosphorylation and ionic exchange. Newly published
      experimental data demonstrates that pre-treatment of zebrafish with Ketamine protects against
      cardiac arrest induced brain injury by inhibiting Ca2+ wave propagation, which consequently
      improves survival rate. Contrary to the results seen in these studies, two NMDA antagonist,
      MK-801 and GPI-3000 in high doses did not improve survival rate and brain outcome after
      cardiac arrest and resuscitation in a dog model. These studies did not suggest any mechanisms
      of the negative results, but they contributed to a lack of interest for testing NMDA blockade
      in CA for years. More recently, a study of the effects of using the noncompetitive NMDA
      antagonist Ifenprodil demonstrated a significant reduction of brain oedema following
      asphyxial cardiac arrest in rats. In this study, i.v. injection of Ifenprodil also resulted
      in much more stable hemodynamic status after CA as compared with salt treated animals.
      Another experimental study of different anaesthesia regimes in a rodent cardiac arrest model
      also demonstrated much better hemodynamic status in the early post resuscitation period in
      the rats treated with Ketamine and Medetomidine as compared to anaesthesia with Sevoflurane
      and Fentanyl. All anaesthetics, with their ability to antagonise glutamate mediated
      excitotoxicity and inflammation might be logical candidates for neuroprotective treatment
      during cardiac arrest. However, the ability of anaesthetics to produce vasodilatation with a
      significant reduction of blood perfusing pressure can be the main argument against the idea
      to test their effects during cardio pulmonary resuscitation (CPR) in human. However, due to
      their minimal influences on hemodynamic status in therapeutic doses, Ketamine as well as
      Morphine can be considered as the safe candidates during neuroprotective treatment trials in
      CPR patients. Another argument for possible application of Morphine or Ketamine during CPR
      could be as an analgesic. Vigorous thoracic compression with possible trauma of the ribs may
      lead to severe pain and stress reactions in patients surviving CPR.

      The rationale for analysing plasma levels of S-100B protein and NSE in this trial will be
      their different distribution within the white (S100B protein) and grey (NSE) matter of the
      brain, and the fact that both of them are extensively involved in the pathogenesis of anoxial
      brain damage. S100 B protein is an intracellular calcium-binding dimer that has a molecular
      weight of 21 kDa and two hours of half life. Thanks to the low molecular weight, S100 B
      protein easily cross the blood-brain barrier and rapidly end up in the systemic circulation.
      NSE is a neuronal isoform of the glycolytic enzyme enolase that has a molecular weight of 78
      kDa and a twenty four hours half life. Further, NSE is extensively involved in glucose
      metabolism in the neurones and can be detected only in neuronal and neuroendocrine tissues.
      Due to this organ specificity, concentration of NSE in blood is often elevated as a result of
      relative rapid and massive neuronal destruction. In clinical practice, elevated serum NSE
      levels, above 30 ng/ml, correlate well with a poor outcome in coma, particularly when caused
      by an hypoxic insult. Thus, these two markers of early neuronal damage is a good fit for
      testing the neuroprotective features of Morphine or Ketamine application during CPR. A
      retrospective evaluation of patients after cardiac arrest in the University hospital of
      Northern Norway demonstrated significantly higher 1, 2, 3 and 28 days survival rate and
      reduced duration of CPR in the patients additionally treated with opioids compared to
      ordinary resuscitation. Two years later another retrospective, observational cohort study
      from Pittsburgh, USA reported that despite poor baseline prognostic factors, survival after
      recreational drug overdose-related cardiac arrests (CA) was no worse than after non
      overdose-related arrest, and among survivors the majority had a good neurological outcome.
      Interestingly, the same research group reported in one previous retrospective study a higher
      rate of survival to hospital discharge (19% vs. 12%, p = 0.014) in the overdose CA group
      compared to the non-overdoses one. However, patients in these overdose cases were
      significantly younger (45 vs. 65, p < 0.001), but less likely to be witnessed by a bystander
      (29% vs. 41%, p < 0.005). Suspected overdose cases had a higher overall chest compression
      fraction (0.69 vs. 0.67, p = 0.018) and higher probability of adrenaline, sodium bicarbonate,
      and atropine administration (p < 0.001). Application of Naloxone in these overdose cases
      might have had an influence on survival as well. One previously published clinical case
      described full neurological recovery in a young man who overdosed on opioids and who regained
      sinus rhythm many minutes after resuscitation had been abandoned. Based on all of the above,
      it can be hypothesised that treatment with Morphine or Ketamine might have a beneficial
      impact on the conservation of ATP in the brain, and thereby the treatment might increase the
      ability of cerebral neurones to survive and regain ordinary function after CPR.
    
  