
    
      The purpose of this study is to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the device, Embosphere
      Microspheres, in prostatic arterial embolization (PAE). PAE, is now an accepted form of
      treatment for BPH outside of the United States, however few studies have been performed
      demonstrating safety and efficacy in the US. Embosphere Microsphere is a device that may be
      used to reduce blood flow to targeted organs. With this research, we would like to show that
      Embosphere Microsphere may be used for patients with benign hyperplasia of prostate (BPH to
      reduce blood flow to the prostate gland. This current study is designed to understand the
      rate of improved BPH symptoms.

      Patients with moderate to severe lower urinary tract symptoms resulting from BPH are eligible
      for this study. Specifically, patients that have been on conservative medical therapy for at
      least 6 months with no relief of symptoms are being asked to participate in this trial.
      Patients meeting this criterion would traditionally be considered for more invasive treatment
      options such as surgery. We believe that PAE is an acceptable alternative to the more
      invasive treatment options currently the standard of care (available) and therefore we are
      asking you to participate in this study. We would like to demonstrate that PAE utilizing
      Embosphere Microsphere will improve their symptoms.

      The gold standard of treatment for BPH is transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP). It
      is very effective but is also an invasive open surgical procedure that carries a high risk of
      sexual dysfunction and incontinence as side effects of the procedure. It is the goal of this
      study to demonstrate that these complications are not associated with PAE and that PAE will
      improve symptoms associated with BPH.

      Embosphere Microspheres are small biocompatible plastic spheres that are released inside a
      vessel under x-ray control. Once inside the vessel, the spheres will block the vessel and
      decrease blood flow to the tissue supplied by that vessel. Embosphere Microspheres have been
      cleared by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in the embolization of blood
      vessels supplying uterine fibroids and vascular tumors. Additionally, they are approved in
      the European Union for treatment of BPH. This study has been approved by the FDA to use
      Embosphere Microspheres for research purposes in the treatment of BPH.
    
  