
    
      This will be a parallel randomized controlled intervention study on free-living adults with
      diabetes. The study duration will be 6 months. Participants will be randomized to receive one
      of two dietary approaches (moderate fat, control; and, moderate fat inclusive of 32 g peanuts
      or 2 Tbsp. peanut butter per day, intervention) to an ADA meal plan targeting a profile of
      35% fat, 45% CHO and 20% protein. A supply of peanuts and peanut butter from the National
      Peanut Board will be provided to participants assigned to the intervention group at clinic
      visits. The peanuts and peanut butter will be consumed as part of the participant's customary
      meals and snacks. In light of ADA's prior recommendation to derive 60 to 70% of energy intake
      from CHO and MUFA, the peanuts and peanut butter will provide an enhanced proportion of
      energy from MUFA (total fat content of peanuts by compositional weight is 22% and 52% of the
      total fat is MUFA).

      An experienced Registered Dietitian and Certified Diabetes Educator will oversee the dietary
      advice provided to each of the two groups. All participants will be provided with an
      individualized portion-controlled meal plan using the ADA food exchange lists and possibly
      modified fat instruction on fatty acid considerations and inclusion of peanuts and peanut
      butter. Dietary compliance, especially the intake of peanuts and peanut butter, will be
      measured by six 24-hour recalls without notice (telephone interview by a dietitian on what
      was consumed the previous day). Participants will be requested to maintain their activities
      and other lifestyle habits and to record in diaries provided to them any signs of illness,
      medications used, and any deviation from their prescribed diet. The investigators will
      examine diaries at the clinic visits. No major deviations from the protocol will be
      tolerated.

      Less than 100 ml of blood will be drawn from each participant at baseline (week 0), week 12
      and week 24. All blood drawings will be performed at Loma Linda University Medical Center.
      Participants will report to the laboratory on the assigned days after fasting for a minimum
      of 12 hours. Body weight and body composition measurements (percent body fat, fat free mass,
      total body water) will be obtained at each clinic visit using an internally calibrated
      segmental bioelectrical impedance analysis device (Tanita®, Arlington Heights, IL).
    
  