
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine the recommended dose of sorafenib tosylate and cytarabine when given in
           combination to elderly patients with acute myeloid leukemia or high-risk myelodysplastic
           syndromes who are not suitable for intensive chemotherapy. (Phase I)

        -  To determine the safety, tolerability, toxicity profile, and dose-limiting toxicities in
           patients treated with this regimen. (Phase I)

        -  To estimate the efficacy (as measured by complete response rate) in patients treated
           with this regimen. (Phase II)

        -  To describe the toxic effects and overall response rate (complete and partial) in
           patients treated with this regimen. (Phase II)

        -  To evaluate potential correlates of response in translational research studies including
           FLT-3 internal tandem duplications and point mutations in blasts. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Phase I: Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate twice daily on days 2-28 and
           cytarabine subcutaneously twice daily on days 1-10 at the dose level assigned at
           registration. Doses of both drugs will be escalated and the recommended doses for the
           combination will be determined. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who respond to
           treatment will receive 2 cycles after response criteria are met.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive sorafenib tosylate and cytarabine as in phase I at the
           recommended doses for the combination determined in phase I.

      Bone marrow (or blood) samples are collected at baseline and at the end of each course of
      study treatment. Baseline samples are analyzed for mutational status of FLT-3 (i.e., internal
      tandem duplication [ITD] and point mutations).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 3 months
      thereafter until progression and toxicities resolve.
    
  