
    
      Objectives

      This proposal will evaluate the role of an increase in excitability of the orbicularis oculi
      (OO) muscle representation in the medial frontal areas (supplementary motor areas, SMA) and
      anterior rostral cingulate: M3) in excessive blinking in patients with benign essential
      blepharospasm (BEB). We hypothesize that:

        1. at rest, the decrease of the MEP after 15 minutes of 1Hz rTMS, targeting the SMA-M3, is
           more prominent in patients with BEP than in healthy control subjects,

        2. at rest, the decrease of the MEP after 15 minutes of 1Hz rTMS targeting M1, is almost
           the same in patients with BEP and in healthy control subjects,

        3. at rest, sICI of OO muscle will be decreased and ICF increased after stimulation of the
           SMA-M3 facial cortical area, in patients with BEP compared to healthy control subjects,

        4. at rest sICI and ICF of the OO muscle will be the same after stimulation of the M1
           facial area in patients with BEP and healthy control subjects,

        5. in healthy control subjects facilitation of the MEPs evoked from M1 is more prominent
           during voluntary blinking,

        6. in healthy control subjects facilitation of the MEP evoked from SMA-M3 is more prominent
           during involuntary blinking,

        7. in patients with BEB there is facilitation of MEPs evoked from M1 and SMA-M3 during
           voluntary and involuntary blinking.

        8. it is possible to evoke consistent and reproducible motor evoked responses (MEP) in the
           orbicularis oculi (OO) muscles by stimulating the two main cortical representations of
           upper facial region: in the medial frontal wall (SMA and cingulate cortex - its rostral
           part, M3) and in the primary motor cortex (M1) with transcranial magnetic stimulation
           (TMS).

      Study population

      36 patients with BEB but without severe forceful closure of eyelids, 36 normal volunteers.

      Study design

      Subjects will have 3 visits:

      Visit 1: screening and blepharospasm score

      Visit 2: stimulation of the OO muscle representation in SMA-M3 using low frequency rTMS (1Hz)
      with the Hesed coil (designed to stimulate deep brain).

      Visit 3: stimulation of the OO muscle representation in M1 using low frequency rTMS (1Hz)
      using a standard eight-shaped coil.

      Visits 2 and 3: single pulse TMS will be used to evoke MEPs from OO muscles. Paired pulse TMS
      will be used to assess sICI from OO muscles. The order of visits 2 and 3 will be randomly
      assigned.

      Outcome measures

      The main outcome measures will be the sizes of OO muscle MEPs and the amount of sICI assessed
      before and after 15 minutes of low frequency rTMS. The secondary outcome measures will be the
      sizes of OO muscle MEPs assessed before and during voluntary and involuntary blinks.
    
  