
    
      Severe asthma is associated with substantial morbidity, mortality, health-care costs, and
      impaired quality of life. Recurrent asthma exacerbations are a major problem in some patients
      and can predominate in a subgroup with eosinophilic airway inflammation. Mepolizumab is a
      humanised monoclonal antibody against interleukin 5 that effectively inhibits eosinophilic
      airway inflammation.

      The anti-interleukin-5 monoclonal antibody mepolizumab is approved as an add-on therapy in
      Europe, Canada, USA, and other countries, to standard of care for the treatment of patients
      with severe eosinophilic asthma. Mepolizumab has been shown to reduce exacerbation rates and
      dependency on oral corticosteroid use in clinical trials in patients with severe eosinophilic
      asthma compared with placebo, both in addition to standard of care. Other trials had also
      showed that treatment with mepolizumab resulted in significant improvements in quality of
      life (SGRQ) and asthma control (ACQ-5 score).

      Mepolizumab has only recently been approved in Brazil. There is still no data regarding its
      efficacy and safety in the Brazilian population and it is important to emphasize that no
      Brazilian center participated in the previous large, international and multicentric phase III
      mepolizumab studies. Therefore, it is crucial to perform a local study in order to validate
      external results in the Brazilian population.

      Our group belongs to a public academic institution with a focus on assistance, teaching and
      research. It is a tertiary-referral hospital with an outpatient clinic specializing severe
      asthma patients. In 2012, the investigators published the first study with the clinical
      characterization of their cohort of severe asthma and its respective phenotypes. Since then,
      the investigators have carried out several studies in order to identify prognostic factors
      and interventions that could improve the control and quality of life of this population.
      Among them, there are the impact of weight control in asthma symptoms, evaluation of
      standardized and systematic protocol based on high doses of inhaled corticosteroid plus LABA
      and 2 weeks course of oral corticosteroids and pathophysiological studies based on bronchial
      biopsy samples from patients with severe asthma. Since obesity is a serious and prevalent
      problem in several severe asthma cohorts, another area of interest of the group is to assess
      the impact of physical activity on this population. Finally, it is important to mention the
      commitment of the group to evaluate the incorporation of new treatments in the severe asthma
      population within the Brazilian scenario as done in a specific publication to systematically
      evaluate the use of omalizumab in our center.

      Therefore, the investigators consider that our center has full capacity to conduct a
      systematic evaluation study of the use of mepolizumab in the population of severe asthma. The
      investigators aimed to examine the effects of mepolizumab on quality of life, lung function,
      asthma symptoms and exacerbation rate in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma in a
      tertiary reference center in Brazil based on real world data.
    
  