
    
      Patients will receive neoadjuvant sorafenib (investigational agent) in combination with
      preoperative external beam conformal radiotherapy (50 Gy in 25 fractions) for localized,
      large soft tissue sarcomas of the extremity and body wall prior to resection with curative
      intent. Sorafenib is an FDA-approved targeted agent for patients with renal cell carcinoma
      and hepatocellular carcinoma. Preliminary data suggest activity for sorafenib against soft
      tissue sarcoma in the metastatic setting. Limited data are available regarding the safety and
      efficacy of sorafenib in combination with radiotherapy.

      The Phase I portion of the trial will seek to establish the safety of sorafenib and
      radiotherapy in the neoadjuvant setting for soft tissue sarcomas of the extremity and body
      wall. The Phase II portion of the trial will aim to determine the pathologic
      near-complete/complete response rate (≥ 95% tumor necrosis) of this multimodality therapy.
      Molecular and dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI studies will seek to establish correlative
      biological and imaging markers of response and/or resistance to this therapy.

      Significant challenges exist in the treatment of patients with soft tissue sarcoma (STS) of
      the extremity and body wall. Major therapeutic goals for all patients include local
      disease-control, maximization of limb function, and avoidance of therapeutic morbidity. The
      standard approach for patients with STS has been based on radical resection with wide margins
      in combination with external beam radiation. Although local control rates in this setting
      range from 85 to 90%, patients remain at risk for substantial morbidity from this
      multimodality therapy. Furthermore, despite effective local therapy with surgery and
      radiation, approximately 50% of patients with high grade STS will die of disease within 5
      years of diagnosis.

      Experimental data and experience from other solid tumors suggest a significant synergistic
      effect when anti-angiogenic targeted therapies, such as sorafenib, are combined with
      radiotherapy (RT). Overproduction of angiogenic factors in the tumor vasculature leads to
      disordered/poorly regulated tumor perfusion which appears to normalize following delivery of
      anti-angiogenic agents. This, in turn, allows improved delivery of and susceptibility to
      cytotoxic agents, which is particularly important with RT since hypoxia is a key mechanism of
      resistance to this modality. Preliminary clinical data in rectal cancer and malignant brain
      tumors have demonstrated promising results from the combination of anti-angiogenic agents and
      RT with respect to downstaging of the primary tumor, local tumor control, and improved
      progression-free survival. Angiogenic factors are upregulated in patients with STS, and
      anti-angiogenic agents demonstrate activity against STS in the metastatic setting.

      Consequently, we propose to evaluate preoperative combined modality sorafenib and conformal
      RT in patients with STS of the extremity and body wall in a prospective Phase I/II clinical
      trial. Key endpoints will be safety and toxicity in the Phase I trial and pathological
      response in the Phase II trial. Additional endpoints will include molecular and functional
      imaging correlative studies of biomarkers of response and resistance to treatment.

      We hypothesize that this combination will be safe and will increase pathologic necrosis
      within the primary tumor at the time of surgical resection, translating into reduced volume
      of resected tissue, improved local disease-control, and ultimately improved disease-free
      survival. Functional imaging studies (dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI) and molecular
      examination of pre- and post-treatment tumor tissue and serum will allow correlation of
      changes in tumor blood flow, hypoxia transcription factors, phosphorylated ERK, and
      angiogenic markers to the degree of tumor necrosis following treatment with preoperative
      sorafenib and radiotherapy.
    
  