
    
      Background: The high burden of asthma, which affects 300 million people worldwide, appears to
      be related to poor asthma control, which is associated with more frequent asthma symptoms,
      greater bronchodilator use and functional impairment, and worse pulmonary function. The
      availability of effective treatments suggests that asthma can be well controlled in most
      patients. However, Canadian statistics reveal that over 58% of asthmatics are poorly
      controlled. Achieving optimal asthma control relies upon several behavioral factors,
      including minimizing exposure to known triggers (e.g., pets, dust, pollen) and improving
      health behaviors (e.g,. quitting smoking and adhering to medication). Of these, daily
      adherence to inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) regimens is considered by experts to be one of the
      most important behavioral factors linked to achieving optimal asthma control. This is because
      taking ICS medications as prescribed (i.e., good adherence) has been shown to be effective
      for achieving good asthma control even in patients who fail to adequately manage/minimize
      exposure to known triggers (e.g., indoor allergens, exercise). Despite the efficacy of ICS's,
      recent trends in adherence behaviour suggest that asthmatics are not adherent to these
      medications, with rates being as low as 32%, even in patients with severe asthma.
      Explanations range from simply forgetting to having distorted/ erroneous illness and
      medication beliefs. Currently, there is a paucity of research on interventions specifically
      designed to improve ICS adherence among adult asthmatics. Most previous work has been
      conducted in pediatric samples which have yielded inconsistent results that are difficult to
      generalize to adult samples. Of the studies conducted among adults, most suffer from
      important methodological limitations (e.g., small sample sizes, no intent to treat analyses,
      failure to control for contact time, no objective measure of adherence) that make it
      difficult to either generalize findings or interpret them with confidence. Most importantly,
      the vast majority of intervention studies to date used atheoretical interventions to target
      behaviour change, relying mainly upon educational approaches which have been criticised for
      "failing to translate knowledge into action." This may be due to the fact that most
      education-based approaches do not specifically address or help patients overcome ambivalence
      about behaviour change, which is necessary for ensuring daily adherence. Motivational
      communication (MC) is a client-centred intervention that focuses on enhancing intrinsic
      motivation to change a particular behaviour (i.e., take medication as prescribed), and
      exploring and resolving ambivalence about behaviour change. Brief MC sessions (e.g., 1-5 x
      15-30 minute sessions) have been shown to improve a variety of health behaviours (e.g.,
      reduce alcohol consumption, improve dietary habits, increase exercise behaviour, and improve
      medication adherence) and health outcomes (reduce blood pressure, body mass index, and
      cholesterol levels). No studies to date have assessed the efficacy of using MC to improve ICS
      adherence in asthmatics. Objective: The purpose of this study is to conduct a single site RCT
      to assess the efficacy of using MC to improve daily medication (ICS) adherence in a sample of
      poorly controlled, non-adherent asthmatics. A brief (3-5 x 15-30 minute sessions), manualized
      MC intervention was developed by our laboratory using pilot funding. This intervention is
      empirically-driven and uses established behavioural and motivational strategies to encourage
      change. Methods: 182 poorly controlled, non-adherent adult asthmatics will be recruited from
      the outpatient asthma clinic of Hôpital du Sacré-Coeur de Montreal (HSCM). Patients will be
      screened on the day of their asthma clinic visit to verify eligibility. Eligible patients
      consenting to have their medical and pharmacy records verified by the research team and who
      are identified as both having poorly controlled asthma (Asthma Control Questionnaire score
      ≥1.25) and being non-adherent to ICS medication (filled < 50% of their ICS medication in the
      last year) will be invited to participate in the study. Patients will undergo baseline
      assessments (pulmonary function, asthma control, self-efficacy, and quality of life) and will
      then be randomly assigned to a usual care + MC or usual care comparison group. This trial has
      been designed to conform to the CONSORT guidelines. The primary outcome measure will be ICS
      adherence at 12 months post-intervention, with preliminary analyses conducted at 6-months
      post-intervention. Adherence will be measured according to the following validated equation:
      # of treatment days (based on the # of canisters filled at the pharmacy x the duration of
      each prescription) divided by the # of prescription days (# of days the patient is expected
      to be taking his/her medication). Data will be obtained by accessing the patient's pharmacy
      records and drug insurance databases (i.e., RAMQ, reMed). Secondary outcomes include
      self-reported medication adherence, adherence motivation, stage of change, pulmonary
      function, asthma control, self-efficacy, and quality of life scores 6 & 12 months
      post-intervention. Impact: This will be the first appropriately designed RCT to test the
      impact of a brief, manualized MC intervention on asthma medication (ICS) adherence that may
      be easily incorporated into existing education programs and/or clinical practice and may
      significantly improve asthma outcomes.
    
  