
    
      This is a single-arm Phase Ib/II multicenter open-label study, with translational sub-study,
      of atezolizumab plus autologous dendritic cell vaccine as maintenance treatment in
      extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC). It is expected that three Spanish sites
      will include patients in this study.

      Patients will receive standard treatment with either cisplatin or carboplatin and etoposide,
      plus atezolizumab for four 21-day cycles (induction phase), followed by a maintenance phase
      during which they will receive atezolizumab and dendritic cell vaccine combination until they
      had unacceptable toxic effects, disease progression according to Response Evaluation Criteria
      in Solid Tumors (RECIST), version 1.1, or no additional clinical benefit. The two primary
      endpoints are the investigator-assessed toxicity and the 6 months PFS, both in the
      intention-to-treat population.

      In the Phase Ib safety lead-in portion, up to 6 patients will be enrolled into and evaluated
      for dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) during the first 2 cycles of the maintenance therapy. If
      <2 out of 6 patients present with limiting toxicities, the administration of the
      investigational products will be deemed safe in the Phase 1b lead-in, therefore enrollment
      will be expanded into the Phase 2 cohort. Inclusion and treatment of up to 20 patients
      (including those enrolled in the Phase Ib lead-in) with atezolizumab and dendritic cell
      vaccination as maintenance therapy is finally expected.

      Safety assessments will be based on adverse event reports, results of clinical laboratory
      tests, immune safety tests, physical examinations, vital sign measurements, Eastern
      Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status both during the study, and up to six
      months following the last study drug administration. Adverse events (AEs) will be assessed
      throughout the study period and evaluated by using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common
      Technology Criteria version of Adverse Events version 5.0 (NCI CTCAE v 5.0).

      Tumor measurements will be performed by computed tomography (CT) scan at baseline, at week 6
      (W6), at week 12 (W12), and every 9 weeks thereafter, to evaluate 6m PFS and response to
      treatment. The response will be evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) and the immune-related response criteria (irRECIST) as a
      secondary endpoint. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) will be performed at baseline
      (mandatory as per clinical practice), and along with CT scan at each timepoint, if there are
      brain metastasis at baseline.

      Patients with stable disease (SD), partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) after
      induction with chemotherapy plus atezolizumab (CT scan on W12) will continue during the
      maintenance phase with atezolizumab plus dendritic cell vaccine.

      Treatment with atezolizumab will continue until disease progression (PD), significant
      clinical deterioration, unacceptable toxicity, or if any criteria for withdrawal from the
      trial is fulfilled.

      Treatment with dendritic cell vaccines will continue for a maximum of 6 doses until PD,
      significant clinical deterioration, unacceptable toxicity, or if any criteria for withdrawal
      from the trial are fulfilled (whichever occurs first).

      Treatment may continue after the initial determination of PD per RECIST 1.1 if the subject's
      performance status remains stable, and if the opinion of the principal investigator, the
      subject will benefit from continued treatment and if other criteria are fulfilled as outlined
      in the protocol.

      For patients who have a confirmed CR or PR, it should be considered prophylactic cranial
      irradiation (PCI) after completion of chemotherapy (i.e., induction) based on the
      investigator's judgment. Following the completion of the induction part, PCI may be
      administered concurrently with atezolizumab and dendritic cell vaccination during the
      maintenance part. For those patients who have not progressed at the time of study drug
      discontinuation, the tumor assessments (including all disease locations) will be assessed
      radiologically by CT or MRI, as performed at screening, every 9 weeks (approximately 63 ± 7
      days), until the occurrence of PD or study completion. The same method of assessment (CT or
      MRI) should be used to characterize tumors at screening and at all follow-up assessments. If
      positron emission tomography (PET) is used, it should also be accompanied by spiral CT or
      MRI.

      Safety will be defined based on the rate of serious adverse events (SAEs) comparing with
      historic controls of atezolizumab in monotherapy as a maintenance treatment.

      Kaplan Meier method will be used to estimate the survival function. Translational study

      Tumor samples: All patients will undergo baseline tumor tissue acquisition prior to
      enrollment. The only mandatory tissue biopsy is pretreatment. Tissue samples:

      Pre induction treatment fresh and paraffin-embedded tumor sample (If obtaining a fresh biopsy
      is not feasible, the case should be discussed with Coordinating Investigators) Pre
      maintenance phase (for those that rebiopsy is feasible) After 24 weeks on maintenance phase
      (for those patents that continue on treatment after w24 on maintenance and rebiopsy is
      feasible) At tumor progression (for those patients who progressed and rebiopsy is feasible).

      Analysis of tumor tissue samples will consist of PD-L1 Immunohistochemistry testing, RNA
      expression, WES analysis, and flow cytometry in pretreatment fresh tumor tissue.

      Peripheral blood samples: Peripheral blood samples will be collected:

      Pre induction treatment Pre maintenance phase After 9 weeks of the first vaccination At
      progression of the disease The analysis will consist of T cell immunophenotyping, DC
      immunophenotyping, Tumoral RNA analysis by nanostring and tumoral cell-free DNA analysis by
      WES and cytokine analysis
    
  