
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary cancer of the liver, represents
      more than 90% of primary liver cancers, and is one of the leading cause of cancer-related
      death worldwide, therefore, it is a major global health problem.

      In 2017, it is estimated that 40,710 people in the united states will be diagnosed with liver
      cancer and intrahepatic duct cancer; 29,200 males and 11,510 females and approximately 28,920
      deaths. Incidence rates of HCC are 3 times higher in males than in females.

      In Egypt, the estimated number of liver cancer is increasing as it was 29,975 in 2015 and
      will be 35,320 in 2020, 41,513 in 2025 and 85,471 in 2050. Liver cancer is the most frequent
      cancer in Egypt as it represents about 24% of all cancers in Egypt.

      Cirrhosis is an important risk factor for HCC, and may be caused by chronic viral hepatitis,
      alcohol, inherited metabolic diseases such as hemochromatosis or alpha-1-antitrypsin
      deficiency, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. All causes of cirrhosis may be complicated
      by carcinogenesis, but the risk is higher in patients with hepatitis infection. Overall,
      one-third of cirrhotic patients will develop HCC during their lifetime.

      Worldwide, approximately 54% of all cases of HCC are associated with hepatitis B virus (HBV)
      infection, while 31% are due to hepatitis c virus (HCV) infection, while only 15% are
      associated with other causes.

      The prevalence of HCV infection in Egypt is the highest in the world, so its long-term
      consequences is a major endemic medical health problem in Egypt. The most common HCV RNA
      genotype in Egypt is genotype 4, representing more than 85% of all HCV cases in Egypt.

      The direct acting antivirals (DAAs) are specific to the HCV particle and aim to inhibit viral
      RNA replication by attacking some of the various enzymes involved in the RNA replication
      process, thereby inhibiting viral replication, and causing viral eradication (Muir, 2014).

      The primary goal of HCV therapy is to cure the infection, i.e. to achieve a sustained
      virological response (SVR) which defined as undetectable HCV RNA 12 weeks or 24 weeks after
      treatment completion. More than 95% of patients have SVR using DAAs except for genotype 3
      virus in cirrhotic patients where SVR is still insufficient.

      In the last decades before the era of DAAs, it was reported that SVR is associated with a
      reduction in all-cause mortality, liver mortality, and a reduction in the risk of HCC, this
      was by several meta-analyses which have studied this issue and suggested that SVR is
      associated with a reduction in the incidence of HCC in the long-term.

      However, most of these studies are observational and retrospective and were based on SVR
      achieved with interferon (IFN) based therapy. Whether the high rates of SVR achieved with new
      IFN-free regimens reduce the risk of recurrence following resection or ablation of HCC is
      currently debated.

      The success of DAAs against hepatitis C is a major breakthrough in Hepatology. Till now,
      there are very few data on the benefits of DAA-based antiviral therapy in patients who have
      already developed HCC, since this specific population have not been included in the pivotal
      trials.

      Unexpected results were published in 2016 showed increased aggressiveness and rates of HCC
      recurrence after curative treatment of HCC in HCV patients treated by DAAs achieving SVR, one
      is a multicenter study conducted in Spain, of 58 patients and the other is a single center
      study, was done in Italy, of 59 patients, recurrences were 28% and 29%, respectively.

      These studies were criticized due to the small number of patients, their retrospective
      character and lack of control arms, nevertheless their observation should be taken as a note
      of caution and need a larger assessment.

      On the other hand, the retrospective analysis of the France REcherche Nord&sud Sida-vih
      Hépatites (ANRS) study in France, did not observe an increased risk of HCC recurrence after
      DAAs treatment, in patients who underwent curative HCC treatment including liver
      transplantation.

      In addition, it was found in the preliminary results of a prospective observational study of
      HCV-infected patients with HCC given DAAs that there was no HCC recurrence following curative
      treatment over a median follow-up period of 12 months after DAA use.

      Interestingly, it was reported that a decreased HCC incidence in decompensated cirrhotic
      patients with SVR achieved by DAAs compared to patients without SVR.

      The mechanism which explains the high rate of tumor recurrence after DAAs treatment is that
      microenvironment and viral induced inflammation play an essential role in chronic liver
      injury and tumor initiation. However, the immune system has also an anti-tumor effect. Thus,
      there is a complex and fragile equilibrium between a pro tumor and anti-tumor function of the
      immune system.

      Some studies have suggested that DAA treatment could modify natural killer function and
      expression of interferon response gene. Therefore, the hypothesis is a dysregulation of the
      anti-tumor response after the sudden decrease of HCV viral load induced by DAAs which
      promotes tumor recurrence. However, this phenomenon was unlikely to occur in patients who
      received IFN due to the slowly developing antiviral effect of this cytokine coupled with its
      immune modulatory and anti-proliferative properties.

      However, this mechanism is purely theoretical and no strong preclinical studies support this
      hypothesis, but the high rate of HCC recurrence after DAA treatments in patients with prior
      HCC suggests that a close follow-up of these patients remains mandatory as well as a
      reassessment of these observations in a prospective study.
    
  