
    
      This investigation is designed to determine the effect of having co-located dental hygienists
      in primary care offices on the incidence of early childhood caries among young children seen
      at these primary care offices. The dental hygienists will provide routine preventive dental
      care and oral health education within the usual scope of their practice. The study is also
      designed to assess parent knowledge, attitudes, and beliefs about oral health and perceived
      barriers to preventive dental care, as well as how their oral health-related attitudes change
      over time.

      The specific aims for this project are:

      Specific Aim 1: Among parents of young children seen in pediatric and family medicine primary
      care practices, determine the knowledge, attitudes, and beliefs of parents regarding the
      importance of oral health, means of preventing caries, and perceived barriers to accessing
      regular preventive dental care.

      Specific Aim 2: After co-locating dental hygienists within pediatric and family medicine
      primary care practices, determine by randomized controlled trial the effect of routine
      preventive dental care provided by dental hygienists on the incidence of early childhood
      caries.

      Specific Aim 3: Among parents of young children seen in pediatric and family medicine primary
      care practices, determine how parental oral health-related knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, and
      perceived barriers change over time, among parents of children seen by a co-located dental
      hygienist.

      The major hypotheses for this project are:

        1. Parents of children with public health insurance (Medicaid or Child Health Plan-Plus)
           will have one-half the odds of reporting a usual source of preventive dental care
           compared to children with private health insurance.

        2. Among young children receiving routine preventive dental care by a co-located dental
           hygienist, 10% will develop dental caries over a 24-month period, compared with 20%
           caries experience among children who do not receive routine preventive dental care by a
           co-located dental hygienist.

        3. Parents of children with early childhood caries (any caries in a primary tooth) which
           developed over a 24-month period will have more than twice the odds of reporting
           barriers to accessing a dental provider than parents of children with no early childhood
           caries.
    
  