
    
      Patients and clinical procedures 10 patients scheduled for open aortic valve surgery at our
      institution will be included into this prospective, observational study. The Human Ethics
      Committee of the University of Gothenburg, approved the study protocol. The day before
      surgery a lumbar puncture at level L3-4 will be performed using a 27G Whitacre needle. A
      sample of 2.5 ml of cerebrospinal fluid will be taken for analysis of S-100B, NSE, Tau and
      albumin.

      On arrival at OR, standard perioperative monitoring will be established, including an
      Auditory Evoked Potential (AEP) monitor for anaesthetic depth measurements (AEP Monitor/2,
      Danmeter, Odense, Denmark) and radial arterial and central venous lines. General anaesthesia
      is induced with propofol 0.5-1 mg/kg and fentanyl 10 μg/kg. Tracheal intubation will be
      facilitated using atracurium 0,5 mg/kg. Sevoflurane is used to maintain an anaesthetic depth
      adjusted to an AAI index of 15-30 as recorded by the AEP monitor. Hemodynamic stability will
      be obtained by the use of colloidal solution administration, guided by the use of
      intra-operative transesophageal echocardiography, and norephineprine to maintain a mean
      arterial pressure above 75 mmHg-Also during CPB. A lumbar puncture will be repeated the first
      postoperative day repeating the measurement of markers in CSF A certified cardiologist or
      anaesthesiologist assess focal neurological impairment before and within 24 hours after the
      procedure.

      Transcranial Doppler (TCD) By TCD the right medial cerebral artery (RMCA) will be insonated
      by the transtemporal approach at a depth of approximately 50 mm using standard criteria. The
      investigators use a 2 MHz power M-mode TCD monitor (ST3 ©, Spencer Technologies Seattle, WA),
      with the probe fixed in position using a head frame. The Doppler signals will be continuously
      monitored and saved to monitor hard drive. Two physicians independently evaluate the TCD data
      files offline, and identify microembolic signals (MES) using criteria for counting emboli
      signals on spectral and PMD TCD.

      Statistical Analysis: Descriptive statistics and tests of normality for continuos data
      Correlation analysis; Total cerebral embolic load vs. increase of CSF level S-100B/ NSE/Tau.
    
  