
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the toxicity of combination therapy with nab-paclitaxel (paclitaxel
      albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation), gemcitabine (gemcitabine hydrochloride) and
      AZD1775 (WEE1 inhibitor MK-1775) in patients with treatment-naive metastatic adenocarcinoma
      of the pancreas or locally-advanced adenocarcinoma of the pancreas which is not surgically
      resectable. (Phase I) II. To determine the dose of AZD1775 to be used in combination with
      nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine chemotherapy in the phase II portion of the trial. (Phase I)
      III. To determine the pharmacokinetics of AZD1775 in combination with nab-paclitaxel and
      gemcitabine. (Phase I) IV. To evaluate progression-free survival (PFS) associated with
      nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine/placebo or nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine/AZD1775 in patients with
      metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate overall survival (OS) associated with nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine/placebo or
      nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine/AZD1775 in patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the
      pancreas. (Phase II) II. To evaluate response rate (complete response [CR] + partial response
      [PR]) associated with nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine/placebo or
      nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine/AZD1775 in patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the
      pancreas. (Phase II) III. To evaluate disease control rate (CR + PR + stable disease [SD])
      associated with nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine/placebo or nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine/AZD1775 in
      patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. (Phase II)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the ability of AZD1775 to inhibit Wee1 and increase deoxyribonucleic acid
      (DNA) damage and tumor cell death when combined with nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine compared to
      nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine/placebo. (Phase II) II. To evaluate if biomarker changes in tumor
      tissue associated with Wee1 inhibition may also be present in hair follicles. (Phase II) III.
      To evaluate the change in tumor fludeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake (maximum standardized uptake
      value [SUVmax]) between baseline FDG-positron emission tomography (PET) and week 4 FDG-PET as
      a predictor of response using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) as the
      reference standard for response. (Phase II) IV. To evaluate the change in tumor FDG uptake
      (SUVmax) between baseline FDG-PET and week 4 FDG-PET as a predictor of progression-free
      survival. (Phase II) V. To compare the change in tumor FDG uptake (SUVmax) between baseline
      FDG-PET and week 4 FDG-PET between the patients from treatment arms C and D. (Phase II) VI.
      To evaluate if an early increase in tumor fluorothymidine (FLT) uptake (FLT-flare) is
      observed within 24 hours after initiation of treatment with
      nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine/placebo. (Phase II) VII. To evaluate if an early (within 24 hours
      [h]) increase in tumor FLT uptake (FLT-flare) is abrogated after initiation of treatment with
      nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine/AZD1775. (Phase II) VIII. To compare the change in tumor FLT
      uptake (SUVmax) from baseline to 24 hours after initiation of treatment between the patients
      from treatment arms C and D. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose escalation study of WEE1 inhibitor MK-1775 followed by a
      randomized phase II study. Patients in phase I are assigned to arm A or B and patients in
      phase II are randomized to arm C or D.

      ARM A (PHASE I, DOSE LEVEL 1): Patients receive paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle
      formulation intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes and gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30
      minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients also receive WEE1 inhibitor MK-1775 orally (PO) daily
      on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, and 16.

      ARM B (PHASE I, DOSE LEVEL 2): Patients receive paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle
      formulation, gemcitabine hydrochloride, and WEE1 inhibitor MK-1775 as in Arm A.

      ARM C (PHASE II, PLACEBO): Patients receive paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle
      formulation and gemcitabine hydrochloride as in Arm A. Patients also receive placebo PO daily
      on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, and 16.

      ARM D (PHASE II, WEE1 INHIBITOR MK-1775): Patients receive paclitaxel albumin-stabilized
      nanoparticle formulation, gemcitabine hydrochloride, and WEE1 inhibitor MK-1775 as in Arm A.

      In all arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.
    
  