
    
      Esophageal cancer (EC) is the eighth most common cancers in the world, with more than 480,000
      new cases and 400,000 deaths occurred annually worldwide. In China, every year, no matter new
      cases or deaths account for more than half of the world. Besides, over 90% of Chinese
      patients have esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC).

      Surgery is the main treatment of this disease, but the prognosis of patients with locally
      advanced esophageal cancer is rather poor. As a result of surgery alone, the 5-year survival
      rate of about 25% has not changed significantly in several decades.

      Preoperative chemoradiotherapy followed by surgery seems to hopefully improve the survival of
      EC. Nevertheless, the results of different studies were inconsistent. Recently, the CROSS
      trial has demonstrated that preoperative chemoradiotherapy can significantly increased the
      overall survival of patients with EC compared with surgery alone. It should be noticed that
      only 84 cases(23%) of ESCC were enrolled in this trial with potential minimal follow-up of 2
      years, which may be not perfect to evaluate the effect of this combined therapy for this
      tumor type.

      Up till now, vinorelbine has no indications for esophageal cancer, although, some studied
      have reported its effect and feasibility to the therapy of EC. Vinorelbine has similar
      mechanism with paclitaxel and docetaxel, which are recommended for the chemotherapy of EC by
      NCCN. They are all classified as antimicrotubule agents, which cause mitotic arrest and
      eventual cell death through inhibition of microtubule dynamics. In comparison with the
      taxanes, vinorelbine has obvious advantage of few cardiac toxicity. This should be beneficial
      to prevent cardiac side effects of chemoradiotherapy, especially for the middle or lower
      thoracic EC, which account for over 70% of thoracic EC in China. For this group of patients,
      radiotherapy can hardly avoid cardiac toxicity.

      Based on our preliminary study, we have demonstrated the validity and safety of vinorelbine
      and cisplatin-based neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy.

      We are to carry out a phased III clinical trial to investigate the effect of this
      multidisciplinary therapy for the overall survival of patients with locally advanced ESCC.
    
  