
    
      The specific aim of this study is to evaluate if an inexpensive and disposable end-expiratory
      pressure device can prevent acute mountain sickness (AMS). AMS is a common disorder found in
      25-75% of hikers and trekkers in N. America and Europe who expediently ascend high altitude
      (>8,000 ft). This environmental malady is insidious in onset and prevention is necessary not
      just to limit progression to severe or fatal disease, but also to limit physiologic
      deterioration in those who seek enjoyment or employment at high altitudes. One of the
      hallmarks of both healthy and sick individuals sleeping at high altitude is an oscillating
      pattern of respiration marked by periods of hyperventilation alternating with apnea or
      hypopnea. This distressing "periodic breathing" pattern leads to a feeling of suffocation,
      prevents restful sleep, and the hypoxic events may well worsen ensuing AMS. Prior studies
      have found positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) an effective non-pharmacologic method to
      prevent nocturnal desaturations and decreasing both AMS incidence and severity.

      Traditionally, PEEP devices are cumbersome and expensive, and while showing promising
      efficacy, are limited by both cost and portability as a useful non-pharmacologic option for
      AMS prophylaxis. The SLEEP-AID methodology is designed to prospectively enroll participants,
      randomized in a double blind placebo-controlled fashion to either the intervention [Theravent
      (Ventus Medical) which is single use, inexpensive, and very small] or a visually identical
      "sham" placebo group, and gather physiologic data to accurately reflect sleep patterns of
      high altitude travelers and objective as well as subjective outcomes of the intervention. The
      benefit of this approach will be to provide definitive data in a large and diverse cross
      section of a real hiking population that is generalizable to the majority of tens of millions
      of hikers, climbers, and high altitude tourists in the United States, Europe, Asia, and South
      America.
    
  