
    
      Oxaliplatin and bevacizumab are chemotherapy drugs that are designed to kill cancer cells.
      5-FU is a chemotherapy drug that helps to stop the growth of cancer cells. Leucovorin is a
      drug that may help increase the effect of 5-FU.

      The study drugs will be given to you on an outpatient basis and will involve a minimum of 4
      cycles and up to a maximum of 12 cycles of chemotherapy. All chemotherapy will be given
      through a catheter placed in a vein in the shoulder in "cycles". Each "cycle" equals 14 days.
      On the first day (Day 1) of each cycle, bevacizumab will be given for 30 to 90 minutes and
      oxaliplatin and leucovorin for 2 hours. On Day 1 as well, part of the total 5-FU dose will be
      given for 15 minutes through the catheter. The rest of the 5-FU dose is then given through a
      pump over the next 46 hours. After 46 hours, you will have a rest period, without drug
      treatment for the rest of the cycle until the start of the next cycle.

      Before each chemotherapy cycle, you will have blood drawn (about 2 tablespoons) for tests to
      check for any side effects. Depending on the results of the blood tests, these blood tests
      may be done more often. You will also have your vital signs (blood pressure, breathing,
      temperature, and heart rate) monitored during the treatment. You will be seen every 2 weeks
      by one of your doctors during your therapy.

      If at any time the disease gets worse or you experience any intolerable side effects, you
      will be taken off the study.

      After completion of the 4th cycle of chemotherapy, you will have a complete physical exam and
      routine blood tests (about 2 tablespoons). You will also have a CT scan of the abdomen and
      pelvis and a chest x-ray or CT scan of the chest. These tests are being done to find out if
      the tumor can be removed by surgery.

      If your tumors cannot be removed at this time, you will continue to receive the same dose of
      chemotherapy with the same tests for up to a maximum of 12 cycles. If it is found that the
      tumor still cannot be removed after 12 cycles, your participation in this study will be
      complete and your doctor will discuss other treatment options with you.

      If the tumor can be removed, you will receive 1 additional cycle of oxaliplatin, leucovorin,
      and 5-FU (no bevacizumab) at the same doses before you go on to have the surgery. Your
      surgery will be scheduled 8-12 weeks after the completion of chemotherapy. The surgeon will
      explain the surgery and any risks. During liver tumor surgery, normal tissue around the edges
      of the tumor will be collected as part of routine care. You will be asked to sign a separate
      consent form for the surgery. Additional routine blood tests (about 2 tablespoons) and a PET
      scan will be done before surgery.

      If you have tumors removed, around 28 days after the surgery, you will be given 8 additional
      cycles of bevacizumab given the same way as before surgery.

      Around 4-6 weeks after the final chemotherapy treatment, you will have follow-up CT scans of
      the abdomen and pelvis, a chest x-ray or CT scan of the chest, and a routine blood test
      (about 2 tablespoons). These tests will be repeated every 3 months for the first 3 years
      after surgery, every 6 months for the 4th and 5th year after surgery, and then once a year
      for the rest of your life. PET scans will be done once a year to check on the status of the
      disease.

      This is an investigational study. Oxaliplatin, 5-FU, leucovorin, and bevacizumab are FDA
      approved and commercially available for the treatment of this disease. However, their use
      together in this study is investigational. Up to 42 patients will take part in this study.
      All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  