
    
      This application seeks support for a phased project. In the initial (R61) 2-year phase, the
      investigators will establish that Cognitive Remediation Therapy (CRT) can increase
      set-shifting in parents of and/or adolescents with Anorexia Nervosa (AN). The second aim is
      to determine the appropriate dose needed to achieve positive change in set-shifting.
      Attaining this milestone would trigger support for three additional years (R33) to confirm
      target engagement and appropriate dose. The investigators will also evaluate whether or not
      adding CRT to Family Based Treatment (FBT) will improve outcome compared to FBT alone.
      Set-shifting (a type of executive functioning often referred to as cognitive flexibility)
      inefficiencies are hypothesized to be an endophenotype of AN and are, therefore, heritable.
      Cognitive flexibility can be impacted negatively by situational factors such as malnutrition,
      stress, and anxiety. It is likely that both adolescents (who are malnourished) and parents
      (who are under stress) experience significant state-based reduction in their cognitive
      flexibility during AN and its treatment. While cognitive flexibility can be increased through
      CRT, there is a significant gap in the knowledge about how to apply CRT to the treatment of
      adolescent AN, specifically concerning the most appropriate target for CRT: parents or
      adolescents? The majority of research on CRT with adolescents with AN are pilot and
      feasibility studies and target set-shifting in adolescents, not parents. The investigators
      hypothesize that targeting parents may be more impactful for adolescent outcome. First, the
      investigators must determine if an increase set-shifting via CRT is possible. In the initial
      R61 phase, the investigators propose to recruit and randomly assign 54 families who have a
      child with AN to FBT, FBT with parent-focused CRT, or FBT with adolescent-focused CRT. Target
      engagement will be assessed via neuro-psychological assessment and self-report of cognitive
      and behavioral flexibility. If the investigators meet these proposed milestones in the R61
      phase, they will proceed to the R33 phase. It is possible that one (N = 72 families) or both
      (N = 93 families) CRT conditions will be examined in the R33 phase. The investigators will
      confirm the findings from the R61 phase (target engagement and dose of CRT). The
      investigators will also examine adolescent outcome in FBT alone versus FBT+(parent or
      adolescent) CRT. They will gather preliminary data on putative moderators and/or mediators
      across both phases in order to inform results. This phased R61/R33 application is innovative
      in that it is the first to adapt CRT to parents only. Evidence supporting FBT+CRT to increase
      set-shifting in parents/adolescents will inform future efforts to leverage understanding of
      (heritable) neurobiology of AN in adolescents to improve outcome. Further, if CRT for parents
      significantly improves set-shifting, the investigators can focus efforts on how best to
      augment current treatments, support parents, and increase positive outcomes for the
      adolescent and reduce relapse. Even negative results would inform understanding of
      set-shifting inefficiencies as an endophenotype in AN, its measurement, and usefulness as a
      target in treatment.
    
  