
    
      Treatment of anal fistula pursues permanent healing and preservation of anal continence, not
      always easy goals in complex anal fistulas.

      In patients with Crohn's disease, simple surgery (ligation of the path and suturing of the
      internal orifice) associated with injections of stem cells derived from autologous or
      allogeneic adipose tissue has been shown to cure up to 70%. of the cases. Similar results
      have been obtained in small series of patients with fistulas of cryptoglandular origin and
      also in rectourethral and rectovaginal fistulas of other etiologies. Unfortunately, this
      treatment is time consuming and extremely expensive.

      Fresh adipose tissue is an alternative source of mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) with
      regenerative capabilities, immunomodulatory angiogenic and anti-inflammatory effects. The
      injection of fresh adipose tissue, obtained by liposuction from the same patient, is
      currently a therapeutic alternative used in regenerative medicine, plastic and orthopedic
      surgery indications, as well in other fields. Beneficial effects of fresh adipose tissue on
      anus fistulas and fecal incontinence have also been reported.

      The aim of the present study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the injection of autologous,
      microfragmented and minimally manipulated adipose tissue, associated with a surgical
      technique that obtains by itself up to 70% cure in order to add the benefits of surgery with
      those in regenerative medicine hoping that the beneficial effects of MSC will aid in the
      healing and repair process.

      A prospective study is proposed in 12 patients with non-Crohn's-related complex anals
      fistulas. Whenever possible, the endorectal advancement flap technique will be applied; in
      blind fistulas and special cases, in which the flap is not indicated, alternative techniques
      will be used. In all cases, autologous, micro-fragmented and minimally manipulated adipose
      tissue, obtained with a standardized procedure, previously validated and authorized, will be
      injected. This procedure uses the "Lipogems ®" device (Lipogems International SpA, Milan,
      Italy), with which a well-characterized adipose tissue is obtained with the maximum safety
      guarantees.
    
  