
    
      Heparin is used worldwide by all vascular surgeons and interventional radiologists (IR)
      during non-cardiac vascular interventions (NCVI), both open and endovascular. Heparin is used
      to reduce or prevent arterial thrombo-embolic complications (ATEC). Heparin reduces the
      clotting of blood and thereby coagulation. This also explains the negative side-effect of
      using heparin: its use can lead to bleeding-complications, possibly causing the need for
      blood tranfusions, more hematomas necessitating re-interventions and increasing the risk of
      infections.

      Since the 1970's it is well known that heparin has a non-linear dose response curve and also
      a non-linear elimination curve in the individual patient.

      Despite this fact, more than 95% of all vascular surgeons and IR use a standardized bolus of
      5000 IU in every patient. Multiple studies have demonstrated that up to 70% of patients is
      not adequately anticoagulated during NCVI using that bolus of 5000 IU.

      During open or endovascular cardiac interventions the effect of heparin is always routinely
      measured using the activated clotting time (ACT).

      Despite this knowledge the percentage of vascular surgeons and/or IR that measure the effect
      of heparin during NCVI routinely is astonishing low: 0-5%, in the US this percentage is
      probably higher (30%), possibly due to medico-legal reasons. Existing guidelines on NCVI
      depict different regimes on the use of heparin or do not mention this use at all.

      The Hemostasis Management System (HMS, Medtronic) measures the ACT, but it also calculates a
      heparin dose response curve in the individual patient. This curve supplies the vascular
      surgeon or IR a tool to administer the exact amount of heparin needed to reach a desired ACT.
      Also the exact dose of protamine can be calculated to neutralize the effect of remaining
      circulating heparin in the individual patient. The use of the HMS in cardiac vascular
      procedures has to led to a reduced need for blood transfusions, less postoperative bleeding
      complications and a reduction of peri-procedural myocardial infarctions and other ATEC.

      To determine if the HMS can be of equal high value during NCVI, a pilot study was performed
      at the VUMC, called Hepvasc. Results of this pilot (submitted) and other sparse results from
      literature, show that HMS can be used during NCVI. Furthermore, results indicated that the
      bolus of 5000 IU resulted in inadequate anticoagulation in 7 out of 18 included patients.
      This exposes those patients to a higher risk of ATEC.

      As a result of this pilot, the MANCO study is designed with the HMS during NCVI. The MANCO
      study will evaluate the data of heparin management with the HMS in number of large vascular
      centers, starting in the Netherlands and after that in Europe. Measurements with the HMS will
      be used for the evaluation of the local heparin protocol by the individual vascular surgeon
      or IR. The MANCO study will be started permitting every center to apply their current heparin
      protocol. This includes the dosage of heparin and possible extra dosing of heparin to reach a
      desired ACT. The MANCO study is started as a prospective data registry and observational
      study of the ACT with an extensive case record form (CRF). Regular blood samples for ACT
      measurements will be done, so no extra invasive measurements are performed in the patient.
      Data will be collected according to all legal requirements and permission of local medical
      ethics committees is granted.
    
  