
    
      The aim of this study is:

        1. To validate a diagnostic test for formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) samples by
           Nanostring technology, using the 40 genes signature as reference. First, we will compare
           frozen and FFPE tissues (n=120), to establish a transcriptional signature in FFPE
           samples. Secondly, to further characterize basal subtype of bladder cancer, we will
           study the mutational and gain/loss landscape and immunohistochemistry markers in a new
           series of tumors after classifying them by our gene signature (n=510). These
           characteristics will be included in a new signature by defining the optimal prediction
           discrimination AIC et Net Reclassification Index.

        2. To assess the prognosis after cisplatine treatment in 510 patients treated by cystectomy
           with or without adjuvant chemotherapy (pT2/pT3/pT4, N0 or N+) and in another
           multicentric series of 188 patients treated by cystectomy and adjuvant chemotherapy
           (pT3/pT4 et/ou N+). Uni and multi variant analysis will be realized by adjusted Cox
           model, and the added value of basal subtype as compared to standard prognostic factors
           will be evaluated. The propensity score will be realized to assess the association of
           basal subtype and response to chemotherapy. The anti-EGFR response will be analyzed in
           the clinical trial GETUG19 which uses Panitumumab in patients with metastatic urothelial
           carcinomas (n=93)

        3. To study the treatment response in preclinical models. We characterized previously
           preclinical murine models derived from xenografts of MIBC (n=14 and new xenografts will
           be added). We will study the effect of anti-EGFR alone or in combination with
           chemotherapy in basal and non basal subtypes of xenografts.

      By this study we will be able to better characterize the basal subtype of bladder cancer and
      confirm its aggressive behaviour as compared to other subtypes of MIBC. These results will
      further help to establish new clinical trials which include anti-EGFR in patients of basal
      subtype.
    
  