
    
      This study will be investigating how a common blood test for identifying heart damage
      (Troponin T) is affected by red blood cell damage in the blood sample (Haemolysis). It is
      already known that damage to the red blood cells during or after blood sample collection can
      cause falsely low test results however the exact amount is not clear. Some previous studies
      suggest that a much higher amount of red blood cell damage could be allowable when reporting
      the test results. This study will mimic the type of red blood cell damage that occurs in the
      hospital and determine what degree of damage or 'haemolysis' causes a significant reduction
      in the test result and therefore determine an allowable limit for safely reporting the test
      result. The results of this study may help provide an evidence based approach to improving
      current practice and may lead to less rejected blood samples, fewer repeat tests, improved
      treatment times in Accident and Emergency (A&E), general cost savings and an improved service
      to patients.

      This study will be conducted as a Masters research project in Biomedical sciences (Clinical
      Biochemistry) as well as providing evidence to evaluate current laboratory practice.
      Participants attending Poole Hospital accident and emergency who are already having blood
      samples taken for the heart damage blood test, high sensitivity Troponin T (hs-cTnT), are
      chosen for this study. As the participants are already having the hs-cTnT blood test
      performed it means the investigators will not be determining any new information about them
      from the tests and they are also the population that the results of the study will benefit.

      Whilst the participants are having the routine blood samples taken for their medical
      investigation, an extra two blood samples will be collected (a maximum of 9 ml; less than two
      teaspoons) following verbal permission. Only patients with the capacity to give verbal
      consent will be included in the study and then their blood will only be taken once. The extra
      blood samples will be labelled with the time and date of collection (to ensure stability when
      analysing). No patient identifying information will be written on the samples and they will
      be sent to the laboratory in a separate bag from the routine specimens to ensure anonymity.

      Once received in the laboratory, one of the study samples will be analysed for hs-cTnT and
      haemolysis index (a measured value that equates to the amount of haemoglobin in the sample
      and therefore red blood cell damage). The results from these initial tests will determine if
      the hs-cTnT and haemolysis are within the desired range for the study.

      If the sample meets the requirements for the study, a sample specific haemolysate (Haemolysed
      serum) will be created from the second sample. Using both samples, varying controlled degrees
      of haemolysis will be created and then tested for hs-cTnT. The results from the varying
      degrees of haemolysis will be compared to the original unhaemolysed result to determine
      whether a significant change in the result has occurred.

      Null hypotheses:

        -  There is no significant difference in hs-cTnT results between baseline and up to 100
           haemolysis index. There is a significant difference in hs-cTnT results between baseline
           and all haemolysis index levels greater than 100.

        -  There is no significant difference in mean percentage change of hs-cTnT up to 100
           Haemolysis index and there is a significant difference in mean percentage change of
           hs-cTnT at all Haemolysis levels greater than 100 haemolysis index.
    
  