
    
      Acute liver injury is one of the most important safety concerns, being the leading cause for
      drug withdrawal from the market on safety grounds. For most suspected hepatotoxic drugs the
      only existing information comes from spontaneous reports, lacking appropriate risk
      quantification through formal epidemiological studies. A few population-based studies
      examining the risk of acute and clinically relevant liver injury among users of various drugs
      have been published, reporting an elevated risk of liver injury in users of antibiotics. As
      acute liver injury is often idiosyncratic and because its diagnostic criteria used in
      epidemiological studies have been variable, the reported range of incidences of acute liver
      injury caused by antibiotics is broad. In the United Kingdom (UK), case-control studies
      investigating the effect of antibiotics on acute liver injury have generated odds ratios
      ranging from 94.8 for the combination of amoxicillin/clavulanic acid to 6.2 for
      tetracyclines. Age, sex, alcohol intake, concomitant medication and comorbidities have been
      proposed as risk factors for antibiotic induced liver injury and may have influenced the
      quantification of risk estimates. In the present protocol, we propose to further quantify the
      risk of acute liver injury associated with antibiotics in the general population using
      different study designs and in different primary care databases, and to compare the results
      to evaluate the impact of design and population differences on the outcome of the study
      association.

      Acute liver injury or hepatotoxicity in this study implies chemical, drug driven liver damage
      which can be classified based on clinical presentation and laboratory features ranging from
      asymptomatic mild biochemical abnormalities to acute liver failure. The most common
      classification used for drug induced liver injury (DILI) is according to laboratory
      abnormalities (hepatocellular, cholestatic or mixed) and according to mechanism of toxicity
      (direct, immune-mediated, idiosyncratic, or mitochondrial toxicity). Being idiosyncratic in
      most cases, reactions often cannot be reproduced experimentally in laboratory animals. The
      relationship between the dose and the occurrence or severity of the reaction is not constant,
      and the latent period between drug exposure and sensitivity reaction is rather variable. The
      infrequency of DILI, though with significant impact, and complicated case ascertainment in
      pharmacoepidemiological studies has led to wide ranges of reported incidence rates. A recent
      study, using data from the GPRD database, reported crude incidence rates of liver injury
      caused by any type of drug ranging from 1 to 18 per 100,000 prescriptions. The Drug-Induced
      Liver Injury Network (DILIN), a US based collaboration between academic and health
      institutions to study the aetiology and prevention of DILI, found antibiotics to be the
      largest class of agents to cause drug-induced liver injury. UK based estimates of incidence
      rates of antibiotic induced liver injury range from 2.5 to 8.6 per 100,000 users.

      Antibiotics are a type of antimicrobial used to treat infections and are amongst the twenty
      most prescribed drugs in England, with approximately 38.7 million prescriptions dispensed in
      2009. The most frequently prescribed type of antibiotics is penicillins, a group of
      bactericidal antibiotics that interfere with bacterial cell wall synthesis. Other
      bactericidal antibiotics include cephalosporins and aminoglycosides. Antibiotics with
      bacteriostatic mechanisms of action, inhibiting the growth or proliferation of bacterial
      cells, include tetracyclines, macrolides, sulphonamides and quinolones. Most types of
      antibiotics have been associated with drug-induced liver injury.

      Liver injury accounts for 10% of all adverse reactions to drugs and is the most frequent
      reason for withdrawal of medications from the market. This study would provide a valuable
      contribution to our current knowledge as drug induced liver injury is the most common cause
      of acute liver failure and antibiotics are the largest drug class of agents, with the highest
      exposure prevalence, to cause acute liver injury.
    
  