
    
      Intestinal microbiota have a major role in disease pathogenesis, either in a form of a
      "permissive" role or as a direct pathogenic cause.

      Clostridium difficile colitis; irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and inflammatory bowel disease
      (IBD) have all been connected to a disturbance in the equilibrium of intestinal microbiome.
      The cause of IBD in unknown but evidence is getting that immense immune reaction of
      intestinal immune system to microflora combined with a genetic predisposition are responsible
      for the chronic inflammation.

      Fecal microbial treatment (FMT) is a treatment that utilizes the microbiota of a healthy
      intestine as a probiotic preparation. The fecal material of a healthy individual is fluidized
      and that inserted into the intestinal tract of a sick individual, assuming that the healthy
      flora will colonize and cure the intestine. Previous work had shown success in fecal
      transplantation as a treatment for clostridium difficile colitis. There are also reports of
      the efficacy of this treatment for inflammatory bowel disease but currently the numbers are
      small. 41 cases were reported , In some the FMT was inserted through a nasogastric tube
      directly to the duodenum, in some be colonoscopy and in some by an enema. A significant
      clinical improvement was reported in 19 of 25 patients. 13 of 17 stopped IBD treatment , 15
      of 24 entered full clinical remission. In all 15 patients treated for infection the treatment
      was successful. No sever adverse effects were reported, Fever was developed in 8 cases and in
      one case there was exacerbation of colitis after treatment.

      Primary aim: To investigate whether use of FMT will bring improvement of at least 2 points in
      partial mayo score in ulcerative colitis patients, or 75 points in CDAI of patients with
      Crohn's colitis. One month after FMT.

      Improvement will be defined as:

      For Ulcerative colitis: a decrease of at least 2 points in the partial mayo score, and a
      decrease of at least 1 point in endoscopic Mayo score.

      For Crohn's disease: A decrease of at least 70 points in Crohn's disease activity index
      (CDAI).

      80 patients aged >18 years, with histological and endoscopic diagnosis of ulcerative colitis
      (UC) or CD who did not respond to either thiopurines or tumor necrosis factor (TNF)
      inhibitors.

      Flare will be defined as partial mayo score higher then 3, with either C reactive protein
      (CRP) higher than 6 or endoscopic mayo score >1 in ulcerative colitis and CDAI higher them
      220 and CRP higher than 6 in Crohn's colitis.

      Stool will be donated by the patients choice either from a relative, preferably a partner to
      minimize possible transference of an infective agent, alternatively samples will be ordered
      from "open biom".
    
  