
    
      Halitosis is a common symptom which can affect people of all ages. It may decrease self
      confidence and social interactions. Oral halitosos is the consequence of microbial (mainly
      Gram negative bacteria) breakdown of food debris, cells, saliva, and blood. The agents that
      give rise to halitosis include especially the volatile sulphur compounds (VSC), diamines, and
      short chain fatty acids of which only the VSC can be detected in the clinical setting, making
      the detection of halitosis often very hard. The most common cause for oral halitosis is poor
      oral hygiene due to gingivitis or periodontitis. Other causes include bacterial accumulation
      on the posterior tongue, tonsillitis and others. Dry mouth has been implicated as a potential
      cause in halitosis.

      Due to the lack of quantitative objective measuring to the severity of halitosis and
      especially in the face of the subjective nature of halitosis as occurs commonly a
      subjectively measurement is necessary. As no current QOL exists for measurement of halitosis
      formulation of such a questionnaire can enable a measurement of subjective halitosis with
      change observed over time or with intervention.

      We intend to treat halitosis with a novel approach targeting mouth dryness- when other
      factors were ruled out by measuring outcome on the halitosis questionnaire.

      We will treat mouth dryness with Caphosol- a solution indicated for mouth dryness acting only
      locally after mouth washing. As this is a supersaturated phosphate solution of a mineral not
      alien to the body side effects are practically negligible.

      Quality of life (QOL) questionnaires (such as SNOT20- sinonasal outcome test) are common in
      medicine, however no such questionnaire exists for halitosis. We devised a specific QOL
      questionnaire for halitosis. This questionnaire consists of 20 questions covering functional
      limitation, physical discomfort, psychological discomfort, physical disability and social
      disability. The answers will be based on a common scale of 5 answers depending on the
      severity and ranging from a never bothering symptom to a symptom which as worse as can be.
      Formulation of this a questionnaire can assist in measuring subjective halitosis with change
      observed over time or with intervention.

      Treating halitosis is a challenge due to the multitude of factors. However, some treatments,
      mainly in the form of nasal saline irrigation or oral solutions chlorine based or triclosan
      exist. Mouth dryness, although implicated as a factor, has not been targeted yet. Improving
      salivary flow may reduce the stasis of saliva thus reducing the concentration of proteins
      that bacteria dwell on as well as a better degradation of oral food debris.

      Caphosol is a topical oral agent of supersaturated calcium phosphate rinse indicated for dry
      mouth that has been clinically proven to shorten the duration and severity of mucositis and
      relieve dry mouth when used with fluoride. Caphosol is indicated for dryness of the mouth or
      throat (hyposalivation, xerostomia), regardless of the cause and regardless of whether the
      conditions are temporary or permanent. Caphosol is also indicated as an adjunct to standard
      oral care in treating the mucositis that may be caused by radiation or high dose
      chemotherapy. It has an extremely high safety profile as these salts are not alien to the
      body, thus if swallowed accidentally, no adverse effects are expected. No known drug
      interactions exist.
    
  