
    
      PROSpect is a two-by-two factorial, response-adaptive, randomized controlled clinical trial
      of supine/prone positioning and conventional mechanical ventilation (CMV)/high-frequency
      oscillatory ventilation (HFOV). About 45 pediatric intensive care units (PICUs), 30 U.S. and
      15 international, with at least 5 years of experience with prone positioning and HFOV in the
      care of pediatric patients with severe Pediatric Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (PARDS),
      that can provide back-up extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) support, are
      participating. Eligible consecutive subjects with severe PARDS will be randomized to one of
      four groups: supine/CMV, prone/CMV, supine/HFOV, prone/HFOV. Subjects who fail their assigned
      positional and/or ventilation therapy for either persistent hypoxia or hypercapnia may
      receive the reciprocal therapy while being considered for ECMO cannulation. Our primary
      outcome is ventilator-free days (VFD) through day 28, where non-survivors receive zero VFD.
      We hypothesize that children with severe PARDS treated with either prone positioning or HFOV
      will demonstrate ≥ 2 more VFD. Our secondary outcome is nonpulmonary organ failure-free days.
      We will also explore the interaction effects of prone positioning with HFOV on VFDs and also
      investigate the impact of these interventions on 90-day in-hospital mortality and, among
      survivors, the duration of mechanical ventilation, PICU and hospital length of stay, and the
      trajectory of post-PICU functional status and health-related quality of life (HRQL). Up to
      1000 subjects with severe PARDS will be randomized, stratified by age group and
      direct/indirect lung injury. Adaptive randomization will first occur after 400 patients are
      randomized and have been followed for 28 days, and every 100 patients thereafter. At these
      randomization update analyses, new allocation probabilities will be computed based on ongoing
      intention-to-treat trial results, increasing allocation to well performing arms and
      decreasing allocation to poorly performing arms. Data will be analyzed per intention-to-treat
      for the primary analyses and per-protocol received for primary, secondary and exploratory
      analyses.
    
  