
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete a breath scan test, a saliva
      sample, complete questionnaires, smoke 1 cigarette, have your physiological measurements
      recorded, and view virtual reality scenes.

      Breath Sample:

      After signing the consent form, you will be asked to provide a breath scan to show how
      recently you smoked. To provide a breath sample, you will hold your breath for 15 seconds and
      exhale (breathe out) through a small cardboard tube into a small machine. This machine
      measures the amount of carbon monoxide in your breath, which provides an estimate of how many
      cigarettes you have recently smoked. If this measurement shows you are a very light smoker,
      you may not be able to take part in the rest of this study.

      Saliva Sample:

      You will be asked to provide a saliva sample in order to measure cotinine, which is a
      substance related to nicotine that is found in the body after smoking recently. You will be
      asked to place a small cotton roll in your mouth and gently chew the roll for 30 seconds. You
      will then remove the roll and place it in a small container. The container will not be
      labeled with your name, but only a study ID number. Only the study staff will have access to
      this number. Once the samples have been measured for levels of cotinine, the samples will be
      destroyed.

      Questionnaires:

      You will fill out a questionnaire that includes questions about your age, smoking history,
      marital status, ethnicity, and other basic information. This questionnaire should take about
      3 minutes to complete. You will also complete 5 additional questionnaires that will ask about
      your mood, thoughts and feelings, and smoking behavior. These questionnaires should take
      about 30 minutes total to complete.

      While completing the questionnaires, you will be asked to smoke 1 cigarette (any brand). You
      will be told to bring in your own cigarettes for this part of the study. However, if you
      forget to bring them in, the study staff will be able to provide one to you. This will be
      done so that all participants will have smoked their last cigarette at about the same time
      before viewing the virtual reality scenes.

      Physiological Measurements:

      Your heart rate and the amount you sweat will be recorded after completing the questionnaires
      and during each virtual reality scene (described below) by applying small sensors to your
      skin.

      After you have completed the questionnaires, you will sit in a recliner and the sensors will
      be placed on your rib cage and hand. The sensors that measure heart rate will be placed in
      the following locations: your lower left rib cage, just under your right collar bone, and
      just under your left collar bone. The sensors that measure the amount you sweat will be
      placed on the palm of your hand.

      The Virtual Reality Scenes:

      You will sit in a recliner and be asked to put on a virtual reality helmet, which has goggles
      and noise-cancelling headphones. You will be told how to wear the helmet and use the
      hand-held controller to answer the questions you will see after you have finished viewing
      each virtual reality scene.

      You will view 2 virtual reality scenes that will either show images of nature, such as fish,
      or images of a convenience store, such as a parking lot of a gasoline station and the inside
      of store. The experience of virtual reality may involve other senses as well. For example,
      you may hear, smell, and feel sensations (such as mild vibrations) that are associated with
      the scenes you are viewing.

      After each virtual reality scene that you view, you will answer a single question about your
      desire to smoke. It should take less than 1 minute to complete the question. You will view
      two virtual reality scenes, with a five minute rest period in between. It will take about 6
      minutes to view each pair of scenes. After the scenes have ended, the equipment and sensors
      will be removed, and you will be asked to complete a questionnaire that will ask about your
      experiences and feelings about virtual reality. This questionnaire should take less than 10
      minutes to complete.

      Length of Study:

      Once you have finished viewing the virtual reality scenes and completed the last
      questionnaire, your participation in this study will be over. Your total participation time
      in this study should take about 90 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 75 people will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  