
    
      The term 'airway' refers to the upper airway which may be defined as the extra-pulmonary air
      passage, consisting of the nasal and oral cavities, pharynx, larynx, trachea and large
      bronchi.

      The most commonly applied methods of oxygenation is ventilation through a tracheal tube, a
      laryngeal mask, or a face mask. Problems with tracheal intubation remain the major cause of
      death and disability due to anaesthesia in analyses of records of the United Kingdom medical
      defence societies and in the American Society of Anaesthesiologists closed claims database.

      'Difficult airway' is one in which there is a problem in establishing or maintaining gas
      exchange via a mask, an artificial airway or both. Prediction of difficult airway management
      remains a pivotal challenge for anaesthesiologists because accurate prediction gets altered
      the potentially dangerous unanticipated airway to an anticipated difficult airway with,
      predominantly, ample time for proper preparation. This is helpful in reducing potential
      complications by the allocation of experienced personnel and by using relevant equipment and
      well planned strategies .

      However rare, in spite of this, occurrence of difficult airway management still occurs and it
      prompts to increase the risk of morbidity and mortality - especially when not anticipated.
      Unanticipated difficulty in intubation in patients for elective surgical procedures can occur
      in 1.5 to 13 percent cases with none of the above mentioned abnormalities resulting in both
      morbidity and mortality.

      Several pre-operative risk factors for assessing airway difficulties have been identified,
      yet none have convincing diagnostic accuracy when using in isolation. Combining several risk
      factors increase the predictive value of the test and multivariable risk models have been
      developed.

      As the anatomy of the head and neck region plays a leading role in deciding the fateful
      profile of the airway, especially associated with influential abnormality. So, simple bedside
      test, such as the modified Mallampati test, has been found to be of limited value and cannot
      be relied on for using in predicting difficult laryngoscopy. Exclusively when each individual
      was investigated in isolation using a single scoring test, as it has long been realized that
      difficult laryngoscopy is a multifactorial problem. Thus, effective prediction requires a
      combination of multiple tests to provide a high index of sensitivity and specificity for
      prediction of difficult airway. Thus, we ventured to combine Mallampati score with some other
      anatomical factors (thyromental distance, anatomical abnormality and cervical mobility) to
      develop a new and simpler clinical prediction model for a better predictive ability.
    
  