
    
      The management of severe infections, sepsis and septic shock is a serious problem facing
      physicians. Septic shock kills 10,000 Canadians every year. It is the most common cause of
      death in intensive units and the rates of sepsis and septic shock continue to increase
      annually.

      Septic shock is a complex interaction between pathologic vasodilation, relative and absolute
      hypovolemia, myocardial depression, and altered microvascular function resulting from a
      systemic inflammatory response to infection. After restoration of the circulating volume,
      many patients continue to suffer from a maldistribution of blood flow. Current hypotheses
      suggest that global indicators of hypoperfusion (serum lactate, hypotension, decreased oxygen
      delivery) represent an averaging of areas of normal or increased blood flow with areas where
      blood flow is decreased. These under-perfused areas become more hypoxic. The resulting tissue
      damage leads to more inflammation and more maldistribution, perpetuating a vicious cycle
      progressing on to death.

      Vasopressive agents are used in an attempt to maintain mean arterial blood pressure and
      restore perfusion, but these agents work globally, potentially worsening blood flow to the
      under-perfused areas. As well, many vasopressors have deleterious side effects such as
      metabolic and endocrine functions, and changes to regional blood flow.

      The microvascular changes are mediated by primarily nitric oxide (NO). Baseline levels of
      nitric oxide are produced by constitutive Nitric Oxide Synthase (cNOS), with NO levels
      measured in the nano-molar range. Inflammatory mediators cause increased production of
      inducible Nitric Oxide Synthase (iNOS) leading to NO levels measured in the micro-molar
      range.

      Suppression of nitric oxide production using non-specific NOS inhibitors has had discouraging
      results. Methylene Blue is a selective iNOS inhibitor. The purpose of this pilot study is to
      confirm safety and demonstrate signs of benefit in the use of methylene blue in sepsis. In
      particular, this study will examine whether the addition of methylene blue to standard early
      goal directed therapy in sepsis will reduce vasopressor requirements.
    
  