
    
      The study was a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group,
      multicenter phase 3 clinical trial. Approximately 285 females and males with moderate to
      severe glabellar frown lines at maximum frown were to be screened during a screening period
      of four months in order to randomize approximately 255 subjects into one treatment and one
      placebo group at a ratio of 2 : 1. After the single injection treatment with a total dose of
      20 Units IncobotulinumtoxinA (Xeomin) or corresponding placebo, the subjects were observed
      over 120 days. During the study participation the subjects performed seven visits.

      Eight (8) sites in the United States and Canada participated in this trial. The study was led
      by one Lead PI and a Co-Lead PI who was assisting the Lead PI. The role of the Lead PI and
      the Co-Lead PI was executed by one of the PIs of this study, respectively. The PI at each
      site was a medical doctor who was experienced in aesthetic dermatology, i.e. who had several
      years (>=2 years) of experience in treatment of glabellar frown lines with BTX-A
      preparations. The PI was the person who led the team at one trial site and who was
      responsible for the conduct of the clinical trial at the site. The sub-investigator was a
      member of the team designated by the PI to perform important trial-related decisions. A
      maximum number of two sub-investigators could be authorized for injection and rating if
      necessary. At each site, ideally one investigator was to inject and rate all subjects.
      Injecting and rating sub-investigators had to be medical doctors with several years of
      experience in treatment of glabellar frown lines with BTX-A preparations. A subject had to be
      rated by the same investigator at all visits. Another phase 3 trial MRZ 60201-0741/1
      (NCT00770211) with design and endpoints identical to those in this trial was performed in
      order to compare efficacy and safety results with a second study population.
    
  