
    
      Study design:

      The study has been designed as a prospective, non randomised, single centre feasibility study
      to determine the acceptability and reliability of the Monica AN24 device, as a method of
      long-term fetal heart rate (FHR) monitoring on more than one occasion in the antenatal
      period.

      Objectives of the study:

      The proposed feasibility study aims to:

        1. Assess the recruitment rates and practicality of the study design and protocol.

        2. Evaluate the acceptability to participants of wearing the device for overnight FHR
           monitoring on two occasions in pregnancy.

        3. Measure the success rate of generating good quality overnight FHR data and identify any
           limitations of the technique.

        4. Determine response rates to questionnaires

      Recruitment The investigators will recruit women from 28 completed weeks of gestation. The
      investigators will study each participant on two occasions (2-4 weeks apart). Being a
      feasibility study FHR data obtained during these experiments will not be employed in the
      routine clinical care of study participants whose care will follow standard patterns of
      surveillance employed at the Jessop Wing Hospital (JW), Sheffield.

      Statistical analysis:

      As this is a feasibility study the investigators will employ mainly descriptive analysis. The
      investigators will report rates of consent, recruitment and acceptability of wearing the AN24
      device on two occasions. The investigators shall also report the rates and duration of
      obtaining valid FHR data when the device is worn. The feasibility and FHR outcome measures
      will be summarised and will inform design for future definitive studies.

      Future work and clinical impact of this research:

      The investigators believe that incorporating ambulatory FHR monitoring to the current methods
      employed to monitor SGA could predict and prevent stillbirth. This is the overarching aim of
      our future definitive multicentre study which will require collection of longterm FHR data at
      different stages of pregnancy from at least 500 women carrying small babies. Data captured
      from our feasibility study will inform the design of our main study and ensure that our
      design is robust and that all the potential issues identified in the feasibility study have
      been addressed.
    
  