
    
      Tinnitus has a prevalence of approximately 1 in 10 adults in the United States. Among those
      with tinnitus, 36% had nearly constant symptoms and almost 30% of those report that their
      tinnitus as a big or a very big problem. Currently there are few effective treatments for
      tinnitus, and no approved medications. Cognitive behavioral and retraining therapy provide
      some relief, but many patients fail to respond.

      Animal research and human studies indicate that maladaptive plasticity plays a role in
      tinnitus, which involves glutamatergic signaling largely at the NMDA and AMPA receptors.
      Additionally, GABA signaling has been shown to be impaired in tinnitus. Rodent models show a
      diminished sensitivity to GABA signaling and human magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS)
      studies show decreased GABA levels in the auditory cortex.

      Ketamine is a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist that has also been shown to activate
      AMPA receptors, and modulates ongoing plasticity. Additionally, ketamine activates a
      subpopulation of cortical GABAergic interneurons and projection neurons and increases GABA
      levels in the human brain, measured with MRS. Ketamine is FDA approved as an anesthetic, and
      recent work has demonstrated its efficacy in treating refractory depression and chronic pain.
      Importantly, these demonstrate that low dose ketamine, at doses lower than those required for
      anesthesia, are effective in lifting depressed mood and improving the sensation of chronic
      pain.

      For many, tinnitus has an important affective component to it, with distress and co-morbid
      symptoms of depression and anxiety. The onset and severity of tinnitus can correlate with
      stressful events, and it has been posited that stress lowers the threshold of perception, and
      unmasks tinnitus. Tinnitus then triggers more anxiety and depressed mood, which in turn
      reinforces the symptoms. An advantage of ketamine may be its effect on depression and
      anxiety, in addition to tinnitus, to interrupt this cycle.

      The goal of this study is to perform a proof-of-concept preliminary study of ketamine in
      tinnitus associated with sensori-neural hearing loss. This will be studied both in
      participants who report depressed mood and anxiety and those who do not. MRS imaging will be
      used to assess ketamine-induced changes in GABA in the auditory cortex.
    
  