
    
      The Smokefree Partners: 21 Days to Freedom combined online video, text, and interactive tools
      to promote the effective use of pharmacological aids (PA) - nicotine replacement products and
      bupropion (Zyban®) - and provide cognitive-behavioral support for users as they attempted to
      stop smoking. Smoking cessation content was based on the U.S. Surgeon General's Clinical
      Guidelines, Treating Tobacco Use and Dependence, 2008 update. Presentation of some of the
      content (e.g., gender of the narrator, PA recommendations) was tailored to the user on
      demographic and smoking history information provided during registration and within the
      introductory session.

      Two critical features provided social support and accountability. First, each user was
      assigned a "live" smoking cessation coach to provide support via individually tailored phone
      or email contacts (contact preference specified by the user). Users also received automated
      email reminders and prompts from the program. Second, a bulletin board/forum feature was
      added to promote social support among users.

      The Smokefree Partners intervention was a multi-session intervention in which users
      experienced a controlled and scheduled exposure to 21 discrete web site sessions. The program
      required users to wait at least 10 hours between sessions (i.e., login was "locked" until 10
      hours had passed after a user's previous Web site session). Carefully timed and tailored
      coaching messages provided cessation tips and prompted users to return to the web site to
      view the next session.

      The program was evaluated online in a randomized clinical trial of smokers recruited through
      major worksites across the United States. The aim of the evaluation was to determine if a
      theoretically based, online smoking cessation program that included message tailoring and
      interactivity combined with the live personal support of a coach would result in improved
      quit rates when compared to a wait-list control condition.
    
  