
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To improve preparation for consideration of clinical trials by providing tailored
           information to address barriers related to knowledge, goals and values, and beliefs and
           expectancies before their physician visit in patients with advanced metastatic or early
           stage cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To develop and pilot test a tailored interactive preparatory aid (PRE-ACT) to promote
           informed cancer treatment decision making by addressing barriers to considering clinical
           trials as a treatment option.

        -  To evaluate the efficacy of PRE-ACT in improving preparation for considering
           participation in clinical trials by conducting a randomized clinical trial to compare
           PRE-ACT vs generic clinical trial information with text (control condition).

        -  To investigate relevant background and psychosocial variables that are associated with
           preparedness, barriers, and treatment outcomes.

        -  To investigate the impact of PRE-ACT on patient decisional conflict, satisfaction with
           information received, satisfaction with discussion about clinical trials with the
           physician, satisfaction with the treatment decision, clinical trials discussion,
           clinical trials participation, and quality of informed consent.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (PRE-ACT): Patients receive tailored feedback and video content to address
           clinical trial barriers following baseline assessment.

        -  Arm II (control): Patients receive generic clinical trials educational feedback taken
           from NCI publications following baseline assessment.

      All patients complete a baseline assessment to assess demographics, personal characteristics,
      preparedness, and barriers to clinical trials. All patients also undergo a post-intervention
      assessment and complete a survey to measure preparedness for consideration of clinical
      trials, and impact of the intervention on clinical trials barriers. A brief patient
      post-consultation assessment is completed by patients within two weeks of the physician
      consultation to determine whether clinical trials were discussed, patient satisfaction with
      discussion about clinical trials, treatment options, treatment selection, decisional
      conflict, and satisfaction with treatment decision. Quality of informed consent is also
      assessed for patients participating in a clinical trial and completing the consent process
      during their initial physician consultation. Each patient's physician completes a brief
      Physician Post-Consultation Assessment to define cancer stage, treatment goal, and to
      determine whether clinical trials were offered and accepted and if not, why not. For patients
      who have not made a treatment decision after consultation, a brief follow-up phone survey or
      medical chart review is used to identify the patient's treatment choice.
    
  