
    
      Nationally, the percentage of in vitro fertilization (IVF) cycles resulting in pregnancy is
      still less than 50%, even in optimal patients. While failed implantation may be due to embryo
      factors, in recent years much attention has been given to the role of endometrial receptivity
      at the time of embryo transfer. There is abundant evidence in the literature showing that, in
      women with repeated implantation failures despite having high quality embryos, endometrial
      injury performed either in the follicular phase of the IVF cycle or late in the cycle
      preceding the treatment cycle increases IVF success rates, often more than doubling the
      pregnancy rate.

      The mechanism of improved pregnancy rates after endometrial injury is currently unknown.
      There is a paucity of studies in the current literature linking the biochemical and genetic
      changes induced by endometrial injury to pregnancy rates in patients undergoing IVF, as well
      as studies examining the effect of endometrial injury on ultrasound findings previously shown
      to predict IVF success, such as endometrial thickness, pattern, and volume, or markers of
      endometrial vascularity.

      Additionally, no studies have been published examining whether or not IVF success rates can
      be improved in all-comers (not just women with repeated failures or abnormal appearing
      endometrium on ultrasound) by performing endometrial injury and there are currently no
      studies published on this topic with U.S. women in the study population. The proposed study
      would be the first to examine the effect of endometrial injury in U.S. women undergoing
      infertility treatment with IVF, regardless of prior treatment history, including women
      undergoing donor oocyte IVF cycles or frozen embryo transfer. It would also be the first to
      evaluate the biochemical changes induced by endometrial injury in the context of cycle
      outcome and live birth rate and to examine the effect on ultrasound parameters.
    
  