
    
      Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) is manifested as a heterogeneous mixture of clinical and
      bichemical characteristics that complicate study of its etiology. It is currently unclear to
      what extent PCOS-associated traits (hyperandrogenism, hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance,
      type 2 diabetes, dyslipidemia, hypertension, obesity, and coronary artery disease) are the
      result of environmental factors or genetic predisposition. We propose to conduct a twin study
      to investigate the possibility that environmental factors are important in the development of
      the PCOS phenotype. Twin studies are considered to be the gold standard for determining the
      extent of heritability of a trait. The proposal described here is only for Step 1 of a
      larger, multi-step study. The major goal of step 1 is to identify a large cohort of twin
      pairs, in which at least one member of each pair is likely to have PCOS.

      Participants for this study will come from the Mid-Atlantic Twin Registry (MATR). Many (3283)
      potential participants have already been identified based on their answers to a preliminary
      MATR screening questionnaire. Out of the approximately 7145 twin women of reproductive age
      who completed these MATR screening questionnaires, 1803 women reported irregular periods, 954
      reported ovarian cysts, and 526 reported both irregular periods and ovarian cysts. Many of
      the women in this last group are likely to have PCOS. They represent 7.4% of the total
      sample, matching current estimates of PCOS prevalence (4-7%) in reproductive age women. We
      will also add new twin pairs who meet the criteria (irregular periods and evidence of PCOS or
      cystic ovaries) as they are recruited into the MATR and take the preliminary surveys.
      According to MATR statistics, about 33% of twin pairs are monozygotic (MZ, identical).
      Therefore, approximately 174 of the 526 women likely to have PCOS are members of a MZ pair.

      Step 1 of the proposed study consists of a telephone survey of the 3282 women with irregular
      periods and/or ovarian cysts. The survey will be conducted by the MATR. The instrument to be
      used contains a series of simple and direct questions and will take about 10 minutes to
      complete. The questions were designed to identify PCOS and their content deals with the
      frequency of menstrual periods (six or fewer per year being a major diagnostic criterion), a
      previous diagnosis of PCOS, obesity, excess facial hair and other evidence of
      hyperandrogenism. The women will also be asked if they have a living twin sister. On the
      basis of this survey, women will be identified who are likely to have PCOS and have a living
      female twin.
    
  