
    
      Periodontal diseases are among the most common medical conditions that may influence humans;
      50% of the adult population can be affected by this illness. The condition is usually
      initiated by lack or reduction in oral hygiene which is then aggravated by the presence of
      microorganisms within biofilm which will induce a sequel of events that will lead to
      periodontitis. The multifactorial nature of the disease necessitates a multifactorial
      approach to restore the balance within the oral echo system. Scaling, root planning, and
      polishing (SRP) are the golden standard procedures in the treatment; the therapeutic nature
      of these clinical intervention is based on disrupting the biofilm and stimulate the host
      defense mechanism to have the upper hand in targeting the microorganisms and their toxins.
      Systemic antibiotics as adjunctive therapy has been established to be an excellent modality
      in controlling the bacterial virulence, hence, supporting the conventional SRP therapy; in
      order to avoid and limit the harmful effect of systemic antibiotics different locally applied
      preparations have been introduced. Clinical parameters bleeding on probing (BOP), pocket
      depth (PD), and clinical attachment level (CAL) have been improved when Minocycline
      hydrochloride (HCL) microspheres was locally applied as an adjunctive drug to conventional
      SRP. Oxidative stress is another factor related to periodontitis. The free radicals are a
      by-product of the inflammatory reaction induced by the disease progression; free radicals
      eliminated by antioxidants which is naturally found in the diet especially fruits and
      vegetables; however, when the imbalance occur and the free radicals over weighed the
      antioxidants there will be further initiation of the destruction mechanism. The role of
      antioxidant as therapeutic agent in reducing the oxidative stress has been well studied and
      their supporting effect to the conventional SRP treatment is well documented. Lycopene
      extract can be applied as a gel intrapocket subgingival and it can have a promising result
      with the SRP.

      The aim of this prospective clinical study is to compare between the effect of Minocycline
      HCL microsphere and Lycopene gel when they are applied intrapocket subgingival with
      conventional SRP therapy. The study will utilize split mouth technique; three sites within
      the oral cavity that have a pocket depth greater than 5 mm will be included. Each site will
      be designated to receive a specific treatment, Control group (site) will have SRP and water
      irrigation treatment, active group (site) will have local application of Minocycline HCL gel
      following SRP therapy, and the experimental site which will receive lycopene and SRP
      treatment. The influence of these therapeutic agents will be determined by the expression of
      selected inflammation-related markers in the gingival crevicular fluid collected from the
      experimental sites. The markers that will be examined are MMP-9, interleukin (IL)-8, TGF-Beta
      1, and TIMP1. The change in the clinical parameters will be measured before the commencement
      of treatment and it will be examined later to observe the effect of each locally applied drug
      when compared to the control group (SRP plus water irrigation).
    
  