
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the clinical safety and efficacy of the Nucleus™ 24
      Auditory Brainstem Implant (ABI) in pediatric patients who do not have Neurofibromatosis Type
      2 (NF2); specifically, children with total hearing loss due to severe cochlear anomalies,
      cochlear nerve disorders or failed cochlear implantation. These conditions can include:
      developmental or acquired cochlear nerve deficiency (CND), cochlear aplasia, post-meningitis
      cochlear ossification, or cochlear malformation. This study proposes to implant up to 10
      pre-linguistic young children (18 mos to 5 yrs. of age) and up to 10 post-linguistic children
      (<21 yrs of age) with the Nucleus 24 Multichannel ABI in an attempt to demonstrate safety of
      the surgical procedure and device stimulation and the potential for auditory benefit beyond
      that experienced with a CI. These children would not qualify for the Nucleus ABI device, as
      their etiology is not an approved indication such as neurofibromatosis Type 2(NF2). Further,
      these children do not benefit from conventional hearing aids or cochlear implants.

      Two groups of children will be included: Group 1 will include prelingiustic deaf children
      ages 18 months - 5 years and Group 2 will include postlinguistic deaf children < 21 years of
      age. Post-operative evaluations will be conducted at the initial activation and at 1, 3, 6,
      12, 18, 24, 30, and 36-month intervals post-activation in order to demonstrate the emergence
      of open-set speech perception abilities prior to study cessation. Experience in the CI
      literature has shown that a minimum of 2 years of device usage is required for children with
      pre-lingual hearing impairment to develop some open-set speech perception abilities. While
      Group 2 is post-linguistic and some may have had significant hearing prior to becoming deaf,
      the same time intervals will be used for consistency. Blinding or masking procedures are not
      included in the design, as the presence/absence of a brainstem implant cannot be easily
      concealed from the device recipients and/or clinical investigators.
    
  