
    
      Background: Primary biliary cirrhosis is a chronic cholestatic liver disorder which may lead
      to end stage liver disease causing death or requiring liver transplantation. Additionally, a
      significant proportion of patients suffers from complications related to impaired bile
      secretion such as intractable pruritus, chronic fatigue, osteoporosis or lipid disturbance.
      They all have a significant consequence for patients well being, quality of life and
      economical aspects of health care systems. Pathogenesis of PBC remains to be fully
      elucidated. Recent studies show,that chronic liver diseases are associated with an acquired
      deficiency of S-adenosyl-L-methionine synthetase, an enzyme responsible for the synthesis of
      SAMe from methionine. SAMe initiates two very important protective metabolic pathways:
      transmethylation and transsulphuration. As a result of the later, glutathione, taurine and
      sulphate group are synthesized. Thus SAMe deficiency is associated with impaired
      detoxification and hepatoprotection and exacerbate liver injury. Supplementation with SAMe
      has proven useful in alcoholic liver disease, obstetric cholestasis and elimination of
      hepatitis C virus (HCV). The investigators' studies on experimental models where cholestasis
      was induced in vitro with lithocholic acid and 17-beta estradiol glucuronide showed that
      supplementation with SAMe exerts a significant anticholestatic effect. Interestingly,
      simultaneous administration of SAMe and ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) exerts an additive
      effect.

      Methods: The study group will include 20 patients PBC diagnosed with EASL criteria, who have
      been already treated with UDCA. They will receive UDCA in the dose of 13 - 15mg/kg bw plus
      SAMe in the dose of 1600 mg bd over the period of 6 months.

      The key aim of the project is to analyze the effect of SAMe on the health related quality of
      life and liver biochemistry. Blood and urine samples (from 24hr urine collection) will be
      collected for liver biochemistry and metabolites of bile acids. Additionally transient
      elastography will be performed before and after 6 months SAMe treatment.
    
  