
    
      Although the exact relationship between posture and NSNP is unsettled, the posture of the
      cervical spine appears to influence dorsal neck muscle activity at rest and during movement.
      Additionally, the forward head posture associated with thoracic kyphosis indirectly affects
      cervical flexion and rotational range of motion (ROM) also sustained computer work and
      prolonged using smart phones often in positions that encourage a functional kyphosis, appears
      to modify neck posture, as well as scapular positioning and upper trapezius muscle activity.
      Besides that Ergonomic intervention, including adjustments of the workplace station and
      postural correction, have been demonstrated to be effective in reducing NP with some work
      conditions. In addition, modalities that used to correct sagittal alignment of the cervical
      spine proved statistical and clinically significant results related to pain, disability, and
      improved nerve function. That is accomplish cause and effect relationship between bad posture
      and neck symptoms. According to the systematic review of Anabela et al., about head posture
      assessment useful for neck patients or not? The answer, of course, was yes, but it must be
      considered in relation to the patient's symptoms and related functional problems. Harrison
      and his colleagues reported that posture abnormalities occurred in the head, ribs, and pelvis
      in three dimensions in the form of translations and rotational displacements. Therefore, we
      should consider three dimensional (3D)postural assessment and correction during the treatment
      of NSNP associated with significant posture problems of the head in relation to thoracic.
      Growing research about using mirror image traction during ambulatory exercise, which is
      prescribed specifically to help normalize the patient's neuromuscular dysfunction and
      postural deformation via reflecting the patient's posture across different planes, is more
      beneficial than a less personalized program. With these considerations in mind and to combine
      the findings of 3D postural assessment into the treatment program, we designed adjustable 3D
      posture corrective orthotic (PCO) to be worn by the patient for a short time. The device has
      the ability to reflect all transitional displacements and rotational movements of the head
      then ask the patient to make ambulatory exercise using a treadmill while the PCO holds the
      patient's reverse posture. To our knowledge, no randomized clinical trial (RCT) had evaluated
      the addition of a 3D adjustable PCO to usual care program and investigate its short- and
      moderate-term improvement effects on NSNP management outcomes (i.e., neck pain, neck
      disability and 3-dimensional posture parameters of the head). The primary aim of our study
      was to evaluate of conducting an RCT using neck disability index (NDI )and 3D posture
      parameters. The secondary aim was NPRS and Active CervicalROM. investigate the effect size of
      the addition of ambulatory mirror-image traction via the wearing of 3D adjustable PCO
      compared to control group interventions for neck pain, disability, and 3D posture parameters.
    
  