
    
      Background - Despite multiple provider- and system-level interventions to reduce potentially
      inappropriate medications (PIMs), many Veterans are still prescribed drugs that provide
      little benefit, placing them at unnecessary risk of adverse drug events (ADEs). One mechanism
      to reduce PIMs is through deprescribing, a de-implementation-based approach to thoughtfully
      discontinue a medication a patient is currently prescribed.

      Many Choosing Wisely recommendations address PIMs. Specifically, proton pump inhibitors
      (PPIs), a medicine used to reduce gastric acid, should be de-escalated to the lowest dose
      necessary to provide relief. Many older patients with diabetes are over-controlled, with
      blood sugar levels lower than recommended, yet remain on multiple diabetes medicines and may
      be able to use fewer medicines. These patients are also at higher risk of low blood sugar
      from insulin and sulfonylureas, and should have limited use of these agents.

      Finally, gabapentin is often used off-label to treat pain, with greatly increased use over
      the past several years. There are many barriers to deprescribing PIMs. Many interventions
      solely target the prescribing provider. Although some believe providers have primary
      responsibility for deprescribing, patient initiation of discontinuation conversations can
      effectively facilitate deprescribing. In a single-site pilot study, the investigators
      successfully reduced PIMs by engaging VA Primary Care patients by providing them with
      Veteran-centric EMPOWER ("Eliminating Medications through Patient Ownership of End Results")
      brochures. However, it is not known if this approach will be as successful for Veterans with
      other chronic conditions or at non-pilot sites.

      Aims - The investigators propose three aims. 1) Examine the impact of a patient-centered
      intervention to change provider prescribing (the primary outcome), as determined by the
      frequency with which medications are either deprescribed or de-escalated. 2) Examine the
      effect of a patient-centered intervention on engaging patients, via post-visit surveys of
      Veterans' interaction with the brochures and their influence on deprescribing discussions and
      deprescribing. 3) Using qualitative methods, identify key organizational contextual factors
      related to intervention fidelity, feasibility, acceptability, and appropriateness to support
      future implementation.

      Methods and Innovation - The investigators propose a multisite quasi-experimental trial using
      a Hybrid Type I Effectiveness-Implementation design of providing EMPOWER brochures directly
      to Veterans who may be deprescribing candidates for three cohorts of PIMs (PPIs, diabetes
      medications, and gabapentin). The investigators will mail brochures in advance of scheduled
      primary care visits, unlike distribution methods used in other studies. The primary outcome
      will be the composite of deprescribing and de-escalation of target medications, identified in
      pharmacy dispensing records of the Corporate Data Warehouse (Aim 1). Mail-based surveys sent
      after the scheduled primary care visit will assess patient engagement with the brochure and
      its impact on patient-provider communication (Aim 2). Finally, qualitative data from
      clinicians and staff addressing Proctor's Implementation Outcomes will provide the foundation
      for future implementation strategies (Aim 3).

      Significance and Next Steps - The study directly addresses multiple Veteran Care Priorities,
      including health care value, primary care practice, quality/safety, and Whole Health, and is
      aligned with current VA initiatives to prioritize patient preferences via
      individually-tailored, proactive care plans. The proposed work is strongly supported by
      Pharmacy Benefits Management and Office of Patient Centered Care and Cultural Transformation,
      which will facilitate the dissemination of findings to improve the quality and safety of
      medication use within VA. By study end, the investigators will have established the
      effectiveness of an innovative, low-tech, patient-focused intervention to promote
      deprescribing of commonly used medications for three populations, thereby directly improving
      quality, safety, and value of VA care while also setting the stage for wider implementation
      and generalization of this approach to other potentially inappropriate medications.
    
  