
    
      Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the leading cause of death in the United States, even though
      significant efforts have been made in prevention and diagnosis. The clinical gold standard
      for diagnosis of CAD is catheter-based invasive x-ray angiography, performed more than a
      million times per year. Of these examinations, up to 35% have been found to have no
      significant stenosis, yet these patients had to go through the potential risks and
      complications of an invasive test that further exposes the patient to ionizing radiation and
      iodinated contrast. Thus, non-invasive diagnostic alternatives are highly desirable.

      Cardiac MRI (CMR) provides a method for a comprehensive non-invasive cardiac exam, including
      contractile functional assessment (cine) to detect wall-motion abnormality, myocardial CMR
      perfusion for diagnosing perfusion defects, viability assessment using late gadolinium
      enhancement for evaluation of acute and chronic myocardial infarction, and coronary MRI for
      the identification of stenosis. CMR is advantageous in several respects, since it does not
      require ionizing radiation or iodinated contrast, thereby facilitating repeated or follow-up
      scanning. However, long data acquisition time remains as one of its main limitations. Several
      approaches have been studied to facilitate rapid CMR acquisition. Nonetheless, the
      acquisition time for high-resolution CMR remains long, and spatial and temporal resolution is
      traded off for acquisition time. Therefore, developments of methods to reduce the duration of
      data acquisition beyond what is available now are appealing. The investigators will develop
      novel reconstruction methodologies for high-resolution CMR that learn the anatomical
      structures in the images being reconstructed. The investigators will validate these
      techniques in a range of contrast-enhanced CMR imaging protocols, providing better volumetric
      coverage of the heart, efficient use of the contrast agents, and higher spatial and temporal
      resolution.
    
  