
    
      In the healing of long bone fractures, the absence of movement between the two parts of the
      fracture is essential for good healing: the movement, even at the micrometric level, can
      generate stress and tensions that prevent bone apposition in the gap. Even the primary
      stability of a dental implant is one of the main preconditions for osseointegration: in fact,
      during healing, micromovies that exceed the threshold of 100-150 microns can stimulate the
      growth of fibrous tissue in the bone to implant interface, leading to the failure of the
      procedure.

      It is also known that primary implant stability tends to decrease in the first weeks after
      placement due to inflammatory response due to surgical trauma before rising when bone
      recoating phenomena begin to prevail over reabsorption. Attention to implant stability is a
      crucial factor, especially in cases where immediate or early loading procedures are in place:
      system stress during chewing or simply related to tongue, cheeks or lips movements can result
      in micromovements that may lead to the failure of the procedure.

      With these assumptions, it is evident that a tool that allows the clinician to have a
      reliable evaluation of implant stability is the most important one: currently in use are the
      measurement of the insertion torque of the implant and the resonance frequency analysis. The
      insertion torque can be defined as the measurement of the resistance that the system
      encounters during its advancement in the apical direction by means of a rotating movement on
      its axis. Resonance frequency analysis is a not invasive method that evaluates rigidity of
      the bone system by measuring the size of the implant movement under a lateral force. High
      insertion torques have been proposed as a first rate technique to achieve a great implant
      stability, especially in cases to be treated with immediate or early load; Other studies
      point out that excessive insertion torques can cause both biological problems and mechanical
      to the implant.

      However, the relationship between insertion torque and implant stability is unclear:
      according to some in vitro studies, the two elements would be in direct relation, while
      others would be independent.

      The purpose of this prospective study is to evaluate in vivo the relationship between
      insertion torque value and implant stability measured using resonance frequency analysis in
      dental implants with a deep spire conical design.
    
  