
    
      Health care systems need to seek ways through quality improvement, care coordination, and
      workforce capacity to support quality care. It has been proposed that new models of care
      coupled with technology are needed. DM provides an ideal model for testing new approaches as
      the number of people with DM continues to rise, with an inverse shortage of health providers
      available to meet their needs. Most patients with Type 2 DM (T2DM) are seen in primary care
      (PC) where providers report barriers to comprehensive care that include limited time,
      educational resources, added workload and feeling ill-equipped to counsel patients on
      behavior change. Efforts to restructure PC are underway, like DE-led planned management
      visits, reported to improve healthy behaviors and outcomes in patients at high risk. DEs are
      well suited to support the skills, decision making, self-care behaviors, problem solving and
      active collaboration with the care team that serve as the foundation for diabetes
      self-management education and key to an effective planned visit. DEs supporting care and
      self-management education in PC have been shown to improve access and outcomes. For patients
      to sustain a lifetime of behavior to effectively self-manage, continued support to sustain
      the ongoing skills, knowledge, and behaviors required to manage their condition is needed.
      Given the need for enduring support and scarcity of providers, particularly in underserved
      rural areas, efforts to understand how best to re-design practice to involve DEs in PC and
      utilize technology to enable and scale engagement in self-management and ongoing support must
      be considered. The purpose of this application is to evaluate the deployment of Telemedicine
      for Reach, Education, Access, Treatment and Ongoing Support (TREAT-ON), a DE-driven, PC-based
      telemedicine model that relies on PC practice redesign to afford access to real-time ongoing
      support. Investigators hypothesize that the TREAT-ON model will help individuals identified
      as being high risk in an underserved rural community to achieve and sustain improvements in
      clinical, psychosocial and behavioral outcomes, and aim to demonstrate the model's viability
      in terms of feasibility and acceptability to inform future testing of TREAT-ON.
    
  