
    
      OBJECTIVE Symptomatic skin contour abnormalities often lead to frequent soiling and
      difficulty in stoma bag fitting. The objective of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness
      of peri-stomal lipomodelling in reducing the number of stoma bag changes in 24 hours and
      overall quality of life in this patient group.

      METHODS Patients will be identified by the stoma care nurses or digestive diseases or urology
      clinics. They will be assessed for suitability for the study. If suitable, informed consent
      will be taken. Quality of life questionnaires will be completed by the participant prior to
      the procedure and at several intervals following the procedure. Follow-up will end at 1 year
      post procedure.

      BACKGROUND Intestinal stoma formation for faecal diversion or defunctioning the bowel, is a
      commonly established procedure in colorectal surgical practice [1-6]. It can be performed by
      open as well by laparoscopic approach. However, placement of an ileoostomy or colostomy on
      the abdominal wall skin surface is associated with many skin complications like skin
      ulceration arising from excoriation and scarring, skin retraction leading to peri-stomal skin
      dimples and irregular margins [7-13]. This may result in the stoma appliance not fitting
      properly to the skin leading to frequent soiling of the skin and clothes. Soiling can cause a
      significant impact on the patients quality of life [14]. Soiling of the skin and clothes
      requires frequent change of stoma appliances, use of various fittings around stoma and under
      stoma bag to try to avoid soiling. Consequently, the cost of stoma management increases due
      to extra stoma care by stoma nurse and additional use of stoma appliances [15]. Stomas can be
      resited in order to try and improve the situation for the patient. This may require a major
      operation including a laparotomy (opening the abdomen). Due to previous surgery there is
      likely to be scar tissue inside the abdomen which can make this operation difficult and
      hazardous as there is a risk of damaging the bowel.

      This study aims to identify whether it is possible to reduce soiling by improving the area
      around the stoma so that the stoma bag can fit properly through lipomodelling. A technique
      that can be performed as a day case, under local anaesthetic and without a major operation.

      Lipomodelling, also known as autogenous fat transfer or fat transplantation, is used to
      correct skin deformities elsewhere (such as breast) and so may be useful in correcting
      peri-stomal skin deformities. We hypothesis that peri-stomal lipomodelling should improve the
      peri-stomal skin contour abnormality and therefore improve the fitting of the stoma bag to
      the skin so reduce soiling with the aim of reducing number of stoma bag changes in 24 hours
      and thereby improving quality of life. This technique has been applied to correct skin
      defects in patients undergoing breast surgery, limbs surgery, buttocks and genitals [16-19].
      Recent studies demonstrated that adipose tissue harvested during lipomodelling is a very rich
      source of regenerative cells called adipose derived stem cells (ADSC) [20]. ADSCs are capable
      of self- renewal and also secrete growth factors [21]. ADSCs have been reported to enhance
      elasticity of scar tissue and promote healing in patients undergoing radiotherapy for breast
      cancer, and in complex Crohn's fistulae [22-26]. In the peri-stomal area hopefully the
      lipomodelling will not only fill the defect, but also improve the elasticity of the scar
      tissue softening the area.

      The objective of this prospective observational pilot study is to evaluate the effectiveness
      of peri-stomal lipomodelling in correcting the peri-stomal skin contour defects aiming to
      reduce the frequent of leakage and soiling, aiming to improve overall quality of life.

      Sample size: 20 patients for this phase 1 pilot study
    
  