
    
      Malnutrition and cachexia are prevalent in end stage renal disease (ESRD) patients and are
      associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Food aversion is a major contributor to
      anorexia and malnutrition in ESRD and it also impacts the quality of life. Olfactory
      dysfunction has been shown to contribute to food aversion in ESRD patients. Since up to 80%
      of a meal's flavor is attributed to olfactory input, loss or alteration of smell leads to
      loss or alteration of taste in ESRD patients and at present there are no effective therapies
      to treat smell and/or taste disorders in ESRD patients.

      In patients with other causes of olfactory dysfunction such as congenital hyposmia and
      traumatic brain injury, intranasal theophylline has been shown to be effective in improving
      olfactory defects via increasing nasal mucus levels of cAMP and cGMP, second messengers
      critical for optimal smell sensation. However, the efficacy of nasal theophylline to improve
      olfaction in ESRD patients has not been investigated and the effects of nasal theophylline
      treatment on the nutritional parameters are unknown in ESRD patients.

      Aim: To examine the efficacy and safety of nasal theophylline treatment to improve olfaction
      and nutrition in ESRD patients

      Hypothesis: Nasal theophylline treatment improves olfaction and nutrition in ESRD patients
      with olfactory defects by via increasing intracellular cAMP and cGMP levels.

      A previous pilot clinical trial demonstrated that intranasal theophylline is safe and
      effective in improving olfactory deficits in congenital hyposmia and traumatic brain injury,
      however, it has not been examined in ESRD patients. The investigators will conduct a pilot
      single arm open-label clinical trial (n=20) of 6 weeks duration to examine the efficacy and
      safety of nasal theophylline in hemodialysis-dependent ESRD patients with olfactory defects.
      The investigators will examine whether nasal theophylline improves olfaction and nutritional
      status in trial participants.
    
  