
    
      For metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) patients, treatment usually
      consists in a first line chemotherapy with docetaxel followed by a second line treatment with
      either second generation hormonal therapies (abiraterone acetate or enzalutamide) or the new
      taxane derivative cabazitaxel. Cabazitaxel (Jevtana) is a semi-synthetic taxane with a
      mechanism of action different to that of docetaxel and paclitaxel. It is an antineoplastic
      agent that stabilises the microtubules network via its binding to tubulins and the inhibition
      of microtubules disassembly. Cabazitaxel has demonstrated a broad spectrum of antitumour
      activity against advanced human tumours xenografted in mice. It is active in
      docetaxel-sensitive tumours and in tumour models resistant to chemotherapy, including
      docetaxel. The efficacy of cabazitaxel has been demonstrated in the pivotal clinical trial
      TROPIC, a randomized, open-label, phase III study that compared cabazitaxel (n = 378) to
      mitoxantrone (n = 377), both associated with prednisone or prednisolone in patients with
      hormone-refractory metastatic prostate cancer previously treated with a docetaxel containing
      regimen. The median overall survival (OS) was significantly increased in the
      cabazitaxel-treated group compared to the mitoxantrone-treated group. Most common adverse
      event that can lead to a treatment discontinuation are haematological (neutropenia 82%),
      gastrointestinal (diarrhoea 6%) and general disorders (asthenia 5%). A recent study analysed
      the data of the TROPIC study on efficacy and toxicity observed in the subgroup of patients
      included in French centres. These results are comparable to those reported for the overall
      population and the safety profile remains favourable without any toxic death related to
      cabazitaxel.

      Following TROPIC trial, cabazitaxel (in combination with prednisone or prednisolone) was
      approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on June 2010 and by the European
      Medicines Agency (EMA) on March 2011 for the treatment of hormone-refractory prostate cancer.
      In France cabazitaxel was approved in 2012 but made available only in 2014.

      To investigate whether the precautions for the use of cabazitaxel (contraindications, hepatic
      function, premedication for hypersensitivity, prophylactic treatments, dose and dose
      adjustment, as well as conditions of administration) are respected in routine practice, an
      observational cohort study will be implemented in 32 oncology centres of South-West region of
      France (CABOBS study). The primary objective of this cohort is to evaluate the conformity of
      cabazitaxel prescriptions with the Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC) in clinical
      practice (indications and monitoring methods) and according to the conditions of use.

      Based on the SPC, Specifications for prescription include 26 items divided into "baseline"
      (14) criteria and "cycle 2" (12) criteria, which include requirements for the second and all
      following cycles. Because of such high number of specific items, strict adherence to
      prescription indications might be unsatisfactory or not appropriate from the clinical point
      of view, each criterion has a different relevance on the appropriateness of prescription;
      therefore, it is necessary to select the criteria based on their relevance and according to
      the opinion of the clinical experts.

      For this purpose, two independent panels of experts in the field of uro-oncology, one French
      panel and a European panel from EORTC, were solicited in order to define the importance of
      each criterion of the SPC and to allow a qualitative assessment of conformity using a formal
      consensus method.

      Consensus methods provide means of synthesising information and compare contradictory
      opinions or evidences on a specific issue. Their purpose is to assess the extent of agreement
      and to resolve disagreement among a group of selected individuals by identifying and
      selecting, through iterative ratings with feedback, specific points on which there is
      disagreement or uncertainty.

      The Delphi method, a consensus method which originated in 1948, is an attempt to obtain
      expert opinion in a systematic manner. The survey is conducted over "rounds" in which
      questionnaires are administered to the experts individually and anonymously. After each
      round, the results are listed and reported to the group. A Delphi is considered complete when
      there is a convergence of opinion. In a modified Delphi usually a predefined number of rounds
      and a final round, in which experts meet to resolve and summarise the results of the
      consensus, are held.

      The Sponsor relied on the Delphi method as it is most suited to areas where a limited number
      of evidences are available to enable a recommendation or guidelines to be drawn. Moreover,
      all the evaluated items came from an official document provided by the EMA, the SPC of
      cabazitaxel. Thus, it is expected from the experts to select the most relevant items. In the
      frame of the CABOBS study, this method will allow to select each of the 26 items of the SPC
      list according to their importance, and to define the primary objective of conformity to
      cabazitaxel conditions of use.
    
  