
    
      Recruitment plan- Patients with nasal polyps who have had sinus surgery at least 3 months
      prior and documented nasal polyps by endoscopy will be prospectively recruited. This will be
      a randomized blinded study. Patients will be randomized into two groups- group 1 will
      received topical fluticasone and group 2 will receive topical dexamethasone spray to the
      nasal cavity. The investigator will be blinded as to which group the subjects are placed in.
      The medications will be given out from the inland compounding pharmacy located at 24747
      Redlands Blvd, in Loma Linda.

      Procedures

        1. At the time of enrollment nasal endoscopy will be performed to confirm the diagnosis of
           nasal polyps and to grade the size of the polyps. Polyp size will be graded by the
           following scale: 0- no polyps, 1- polypoid mucosa, 2- polyps within sinus not occluding
           ostium, 3- polyps occluding ostium filling nasal cavity

        2. Subjects will be asked to fill out a SNOT 20 survey before the start of therapy.

        3. Subjects will be randomized into 2 groups by the flip of a coin. The investigator will
           be blinded to which group the subject is placed in. The pharmacist (Raylene Mote, Inland
           compounding pharmacy) who compounds the medications will be the only one aware of which
           medication was given.

        4. Subjects will pick up their medication at the inland compounding pharmacy and will be
           instructed to use the nasal spray- 2 sprays twice a day for 6 weeks.

        5. After 6 weeks the subjects will return to the office for repeat nasal endoscopy and will
           be asked to fill out a SNOT 20 survey.

        6. Continued therapy of the nasal steroid spray will be at the discretion of the physician.
           If subjects do not appear to be responding the nasal steroid spray the medication will
           be altered as deemed medically necessary.
    
  