
    
      Chronic liver diseases (CLDs), such as chronic viral hepatitis, nonalcoholic fatty liver
      diseases (NAFLD) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), are a leading cause of morbidity
      and mortality globally and usually develops over many years. The prevalence of NAFLD has
      increased in recent years (15% in 2005 to 25% in 2010). As, approximately 20% of NAFLD cases
      develop NASH, the associated increase in NASH during the same period is to be expected (33%
      in 2005 to 59.1% in 2010).

      The risk of liver-related mortality increases exponentially with increase in fibrosis stage.
      As the progression from NAFLD to NASH is associated with progressive liver fibrosis, the
      prognosis for NASH is worse than it is for NAFLD, and results in an increased risk of
      cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and death from liver related causes. As a result,
      staging of liver fibrosis is essential in determining the prognosis and optimal treatment for
      patients with NASH. Furthermore, evaluation of fibrosis in NAFLD patients can help refine
      treatment options designed to prevent the progression to NASH. Currently, liver biopsy is the
      gold standard for staging liver fibrosis. However, liver biopsy is invasive, expensive and
      prone to sampling error. Developing, safe and easily accessible noninvasive modalities to
      accurately evaluate fibrosis stage of NAFLD and NASH is of utmost importance in clinical
      practice. The use of non-invasive biomarkers of liver fibrosis are needed in the general
      population setting.

      LiverFASt is a non-invasive diagnostic and staging tool, which has been developed as an
      alternative to liver biopsy. It is a reliable, and reproducible tool which provides grading
      or staging of the three elementary features of NASH: steatosis, inflammatory activity and
      fibrosis. The main aim of this study is to evaluate the diagnostic value of LiverFASt as a
      non-invasive biopsy-proven assessment of fatty liver disease.

      Early liver disease detection allows patients treatment options for a healthier and
      productive life. Once liver disease progresses to cirrhosis or cancer, treatment options are
      limited and expensive. Reducing the almost $2Billion dollar liver disease economic burden to
      the United States, requires a breakthrough technology, which brings diagnosis to the patient.

      Current liver disease diagnosis devices are dependent on fixed facilities, which utilize
      ultrasound, CT scan, MRI or biopsy sampling with pathology analysis. The dependency on fixed
      facility diagnostic procedures introduces barriers to patients receiving early detection.
      While it is known that early detection, wellness and cost effectiveness mitigate these
      realities, and many trends today in diagnostics are pushing greater early access to the
      patients, providers limit screening and detection to patients for which the procedure meets
      the cost-benefit in the ever-evolving value-based healthcare system. Additionally, requiring
      patients to travel to radiology or laboratory facilities introduces adherence issues.

      Fibronostics breaks through the burden to serve patients. By empowering their providers with
      diagnostic tools within the clinic, the ability to ensure screening and diagnostic adherence
      is eliminated, and the ease for early detection profoundly shifts the $2B economic burden.
      For example, the Veterans Health Affairs estimates that 50,000 veterans a year are
      undiagnosed for Hep C.

      Fibronostics diagnostic tool fits into a backpack, which allows a broader reach to
      underserved patients, and supports the Veterans Health Affairs Mobile Health Provider
      Program, which is designed to equip VA health care providers with technologies to deliver
      health care to Veterans homes. To date there is no liver diagnostic device which can serve
      the broad United States population and shift the growing economic burden.
    
  