
    
      CHF is a common and devastating health problem estimated to affect upwards of 26 million
      individuals worldwide. Following an initial hospitalization for heart failure, approximately
      25% of patients are readmitted within the first 30 days of discharge. Repeat heart failure
      hospitalizations are a major burden on both patients and healthcare systems. To date, there
      is an absence of non-invasive solutions proven to reduce the risk of re-hospitalization for
      CHF.

      The key feature of the physical examination for assessing the volume status of CHF patients
      is the JVP, which manifests as a biphasic pulsation along the neck. The height of the JVP
      relative to the sternal angle is a reflection of right atrial pressure, which increases in
      response to higher pressures transmitted from the left side of the heart. Pathologic
      elevation of left sided heart pressures can result in fluid congestion in the lungs, which
      can cause patients to develop shortness of breath and reduced blood oxygen levels. Although a
      crucial marker of volume status, accurate identification of the JVP can be challenging for
      physicians due to its pulsations often being subtle.

      The JVPHome is a novel medical device designed to facilitate visualization of JVP height
      relative to the sternal angle through the use of machine vision. The current study aims to
      evaluate the JVPHome in a clinic setting when the device is applied to CHF patients by
      clinicians. Following its application, the JVPHome will be allowed to record a video of the
      JVP and images will subsequently be transmitted to a secure cloud and undergo analysis with
      machine vision software. JVP height of study participants will be concurrently assessed
      through the use of ultrasound (gold standard). Clinicians that are blinded to ultrasound
      determined JVP height values will assess JVP height values remotely based on the machine
      enhanced images generated by the JVPHome. Analyses will then assess the accuracy of the
      JVPHome relative to ultrasound and expert clinical assessment.
    
  