
    
      The study was realized at Department of Psychiatry First Faculty of Medicine Charles
      University in Prague and General University Hospital in Prague during 2013 - 2018. The study
      was approved by the Ethics committee General University Hospital in Prague by a decision
      dated 23.1.2014, number 1867/13 S-IV (individual research). The study was registered on
      clinicaltrials.gov.

      Two psychiatrists examined each patient who signed up for the study, in order to set the
      diagnoses. The DSM-5 diagnostic criteria were used for the purpose of the study. The
      exclusion criteria were mainly based upon contraindications for rTMS such as: a history of
      epileptic seizure paroxysms, increased intracranial pressure, brain tumor, implanted metal
      devices in the cranium (except the oral cavity), and any implanted peacemaker or drug pump.
      Also, patients who were not able to complete 10 sessions of rTMS were excluded for
      non-compliance. Inclusion criteria were: having BED and being over the age of 18. The study
      did not account for the hemispherical laterality.

      After signing an informed consent form, subjects were included into the study and randomly
      divided into two groups: one group stimulated by a real rTMS coil (group A - active), and the
      second (control group), stimulated by a sham rTMS coil (group P - placebo).

      Patients were also offered to participate in cognitive behavioral group therapy (CBT)
      simultaneously with the rTMS treatment. However, the attendance in the CBT was voluntary, and
      it was not a condition for inclusion into the study.

      The study was conceived as randomized double blind placebo controlled clinical study. The
      randomization was performed by statistics independent of study. The investigators group
      achieved the study´s double blind characteristics by dividing the roles of the researchers.
      One author provided the examinations of the patients, CBT, data collection and evaluations of
      the questionnaires, while a second author administered the stimulations. The control group
      was "blind" thanks to the use of the sham coil.

      Collection of data and statistical analysis Subjects were asked to fill out the set of
      questionnaires consisting of the EDE-Q (Eating Disorder Examination - Questionnaire), as well
      as the FCQ-S, and the FCQ-T before the first stimulation session. The EDE-Q served to collect
      demographfic data, and to evaluate the severity of the disorder. On the day of the last
      stimulation, and one month after the last stimulation, subjects filled out the FCQ-S and the
      FCQ-T again.

      Statistical package R, version 3.4.2 was used for the statistical processing of the data. The
      two-sample t-test method was used to compare the differences in cravings between subjects
      stimulated by the real and sham coils in all situations: before stimulation, directly after
      the last stimulation, and one month after the last stimulation. The paired t-test method was
      used to evaluate the changes of craving over time, meaning the difference in craving before
      the stimulation and on the last day of stimulation, and difference in craving on the last day
      of stimulation and one month after the last stimulation.

      Parameters of stimulation A MAGSTIM Super Rapid 2 device with eight flat shaped coil was used
      to provide the rTMS. The control group was stimulated by a sham coil with similar side
      effects regarding sound and a pain perception on the scalp. The left DLPFC was chosen as the
      stimulation target. The coil placement for the DLPFC stimulation was 5 cm anterior in the
      same parasagital line from the place of maximum musculus abductor pollicis brevis response.
      The stimulation site was outlined on a cap, which was repositioned during each rTMS session.

      The number of sessions was set on 10. Each stimulation session consisted of 15 trains of 10 s
      and 107 s intertrain, at a frequency of 10 Hz. That meant 1500 pulses applied during one
      session taking cca 20 minutes. The intensity of stimulation was 100% of minimal motor
      threshold (MMT). MMT was identified as the minimum magnetic field strength required to
      produce a motoric response of right thenar muscle, which was determined by visual control and
      controlled by EMG measurement. Stimulations were realized throughout a two week period,
      excepting weekends.
    
  