
    
      Preoperative antiseptic Chlorhexidine based on alcohol has been established as gold standard
      of care for clean contaminated wounds. It was compared to Iodine solutions non-alcohol based.
      There is a question about alcohol based solution was a confounder in the comparison. The aim
      of this study is to compare the efficacy of both solutions alcohol based, 0.7% iodine
      povacrylex plus 74% alcohol, against gluconate chlorhexidine 2% plus 70% alcohol, in clean
      contaminated wounds, in major abdominal elective surgeries, in a wider range than colorectal
      surgeries, Materials and methods. With a pragmatic randomized, phase 4, controlled clinical
      trial. Comparison of two antiseptic solutions, using manufacturer (3M) sterile appliers' for
      both products, Food and Drugs Agency approved.

      Quality of data will be assured by first training all surgeons and residents besides
      researchers in the study protocol for protocol compliance in subject identification,
      randomization moment, and follow up. There is a plan for weekly monitoring of protocol
      compliance, and monthly data monitoring and auditing from Faculty of Medicine Research Unit.

      Monitoring and auditing will comply protocol compliance and data integrity against subject's
      medical records and random interviews of patients in their post-surgical control.

      Surgical Site Infection definitions are those taken from Centers for Disease Control
      definitions.

      Standard Operating Procedures will be established in all moments of the trial, from subject
      identification, informed consent, recruitment, randomization process in the operating room,
      and data collection in pre specified files for data collection and data management. Protocol
      compliance and Standard Operating Procedures compliance will be monitored by Principal
      Investigator constantly. Report of adverse events will be done in accordance to Salvadoran
      National ethics committee Standard Operating Procedures as also any other communication such
      as protocol deviance or amendments. Previous research has not reported adverse events, but we
      will be expectant to their appearance.

      Sample size was calculated for a total of 964 subjects, 482 in each group, using statistics
      software, were we established a statistic significant level for a bilateral hypothesis of 95%
      and a power of 80%, based on previous research of comparison of both solutions to get a
      probability of SSI of 4.2% in Chlorhexidine group against 8.6% in Iodine povacrylex group.

      We will establish a strict follow up of patients in the 30 days considered as post-operative
      time, by enabling the whole public health system to integrate in subjects´, surgical care
      (primary care) to diminish the probability of missing data.

      Data analysis will be done following "intention to treat" analysis principle. Primary outcome
      will be any kind of Surgical Site Infection, categorical variable, will be analyzed with chi
      square for a bilateral hypothesis, and also measure the difference with risk ratio and its
      95% confidence interval.
    
  