
    
      The investigators propose an integrated medication/behavioral intervention program to
      increase energy, activity level and goal attainment in a sample of people with HIV/AIDS whose
      presenting problem is clinically significant fatigue and unmet vocational goals. Based on a
      recently completed randomized controlled trial (RCT) of modafinil and ongoing RCT of
      armodafinil, the investigators found that many patients fail to achieve desired goals even
      though energy is restored by medication. To address this failure of goal attainment, the team
      will develop and pilot a behavioral intervention, originally based on Behavioral Activation
      Treatment for Depression of Lejuez et al. and modified by Dr. Daughters as "Behavioral
      Activation Program for Energy and Productivity, or 'BA-PEP'". The intervention will be
      conducted with patients who experience significant fatigue, and who want to work or get
      work-related training or education once their energy improves with armodafinil treatment. It
      is intended for eventual implementation in HIV clinics and community agencies with work
      development programs.

      The intervention development includes both formative work and pilot studies. The formative
      work comprises in-depth patient interviews, focus groups with providers, a Project Advisory
      Board, and a separate Work Group. Their input will be used to modify their BA-PEP
      intervention to promote achievement of goals selected by each patient, once fatigue has been
      ameliorated with armodafinil, and to further adapt the attention control supportive
      counseling intervention.

      With this input, the investigators will conduct an exploratory study using BA-PEP with 12
      patients responsive to armodafinil. After further modifications, investigators will conduct a
      feasibility trial with 30 armodafinil-responsive patients randomized 2:1 to BA-PEP or an
      attention control, supportive counseling. The main behavioral outcome is employment or taking
      classes (measured by Goal Attainment Scaling methodology). Secondary outcomes are reduced
      avoidance/increased activation (measured by the Behavioral Activation for Depression Scale),
      and increased environmental interactions (measured by the EROS: Environmental Rewards
      Observation Scale). Finally, they will develop training and supervision manuals to guide
      implementation.
    
  