
    
      Swallowing dysfunction (dysphagia) following stroke results from damage to sensory and motor
      nerve pathways, impairing muscular physiology and impacting swallow timeliness and airway
      closure. People with dysphagia experience impaired swallowing safety (entry of food or liquid
      into the airway - aspiration) and/or impaired swallowing efficiency (food or liquid remaining
      in the oropharyngeal cavities after the swallow - residue). People with dysphagia following
      stroke are more likely to experience aspiration pneumonia, which has been associated with
      higher mortality rates.

      The tongue functions to contain food and liquid within the oral cavity before the bolus moves
      into the pharynx. The tongue generates the primary driving forces, which carry the bolus
      through the pharynx; consequently, impairments in tongue function can affect both swallowing
      safety and efficiency. For people who have experienced a stroke, lingual strength is
      decreased compared to healthy participants. Tongue pressure resistance training has been
      utilized as an intervention in this population, and has been shown to positively influence
      tongue strength. It remains unclear whether changes in tongue pressure impact swallowing
      mechanisms, safety, and efficiency for patients who complete these interventions. In
      particular, the impact of tongue pressure resistance training on swallow timeliness (swallow
      onset timing, airway closure reaction time, speed of hyolaryngeal movement) remains unknown.
      This study will be a randomized trial of tongue pressure resistance training in people with
      tongue weakness and impaired swallowing safety post-stroke. The goal is to understand the
      physiological changes that occur as an outcome of tongue pressure resistance training and
      their relationship to swallowing safety and efficiency. Additionally, the impact of a
      training protocol involving a home practice component to delineate the impact of
      patient-driven practice will be explored.

      A sample of approximately 40 patients will be enrolled. Participants will complete an 8-week
      program involving a 4-week course of tongue-pressure resistance training and a 4-week
      no-treatment phase. Participants will be randomized either to an immediate treatment group
      (followed by a 4-week post-treatment detraining phase) or to a delayed treatment group
      involving a 4-week waiting period prior to beginning training. Swallowing outcomes will be
      measured based on videofluoroscopic swallowing studies (VFSS) performed at baseline, 4-weeks
      and 8-weeks post enrollment. The tongue pressure resistance training program will involve
      practice of tongue-palate pressure generation tasks and swallowing tasks, with biofeedback
      provided using the Iowa Oral Performance Instrument (IOPI).
    
  