
    
      The combination of Bevacizumab and Erlotinib show encouraging activity for patients with
      previously treated, non-small-cell lung cancer. In a phase I/II study of erlotinib and
      bevacizumab in patients with nonsquamous stage IIIB/IV NSCLC with one or more prior
      chemotherapy exposures, a recommended phase II dose was established at erlotinib 150 mg/day
      orally plus bevacizumab 15 mg/kg intravenously every 21 days (13) Forty patients were treated
      at the recommended Phase II dose. The median age was 59 years (range, 36 to 72 years), 21
      were female, 30 had adenocarcinoma histology, nine were never-smokers, and 22 had > or = two
      prior regimens (three patients had > or = four prior regimens). The most common adverse
      events were mild to moderate rash, diarrhea, and proteinuria. No pharmacokinetic interactions
      were identified. Eight patients (20.0%; 95% CI, 7.6% to 32.4%) had partial responses and 26
      (65.0%; 95% CI, 50.2% to 79.8%) had stable disease as their best response. The median overall
      survival for the 34 patients treated at the phase II dose was 12.6 months, with
      progression-free survival of 6.2 months. These data compare favorably with conventional
      chemotherapy in the salvage setting for NCSLC where the response rates are < 10% and median
      survivals are 6-8 months (14-16).

      In an attempt to improve the therapeutic index for initial therapy of metastatic NSCLC, the
      combination of bevacizumab and erlotinib is being proposed as first-line treatment in place
      of conventional chemotherapy. The regimen will be beneficial if toxicity is reduced and
      efficacy is unchanged or if efficacy is improved. Since this regimen causes no hair loss,
      minimal nausea and no cytopenia, which nearly eliminated the risks of infections and
      bleeding, the combination of targeted agents appears to be better tolerated than conventional
      chemotherapy. Efficacy may also be improved since its activity in the salvage setting when
      patients are less likely to respond to any treatment rivals that of conventional chemotherapy
      in the untreated setting. In addition, erlotinib alone in the untreated setting can yield
      results that are not dissimilar from chemotherapy under similar conditions. Hence, it is
      hypothesized that the combination of erlotinib plus bevacizumab can produce superior results
      with less toxicity. This trial is intended to provide pilot data for a future randomized
      trial of this combination of targeted agents versus conventional chemotherapy for advanced
      NSCLC.
    
  