
    
      Ectopic Atrial Tachycardia (EAT) is a relatively rare arrhythmia in the pediatric population.
      It is defined by a run of more than 3 premature atrial contractions together. In EAT, the
      arrhythmia tends to increase in rate over a period of time and then slows down gradually to a
      normal rhythm. Ectopic Atrial Tachycardia (EAT) is mostly encountered in patients with
      structurally normal hearts however, occasionally physicians do observe this type of disorder
      in children following surgery for congenital heart defects. Current reports suggest that EAT
      occurs in approximately 1 in 10,000 children (Hamilton, 2002).

      Children with EAT usually present with a multitude of symptoms. The most common symptoms
      associated with pediatric EAT are palpitations, chest pain, lightheadedness, presyncope, and
      dyspnea. Other symptoms can include exercise intolerance and congestive heart failure. These
      are usually late manifestations. In the patients with tachycardia induced CM, the time of
      development of CM is dependent on the rate and duration of the tachycardia however, in most
      cases, dilation is present upon diagnosis. This CM can be reversed with successful treatment
      of the arrhythmia.

      The treatment for chronic EAT includes medications such as adenosine and for difficult to
      control cases, Radiofrequency Ablation (RFA). RF ablation has been successful in curing EAT,
      with success rates ranging from 75-100%. It has been shown that the complication rates are
      similar to other RF ablation procedures, with a higher risk of recurrence (Hamilton, 2002).

      At Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, the cardiac catheterization lab performs approximately
      10 Radiofrequency ablations for EAT each year. The goal of this retrospective review is to
      assess the frequency of recurrence of the EAT among a subset of patients receiving treatment
      between August 1992 - August 2003
    
  