
    
      Decitabine is a cytosine analogue and is a specific DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) inhibitor.
      It directly inhibits DNMT by phosphorylating DNA and inhibits DNMT, thereby reversing DNA
      methylation and inducing tumor cells to Normal cell differentiation or induction of tumor
      cell apoptosis. High concentrations of decitabine inhibit DNA synthesis, exert its cytotoxic
      effects, and induce cell death; low concentrations of decitabine inactivate DNMT and
      demethylate some hypermethylated CpG islands in tumor suppressor genes. To activate the
      silencing tumor suppressor gene and exert its effect of inhibiting tumor growth to achieve
      anti-tumor effects.

      Epigenetics plays an important role in the occurrence and development of tumors and is a hot
      topic in recent years. Methylation of DNA is the main form of epigenetic information. Normal
      methylation plays an important role in maintaining the normal functions of cells and organs
      and in the development, differentiation, growth, and aging of the body. However, the abnormal
      participation of cell epigenetics can directly affect the overexpression of tumor cells,
      which leads to the occurrence and development of tumor cells.

      Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is the most common pathological type in non-Hodgkin's
      lymphoma. The first-line chemotherapy regimen using R-CHOP significantly increases the
      remission rate and disease-free survival of patients with DLBCL, but it is difficult to
      partially relapse. Long-term remission and survival rates in treating patients are not
      satisfactory.Due to the greater cardiac toxicity of adriamycin, more patients can not be
      uncomfortable, so the COP program is also widely used in patients with DLBCL, and achieved a
      good response rate.In 2008, the FDA had approved decitabine for the demethylation treatment
      of MDS. Over the years, good initial remission rates and better long-term survival rates have
      been achieved in patients with MDS.There are also a variety of clinical trials of decitabine
      for patients with solid tumors that have achieved significant clinical efficacy.Due to the
      high side effects of high-dose decitabine, patient tolerance is poor. Therefore, the purpose
      of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of low-dose decitabine combined with
      COP regimen (D-COP) 4-6 course of treatment for relapsed and refractory diffuse large B-cell
      lymphoma.

      In summary, this study will select relapsed refractory high-risk patients, previous studies
      have confirmed that the COP program can make a good effect in most patients, also confirmed
      the demethylation of decitabine in other tumors Therefore, whether the treatment of low-dose
      decitabine combined with COP regimen for DLBCL can improve the prognosis is worth looking
      forward to. At present, there are few researches on the treatment of DLBCL with low-dose
      decitabine at home and abroad. The purpose of this study is to explore whether low-dose
      decitabine combined with COP regimen as a treatment for patients with relapsed and refractory
      DLBCL can improve the relapse-refractory DLBCL. The patient's prognosis, and hope to explore
      through a stratified analysis which group of patients benefit more from it.
    
  