
    
      This translational study is a monocentric Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT). The
      investigators will recruit 40 PD patients from the early Hoehn & Yahr stages. Patients will
      be randomly allocated to an experimental group (writing training) and a control group
      (stretch- and relaxation training). All patients will receive the same frequency and duration
      of intervention. After the training period, patients will be followed up for another 6 weeks.
      Patients will be tested in the ON-phase of the medication cycle at 3 occasions: before (T1)
      and after training (T2) and after a 6-week retention period (T3). At T1 & T2 participants
      will be tested at the behavioral & neural level. At T3 participants will only be tested at
      the behavioral level.

      Motor performance will be measured using MRI-compatible touch sensitive tablets and pencils.
      This system allows registration and translation of writing movements into online-cursor
      movements on screen in and outside a scanner environment. Both patient groups will be
      compared during a behavioral test battery consisting of (i) a trained sequence with and
      without visual cues; (ii) an untrained sequence with and without visual cues to test
      transfer; and (iii) a trained dual task to test automatization. Visual cues will consist of
      differently colored target zones of different band widths, indicating the scale and accuracy
      of writing.

      Functional MRI measurements will take place in a 3T MR Philips Intera scanner. Before
      scanning, subjects will undergo a training session in a dummy scanner to familiarize them
      with the scanner environment and task instructions. During the fMRI sessions, participants
      will perform a trained and untrained sequence, both with and without visual cues. To control
      for differences in movement speed, all participants will perform the tasks at the same
      frequency, defined by an auditory pace. In addition to the fMRI measurements, resting state
      fMRI and DTI will also be performed to reveal alterations of the structural and functional
      connectivity between critical regions.

      Behavioral data will be recorded as xy-coordinates and pressure values at a sampling rate of
      200Hz and with a spatial resolution of 32.5µm. Statistical analysis of the behavioral data
      will have a between-subject factor of group (experimental and placebo group) and a
      within-subject factor of time (before training, after training and after the retention
      period).

      Image analysis will be performed with Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) software. The
      investigators will contrast for either decreased or increased activation, as different
      regions may show divergent changes related to learning and transfer, with group as a
      between-subject factor and time (before and after training) and task condition (trained with
      cues, trained without cues, untrained with cues and untrained without cues) as within-subject
      factors.
    
  