
    
      Currently, only 32% of adults in the United States participate in regular physical activity.
      Several healthcare organizations, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
      the National Institutes of Health, and the American Heart Association recommend that adults
      engage in a minimum of 2 ½ hours of physical activity each week. In a previous study,
      individuals who received motivational print materials in the mail increased their weekly
      physical activity more than individuals who received no motivational materials or who
      received motivational support over the telephone. However, about half of those who were
      mailed the print materials still did not reach the recommended goal of 2 ½ hours of physical
      activity per week. The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of an enhanced
      version of an individualized, print-based motivational program versus a previously tested
      print-based motivational program at increasing physical activity levels in sedentary
      individuals.

      This study will enroll healthy, sedentary individuals. Participants will be randomly assigned
      to either a print-based, individually tailored motivational program or an enhanced version of
      the same program. All participants will attend a baseline study visit, which will include
      body measurements, physical activity assessments, and health and psychological
      questionnaires. A select group of participants will also take part in an exercise test.
      Participants will then document their monthly physical activity. Study researchers will use
      this information, as well as the completed questionnaires, to develop individualized reports,
      manuals, and tip sheets that include feedback and strategies for increasing physical activity
      for each participant. Materials will be mailed to participants 14 times throughout the year.
      Participants in the enhanced intervention will receive additional materials that focus on
      increasing social support, self regulation, and outcome expectations, as well as materials on
      how to effectively monitor physical activity levels. They will also attend one study visit to
      assess their goals with the research staff. At Months 6 and 12, baseline evaluations will be
      repeated and all participants will be interviewed to assess physical activity levels.
    
  