
    
      Suction evacuation is a minor gynecological procedure commonly performed at an outpatient
      setting for termination of pregnancy. Although it is a simple surgical procedure lasting 5-10
      min and can be done under various methods of pain control, 78-97% of women still report at
      least moderate procedural pain, especially during injection of paracervical block, cervical
      dilation, suction aspiration and postoperatively with uterine cramping. In addition, those
      pharmacological analgesic methods are often associated with numerous adverse effects and
      cannot be applicable to all women.

      The transcutaneous nerve stimulation (TENS) method is commonly used to treat labour pain. It
      is an inexpensive, quick, easy to use and noninvasive pain relief method. A recent study by
      Lison et al. on TENS for office hysteroscopy demonstrated a significant decrease in pain
      scores when compared to control and placebo groups.

      The rationale of TENS lies in achieving pain reduction when electric stimulation alters the
      nociceptive transmission in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord; this means the electrode has
      to be adequately applied in the right receptive field of the body to achieve pain control.
      For the setting of TENS there is evidence supporting superior pain relief by random high
      frequencies TENS over fixed frequency. Increasing the pulse duration to above 250
      microseconds also produces better analgesics effect.

      In suction evacuation, the nerve roots of T10-L1 and S2-S4 becomes relevant as they
      correspond to the nerve supply to the whole uterus and cervix. Lison et al placed electrodes
      at these levels parallel to the spinal cord in their study and have instructed their subjects
      to increase the TENS intensity to the maximum nonpainful level, allowing further increase
      when their stimulus perception decrease as a result of nerve accommodation.

      Its use in suction evacuation however, remains undetermined as there is no published study in
      this area.
    
  