
    
      Immune mechanisms are responsible for hematopoietic failure in most cases of acquired
      aplastic anemia (AA), a disease characterized by hypocellular bone marrow and pancytopenia.
      In aplastic anemia, much experimental data points toward an immune-mediated pathophysiology
      of destruction of hematopoietic progenitor and stem cells. Clinically, immunosuppressive
      therapies, usually anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) and cyclosporine (CsA), have been shown to
      be effective in a large proportion of patients with severe AA. However, at 2 years after
      initial treatment as many as 35% of patients with initially good response and normal blood
      counts relapse and require repeated cycles of intense immunosuppression and/or chronic
      immunosuppressive regimens. Although relapse in previously immunosuppression-responsive
      patients has a generally good prognosis, there is an increased risk of complications and
      treatment-related toxicities. The outlook of patients who fail to respond to repeated
      intensive immunosuppression is poor. While it is likely that some of the treatment failures
      occurring with conventional immunosuppressive regimens (both at presentation and in relapsed
      patients) may be due to inability to suppress the autoimmune process leading to the bone
      marrow failure, more intense therapies such as cyclophosphamide have a high complication rate
      due to prolonged and dose-related myelosuppression. In this protocol, we propose that
      patients with severe AA who show a good response to the initial round of immunosuppression
      undergo stem cell mobilization, collection, and cryopreservation.

      This pilot study of 20 patients is designed to evaluate: 1) the CD34+ cell mobilization
      response to administration of standard doses of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF)
      and 2) the potential for collecting stem cells from patients with a history of severe AA who
      have been given G-CSF. Outcome parameters to be monitored are the mobilization response to
      G-CSF, and the safety profile and tolerance of G-CSF and leukapheresis. Effectiveness will be
      gauged by historical comparison of these parameters to normal healthy age-matched volunteers.

      It is important to point out that there is no therapeutic intent to the majority of this
      protocol or direct benefit for enrolled patients. We do plan, however, to cryopreserve the
      remainder of the mobilized cells collected by apheresis for possible autologous
      transplantation in the event of the patient's progression to leukemia or bone marrow failure
      in the future.
    
  