
    
      Adequate bowel preparation is essential for optimal examination of the colorectal mucosa
      during colonoscopy. However, approximately 10%-30% bowel preparation is inadequate, leading
      to significantly decrease diagnostic accuracy and surveillance intervals, increase the
      procedural difficulties, and even increase the procedure-related complications. As reported,
      enhanced instructions such as re-education by telephone or short message which increase the
      patient adherence eventually improve the quality of bowel preparation significantly. However,
      the effect of family assistance which plays an essential role on compliance of patient with
      treatment on bowel preparation is unknown. The investigators hypothesized that reinforced
      education giving family members of outpatients will enhance family support to patients for
      colonoscopy, and consequently improve the quality of bowel preparation.

      Therefore, the investigators designed protocols to reinforce family member education by
      verbal (face to face or telephone) and written methods. The aim of this study is to evaluate
      the effect of reinforced family member education on patient compliance and the quality of
      bowel preparation for colonoscopy. In addition，the rate of side effects happening, the
      subjective feelings of bowel preparation, the outcomes of colonoscopy ,and the independent
      risk factors will be also assessed.

      This is a prospective, endoscopist-blinded, randomized, controlled study.

        1. Patients, Arm Description, Education and Blinding. Consecutive individuals over 18
           years, who will be scheduled for undergoing colonoscopy between September and December
           2017 at the Endoscopy Center of Wuxi people's Hospital in China and are not accord with
           the exclusion criteria will be enrolled in the study. After signature of informed
           consent, Patients will be consecutively randomized to either the reinforced family
           member education (RFME) or regular education (control) group at the time of colonoscopy
           appointments by opening a sealed opaque envelope. Regular instructions will be given to
           all patients during the colonoscopy appointment by one experienced endoscopy nurse. For
           RFME group, at least one family member who lives with the patient together will be given
           instruction at the basis of patent education. The information of group assignments will
           be keep from colonoscopists and other investigators at any time.

        2. Bowel preparation. Two kinds of purgatives, magnesium sulphate and polyethylene glycol
           electrolyte powder (PEG-ELP), are available in our endoscopy center, and the type will
           be prescribed by physician based on the conditions of the patient.

        3. Data collection and Definitions. On the day of colonoscopy, the patients will be asked
           to arrive at the Endoscopy Center 1 h before the procedure. The baseline data, clinical
           data and related data of the enrolled patients will be collected 1 h before the
           colonosc0py.

        4. Colonoscopy. All colonoscopy will be carried out between 13:30 and 16:30 by 5 five
           experienced endoscopists. The Boston Bowel Preparation Scale (BBPS) scoring system will
           be employed for the assessment of the quality of bowel preparation. The endoscopists
           will be asked to give the BBPS score immediately after the colonoscopy, and the findings
           of the colonoscopy, the cecal intubation, the insertion time, the withdrawal time and
           the incomplete examination cases not for poor bowel preparation will be recorded
           simultaneously.

        5. Statistical analysis. A total of 276 patients in each group will be required to obtain
           statistical significance for the primary outcome. Baseline characteristics, primary and
           secondary outcomes will be evaluated by intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis. To assess
           independent risk factors associated with inadequate bowel preparation, multivariate
           analysis will be conducted using the score of bowel preparation quality (BBPS <5) with a
           P value of ≤ 0.10 in the univariate analysis. All analyses will be carried out with SPSS
           software V.20.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). A P value of <0.05 was considered
           statistically significant.
    
  