
    
      This is a Phase I/II non-randomized clinical trial of ex vivo hematopoietic stem cell (HSC)
      gene transfer treatment for X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency (XSCID, also known as
      SCID-X1) using a self-inactivating lentiviral vector incorporating additional features to
      improve safety and performance. The study will treat 13 patients with XSCID who are between 2
      and 40 years of age and who have clinically significant impairment of immunity. Patients will
      receive a total busulfan dose of ~6 mg/kg/body weight (target busulfan Area Under Curve is
      4500 min*umol/L/day) delivered as 3mg/kg body weight on day 1 and dose adjusted on day 2 (if
      busulfan AUC result is available) to achieve the target dose, to condition their bone marrow,
      and this will be followed by a single infusion of autologous transduced CD34+HSC. Patients
      will then be followed to evaluate engraftment, expansion, and function of gene corrected
      lymphocytes that arise from the transplant; to evaluate improvement in laboratory measures of
      immune function; to evaluate any clinical benefit that accrues from the treatment; and to
      evaluate the safety of this treatment. The primary endpoint of the study with respect to
      these outcomes will be at 2 years, though data relevant to these measures will be collected
      at intervals throughout the study and during the longer follow-up period of at least 15 years
      recommended by the FDA Guidance "Gene Therapy Clinical Trials - Observing Subjects for
      Delayed Adverse Events" http://www.fda.gov/downloads

        -  BiologicsBloodVaccines/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation / Guidances/Cellular and
           Gene Therapy

        -  ucm078719.pdf for patients participating in gene transfer clinical trials.

      XSCID results from defects in the IL2RGgene encoding the common gamma chain (yc) shared by
      receptors for Interleukin 2 (IL-2), IL-4, IL-7, IL-9, IL-15 and IL-21. At birth XSCID
      patients generally lack or have a severe deficiency of T-lymphocytes and NK cells, while
      their B- lymphocytes are normal in number but are severely deficient in function, failing to
      make essential antibodies. The severe deficiency form of XSCID is fatal in infancy without
      intervention to restore some level of immune function. The best current therapy is a
      T-lymphocyte-depleted bone marrow transplant from an HLA tissue typing matched sibling, and
      with this type of donor it is not required to administer chemotherapy or radiation
      conditioning of the patient's marrow to achieve excellent engraftment and immune correction
      of an XSCID patient. However, the great majority of patients with XSCID lack a matched
      sibling donor, and in these patients the standard of care is to perform a transplant of T-
      lymphocyte depleted bone marrow from a parent. This type of transplant is called
      haploidentical because in general a parent will be only half- matched by HLA tissue typing to
      the affected child. Whether or not any conditioning is used, haploidentical transplant for
      XSCID has a significantly poorer prognosis than a matched sibling donor transplant. Following
      haploidentical transplant, XSCID patients are observed to achieve a wide range of partial
      immune reconstitution and that reconstitution can wane over time in some patients. That
      subset of XSCID patients who either fail to engraft, fail to achieve adequate immune
      reconstitution, or lose immune function over time suffer from recurrent viral, bacterial and
      fungal infections, problems with allo- or autoimmunity, impaired pulmonary function and/or
      significant growth failure.

      We propose to offer gene transfer treatment to XSCID patients3 2 years of age who have
      clinically significant defects of immunity despite prior haploidentical hematopoietic stem
      cell transplant, and who lack an HLA-matched sibling donor. Our current gene transfer
      treatment protocol can be regarded as a salvage/rescue protocol.

      Recent successful retroviral gene transfer treatment instead of bone marrow transplant (BMT)
      in Paris and London for 20 infants with XSCID has provided proof of principle for efficacy.
      However, a major safety concern is the occurrence of 5 cases of leukemia at 3-5 years after
      treatment triggered in part by vector insertional mutagenesis activation of LMO2 and other
      DNA regulatory genes by the strong enhancer present in the long-terminal repeat (LTR) of the
      Moloney Leukemia Virus (MLV)- based vector.

      Furthermore, previous studies of gene transfer treatment of older XSCID patients with MLV-
      based vectors demonstrated the additional problem of failure of adequate expansion of gene
      corrected T- lymphocytes to the very high levels seen in infants. To reduce or eliminate this
      leukemia risk, and possibly enhance 13 performance sufficiently to achieve benefit in older
      XSCID patients, we have generated a lentivector with improved safety and performance
      features. We have generated a self-inactivating (SIN) lentiviral vector that is devoid of all
      viral transcription elements; that contains a short form of the human elongation factor 1a
      (EF1a) internal promoter to express a codon optimized yc cDNA; and that has flanking copies
      of the 400 base pair insulator fragment from the chicken HS4 (Omega)-globin locus to provide
      further protection from untoward effects on flanking cellular genes. Preclinical data from
      our own laboratories as well as from others support the hypothesis that our SIN lentiviral
      vector will be significantly less prone to activating cellular oncogenes in general, and LMO2
      (the gene responsible for most cases of gene transfer-related leukemias) in particular.
      Furthermore, our vector, designated as CL20-4i-EF1a-hyc-OPT, has established activity for
      reconstituting yc expression and signaling in human lymphocyte cell lines and has achieved a
      high level of in vivo efficacy in treatment of XSCID mice and dogs. We also established a
      novel stable producer cell line to allow efficient and safe high titer production of clinical
      lentiviral vector, greatly facilitating conduct of this clinical trial.

      Based on our previous experience in treating older patients with XSCID who are either
      partially haploidentical donor engrafted or who failed to engraft despite multiple attempts
      at haploidentical donor transplant, there appears to be a significant barrier to engraftment
      of autologous gene corrected CD34 stem cells and an associated failure of production of
      adequate numbers of gene corrected autologous lymphocytes. The targeted patients for this
      study may have some degree of lymphoid immunity either from donor lymphocytes or their own
      partially functional or autologous lymphocyes that may have played a role in the poor
      engraftment and function of their previous haploidential HSC transplant. Furthermore, some
      patients may also have some graft versus host disease as a result of previous HSC transplant.
      In addressing these barriers to engraftment in these XSCID patients, we will pre-treat with
      moderate dose (~6 mg/kg) busulfan to create space or niches in bone marrow for incoming
      autologous gene corrected HSCs.

      We plan to treat up to 23 XSCID patients, where all patients will receive the identical
      conditioning, gene transfer treatment, and follow-up evaluation. Mobilized peripheral blood
      stem cells harvested by apheresis will be the first choice source of HSC for this study, but
      patients who for any reason cannot provide sufficient HSC by this method (e.g. poor
      mobilization, inefficient apheresis separation of HSC, or inadequate central access as needed
      for apheresis), will have HSC collected by bone marrow harvest. At the NIH, patients will
      have autologous CD34+ HSC collected under a separate currently IRB approved stem cell
      collection protocol (NIH protocol 94-I- 0073; H. Malech, PI or a successor IRB-approved
      mobilization/HSC apheresis collection protocol). A patient enrolled in this protocol will not
      proceed to transduction of the autologous HSC or to busulfan conditioning (i.e. will not be
      treated with gene transfer corrected cells) until there are at least 3 x 106per kilogram body
      weight autologous CD34+HSC (from mobilized peripheral blood stem cell apheresis collection as
      method of choice, and/or by bone marrow harvest) available for gene transfer transduction.

      Patients will undergo a pre-treatment evaluation of both laboratory and clinical measures of
      immune function. Autologous CD34+HSC will be transduced ex vivo with the VSV-G pseudotyped
      CL20-4i- EF1a-hyc-OPT lentivector. All patients will receive a single intravenous infusion of
      the washed transduced cells administered intravenously on protocol Day 0. on Days -3 and -2
      patients will receive an infusion of busulfan ~3 mg/kilogram body weight/day (for a total
      dose of ~6 mg/kilogram body weight) as conditioning to enhance engraftment of gene corrected
      autologous CD34+HSC. On Days - 6, -5, -4 and 1, 2 and 3, patients will receive an infusion of
      Keratinocyte Growth Factor (palifermin) at 60 mg/kg/day. Palifermin at this dose and schedule
      is FDA approved to reduce or prevent mucositis following conditioning regimens, including
      those that use busulfan. Following the conditioning and gene transfer treatment, subjects
      will be supported through any period of cytopenia and monitored for safety and efficacy of
      the gene transfer treatment. Early evidence for efficacy will be defined by appearance and
      expansion in the circulation of autologous transduced T-lymphocytes with functional yc and
      improved laboratory measures of immune function in the interim evaluation of these parameters
      at 1 year after treatment. Endpoint evidence for efficacy at 2 years after treatment will
      include these same laboratory parameters measured at the 2 year time point plus evidence for
      clinical benefit. Evidence for safety will focus on the maintenance of polyclonality of
      vector marking, the lack of emergence of a dominant gene marked clone in any hematopoietic
      lineage, and no occurrence of either hematologic dysplasia or any leukemia or other cancer
      resulting from the gene transfer. The primary study endpoints for all laboratory and clinical
      measures of efficacy and safety will occur at 2 years after gene transfer treatment. However,
      data collection regarding efficacy will occur at frequent intervals during the 2 years
      leading up to the endpoint analysis, and long- term safety and efficacy evaluation will
      continue at intervals during the long-term follow-up recommended by FDA Guidance for gene
      transfer treatment studies.
    
  