
    
      Digital mental health (DMH) is the use of technology to improve population well-being through
      rapid disease detection, outcome measurement, and care. Although several randomized clinical
      trials have demonstrated that digital mental health tools are highly effective, most
      consumers do not sustain their use of these tools. The field currently lacks an understanding
      of DMH tool engagement, how engagement is associated with well-being, and what practices are
      effective at sustaining engagement. In this partnership between Mental Health America (MHA),
      Talkspace (TS) and the University of Washington (UW), the investigators propose a
      naturalistic and experimental, theory-driven program of research, with the aim of
      understanding 1) how consumer engagement in self-help and clinician assisted DMH varies and
      what engagement patterns exist, 2) the association between patterns of engagement and
      important consumer outcomes, and 3) the effectiveness of personalized strategies for optimal
      engagement with DMH treatment.

      This study will prospectively follow a large, naturalistic sample of MHA and TS consumers,
      and will apply machine learning, user-centered design strategies, and micro randomized and
      sequential multiple assignment randomized (SMART) trials to address these aims. As is usual
      practice for both platforms, consumers will complete online mental health screening and
      assessment, and the investigators will be able to classify participants by disease status and
      symptom severity. The sample that the investigators will be working with will not be limited
      by diagnosis or co-morbidities. Participants will be 10 years old and older and enter the MHA
      and TS platforms prospectively over 4 years. In order to test the first aim, the
      investigators will identify a minimum of 100,000 consumers who have accessed MHA and TS
      platforms in the past. Participant data will be analyzed statistically to reveal differences
      in engagement and dropout across groups based on demographics, symptoms and platform
      activity. For aim 2, the investigators will use supervised machine learning techniques to
      identify subtypes based on consumer demographics, engagement patterns with DMH, reasons for
      disengagement, success of existing MHA and TS engagement strategies, and satisfaction with
      the DMH tools, that are predictive of future engagement patterns. Finally, based on the
      outcomes from aim 2, in aim 3 the investigators will conduct focus groups applying user
      centered design strategies to identify and co-build potentially effective engagement
      strategies for particular client subtypes. The investigators will then conduct a series of
      micro-randomized and SMART trials to determine which theory-driven engagement strategies,
      co-designed with users, have the greatest fit with subtypes developed under aim 2. The
      investigators will test the effectiveness of these strategies to 1) prevent disengagement
      from those who are more likely to have poor outcomes after disengagement, 2) improve movement
      from motivation to volition and, 3) enhance optimal dose of DMH engagement and consequently
      improve mental health outcomes. These data will be analyzed using longitudinal mixed effects
      models with effect coding to estimate the effectiveness of each strategy on client engagement
      behavior and mental health outcomes.
    
  