
    
      As per the National Nutrition Survey, 2011 anaemia (iron deficiency) affected the children
      severely as one in three children under the age of 5 anemic, whereas prevalence of vitamin A
      deficiency among children under 5 years is more than 50%, similarly Zinc deficiency children
      and vitamin D deficiency prevalence in children is more than 40%.

      The numerous indicators of nutrition deficiencies are related to inadequately nutritious and
      safe food, illiteracy, malpractices along with lack of nutritional knowledge and other social
      and behavioral issues. A healthy and supportive nutritional status, direct toward better
      intellect and earning of individual, which boost the social impact and macro level change.

      Childhood stunting and deficiencies in iron and iodine hamper cognitive development, school
      achievement and adult productivity by 2.5-19.8 percent subsequently adult anemia reduces work
      performance in manual labor in the agriculture area and overall resultant US$ 7.6 billion
      annually loss for Pakistan, which corresponds to nearly 3 percent of GDP all due to poor
      nutritional indicators, which are preventable. Therefore, in developing countries like
      Pakistan, robust need is required, to do evidence base and translational research which could
      be easily converted into action that improves nutritional status.

      Food fortification with micro-nutrients is effective, cost-efficient and medium-term approach
      to improve micro-nutrient status of vulnerable groups and is sustainable once established to
      prevent these at cheaper cost. There is need to investigate the positive effects of multiple
      micronutrient administration on child development along with there is dire need for more
      research to investigate it comprehensively at community level.

      Fortified food products such as (milk, wheat, rice, oil, and other) are already in existing
      strategies worldwide to prevent micro-nutrient deficiencies in society which is well
      established and currently there are several extensive activities are implemented to prevent
      these hidden hunger but required results are not achieved.

      On the other hand, other smart solutions are emerging to prevent these deficiencies at wider
      level in best possible means, among them fortified candy with multiple micronutrients is one
      vehicle. Confectionery products have the potential to carry the micronutrient for better
      delivery and doesn't significantly affect the flavour, taste and texture of the product.

      The objective of the study is to determine the nutritional status, factor causing
      micronutrient deficiencies in pre-school children in semi-urban area of Karachi and how
      fortified product and enhance nutritional knowledge can bring change in nutritional
      indicators and understanding of nutrition in community.
    
  