
    
      Purpose:

      The aim of the study is to compare the efficacy of two principally different surgical methods
      for treating LDS and to investigate whether predictors will be associated with an
      intervention-related difference in outcome between the two groups.

      Methods:

      The Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) will be used as primary outcome measure. Depending on
      whether the participants obtain a 30% or more ODI- improvement from before operation to 24
      months after the operation, they will be dichotomized in a success group (responders) and in
      a non-success group (non- responders). The primary question is whether the proportion of
      patients with successful outcome in the DA group is not markedly less than in the DF group,
      24 months after operation. Investigators have predefined the margin of "markedly less" to be
      δ = 0.15 (15%) which is consistent with the between- group difference Blumenthal et al used
      in the power analysis in a similar Food and Drug Administration- regulated non- inferiority
      RCT. With this margin it will be necessary to treat 6.7 patients with fusion in addition to
      decompression in order to obtain one patient with successful outcome.

      The null hypothesis is that the proportion of patients with a successful outcome in the DF
      group (nDF) is higher than the proportion in the DA group (nDA) by an amount of at least 0.15
      (δ):

      H0: nDF >= nDA + δ

      H0 will be tested by forming a 95% CI for the difference of proportions and H0 will be
      rejected if the upper limit of the confidence interval (CI) is less than 0.15.

      By rejecting H0, the alternative hypothesis will be accepted:

      H1: nDF < nDA + δ

      By accepting H1, the conclusion will be that DA is non-inferior DF and hence as good as DF.

      In addition to the main analysis it will be investigated whether the following predictors are
      associated with a difference in outcome measures 24 months after the operation:

        1. Treatment group

        2. Patient age

        3. Gender

        4. Comorbidity (ASA group)

        5. Body Mass Index

        6. Smoking

        7. Preoperative ODI score

        8. Preoperative NRS back pain

        9. Preoperative NRS leg pain

       10. Hopkins symptom check list (HSCL-25)

       11. The magnitude of olistheses and local kyphosis measured on standing x-rays

       12. Segmental instability verified on flexion/extension x-rays

       13. Presence of foraminal stenosis in the level of olisthesis

       14. Orientation of the facet joint in the level of olisthesis

       15. Amount of facet joint fluid in the level of olisthesis

       16. Degree of disc degeneration in the level of olisthesis

       17. Disc height in the level of olisthesis

       18. Pelvic incidence

      This will be published in a separate article.

      Sample size:

      The sample size calculation is based on the hypothesis that the 2-year results for the DA
      group is as least as good as for the DF group when comparing the proportions of responders in
      each group. The sample size is computing by using the Blackwelder methodology. Based on data
      from the Norwegian Spine Register, the proportion of responders for the whole treatment group
      is expected to be 0.70. Choosing a type 1 error = 0.05, power = 0.80 and δ = 0.15 gives a
      sample size of 116. Considering these assumptions and adding 10% for possible dropouts, a
      total of 128 patients are required in each group.

      Protocol deviations

      The patients have major deviations from protocol if they:

      Have not received operative treatment in accordance with randomized allocation; Have received
      operative treatment in accordance with randomized allocation and operated with a new
      operation at same level during the follow-up period; Have not provided informed consent; Have
      withdrew the informed consent and claimed their data withdrawn from analyses.

      According to deviations to protocol the following analysis sets are defined:

      Full Analysis Set (FAS): all randomised patients with primary operation according to the
      randomly assigned study treatment and with data on the primary outcome variable (ODI) at one
      or more time point.

      Per Protocol Set (PPS): All randomized patients without major deviations from protocol and
      with data on the primary outcome variable at baseline and two-year follow-up.

      Statistical analysis:

      To determine whether randomization is successful descriptive statistics will be used for
      comparing baseline characteristics between the groups.

      Differences in responder rates for ODI, ZCQ and NRS for leg/back pain(proportions of patients
      dicothomized into 'success'), including the Newcombe hybrid score confidence interval, will
      be estimated and tested according to non-inferiority. If there are patients with missing data
      at two-year follow-up, Multiple imputation (MI) will be performed including plausible
      baseline data and follow-up data as explanatory variables in the imputation model.

      Statistical analyses will be performed both on a Full Analysis Set (FAS-MI) and a Per
      Protocol Set (PPS) at two-year follow-up. In the FAS-MI set missing scores necessary for
      dichotomizing patients into responders/non-responders will be imputed by use of Multiple
      imputation (MI). To recommend DA both the FAS-MI and the PPS analysis of the primary outcome
      are required to show non-inferiority. In addition we will perform two sensitivity analyses.
      One with responder analysis of FAS without imputation (a complete cases analysis) and one
      with responder analysis of FAS, where missing values will be replaced with values at one year
      follow-up, if available.

      Categorical secondary outcomes will be analyzed with Fisher mid-P tests and Newcombe hybrid
      score intervals. The GPE responses will be analyzed with a proportional odds logistic
      regression model.

      It will be used a linear mixed model analysis to evaluate the continous secondary outcomes,
      and to evaluate the effect of each efficacy variable over time and between groups (all
      follow-up measurements from inclusion to two years follow-up will be included). In the mixed
      model patients are not excluded from the analysis of an efficacy variable if the variable is
      missing at some, but not all time points after baseline.

      A significance level of 5% will be used throughout.

      Data will be inaccessible to the research group until all available two-year follow-up
      participants has completed the 2-year questionnaire, and the study is declared adequate
      monitored according to principles of Good Clinical Practice (GCP).The Faculty of Research
      support, University of Oslo will declare this inaccessibleness and state which date the data
      has been accessible for the investigators.

      Interim analysis and stopping rules:

      When 75 patients in each group have completed the 12 months follow- up, the investigators
      will do an interim analysis. Due to ethical considerations the inclusion of patients will be
      terminated if the analysis reveals one of the following:

        1. The proportion of patients with successful outcome in the DF group is higher than in the
           DA group by an amount of 0.20.

        2. The proportion of patients needing reoperation due to any condition in the operated
           level(s) is statistically significant higher in one of the groups.

      The interim analysis was conducted on February 28, 2017 by an independent statistician
      blinded for treatment adherence. Only data on reoperations and on the primary outcome measure
      (ODI) was available to the statistician. None of the stop criteria were fulfilled. The
      statistician informed the steering committee, via the central coordinator, that the study
      could be continued. Further information about the analysis was not disclosed and will not be
      available to anyone until the main analysis of 2-year follow-up data.

      The reporting of the trial will be based on an adapted Consolidated Standards of Reporting
      Trials (CONSORT) checklist for reporting non- inferiority trials.
    
  