
    
      Urinary symptoms such as frequency, urgency, nocturia, and incontinence occur in many women.
      Overactive bladder (OAB) accounts for forty to seventy percent of urinary incontinence. These
      symptoms can be mildly annoying to life altering. Many women wear pads or adult diapers daily
      and avoid social situations for fear of embarrassment. It is felt that up to sixteen percent
      of the adult population may suffer from these symptoms and many of these women seek medical
      help.

      Currently, the standard of care for OAB includes some combination of lifestyle modification
      counseling, bladder retraining, or anticholinergic medications. It is anticipated that
      stimulants such as caffeine irritate the bladder and exacerbate OAB symptoms. There have been
      a few studies looking at the effect of caffeine but interventions have varied, and the
      results have been mixed.

      Perhaps the most common treatment for significant OAB symptoms is the prescription of
      anticholinergic medications. We know that these are efficacious in many women but they can be
      expensive and have significant side effects4. In fact, many women discontinue their
      anticholinergics due to dry mouth, dry eyes, gastrointestinal, and genitourinary effects.

      To date there have been no studies comparing caffeine reduction to anticholinergic
      medications.

      Research Questions

        1. Does caffeine reduction decrease OAB symptoms?

        2. Does the amount of caffeine consumed relate to symptom severity?

        3. If symptoms do improve with caffeine reduction, are women compliant with this treatment?

        4. How does caffeine reduction compare to anticholinergic medication in treating OAB?

      Study Goal:Compare caffeine reduction to anticholinergic medication as a treatment for
      overactive bladder.

      Study Design:Randomized prospective study. Eligible participants will be randomized to either
      the anticholinergic arm or the caffeine reduction arm.
    
  