
    
      This will be an observational prospective cohort study conducted at Obstetrics and Gynecology
      Department of Cengiz Gokcek Obstetrics and Children's Hospital between January 2020 and
      September 2021. The authors will be recruited 70 subjects with idiopathic POI, and 70 healthy
      patients were selected for the control group. All patients will be given their oral and
      written informed consent before their inclusion in the study. The protocol was approved by
      the Ethics Committee for Clinical Research of Gaziantep University (Reference number:
      2021/343). The study strictly will be adhered to the principles of the Declaration of
      Helsinki.

      Women between the ages of 18-39 will be included. A volunteer group of healthy women who will
      be visited the gynecology clinic for routine examinations and women who will be admitted for
      pre-pregnancy tests will be invited randomly to this research as a control group. Healthy
      women, who will be returned during their early follicular phase of the menstrual cycle, will
      be recruited as the control group subjects. The exclusion criteria will be as follows: women
      with evidence for karyotypic, metabolic, toxic, or iatrogenic cause of the ovarian
      insufficiency and any women who use any medication for POI treatment. At enrollment, for both
      groups, the authors will be collected data about age, height, weight, BMI, age of menarche,
      obstetrics history, history of smoking, regular exercise and family history of POI. At
      enrolment, all patients will be underwent vaginal ultrasonography for the assessment of
      antral follicle count (AFC) and venous blood sample from the antecubital veins for measuring
      plasma concentration of zinc (Zn), copper (Cu), calcium (Ca), iron (Fe), manganese (Mn),
      selenium (Se), strontium (Sr), aluminum (Al), antimonium (Sb), phosphorus (P), magnesium
      (Mg), sodium (Na), potassium (K), barium (Ba) and thallium (Tl), Follicle-stimulating hormone
      (FSH), E2, anti-mullerian hormone (AMH) and complete blood count (CBC). In control subjects,
      venous blood samples and AFC will be collected during the early follicular phase of the
      menstrual cycle. Urine and hair samples will be collected at the same time. The plasma and
      urine samples will be stored in aliquots at -80°C prior to the analyses of zinc (Zn), copper
      (Cu), calcium (Ca), iron (Fe), manganese (Mn), selenium (Se), strontium (Sr), aluminum (Al),
      antimonium (Sb), phosphorus (P), magnesium (Mg), sodium (Na), potassium (K), barium (Ba) and
      thallium (Tl). Hair samples will be stored in envelopes at room temperature. The
      plasma/urine/hair zinc (Zn), copper (Cu), calcium (Ca), iron (Fe), manganese (Mn), selenium
      (Se), strontium (Sr), aluminum (Al), antimonium (Sb), phosphorus (P), magnesium (Mg), sodium
      (Na), potassium (K), barium (Ba) and thallium (Tl) level will be measured using inductively
      coupled plasma-mass spectrometry. Then, this study will be determined plasma/urine/hair zinc
      (Zn), copper (Cu), calcium (Ca), iron (Fe), manganese (Mn), selenium (Se), strontium (Sr),
      aluminum (Al), antimonium (Sb), phosphorus (P), magnesium (Mg), sodium (Na), potassium (K),
      barium (Ba) and thallium (Tl) levels in women with POI (n=70) compared to those of volunteer
      healthy women (n=70). Then, these macroelements levels will be compared in both groups.
    
  