
    
      In the investigators cohort of 1000 renal transplant recipients (RTRs) in the University
      Hospital of Zurich, the investigators are currently aware of 10 patients with chronic
      norovirus infection, which was proven by positive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis of
      recent stool samples, whereas chronic virus shedding is defined as more than two PCR positive
      samples in an interval of at least one month. Concomitant viral (other than norovirus),
      bacterial or parasitic (particularly Gardia lamblia) intestinal infections are excluded by
      negative stool cultures and PCR analyses, respectively. Main exclusion criterion for the
      present case series is a concomitant intestinal infection (other than norovirus) and primary
      lactose intolerance, which is previously excluded by absence of the CC genotype of the DNA
      variant -13910 T/C upstream in the LCT gene. After obtaining written and oral informed
      consent, the investigators perform a lactose hydrogen breath (LH2BT) test and a lactose
      tolerance test (LTT) in all eligible RTRs with proven chronic norovirus infection
      irrespective of current abdominal symptoms.

      The study population (N=10) is divided into two groups according to the gastrointestinal
      symptoms (asymptomatic versus symptomatic, such as chronic diarrhoea or diffuse abdominal
      discomfort). The investigators chose the cut-off three or more stools per day as indicative
      of diarrhoea for the purpose of this study. RTRs with otherwise unexplainable chronic
      diarrhoea but absent norovirus infection serve as control group (N=10).

      Lactose Lactose is a disaccharide sugar that is found most notably in milk and is formed from
      galactose and glucose. Lactose makes up around 2~8% of milk (by weight), although the amount
      varies among species and individuals. It is extracted from sweet or sour whey. The intestinal
      villi secrete the enzyme called lactase (β-D-galactosidase) to digest it. This enzyme cleaves
      the lactose molecule into its two subunits, the simple sugars glucose and galactose, which
      can be absorbed. Since lactose occurs mostly in milk, in most mammals the production of
      lactase gradually decreases with maturity due to a lack of constant consumption. In people
      who are lactose intolerant, lactose is not broken down and provides food for gas-producing
      gut flora, which can lead to diarrhoea, bloating, flatulence, and other gastrointestinal
      symptoms.

      Lactose H2 breath test (LH2BT) The LH2BT is performed according to Newcomer et al. [8]. After
      an overnight fast of at least 12 hours, a basal breath sample is collected. RTRs are allowed
      to drink water and follow their usual medication regimen during the entire examination. After
      the basal sample is being collected, the RTRs are given 25 g of lactose dissolved in 250 ml
      of water to drink. Lactose is a natural disaccharide of D-glucose and D-galactose ("milk
      sugar"), which is contained in all dairy products. For purpose of the study, it is provided
      as lactose powder (or milk powder) with the AlveoSampler™ Lactose Kit with 25 grams of orange
      flavored lactose (Figure 1). Samples of end expiratory breath are then collected at 30, 60,
      90 and 120 minutes after the oral lactose load to measure the concentration of hydrogen (H2),
      which is considered significantly increased and indicative of lactose maldigestion when above
      the value of 20 ppm [8]. During the test, LTRs are allowed to engage in normal activities.
      Only water consumption is permitted throughout the examination. The test is performed in a
      well-ventilated room free of fresh painted walls or objects and with no evidence of any
      organic solvents or cigarette smoke. The samples are collected in specially constructed bags,
      which are provided along with the instrument (Quintron Instrument Co., Milwaukee, WI, USA,
      [Figure 1]). Breath H2 concentration is measured on a Model 12 Microlyser purchased from
      Quintron Instrument Co. The number of loose motions and flatulence during the test are also
      documented.

      A-AlveoSamplerTM and Model 12i MicroLyzer (Quintron Instrument Co., WI, USA, [Figure 1]) The
      dimensions of the gas chromatograph are: height, 27 cm; width, 35 cm; depth, 23 cm and the
      weight 7.3 kg. For the analysis of the hydrogen breath samples the device should be placed in
      a room somewhere near the investigation site with stable room temperature. For each subject
      and for each study session one gas collection system including discard bag, mouth piece,
      stopcock and syringe is needed. Every end-expiratory breath sample collected in the syringe
      of the system must be immediately analyzed after collection. No specific software is needed
      to generate outcome parameters.

      Figure 1: The breath collection system (AlveoSamplerTM) and the gas chromatograph (Model 12i
      MicroLyzer, Quintron Instrument Co., WI, USA). The AlveoSampler™ Sytem kits are the economic
      and disposable solution for breath-testing. These kits allow for ease of collection and
      maximize your return on investment. It permits the technician to manually collect an alveolar
      sample in a syringe for immediate analysis.

      Single-patient use of this device removes the danger of inter-patient cross-infection and
      saves time and money related to the cost of cleaning and sterilizing reusable components.

      Each kit comes pre-assembled with the substrate of your choice; Lactose, Fructose, d-Xylose,
      or Lactulose. These kits are also available without substrate to utlize other breath-testing
      substrates that cannot be bundled with the test kit such as Glucose, Sucrose, and Sorbitol.

      Each kit contains:

      1 packet of substrate (determined by kit ordered)

      1 disposable 35 ml syringe

      1 disposable one-way stopcock

      1 disposable AlveoSampler™ discard bag

      1 set of instructions with analytical record

      Catalog Numbers:

      QT00828-P - AlveoSampler™ Lactose Kit with 25 grams of orange flavored lactose

      Lactose tolerance test (LTT) Following the above mentioned oral administration of 25 g
      lactose, blood glucose levels are documented at 0, 60, and 120 minutes, which are performed
      with the blood glucose meter "Bayer Ascensia Contour Set" using capillary blood samples. An
      increase of blood glucose by less than 1.1 mmol/L in conjunction with the development of
      abdominal symptoms is defined diagnostic for lactose intolerance [8].

      b. Study Outcome Measures Prevalence of lactose intolerance stated with a positive LH2BT
      and/or a positive LTT in RTRs with chronic norovirus infection.
    
  