
    
      Background Medical strategies alone appear insufficient to increase functioning and quality
      of life in ME/CFS. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is the only treatment approach with
      preliminary evidence of efficacy for improving functioning and quality of life. However,
      effect sizes are generally modest.

      Behavior medicine treatment approaches based on Acceptance & Commitment Therapy (ACT) have
      gained increasing attention and research support within clinical trials for similar diagnoses
      (e.g. chronic pain, Fibromyalgia). Results from these areas illustrate the utility of this
      approach for individuals with somatic symptomatology. To date, the efficacy of ACT has not
      been evaluated for ME/CFS.

      Purpose The aims of this pilot study are to explore the utility of ACT and to evaluate the
      feasibility of the treatment model for patients with ME/CFS.

      Method Treatment program: 13 weekly to bi-weekly individual ACT sessions with a psychologist
      (10) and a physician (3) respectively.

      An open trial design is used, with assessments at pre-, mid- and post-treatment as well as at
      3 and 6 months follow-up. Further, yearly follow-ups until 5-year follow-up are planned.

      Measures: History data, illness factors, psychological factors, functioning and quality of
      life.

      Patients: Consecutively recruited via referrals to a specialist treatment centre (n=40). Once
      patients have been found eligible and expressed interest in study participation they will be
      assessed by a psychologist and by a physician, via semi-structured interviews to confirm
      eligibility and to ensure that the patient meet the study criteria. Informed consent is
      obtained from all participants prior to the assessment.

      Statistical analysis: Evaluations of treatment effects are primarily based on intent-to-treat
      analyses. The statistical approach will primarily be based on linear multilevel modeling
      (LMM), which takes into account dependencies between repeated measures and differences
      between patients in pre-treatment status and treatment response (i.e. random effects
      modeling) and also provide means of handling missing data.
    
  