
    
      Safety & Health through Integrated, Facilitated Teams (SHIFT) is a five-year study with
      etiologic, intervention, and translational research components. Six public sector healthcare
      institutions are enrolled, in three pairs matched by agency and type of services. The sites
      are four Massachusetts state healthcare facilities, which have recently been mandated by law
      to achieve "Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) equivalent compliance," and
      two Veterans Administration facilities each of which has multiple nationally mandated
      programs addressing employee health and safety. Using a "stepped wedge" design, one of each
      pair will be randomly selected as the immediate intervention site, while the other facility
      will be the concurrent control or "lagged intervention" site, having access only to technical
      reports and information until mid-project, when it will also receive the full intervention.

      The intervention is the CPH-NEW Healthy Workplace Participatory Program (HWPP), a process for
      increasing the effectiveness of occupational health and safety committees or peer-led
      employee teams, through root cause analysis, prioritizing health and safety needs for
      effective problem-solving, identifying feasible interventions, and presenting these to
      leadership. Each facility has a pre-existing labor-management health and safety committee
      (HSC), which is the unit of intervention, so the HWPP will be adapted to joint
      management-labor teams. The committee is a partner in designing the program to fit the
      constraints and needs of the specific workplace and workforce. The research team provides
      training, coaching in the HWPP process, technical information, and practical assistance to
      committee members, facilitators, champions and leadership.

      Etiologic research will entail analysis of baseline data for cross-sectional associations of
      work organization with worker health indicators. Intervention research will entail
      effectiveness and cost-outcome analysis of the HWPP. Outcomes will be both generic indicators
      of employee well-being and specific outcomes appropriate to the topics that the HSC's select
      for intervention. Translational research (process evaluation) will evaluate the efficacy of
      the dissemination and training strategy, as well as obstacles to and facilitators of uptake
      and implementation.
    
  