
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, control treatment trial of cognitive rehabilitation for
      OEF/OIF Service Members with a history of mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) and persistent
      (3-24 months post-injury) cognitive complaints. Subjects will be recruited from consecutive
      patient referrals to the TBI Service at SAMMC-North. Patients who meet eligibility criteria
      and consent to participate in the treatment trial will be randomly assigned to one of four,
      6-week treatment arms of the study: 1. Psychoeducational control group; 2. Non-therapist
      directed, computerized cognitive rehabilitation; 3. Therapist-directed individualized
      cognitive rehabilitation; and 4. Integrated interdisciplinary cognitive rehabilitation
      combined with cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy. (Components of the treatment arms are
      described in detail in section 4.6; Research Design and Methods.) All subjects enrolled in
      the study will receive the standard of care in management of chronic post-concussive
      symptoms, consistent with the VA/DoD Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of
      Concussion/mild TBI (Barth et al., 2009), regardless of treatment assignment. The standard of
      care includes provision of patient education materials (adapted from existing studies to
      address more persistent rather than acute symptom management), regular scheduled follow-up
      with a medical provider every three weeks, and symptom-based treatment of post-concussive
      complaints (e.g., medication trials for headache and co-occurring psychiatric disorders,
      physical therapy for vestibular complaints, case management, and supportive counseling with
      social work for soldiers assigned to the Warriors-in-Transition Battalion). Study
      participants who are assigned to treatment arms 2, 3, or 4 will additionally receive
      manualized cognitive rehabilitation therapies during the 6-week treatment phase of the study.
      Cognitive rehabilitation treatment intensity (i.e., number of hours of treatment per week)
      will be matched for individuals assigned to treatment arms 2, 3, or 4. Participants assigned
      to the control treatment group (treatment arm 1) will be offered individualized cognitive
      rehabilitation therapy if their cognitive complaints do not abate following the completion of
      the six-week treatment trial.

      Study participants will be evaluated prior to the initiation of treatment, as well as at
      3-weeks, 6-weeks, 12-weeks, and 18-weeks following the start of treatment. Study evaluators
      will be blind to treatment assignment. Pre-treatment baseline assessments and
      peri-/post-treatment outcome assessments will include demographic information, injury-related
      variables, self-report inventories, performance on neuropsychological testing, and functional
      status (e.g., work status; healthcare utilization). Detailed descriptions of the data to be
      collected including primary and secondary outcome measures, as well as co-variate measures
      can be found in section 4.8: Instrumentation.
    
  