
    
      Blood loss is a major concern in spine surgery. Within lumbar fusion surgery, one study
      estimated an average blood loss of 800 mL (range 100-3,100 mL) for non-instrumented fusion
      and 1,517 mL (range 360-7,000 mL) for instrumented fusions. Blood transfusions are required
      in an estimated 8% to 36% of patients undergoing spine surgery.Transfusion promotes tissue
      perfusion and oxygen delivery during extensive surgeries, yet carries with it rare but
      significant risks. These include acute lung injury, febrile reactions, allergic episodes,
      infection, and impaired immune response. Given these potential risks, strategies to minimize
      extensive blood loss and resultant transfusion are warranted.

      Previously described approaches in the literature that can minimize blood loss during spine
      surgery include: hypotensive anesthesia, hemostatic agents (e.g. FloSeal®), antifibrinolytic
      medications, advanced bipolar cautery (e.g. Aquamantys®), autologous blood salvage (e.g. Cell
      Saver®), perioperative and intraoperative temperature, operative time, nutritional state,
      coagulopathy, restrictive transfusion triggers, and rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM).

      Researchers in several medical fields have attempted to delineate comprehensive anemia
      prevention strategies described as "blood-saving bundles". A bundle encapsulates multiple
      evidence-based interventions that result in improved patient outcomes-here with a focus on
      reduced blood loss-when combined versus when each intervention is used in isolation. Care
      bundles applied to intensive care unit treatment and pneumonia, sepsis, and acute kidney
      injury care have demonstrated improved clinical outcomes. However, no bundled protocol
      currently exists that aim to decrease blood loss and transfusion incidence during spine
      surgery. Moreover, no data exist that identify whether use of FloSeal® over other hemostatic
      agents as part of a bundled protocol results in decreased blood loss and transfusion rates,
      improved surgical outcomes, and improved cost effectiveness.

      Perioperative variables that can be used to create a bundled approach quality improvement
      protocol to minimize blood loss in spine surgery will be evaluated using retrospective data
      collection and multivariate analysis of previously performed spinal surgeries at Johns
      Hopkins Hospital. In particular the investigators are interested in determining whether
      FloSeal® contributes towards increased control over perioperative bleeding compared to other
      hemostatic agents for potential inclusion in a future bundled approach.

      This retrospective multivariate analysis will identify potential factors associated with
      increased blood loss and transfusion incidence. The investigators anticipate using these
      findings to develop a future bundled protocol for implementation in all patients undergoing
      spine surgery at Johns Hopkins Hospital after approval by the Institutional Review Board.
      Such a bundled protocol has the potential to improve surgical outcomes and decrease
      institutional costs.
    
  