
    
      This is a prospective observational study that would run for a period of 6 months. The
      population proceeding to undergo major abdominal surgery is estimated to be 500 patients a
      year. The primary aim is to invite all patients being considered for major abdominal surgery
      to participate in a simple screening test of fitness, the 6 minute walk test (6MWT).

      Potential participants would be identified by the participating surgical teams during their
      first visit to this institutions Surgical Outpatient Department (SOPD). Upon identification
      the individual would be provided with information designed to be read on returning to the
      waiting area from the SOPD clinic room.

      The study walker, who would be an appropriately trained research nurse or outpatient clinic
      support worker, would approach the patient to answer questions and provide further
      information if required. Consent for participation would then be obtained. The participating
      individual would then be walked the short distance to the testing area and would be offered a
      seat whilst the 6MWT procedure was explained in more detail. Time would be allowed for
      questions. The 6MWT would be then conducted as per the American Thoracic Society guidance.
      Heart rate will be recorded manually both at baseline and at the cessation of the test.

      Following the 6MWT patients could either depart the hospital or return to the SOPD if it was
      felt a period of recovery was required.

      The 6 minute walk distance (6MWD) would be recorded against the patient's participant study
      identification number. Patient identifiers that would link the patient study number to a
      particular patient would be stored safely behind lock and key or encryption when electronic.
      The case report forms will be paper to allow timely collection of data and this information
      will be collated onto a spreadsheet which will facilitate future analysis.

      At a later date information will also be collected on date of operation, this will be used to
      assess the present 'window' of opportunity for enrolling the less fit into an exercise
      programme.

      A secondary aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between the 6MWD and the
      objectively measured anaerobic threshold and peak oxygen consumption that will be obtained
      when some of these patients undergo cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) as part of their
      standard pathway to surgery. Reports produced following CPET interpretation are stored as
      PDFs upon this institutions server, named individuals involved in collecting data for this
      study will have access to the this server to complete case report forms that require details
      from the CPET reports.

      Statistical analysis:

      Descriptive statistics will be undertaken on the population that participates in the 6MWT,
      the population will be split into quartiles based on what the investigators know about our
      non-cardiopulmonary surgery population following analysis of our CPET database. Those deemed
      significantly less fit occupied the lowest quartile. The aim would be to assess for
      population normality and produce thresholds for the most fit; the greatest distance walked by
      25% of the population with the least fit the lowest 25% of the population. The middle 50%
      would be less fit.

      Linear regression analysis will be used to determine the 6MWD threshold that correlates with
      a level of anaerobic threshold or peak oxygen consumption objectively measured by CPET,
      deemed acceptable and indicating those individuals for whom no further preoperative
      interventions are required.

      During the 12 months of 2017 the investigators undertook 483 preoperative major abdominal
      surgery cardiopulmonary exercise (CPET) tests. The investigators anticipate collecting 6MWT
      data on 250 patients and CPET data on at least 240 patients. Hopefully all those who undergo
      CPET will have consented to undergo a 6MWT whilst in the SOPD during their first visit on
      their pathway toward surgery.
    
  