
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the maximum dose of ganitumab, up to a target dose of 20 mg/kg, given
           concurrently with capecitabine and radiotherapy following induction ganitumab and
           gemcitabine hydrochloride in patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the safety profile of induction therapy comprising ganitumab and gemcitabine
           hydrochloride, followed by ganitumab and concurrent chemoradiation, and subsequently by
           maintenance ganitumab and gemcitabine hydrochloride until disease progression in
           patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer.

        -  To evaluate response and overall survival of patients treated at the maximum dose of
           ganitumab given concurrently with capecitabine and radiotherapy following induction
           ganitumab and subsequently followed by maintenance ganitumab and gemcitabine
           hydrochloride until disease progression.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of ganitumab followed by an expanded
      cohort study.

      Induction therapy: Patients receive ganitumab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1 and 15 and
      gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every
      28 days for 2 courses.

      Concurrent therapy: Beginning 10-28 days later, patients undergo 3-dimensional conformal
      radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week for 5.5 weeks beginning on day 1. Patients also
      receive concurrent ganitumab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 15, and 29 and capecitabine orally
      (PO) twice daily on days 1-5 weekly for 5.5 weeks.

      Maintenance therapy: Beginning 21-42 days later, patients receive ganitumab IV over 1-2 hours
      on days 1 and 15 and gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 15, and 22.
      Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every
      4 months for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.
    
  