
    
      The study will include 80 patients with type 1 diabetes that will be transferred from
      multiple daily injection (MDI) regimen to continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII).
      All patients will be divided into 2 groups: 1) structured education group (n=40) and 2)
      control group (n=40).

      Patients from structured education group will be transferred from MDI to CSII using special
      structured education program for type 1 diabetes patients on insulin pump therapy. Before the
      transferring to CSII the patients from this group will be randomized in two subgroups,
      depending on type of blood glucose control: patients which will use CSII and self-monitoring
      of blood glucose (SMBG) (n=20) or patients which will use sensor-augmented pump (SAP) (n=20).

      Follow-up duration in structured education group will be 4 months; follow-up visits included
      treatment adjustment, glucose data review and and collection of data on adverse events every
      4 weeks. Between visits, communication with clinicians will be initiated at the discretion of
      the patient.

      The control group will include patients with type 1 diabetes using CSII during 4-6 months
      before. The patients from this group will be divided in two subgroups, depending on type of
      self blood glucose control: patients using CSII (n=20) and SMBG or patients using SAP (n=20).
      In this group patients should be transferred to CSII by endocrinologist-specialist in CSII or
      technical trainer individually and will be monitored by coaching specialist or local
      endocrinologist within 4 months prior to inclusion. All patients from this group should be
      educated in intensive diabetes management, including carbohydrate counting, the
      administration of correction doses of insulin and technical aspects of CSII and self glucose
      control by continuous glucose monitoring in real-time ("CGM-RT").

      All patients will provide written informed consent.

      Diabetes-management software (CareLink Therapy Management System for Diabetes-Clinical,
      Medtronic) will be used for glucose data review including frequency of hypoglycemia,
      assessment of frequency of bolus calculator use.

      Diaries of self-control will be analysed for glucose data review.

      The level of knowledge about the basics of diabetes self-management will be assessed using a
      standard questionnaire for patients with type 1 diabetes.

      For Quality of Life (QoL) assessment will be used the following validated questionnaires (in
      Russian):

        1. The Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36).

        2. The Audit of the Diabetes-Dependent Quality of Life (ADDQoL) (С. Bradley et al., 1999,
           adjusted by Starostina E.G., 2003).

      Patients from structured education group will complete the QoL Questionnaires prior to
      education and 4 months after transferring to CSII. Patients from the control group will
      complete the Questionnaires during the enrollment.

      Assessment of diabetes complications will be held before and 4 months after transferring to
      CSII in structured education group and at the time of enrollment in control group.

      For the knowledge assessment of disease management will be used standard Questionnaire for
      patients with type 1 diabetes. Maximum score equals 37 grades; the satisfactory level of
      knowledge is scored 27. Patients from the structural education group will complete the
      Questionnaire prior to conversion to CSII regimen and the education course and after 4 months
      of the follow up. Patients from the control group will complete the Questionnaire during
      enrollment.

      Statistical analysis. Statistica (StatSoft Inc., USA, version 8.0) software will be used for
      data processing. The following descriptive statistical parameters will be used: median,
      inter-quartile interval (Me [25;75]) and mass share (%). Non- parametric criteria will be
      used used for non-normalized distribution (Mann - Whitney U-criterion for paired comparison
      of independent samples). The χ2 criterion was used for comparison of parameters distribution
      in population samples. Non - parametric Spearman's correlation will be used for correlation
      analysis. Standard deviation (M±SD) will be used to evaluate the rate of hypoglycemia events,
      frequency of plasma glucose level self-control, utilization of bolus calculator, plasma
      glucose level variability, and for certain items of QoL Questionnaires. A P value of less
      than 0.05 will be considered to indicate statistical significance for comparisons of the
      primary outcome, baseline characteristics, and safety.
    
  