
    
      Background Foreign body airway obstruction is a partial or complete blockage of airways, due
      to a foreign body (for example food, toys, coins etc.) Blocked airways will untreated result
      in cardiac arrest by hypoxia.

      Previous research describes foreign body airway obstruction as an uncommon cause of
      Out-of-Hospital Cardiac Arrest (OHCA) accounting for approximately 1.1-1.4% of all OHCA.
      Reported incident rates of foreign body airway obstruction (FBAO) causing hypoxic cardiac
      arrest are unclear. It is reported to be as high as 11 per 100,000 person-years, comprising
      10% of all OHCA, and neither Emergency Medical Services (EMS) treatment or first aid by
      layperson are well described. When organizing prevention campaigns for serious FBAO leading
      to cardiac arrest, knowledge on items with poor outcomes, vulnerable age-groups and
      treatments (appropriate and non-appropriate) initiated by both laypersons and EMS-personnel
      is essential. Previous studies suggest a bimodal distribution of FBAO compromised of the very
      young ingesting toys or other non-food related items (coins, balloons etc.) and elderly
      ingesting mainly food items . Several comorbidities are well documented to be
      over-represented in fatal cases in FBAO, notably cerebral infarction; dementia;
      schizophrenia; depression and Parkinson's disease .

      However, FBAO leading to hypoxic cardiac arrest is a reversible cause that can easily be
      treated, and therefore prevented. Hence, hypoxic cardiac arrest due to FBAO provides a great
      potential for increasing overall survival from OHCA if efficient campaigns are implemented to
      provide the correct diagnosis, to facilitate prompt treatment from both EMS-personnel and
      laypersons. Such campaigns must be guided by evidence, realistic estimates of population and
      reliable baseline measures to evaluate effect.

      Although, only minor studies present data from arrival to the hospital, several studies imply
      that the most common food items involved in FBAO is meat, bread, rice cakes, fruits and rice.
      There is a need to include prehospital data in a national study, to include relevant
      treatment administered by EMS or laypersons educated in first aid. A study by Igarashi et al.
      implies that the actions of laypersons has a significant impact on survival and that they,
      more often than not, use the Heimlich maneuver of abdominal thrust. However, only few
      patients in this study (12%) is treated by laypersons. More knowledge on the actions of
      bystanders are needed. The European Resuscitation Council currently recommend laypersons to
      deliver five back blows followed by an abdominal thrust/Heimlich maneuver if a person is
      suffering from severe FBAO (unable to cough). For health care personnel, including EMS, the
      MaGill forceps is first-choice when removing foreign bodies, with significantly higher
      survival rates reported. However, a complete report of all airway treatments and additional
      factors known to impact survival have not yet been reported.

      There is approximately 5.400 OHCA annually in Denmark. The most updated 30-survival (2018) is
      15,7%. This is among some of the highest in the world. A multitude of efforts and campaigns
      are targeting the different aspects of OHCA to improve survival. Although not yet verified,
      several sources report that approximately 3-4.5% of the entire Danish population
      (approximately 200.000-255.000 citizens) attend certified cardio pulmonary resuscitation
      (CPR) and automatic external defibrillator (AED) courses annually. These courses supposedly
      include recognition and treatment of FBOA.

      Hence, with the relative few studies in the field, several knowledge gaps are persisting.
      There is a need to investigate who suffers from FBAO in order to create a profile to raise
      attention for health professionals responsible for treatment. Especially age and comorbidity
      has proven relevant in the few and limited studies in the field.

      Most of these obstacles can be overcome with a national comprehensive investigation of
      prehospital data on OHCA caused by FBAO in a Danish setting.

      Since the nationwide electronic medical record for the EMS providers was implemented in 2016,
      all OHCA have been registered electronically using the electronic medical records and been
      stored nationally. The electronic record contains a vast amount of information, including the
      medical professionals notes on each patient. This enables possibilities to conduct very
      direct advanced text searches for relevant trigger-words for identification of different
      subgroups of OHCA. This new approach opens for possibilities in targeting very specific
      subgroups, and extract information on diseases and treatment.

      Aim

      The aim of the epidemiological part of the study is:

        -  to investigate information on actions taken by EMS-personnel and laypersons

        -  to investigate outcomes of hypoxic Cardiac Arrest due to foreign body airway obstruction
           in Denmark

        -  to increase overall survival.

        -  propose new guidelines and strategies to increase survival from OHCA caused by FBAO.

      The aim of advanced text-string search algorithm part of the study is

      • To investigate if an advanced text-string search algorithm can identify FBAO in medical
      records with high sensitivity

      Methods:

      The study is a registry-based follow-up study of EMS patients in Denmark in 2016, 2017, 2018
      and 2019 with cardiac arrest from foreign body airway obstruction as the presumed etiology.

      OHCA data All cases of OHCA in which a resuscitative attempt is initiated is recorded in the
      Danish Cardiac Arrest Registry. Most variables have been collected since 2001 on paper
      sheets.

      From 2016 and ongoing, the registry changed method of data-collection, moving from collecting
      paper-based OHCA records to extracting information on OHCA directly from the electronic
      medical records.

      Because of the changeover, all records extracted from the electronic medical records was
      manually processed by a verification team reading the medical record and validating the
      information entered to the Danish Cardiac Arrest Registry. This ensured high-quality data
      from the approximately 5,400 annually registered OHCA in Denmark, within the period of 2016
      to 2018. From the direct registration and later manual verification, several additional data
      sources are coupled with each registered OHCA. Notably, survival, initiation of bystander CPR
      and EMS actions.

      Identifying FBAO This study investigates FBAO leading to OHCA. From the Danish Cardiac Arrest
      Registry all OHCA are collected and matched to the electronic prehospital medical record.
      This enables the possibility for advanced text searching in the entire prehospital medical
      record for cases with OHCA.

      In a pilot-study performed at Copenhagen EMS in 2019, a method for identifying FBAO from
      trigger-words in the electronic medical record was completed. The pilot-study was conducted
      with data from the verified 2016-2018 Danish OHCA register on a population of patients
      treated by Copenhagen EMS. All records on patients with OHCA for a single year was reviewed,
      and OHCA from FBAO was manually identified. These records created the foundation for a list
      of initially 30 trigger-words specific for FBAO, that had been collected from the medical
      records in the note-fields, where ambulance physicians and paramedics could enter
      observations and descriptions of the patient and treatment as free text.

      These trigger-words were structured and entered into a text-search algorithm able to search
      note-fields within the electronic medical records. When searching the electronic medical
      records from the OHCA register, the algorithm returned 121 records, consisting of OHCA
      presumably caused by FBAO. However, the initial search alone missed 17 of the manually
      registered FBAO leading to OHCA and conversely, FBAO not registered were identified from the
      search. After a manual review of the specified reports, new trigger-words were collected to
      include reports, not identified during the initial manual registration, ultimately leading to
      a revised search-string. This iterative process was performed, until no new reports appeared.
      After two search-string revisions, 273 OHCA presumably caused by FBAO were identified with no
      additional reports present. A total of 63 of these reports were verified manually.

      From the pilot study, the investigators concluded that the method for identifying OHCA caused
      by FBAO, were feasible and efficient with a high specificity. With this method, the
      investigators can include national data and provide an essential base for future strategies
      aimed at increasing survival. However, the obstacle of manual verification across EMS regions
      persists and further data cleansing and revised search-strings are needed in order to provide
      high-quality data

      In this study data will be collected from the verified 2016-2019 Danish Cardiac Arrest
      Registry. Cases with FBAO prior to OHCA will be identified with advanced text-searches as
      described above. With the increased amount of data, the investigators will be able to refine
      the algorithms, to achieve higher sensitivity and specificity. The remaining four regions not
      included yet, has all pledged data permission and agreed to initiate the study when funding
      have been acquired. The search-string will be modified and updated to include as many OHCA's
      with FBOA as etiology as possible. This process must be conducted in all of the four
      remaining regions separately.

      Analysis data presentation Data will be pseudo-anonymized for analyses. The investigators
      will perform analyses only on an aggregated nationwide level. Descriptive statistics,
      fractions and annual incidence rates per 100.000 citizens, survival rates to hospital and
      first aid actions by layperson will be presented. General trends will be presented and
      Fisher's exact test together with odds ratios for survival will be calculated, stratified by
      age groups, bystander and EMS-actions. The final publication will be presented based on the
      STROBE statement for follow-up studies.

      Data storage Data is stored on secure drive according to the regional instructions for safe
      conduct of data management.

      Ethical considerations The investigators will follow GDPR and register the study at the
      Danish Data Protection Agency (Capital region of Denmark). As this is a Registry-based study,
      no ethical approval is required. However, the regional ethical committee will be contacted
      and presented with the current protocol to ensure proper ethical conduct.

      Data access and analysis was approved by the Danish Data Protection Agency (reference
      2007-58-0015, GEH-2014-019, I-suite 02737).

      Perspectives This study will enable targeted campaigns aimed at increasing survival from OHCA
      caused by FBAO. Potential campaigns might target the food items provided to potential
      vulnerable groups and guide focus for first aid recommendations. Further, with a deeper
      understanding of which airway management procedures most often are successful, it will be
      possible to improve EMS treatments of vulnerable groups.

      Finally, a novel method of extracting information from the electronic medical records will be
      developed creating the foundation for future works on other prehospital conditions

      List of abbreviations CPR: Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation BLS: Basic Life Support EMS:
      Emergency Medical Services FBAO: Foreign Body Airway Obstruction OHCA: out-of-hospital
      cardiac arrest
    
  