
    
      Physiological vascular endothelium is an hemocompatible and thrombus resistant surface and
      none of the materials used for revascularisation owns these properties. The aim of this
      project is to improve the hemocompatibility of vascular prosthesis with a complete covering
      of their endoluminal surface with autologous endothelial cells. This strategy, that plans to
      associate an artificial component of synthetic origin and cellular component is a
      bioartificial vascular substitute concept. First results obtained by an austrian team are
      really encouraging (with more than 100 patients during last 10 years). Thus, the main
      objective of this study is to compare efficacy in terms of grafts with endothelialised PTFE
      prosthesis with great saphenous autologous vein graft for under knee arterial popliteal
      revascularisation of lower limbs.

      This is a phase III, randomised equivalent trial. It is open labelled, with 2 parallel well
      balanced groups. Forty patients will be randomised. A short segment of the cephalic vein will
      be cut and some blood will be sampled in patients randomised in the ePTFE group. Endothelial
      cells of the cephalic vein will be isolated, cultured, with autologous serum, and then
      amplified before sowing of the internal face of PTFE prosthesis, previously covered with a
      biological glue clinically validated. Before prosthesis implantation, systematic quality
      controls will be performed. Implantation will be planned 3 weeks after venous sampling.
      Eventual failure of cellular culture or prosthesis covering will lead to an autologous vein
      graft. People randomised in the second group will receive an autologous saphenous vein graft.

      The primary outcome is to demonstrate the equivalence of time dependent permeability rate
      between endothelialized PTFE and autologous vein graft. Equivalence between both technics
      would allow to preserve autologous saphenous vein for later distal bypasses (where it is the
      best technic) or for coronary bypasses.
    
  