
    
      -  Background: Fecal incontinence is a distressing condition with recurrent uncontrolled
           passage of fecal material. Although fecal incontinence is developed by multifactorial
           causes, treatments were limited in medical or surgical methods. According to the recent
           studies of stem cell regeneration, it is reported that human adipose-derived stem cells
           have plentiful capacity in muscle regeneration, which had the efficacy to treat Crohn's
           fistulas. Therefore, the investigators hypothesized that the capability of muscle
           regeneration of allogenic-adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ALLO-ASC) can be used
           to treat degenerated anal sphincter, which leads to fecal incontinence.

        -  Purpose:The investigators aimed to investigate the safety and efficacy in the treatment
           of fecal incontinence by injection of ALLO-ASC into the anal sphincter.

        -  Method

             1. Safety test of allogenic ASCs injection In the first year, the investigators will
                investigate the safety of ALLO-ASC injection by a dose escalation study. Patients
                are sequentially enrolled into three groups, which are composed of three patients
                each. They are treated with an injection of ALLO-ASC to the anal sphincter for
                3x107 cells/ml (group 1), 6x107 cells/ml (group 2), 9x107 cells/ml (group 3),
                respectively. After receiving the ALLO-ASC injection, patients will receive a
                physical examination, a serologic and immunologic response test (CD4/CD8) with an
                assessment of the Wexner score, patient satisfaction survey, WHO toxicity scale,
                adverse events, anorectal manometry and endorectal ultrasound at 1, 4, 8 weeks, 4,
                6, 9, and 12 months in the outpatient clinic. The response of ALLO-ASC injection is
                assessed at 8 weeks after an injection and the most effective dose is determined
                among the groups.

             2. Efficacy test of allogenic ASCs injection In the second year, the investigators
                will assess the efficacy of the ALLO-ASC injection comparing the ALLO-ASC injection
                group and the placebo group (0.9% normal saline injection) by a randomized,
                open-label, single-blind design. Each group is composed of six patients. Both the
                clinical assessment and follow-up period are identical with the first-year
                protocol.
    
  