
    
      Aim:

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate if 24-hour ABPM with frequent BP measurements
      (intervals of 20 minutes during daytime and 30 minutes during nighttime) result in
      erroneously elevated BP in hypertensive patients compared with non-frequent BP readings
      (measurement intervals of 60 minutes both day and night).

      Population:

      The study population will comprise all patients referred to and attending the Clinic of
      Hypertension, AUH, who are scheduled to undergo ABPM. At referral to the Clinic of
      Hypertension, AUH, patients will be contacted with an electronic or analog letter, informing
      them about the study and inviting them to participate. Patients who already are being treated
      at the Clinic of Hypertension, will be invited at an appointment in the clinic. Patients will
      be excluded from the study if they have atrial fibrillation, nighttime work, insomnia or
      sleeping disorders, and are not physically able to undergo an ABPM (e.g. too big arm
      circumference to fit the cuff).

      Methods:

      This will be a randomized controlled crossover study (figure 2). At arrival patients will be
      fitted with the device, a SPACELABS 90217 by a nurse. The nurse will conduct an office blood
      pressure measurement, in accordance with ESH guidelines to be sure the device is working, and
      for later comparison. Patients will have their first ABPM conducted with either frequent or
      non-frequent ABPM measurement protocol as described above, randomized 1:1. Patients will be
      instructed to remove their device after 24 hours of measurement and have an appointment to
      return the device between 2-7 days. At least two days between measurements ensure a
      sufficient washout period. The maximum of 7 days before second measurement makes sure the
      patient's appointment with a doctor at the clinic will not be delayed. When returning the
      device, patients will have the same device mounted again, measuring with the frequency not
      assigned at the initial randomization. Participants will be instructed to repeat the same
      procedures regarding the device and to, as far as possible, conduct the same daily activities
      on the second day of measurement as during the first day of measurement. Patients will not
      have any alterations in blood pressure medication between the two measuring days. After each
      ABPM, patients will answer a routine questionnaire from the clinic about sleep, discomfort,
      pain, and the degree to which the device caused interference with daily activities and/or
      disturbance of sleep. Since the questionnaire is standard procedure at the clinic, we will be
      able to compare characteristics between the group who are not interested in joining the study
      and patients do participate. In this way the investigators can ensure no unknown selection
      bias occurs. Both ABPM will be used by the clinician at the appointment in the clinic.

      Sample size:

      In a pilot study conducted at the Clinic of Hypertension, AUH, the investigators found a mean
      difference of 7 mmHg (Standard deviation = 13,76) between a 20-minute interval and a 1-hour
      interval between measurements, respectively. Using a sample size calculation, for crossover
      design with quantitative measurement, a two-sided significance level of 0.025 and a power of
      0.9, and a minimal clinical difference of 10mmHg, we calculate a minimum sample size of 38
      patients. It is estimated only 25% of patients with this difference will be in intermediate
      hypertension group as studied in the previous pilot study, which is why 152 patients wil be
      included.
    
  