
    
      The samples are collected from patients referred to colposcopy because of prior cervical
      abnormalities on Pap test such as ASCUS and LSIL. The patient takes at home urine samples on
      the morning of visit to the colposcopy center. At the colposcopy center, self-collected
      vaginal samples are taken by the patient herself with a plastic brush (Flocked Swab,
      manufactured by Noble Bioscience, Inc.). Finally, the gynecologist takes a cervical sample
      with a plastic brush (Cervical Brush, manufactured by Noble Bioscience, Inc.).

      Physician collected cervical samples, self-collected vaginal samples and urine samples are
      used to perform HPV testing with Roche Cobas® 4800 HPV test, Anyplex™ II HPV HR detection kit
      and Realtime HPV HR-S Detection kit.

      The Anyplex™ II HPV HR detection kit (manufactured by Seegene. Inc, Korea) is a new,
      multiplex, real-time polymerase chain reaction assay to detect individual 14 high-risk. (HR)
      human papillomavirus (HPV) types in a single tube.

      The Roche Cobas® 4800 HPV test (manufactured by Cobas) is a novel molecular method based on
      real-time PCR (RT-PCR), with a fully automated system allowing quick and efficient sample
      processing. Cobas can detect the human papillomavirus type 16(HPV16), the human
      papillomavirus type 18(HPV18), 12 other high-risk HPVs (hrHPVs) (HPV31, -33, -35, -39, -45,
      -51, -52, -56, -58, -59, -66, and -68, as a pooled result), and the β-globin control
      independently in the same PCR.

      Realtime HPV HR-S Detection kit (manufactured by Sejong Biomed Co, Korea) is a new, real-time
      polymerase chain reaction assay to detect HPV 16, HPV 18, 12 other high-risk HPVs (HPV31,
      -33, -35, -39, -45, -51, -52, -56, -58, -59, -66, and -68). Real-time HPV HR-S Detection Kit
      is based on accurate real-time PCR method as described, and it can detect 14 kinds of HPV
      type detection in a single test (HPV 16/18 genotype and others (UDG) -dUTP) system for the
      prevention of contamination, and a control agent (hemoglobin DNA, a human-derived DNA) as a
      whole process control was introduced into a high-risk genotype (12 genotypes other than HPV
      16/18). It has high sensitivity and specificity for detection of high risk genotypes by
      increasing the reliability of the results.

      The main goal of this study is to determine whether HPV testing using urine and
      self-collected sample is sensitive to detecting precancerous lesions such as cervical
      intraepithelial neoplasia(CIN)2/3 in patients diagnosed with ASCUS and LSIL on the Pap test.
      The colposcopy and histological findings will be used as the gold standard. In addition, the
      relative sensitivity and specificity for detecting HPV16, HPV18 and high risk HPV will be
      determined for each of the three HPV tests using urine and self-collected samples compared
      with the HPV tests using physician-collected samples.
    
  