
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To estimate the percent of kidney transplant recipients with selected advanced cancers for
      whom standard therapies would be insufficient who, 16 weeks after administration of
      prednisone, tacrolimus, and nivolumab, experience complete response (CR), partial response
      (PR), or stable disease (SD) without allograft loss.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the objective response rate (ORR), rate of allograft loss, and durations of
      progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in the study population.

      II. To estimate the ORR and rate of allograft loss in patients who experience progressive
      disease (PD) after administration of nivolumab and 1) receive ipilimumab and nivolumab, or 2)
      decrease or discontinue immunosuppression.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize correlates of the host immune response, possibly including, but not
      limited to:

      Ia. Histopathological characteristics of allograft rejection/loss. Ib. Immunological changes
      in the tumor microenvironment (e.g., changes in T-cell subset populations or expression of
      immune checkpoint molecules) in paired biopsies obtained pre-treatment and on-treatment.

      Ic. Changes in donor-derived cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (dd-cfDNA) as a marker for
      allograft rejection.

      Id. Characteristics of anti-programmed death-1 (PD-1)-associated immune-mediated adverse
      reactions (IMAR) in this patient population treated with immunosuppression.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive tacrolimus orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and prednisone PO once daily (QD).
      Within 28 days, patients then receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1.
      Cycles repeat every 4 weeks for up to 24 cycles (96 weeks) in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients who experience progressive disease (PD) or patients who have experienced allograft
      loss at 16 weeks receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes and ipilimumab IV over 30 minutes on
      day 1. Patients also receive tacrolimus PO BID and prednisone PO QD. Cycles repeat every 3
      weeks for 4 cycles (12 weeks) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Starting 6 weeks later, patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every 4 weeks for up to
      21 cycles (84 weeks) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 90 days, every 8 weeks for
      year 1, every 12 weeks for year 2, every 16 weeks for year 3, then every 24 weeks for year 4.
      Patients with PD are followed up every 12 weeks for up to 5 years.
    
  