
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or biological effective dose of monoclonal
      antibody Hu1D10 (apolizumab) in patients with previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia
      or small lymphocytic lymphoma.

      II. Determine the safety of this drug, in terms of frequency and severity of
      treatment-related adverse events, in this patient population.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether this drug has anti-leukemia/lymphoma activity in patients expressing the
      Hu1D10 antigen.

      II. Determine the pharmacokinetics of this drug in this patient population. III. Determine
      whether the infusion-related toxicity of this drug is secondary to cytokine release in these
      patients.

      IV. Determine whether the intensity of 1D10 target antigen on tumor cells is related to
      clinical response and treatment toxicity in these patients.

      V. Determine the pharmacodynamics of this drug in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      diagnosis (chronic lymphocytic leukemia or small lymphocytic lymphoma vs acute lymphoblastic
      leukemia [ALL] or acute myeloid leukemia [AML]). Patients with ALL or AML are enrolled after
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined.

      Patients receive apolizumab IV over at least 2 hours on days 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 10, 12, 15, 17,
      19, 22, 24, and 26. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients with a complete or partial response who relapse after 2 months may receive
      an additional course of therapy provided they still express the 1D10 antigen.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of MOAB Hu1D10 until the MTD is determined.
      The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience
      dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). If no DLT is observed, the biological effective dose (BED) is
      determined in the above cohorts. The BED is defined as the dose at which at least 4 of 6
      patients experience an acceptable minimum trough level and clinical response. An additional
      24 patients (12 per stratum) are treated at the MTD.

      Patients are followed at 1 week, 1 and 2 months, and then every 3 months for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 35 patients (12 per stratum) will be accrued for this study.
    
  