
    
      Persons with mild hemophilia A (MHA) (defined as having a FVIII level of >5% to ≈40%) bleed
      infrequently but can in the setting of trauma which can often is in the context of
      participating in sports/exercise. FVIII levels temporarily rise with stress, exercise and
      with DDAVP (1-desamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin, desmopressin). In the case of DDAVP, the
      Hospital for Sick Children (SickKids) Hemophilia Team and others have shown that FVIII and
      VWF levels rise by 2-4 fold with DDAVP. Consequently many persons with MHA in an attempt to
      reduce their risk of bleeding take intranasal (IN) DDAVP prior to sports activities/exercise.
      IN DDAVP is reasonably expensive ($300/bottle of Octostim® in Canada and $700/bottle of
      Stimate® in USA), requires fluid restriction, and may be associated with nausea, vomiting,
      seizures and tachyphylaxis.

      Recently, our group completed a pilot/feasibility study to evaluate the impact of a
      prescribed, moderate intensity aerobic exercise regimen on hemostatic indices in 30 children
      with hemophilia A [HA] or B [HB] (all severities) and documented a significant improvement in
      multiple coagulation parameters (platelet count, FVIII:C and von Willebrand factor [VWF])
      with exercise. This improvement was particularly pronounced in 13 post-adolescent males with
      mild-moderate HA. In this sub-cohort, we noted a mean 2.3 fold increase in FVIII:C
      immediately after exercise, which remained significantly elevated at 1.9 fold,1 hour after
      completion of exercise

      These changes in hemostatic variables associated with aerobic exercise may be protective
      against bleeding, and may negate the need to administer IN DDAVP immediately prior to sports
      participation.

      Although both exercise and DDAVP can raise FVIII/VWF levels, it is not clear whether the
      pathophysiological mechanism in which they do this is the same. Consequently it is not known
      if DDAVP and exercise would augment each other's effects in raising FVIII:C and VWF levels or
      if one would one negate the effect of the other. Herein, we propose a prospective,
      interventional study of exercise vs IN DDAVP in 40-50 post adolescent (13-21 yr) males with
      MHA to compare their impact on hemostasis and also to investigate the impact of sequentially
      administering these interventions on hemostatic indices.
    
  