
    
      Lyme disease is a tick-borne illness caused by Borrellia Bugdorferi after tick bite. This
      disease mostly presents with a skin rash which looks like bulls eye and therefore known as
      bulls-eye skin rash or Erythema Migrans. The standard of care of Lyme disease is a few weeks
      of antibiotics. Most of the patients do well after antibiotics treatment. However 10-20% of
      patients go on to develop persistent symptoms such as memory problems, fatigue and pain
      several months after the antibiotics treatment. Such symptoms are collectively known as Post
      Treatment Lyme Disease Syndrome. In this study we want to see if a device known as
      Transcranial Direct Current Stimulator (tDCS) is helpful in reducing these symptoms after
      Lyme disease treatment.

      This study will consist of a total of 13 visits. After determining eligibility criteria
      through pre-screening and labs we will schedule visit 1. During visit 1 we will ask the study
      participants to fill several questionnaire forms related to memory, pain, fatigue, quality of
      life, depression and headache etc. We will draw blood to measure certain lab markers. We will
      do a few other tests to determine brain oxygenation level and to check brain waves.

      During next 10 visits we will administer small current through a device known as Transcranial
      Direct Current Stimulator. This device and the amount of current delivered is very safe.
      Visit 12 is fairly the same as visit 1 as we will ask the study participant to answer
      questions related to memory, quality of life, pain, fatigue, depression and headache. During
      this visit we will also do the test to determine oxygenation level of brain and will perform
      brain wave testing.

      Visit 13 will be last and final visit which will occur one month after visit 12. During this
      final visit the study participant will be asked to answer the questions related to memory,
      quality of life, pain, fatigue, depression and headache. During this visit we will again
      measure oxygenation level of brain and perform brain wave testing.

      By doing this study in total 13 visits we expect to find out if the device "Transcranial
      Direct Current Stimulator" is helpful in reducing these symptoms after Lyme disease
      treatment.
    
  