
    
      Although there are a limited number of studies in the literature on disorders of sensory
      functions seen after breast cancer treatments, sensory disorders that may be seen in
      lymphedema associated with breast cancer were evaluated in only 2 studies published in 1979
      and 2006. Although these studies are not sufficient in terms of study design, they only
      include Semmes-Weinstein monofilaments and two-point discrimination tests and hand
      evaluations. Ganel et al. Reported that approximately 50% of the patients they included in
      the study found that varying degrees of lymphedema developed in the upper extremity, and the
      median nerve compression in the brachial plexus and carpal tunnel was significantly higher in
      these patients. They did not find a direct correlation with radiotherapy in patients with
      nerve compression. They therefore stated that nerve compression may be associated with
      lymphedema or fibroblast infiltration. According to this study, lymphedema may also be a risk
      factor in post mastectomy problems such as brachial plexus and carpal tunnel syndrome. Greve
      et al. reported that lymphedema may cause a decrease in sensory functions in patients who
      were evaluated with monofilaments in their studies on the effect of lymphedema on sensory
      functions after mastectomy (Ganel 1979, Greeve 2006).

      Complex Decongestive Physiotherapy was developed by Földi in the 1980s in Germany to reduce
      limb volume, preserve skin health, lymph transport stimulation and reabsorption of residual
      interstitial proteins. Complex Decongestive Physiotherapy is a treatment method consisting of
      four main elements and two phases. The four main elements of the first phase of complex
      decongestive physiotherapy; includes manual lymphatic drainage, skin care, compression
      therapy and remedial exercises. After the edema is reduced, phase II is passed. This phase
      includes self-drainage, skin care, personalized compression socks and remedial exercises. In
      lymphedema, protein-rich fluid accumulates in the subcutaneous tissue for a long time,
      disrupting natural skin elasticity over time. With Complex Decongestive Physiotherapy, edema
      reduction up to 65% can be achieved, functional loss, fibrotic changes, and cosmetic
      problems, which are the secondary problems caused by lymphedema, can be observed.

      Increased interstitial fluid in lymphedema associated with breast cancer can cause local
      sensory loss due to compression of peripheral nerves. Dermal thickness increase due to
      lymphedema and biomechanical changes in viscoelasticity can cause various changes on sensory
      functions. Therefore, quantitative evaluation of the sensory system can be an effective
      method to determine the injury risk factor of the lymphedema region in the event of an
      existing sensory dysfunction. However, although the effects of Complex Decongestive
      Physiotherapy on edema reduction, skin thickness and elasticity are mentioned, its effect on
      sensory functions is unknown.

      Complex Decongestive Physiotherapy will be applied to patients for a total of 3 weeks, 5 days
      a week within the scope of this study.

      The assessments will be performed before treatment and at the end of three weeks treatment
      period.

      A detailed story will be taken from the patients first. The lymphedema diagnoses of the
      patients will be confirmed by ultrasonographic imaging method. Imaging will be performed
      using a 5-12 MHz linear probe (Logiq P5, GE, Wisconsin, USA) on the upper extremity. Dermis
      and subcutaneous soft tissue thicknesses; It will be measured using plenty of gel, using
      images without applying any pressure - with the help of the device's automatic calculation
      feature after marking.

      The severity of lymphedema between the two extremities will be assessed by environmental
      measurement.

      Semmes-Weinstein Monofilament Test: It will be applied 10 cm distal to the elbow joint of the
      volar surface in the forearm. The measurement will start with the lightest monofilament and
      proceed to the monofilament that the patient feels. Each monofilament will be applied to a
      spot three times in a row.

      Two Point Discrimination Test: This test is a non-invasive test commonly used in sensory
      evaluation. It is done by randomly touching one or two points. If 7 of the 10 answers given
      by the patient are correct, the answer is considered correct. If the answer is not correct,
      the difference between the two ends of the esthesiometer is increased by 1, 2 or 5 mm
      depending on the expected state of sensory loss. The test continues until you reach the
      correct answer. If the correct answer cannot be obtained even at 15 mm, the test is
      terminated.

      The pressure pain threshold will be evaluated with 'J tech Algometer Commander' by giving
      pressure from both the upper extremity to 10 cm distal from the volar surface of the elbow
      joint until the patient feels minimal pain. Pressure will be applied vertically with the 1
      cm2 head of the device and patients will be asked to say 'yes' whenever they feel
      uncomfortable with the pressure applied. The measurement will be repeated 3 times, and the
      pressure pain threshold will be calculated by taking the arithmetic average of these three
      trials.

      Hot / Cold Sensory Test: The sense of warm / cold will be evaluated with test tubes
      containing hot and cold liquid. The cold tube will be filled with water at 10 °C and the hot
      tube at 40 °C. When the patient's eyes are closed, these tubes will be touched to the skin
      surface 10 cm distal to the volar face elbow joint in a random order, and the patient will be
      asked to express that the water in the tube is hot or cold.

      Vibration Sensation Measurement: The vibration sensation will be measured from the lateral
      epicondyle in the upper extremity by diapason. Diapason is a small U-shaped tool made of
      steel that vibrates at a certain height when vibrated.

      Lymphedema Life Impact Scale: Weiss et al. The validity and reliability of the questionnaire
      developed by Orhan et al. made by. Lymphedema life impact scale consists of 18 questions and
      has physical, psychological and functional subtitles. '0'; no influence, '4'; It is scored
      between the minimum '0' and the maximum '72' score with a 5-stage Likert-type scale in the
      form of severe influence. As the score increases, the state of influence worsens.
    
  