
    
      Diet and exercise interventions have made great strides in preventing and delaying type 2
      diabetes (T2D) onset: benefits that surpass pharmacological interventions in some people.
      Disappointingly, only half the amount of weight loss and wide ranges in T2D risk reduction
      have been reported when translating these programs into community settings using less
      intense, more affordable interventions. Low program participation rates, underscored by
      reports that only 50% of Americans with prediabetes attempt lifestyle modifications, suggest
      that approaches focused on calorie restriction and physical activity are only effective for
      select, highly motivated individuals. Expanding success for heretofore resistant groups and
      optimizing long term maintenance requires novel approaches beyond diet and exercise. One
      novel approach is improving sleep.

      Associations between sleep duration, sleep patterns, and glucose regulation in healthy adults
      suggest that interventions targeting these dimensions of sleep will improve glucose
      regulation. Improved insulin sensitivity has been reported in a small community based daily
      sleep extension study (N= 16), as well as in a 2-day lab based sleep extension study using a
      personalized "catch up" sleep intervention in healthy adults (N = 19,). Limited by small
      sample sizes, controlled lab conditions, and the exclusion of persons at greatest risk for
      T2D, the role of sleep in mitigating T2D risk remains uncertain. Moreover, sleep extension
      interventions have applied a generic approach to extending sleep despite variability in
      individual sleep need. The sleep extension intervention in this study will address how to
      extend sleep based on individual responses to the intervention.

      This study will test the effects of a personalized daily sleep extension intervention versus
      habitual sleep patterns on the percentage of time glucose is 140 mg/dL in sleep restricted
      community-dwelling adults at high risk for T2D. Wearable sensor technologies (continuous
      glucose monitoring and accelerometry) will be used. This study will inform person-specific
      sleep interventions that improve glycemic responses, thus providing treatment for the
      pre-diabetic state.

      Hypothesis: Personalized daily sleep extension will result in a lower % time glucose is ≥ 140
      compared to habitual sleep after 8 weeks of treatment initiation.
    
  