
    
      Stages of the study

      The project will be carried out in 5 phases distributed in 3 continuous periods of time.

        -  Stage 1 - 2 month period (observational period).

        -  Collection of patient information for bundle/protocol development.

        -  Stage 2 - 3 month period.

        -  Protocol / bundle development according to evidence-based approach

        -  Active dissemination of bundle/protocol.

        -  Stage 3 - 1 month period (implementation and evaluation period)

        -  Protocol / bundle implementation.

        -  Collection of patient information, measurement of adherence and evaluation of the effect
           of the bundle/protocol.

      Description of the Phases of the Study

      Stage 1

      • Collection of patient information for the elaboration of the bundle/protocol.

      Information from patients hospitalized at the ICU will be collected through a data collection
      sheet, prospectively to quantify the local magnitude of the constipation and other
      alterations associated with the decrease in intestinal motility, interventions performed with
      their results and its consequences.

      The data will be collected through a collection form, which will consist of 5 parts:

        -  Part I: Basic background record (Age, gender, anthropometric data, ICU service you
           enter, service from which it comes, chronic morbid history).

        -  Part II: Registration of factors in the patient that may be related to the presence of
           gastrointestinal motility disorders, as a risk or protective factor during the stay in
           ICU (type of mechanical ventilation, use of norepinephrine, medicines used in
           sedoanalgesia, degree of sedation according to SAS scale)

        -  Part III: Characterization of the nutrition administered to the patient during the stay
           in ICU (what type of enteral nutrition he is receiving, daily amount of nutrition, daily
           water balance, amount of bowel movements and if he has diarrhea).

        -  Part IV: Registry of Laxative/s and/or Prokinetic/s Treatment and its clinical
           evolution.

        -  Part V: Identification and Registration of adverse effects associated with the indicated
           treatment that are clinically evaluable and/or by registration in the nursing and
           medical record.

      Stage 2

      • Bundle/protocol development according to evidence-based approach

      Protocol and bundle elaboration.

      • Active dissemination of a constipation protocol / bundle.

      Implementation strategies will be addressed using the EPOC taxonomy (Effective Practice and
      Organization of Care (EPOC). EPOC taxonomy. Oslo: Norwegian Knowledge Center for the Health
      Services; 2002). For the purpose of this work only part of the

      Interventions aimed at health professionals.

      A. Distribution of the protocol and bundles by email and a hard copy to all unit heads. In
      addition, all the professional prescribers of the unit will be given a hard copy.

      B. Educational Talks: Directed to health professionals.

        -  Active education: Session in groups of no more than 10 people, usually carried out in
           medical visits, as feedback in multidisciplinary reviews of a patient between different
           professionals of the medical team and/or interconsultores (professionals from other
           disciplines and/or units other than within the ICU), in order to engage and educate the
           health professional about the interventions of the protoco and the bundles, and also
           confirm learning by the professional.

        -  Passive education: Sessions intended to disseminate information to the prescribing
           doctors of the entire unit, and to solve doubts globally.

      C. Local opinion leaders:

      Intervention through the participation of health professionals designated by their colleagues
      as "educationally influential" (health professionals staff of the ICU, nutritionist,
      gastroenterologist or others)

      D. Reminders: any oral or visual intervention that encourages the health professional to
      perform a clinical action related to the protocol / bundle. The following interventions are
      included:

        -  Oral reminders (Aimed at both treating physician, medical staff, and nurse between
           medical visits when there is evidence of suboptimal care for patients included in the
           study, for example, when a patient is constipated and is not receiving treatment).

        -  Administrative support (graphics or reminder stickers attached to each patient's box).

      Organizational Interventions:

      A. Structural interventions Incorporation of the protocol and bundles in each medical record
      of the patients included.

      Stage 3

      • Implementation of the bundle/protocol in patients admitted during this period, who meet the
      inclusion criteria and our treating doctors accepted informed consent (if necessary).

      The patients included in phase 3 of the study corresponding to the implementation of the
      package will be patients of the ICU, whatever the applications during the statistics, the set
      of exclusive controls for each service unit (previously accepted as a package) focused on the
      prevention of a probable episode of constipation, as long as there is no contraindication
      (previously described). If a patient included in the corresponding phase of the study will
      present constipation, the pharmacological management for said health problem will be applied,
      as specified in their "pharmacological management protocol for constipation" developed and
      validated together with the package.

      These protocol / package interventions will be presented to the health team during medical
      rounds by both the pharmaceutical chemist responsible for the investigation and by any other
      professional of the patient's health team in order to comply with the adherence to the
      protocol / package for each patient

      • Collection of patient information, adherence measurement and evaluation of the effect of
      the protocol / package.

      Information from hospitalized patients in the ICU will be collected through a data collection
      form previously validated in Stage 1. In addition, the following information will be
      incorporated:

        -  Part I to Part V: Identical to the one previously validated.

        -  Part VI: Applicability of bundle in each of the elements.

        -  Part VII: Applicability of protocol.

      This data will be backed up in an EXCEL (office) format file for later analysis.

      Sample size

      The universe and the target population will be all admitted patients that meet the inclusion
      criteria in the period of time in which stage 1 (observational period) and stage 3 (period of
      implementation and evaluation) of the study are executed

      Events to evaluate

      In this research paper:

      The effectiveness of the analysis of the following definitions shall be understood:

      • Adhesion: It will be understood as adherence to the effective fulfillment of the
      interventions that will be prepared for the protocol and the bundle.

      • Constipation: Constipation shall be understood as the presence of "three or more
      consecutive days without depositions" and prolonged constipation as "six or more consecutive
      days without depositions". For both definitions, it will be considered as zero day without
      depositions from the start of enteral nutrition, at most 96 hours after admission to the ICU.

      Safety shall be understood as the analysis of adverse events described in the following
      definitions:

      • Intolerance to nutritional support: It is understood as an intolerance to enteral
      nutritional support to the presence of "gastric residue greater than 500mL in a measurement
      during the day, or to the presence of vomiting", which will be taken into account in patients
      who are being given enteral nutrition.

      • Liquid deposition: Liquid deposition shall be understood as the presence of a "deposition
      of liquid consistency quantified in an amount greater than 200 milliliters". It is also
      synonymous with a diarrheal deposition. *

      • Mechanical fan day: A mechanical ventilator day will be considered when the patient
      requires mechanical ventilator support for more than 12 hours on the day of hospitalization
      analyzed.
    
  