
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the effect of a tailored, nurse-delivered intervention, as compared to the
      control group, on perceived risk for falls in hospitalized hematology-oncology patients.

      II. To evaluate the effect of a tailored, nurse-delivered intervention, as compared to the
      control group, on confidence to minimize falls in hospitalized hematology-oncology patients.

      III. To evaluate the relationship between patients' perceived risk for falling and their
      willingness to call for assistance with ambulation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the relationship between patients' perceived risk for falls and nursing risk
      assessments when using the standard hospital assessment tool and the investigator-designed
      perceived risk survey.

      II. To evaluate the relationship between a patients' perceived risk for falls and sustaining
      a fall.

      III. To evaluate patient satisfaction with the intervention.

      OUTLINE:

      All participants complete the Perceived Risk Survey comprising the participants' perceived
      risk for falls, their confidence to prevent a fall, and their willingness to ask for
      assistance at baseline and at 24 and 72 hours (or at discharge if stay is less than 72 hours)
      post-intervention. Patients are then randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Participants receive tailored education comprising one of four two-minute videos
      determined by which educational group the participant is placed in: high risk/high
      perception, high risk/low perception, low risk/high perception, or low risk/low perception.
      Participants also receive printed education sheets based on the participants' answers given
      on the Perceived Risk Survey and are tailored to the participants' perception of falls risk.

      ARM II: Participants receive a generic educational instruction sheet on falls prevention and
      receive standard care by nurses comprising a falls risk assessment and verbal education.
    
  