
    
      The DOHaD paradigm proposes that early life nutrition and growth influence health and disease
      risk across the life-course. Intrauterine period is the most crucial period in these events,
      and contributes to fetal programming. Fetal undernutrition as well as over-nutrition
      (maternal obesity and diabetes) increase risk of diabetes in the offspring. Current thinking
      is that fetal programming is an 'epigenetic' phenomenon and the most prominent mechanism may
      be methylation of DNA and histones that regulate gene expression in key pathways. The
      investigators have previously highlighted a role for maternal micronutrients in fetal
      programming of adiposity, insulin resistance, and prediabetes (nutrient mediated
      teratogenesis). Now, the investigators propose to study the impact of maternal hyperglycemia
      during pregnancy on the future risk of diabesity in the offspring (fuel mediated
      teratogenesis). This programme, first of its kind in India, will undertake 'OMICs'
      measurements (DNA methylation and targeted metabolomics) on cord blood samples of children
      born to women with gestation diabetes mellitus (GDM), in studies in Pune, Western India
      (Arm-1) and Punjab, North India (Arm-2). Markers identified in the discovery phase will be
      investigated for validity and stability in blood, cord blood and placenta samples from
      children born to GDM mothers in the older cohorts in Pune and Punjab. Danish investigators
      will perform complimentary measurements in the Danish National Birth Cohort which will allow
      comparison of epigenetic markers in these two populations with widely different prevalence of
      GDM, and ethnic and nutritional factors. Special attention will be given to role of
      nutritional and lifestyle factors of mothers which influence the programming of fetal
      epigenome during pregnancy. The biobank of maternal, cord and offspring samples will be
      available in future to test newer hypotheses. This study will benefit from technology
      transfer across two countries. The findings will add substantially to the evidence base of
      intergenerational transmission of diabetes in a diabetic pregnancy, and will inform
      policy-makers to help curb the escalating epidemic of diabetes in India.

      Hypotheses

        1. The molecular mechanisms underlying the associations between gestational diabetes in the
           mother and diabesity in the offspring may involve permanent changes of DNA methylations
           in various tissues including blood cells obtained at birth and/or during childhood
           defining different trajectories.

        2. Epigenetic fingerprints linking GDM with risk of T2D among the offspring may or may not
           be influenced by tissue of origin, diet, life-style and ethnicity of population.

        3. Epigenetic changes in blood cells obtained at birth and/or during childhood associated
           with GDM in pregnancy may be used as bio-markers to predict later development of T2D in
           the offspring

        4. The risk of developing diabetes among offspring of GDM women may be influenced by
           maternal factors operating during pregnancy including degree of hyperglycemia, obesity,
           dietary factors including composition of macro- and micronutrients, and/or by the level
           of physical activity of the mother.
    
  