
    
      Recurrent GBM is characterized by a dismal prognosis, with a median overall survival of 6.9
      months. While a standard of care is established for the initial treatment of GBM - radiation
      with concurrent and adjuvant temozolomide chemotherapy - management of recurrent disease
      (NCCN, 2014) remains suboptimal. Treatment options include repeat surgery, re-irradiation, or
      chemotherapy (including experimental targeted therapies, biologic agents, and
      immunotherapies). Only a minority of patients has response to these treatments, and the
      resultant benefits in progression-free and overall survival are in the order of weeks to
      months.

      Prognosis and response to therapy are known to be better in patients with a methylated MGMT
      promoter gene. Epigenetic silencing of MGMT by promoter methylation is an important factor in
      predicting outcome for patients with GBM treated with temozolomide. Approximately 66% of GBM
      tumors are MGMT unmethylated (high expression of MGMT), which through a MGMT repair
      mechanism, confers resistance to temozolomide, the standard chemotherapy treatment of GBM.

      VAL-083, Dianhydrogalactitol (DAG), unlike temozolomide, is demonstrated to be active
      independent of MGMT resistance mechanisms, in vitro. Thus, it may provide a treatment option
      for those patients that are considered likely to be poor responders to temozolomide.

      This is a non-comparative, two arm, biomarker-driven study with VAL-083 in GBM patients with
      either recurrent disease (Group 1) or newly diagnosed GBM patients requiring maintenance
      therapy after chemoradiation with temozolomide (Group 2).

      Group 1: A total of up to 83 patients with recurrent/progressive GBM will be enrolled. This
      will include 35 patients treated at 40 mg/m2 and up to 48 patients treated at 30 mg/m2.

      Group 2: Up to an additional 36 newly diagnosed GBM patients who have completed
      chemoradiation treatment with temozolomide and received no subsequent maintenance
      temozolomide will be enrolled.

      Eligible patients will receive VAL-083 IV on days 1, 2, and 3, for up to 12, 21-day treatment
      cycles or until they fulfill one of the criteria for study discontinuation (disease
      progression, death, intolerable toxicities, investigator's judgment, or withdrawal of
      consent). Disease status will be evaluated with clinical and MRI evaluation every other
      21-day cycle, while the patient is receiving VAL-083 treatment, and then approximately every
      42 ± 7 days while remaining on study. Symptom burden will be evaluated using the MD Anderson
      Symptom Inventory-Brain Tumor (MDASI-BT) completed by patients at baseline and at the time of
      each imaging evaluation.

      Interval medical histories, targeted physical exams, neurologic evaluations, complete blood
      counts, and other laboratory and safety assessments will be performed approximately every
      21-days. Blood samples will be taken at Cycle 1 Day 1 pre-dose, 15 ± 5 min, 30 ± 5 min, 60 ±
      10 min, 120 ± 10 min, 240 ± 15 min, and 360 ± 15 min after the end of the of iv infusion with
      VAL-083 to determine the PK profile and dose-exposure relationship of VAL-083.

      Toxicity will be evaluated and documented using the NCI CTCAE version 4.

      This study will take approximately 36 months to enroll.
    
  