
    
      Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) is complicated by high failure rates in
      young, active individuals, which is associated with worse outcomes and higher rates of
      osteoarthritis (OA). ACLR failure reduces quality of life (QOL) and has substantial
      socioeconomic costs. Therefore, strategies to reduce ACLR failure are imperative. Lateral
      extra-articular tenodesis (LET) may provide greater stability; however, its effect on the
      rate of graft failure remains unclear, and surgically-induced lateral compartment OA is a
      concern given the potential for over-constraint of the joint.

      Many surgeons believe that autograft choice for ACLR, with or without LET, does not affect
      graft failure. Specifically, bone patella tendon bone (BPTB) autograft has been perceived to
      be just as good as a hamstring tendon (HT) graft. However, recent meta-analyses suggest that
      BPTB grafts provide better stability, albeit with greater donor site morbidity. Increasingly,
      quadriceps tendon (QT) autograft is being used for ACLR with claims of comparable stability
      to the BPTB graft without the donor site morbidity. However, the effects of a QT on graft
      failure are unknown. Despite its importance, there has not been an adequately powered study
      to evaluate if BPTB or QT is superior to the other in terms of graft failure rates, return to
      sports, donor site morbidity, lateral compartment OA and healthcare costs.

      Objectives:

      Determine if graft type (QT, BPTB, HT) with or without a LET affects:

        -  Rate of ACL clinical failure 2 years after ACLR;

        -  Patient-reported outcomes, muscle function, performance-based measures of function (hop
           tests, drop vertical jump) and return to sports;

        -  Intervention-related donor site morbidity, complications and adverse outcomes;

        -  Cost-effectiveness of ACLR and LET. Approach: This is a multicenter, international,
           randomized clinical trial that will randomly assign 1236 ACL deficient patients at high
           risk of re-injury, to an anatomic anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) using
           a BPTB or QT autograft with or without a LET in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. Data from this study
           will be combined with data from a recently completed RCT comparing ACLR with a hamstring
           tendon (HT) graft with or without LET.

      Randomization will be stratified by surgeon, sex, and meniscal status (normal/repaired v
      meniscectomy) in permuted block sizes to ensure that any differences in outcome attributable
      to these factors are equally dispersed between treatment groups. Each site will either use
      traditional or expertise-based randomization. All randomization will use the web-based
      application available through the data management center.

      Methods to Reduce Biases:

      Selection Bias between STABILITY 2 Intervention Groups: We will partially determine
      eligibility prior to surgery. Once in surgery, all patients will undergo an examination under
      anesthesia and diagnostic arthroscopy to confirm final eligibility. The surgeon will document
      evidence of the participant's ineligibility in the surgical report that is discovered during
      surgery (e.g. partial ACL rupture where an ACLR is not performed, multiple ligament
      reconstruction, chondral lesion requiring more than debridement). The operative notes for all
      participants that were consented will be included in the study database. The study quality
      control monitors will review the evidence provided by the operating surgeon (arthroscopic
      pictures/video of ACL integrity and chondral status) and recommend that either the
      participant remain in the study or be withdrawn since they were never eligible.

      At the traditional randomization sites, full randomization occurs during surgery following
      arthroscopic evaluation of eligibility, which already serves to reduce the risk of selection
      bias. The action of requiring evidence of ineligibility at time of surgery therefore, reduces
      the risk of sampling bias (applicability) in traditional randomization sites. At the
      expertise-based randomization sites, where randomization to graft type occurs prior to
      surgery, this action will prevent unsubstantiated post-randomization withdrawals prior to
      randomization to LET or no LET, which reduces sampling bias (applicability) and selection
      bias by avoiding unequal exclusions between the LET/no LET assignment since randomization to
      LET/no LET occurs after the arthroscopic examination. In summary, having to provide evidence
      of eligibility at surgery will serve as a deterrent for surgeons declaring eligible
      consenting patients ineligible during surgery, which serves to reduce the likelihood of
      sampling and selection bias.

      Selection Bias between STABILITY 1 (NCT02018354) and STABILITY 2 Comparisons: STABILITY 1
      followed the exact same protocols as are proposed for STABILITY 2 and the two studies will be
      performed immediately in series; thus, changes in ancillary care and surgeon expertise are
      unlikely. Consequently, analyses that combine data from STABILITY 1 and STABILITY 2 are
      unlikely to suffer significant between-study selection biases that are usually a concern for
      non-randomized comparisons. Further, to evaluate selection bias between the STABILITY 1 and
      STABILITY 2 samples, the baseline characteristics of the samples will be evaluated to
      identify any systematic differences between the samples.

      Performance Bias, Fidelity & Adherence: Surgeons have agreed upon standardization of aspects
      of the surgical interventions that could potentially influence outcomes. All other aspects of
      the surgical interventions are meant to be pragmatic and may vary by surgeon. Aspects allowed
      to vary are not expected to influence outcome. Further, randomization is stratified by
      surgeon so that nuance differences by surgeon are balanced between groups. In terms of
      fidelity, all participating surgeons have the necessary expertise to conduct both surgical
      procedures (BPTB, QT) if they have elected to participate in traditional randomization.
      Surgeons who have a preference for or greater skill performing one graft type over the other,
      will participate in expertise-based randomization and have identified another surgeon with
      similar expertise/preference performing the opposite graft type. In terms of performing a
      LET, all surgeons who have not completed at least 10 LETs will participate in a cadaver
      training lab and be required to complete at least 10 LET procedures prior to randomizing
      their first patient. The investigators have agreed upon a protocol for ACL rehabilitation
      following ACLR. All patients will receive a copy of the protocol with a standardized referral
      from their surgeon for their physical therapist. Deviations from the protocol are not
      expected to be different from usual practice and as such patient adherence with
      rehabilitation protocols is expected to vary. Given the large sample size, we expect that
      adherence to rehabilitation will be balanced between groups and we will adjust the analyses
      for length of time in rehabilitation. This study will track the number of rehabilitation
      sessions attended, milestones and timing of rehabilitation-specific activities to collect
      some adherence and fidelity data.

      Detection Bias: An independent surgeon, primary care sports medicine physician, physical
      therapist or athletic trainer who is unaware of group allocation will conduct all assessments
      of graft stability (primary outcome). Although incisions are unique for each procedure,
      patients will wear a tubigrip sleeve over both knees to conceal the incisions and reduce bias
      in assessments that require side-to-side comparisons, including the primary outcome. Data
      assessors for other outcomes will also be kept unaware of group allocation using this method.

      Intention-to-Treat Principle: Patients will be analyzed within the group to which they were
      randomized regardless of graft type received or adherence to protocols.

      Attrition Bias: From STABILITY 1, we have complete data on 95% of the 618 patients who are at
      least 2 years postoperative demonstrating that we are capable of successful recruitment and
      retention in a study of this magnitude. We will use the same measures to maximize
      completeness of follow-up

      Statistical Methods:

      Sample Size: We estimate that the absolute risk of graft failure (as defined above) in the
      ACLR will range from 25-35%. STABILITY 1 supports this estimate. We consider a relative
      reduction in graft failure rate of at least 40% to merit a change in practice (i.e. of
      sufficient magnitude to warrant the additional costs of adding a LET). With 255 patients per
      group and a type I error rate of 1% we would have 80% power to detect a relative risk
      reduction in rate of failure of 40% or greater in those with LET assuming the graft failure
      rate in ACLR is 33%. We have used a small type I error rate of 1% to reduce the risk of
      multiple comparisons error. To reduce the risk of losing precision from withdrawal and
      lost-to-follow-ups, we will over recruit by 15%, for a total of 309 per group or 1853
      participants in total (combined STABILITY 1 and STABILITY 2 data).

      While not all sites have the infrastructure to conduct the isokinetic quadriceps and
      hamstring tests (13 sites) and in vivo kinematics during the DVJ (one site), these outcomes
      are reported using a continuous metric and therefore do not require as large a sample size as
      the proportional primary outcome.

      Statistical Analyses: The data collected through this study will be pooled with the data from
      STABILITY 1 for analysis (n=1800). To determine whether graft type (QT, BPTB, HT) with or
      without a LET offers a greater reduction in rate of failure following ACLR (primary research
      question), we will use a random-effects logistic regression with failure following ACLR at
      each visit (yes/no) as the outcome where fixed effects include intervention group, meniscal
      repair status, sex and time (as a categorical variable) and random effects include patient
      and surgeon. We will conduct a similar analysis for secondary outcomes like
      return-to-activity and donor site adverse events, as both are binary outcomes. For each
      continuous secondary outcome including PRO scores, measures of impaired ROM and muscle
      strength, performance-based measures of physical function, and lateral compartment joint
      space narrowing, we will conduct a linear mixed-effects model where the fixed effects include
      ACLR group, meniscal repair status, sex and time (as a categorical variable) and random
      effects including patient and surgeon. For missing data, we will evaluate whether data are
      missing completely at random by comparing the available data (especially at baseline) for
      those with and without missing data at follow-up. We will use multiple imputation techniques
      to handle missing data.

      Sex-based analysis: To compare failure between HT+LET and other graft options (BPTB or QT)
      for males and females separately, we will conduct a random-effects logistic regression with
      the same fixed and random effects as in the primary analysis.

      Health services analyses: We will assign the average procedure cost for an ACLR surgery at
      each participating institution with the additional cost of the lateral extra-articular
      tenodesis for those patients randomized to the LET group. Patients who undergo a revision
      ACLR will complete a healthcare resource diary to capture additional direct and indirect
      costs. We will conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis from a healthcare payer and societal
      perspective using quality-adjusted life years (QALY) as our effectiveness outcome at two
      years postoperative. We will estimate the incremental net benefit (INB) of ACLR + LET using a
      random effects multilevel model. To characterize the statistical uncertainty around our
      estimate of INB, we will use an extension of the standard net benefit regression framework
      using the hierarchical data to generate location-specific net benefit curves, and
      cost-effectiveness acceptability curves.
    
  