
    
      Prospective randomized control trial. There will be 2 groups, control group and the
      intervention group. The control group will receive the standard of care used for NAS
      treatment currently in Cooper Hospital NICU and transitional nursery.

      Morphine is used as the standard treatment and if the withdrawal symptoms are not well
      controlled, Phenobarbital may be added as a rescue therapy at that time. Hence, both the
      Morphine and Phenobarbital are part of the standard treatment at Cooper University Hospital
      for NAS. The intervention group will be treated with Clonidine for withdrawal symptoms of NAS
      and if not well controlled with Clonidine then Phenobarbital will be added as a rescue
      therapy.

      All of the medications, Clonidine, Morphine and Phenobarbital will be administered orally via
      syringe, prior to initiation of a feed.

      The following are the treatment guidelines (see attached for more details):

        1. Observe babies exposed to narcotics in utero in the hospital for a minimum of 72 hours
           to 5 days prior to discharge, to monitor for possible withdrawal symptoms.

        2. Once infants are exhibiting signs of withdrawal, the infants will be scored using
           Modified Finnegan Scoring System every four hours after feeds:

             1. If a score is 8 or higher, scoring will be done every 2 hours

             2. If three consecutive scores are less than 8, scoring will go back to every four
                hours, after feeds

        3. The subjects will be scored from a minimum of 6 hours.

        4. Treatment will be initiated if there are three consecutive scores of 8 or higher.

        5. For each baby undergoing NAS scoring, and if therapy needs to be initiated, then
           physical and occupational therapy will be consulted.

        6. Blood pressure and heart rate will be checked by the bedside nurse and documented once
           treatment is started (timing of every 3 or every 4 hours will depend on feeding schedule
           of the baby) and continued as follows:

             1. Check every three or four hours (with hands on care) for the first 24 hours (day 1
                of medication) of treatment.

             2. Check every eight hours (or 6 hours with care) for the next 24 hours (day 2 of
                medication).

             3. Check every twelve hours for day 3 of treatment and until discontinuation of
                therapy.

             4. Check every twelve hours for 24 hours after the discontinuation of the medication.

        7. If the infant is started on medication at less than 7 days of age, the birth weight will
           be used for medication dosing throughout the study, for weaning and for increasing the
           dose. If the infant is started on medication after 7 days of life, then the current
           weight will be used for initiation of medication dose and the same weight will be used
           throughout the study, and for increases and weaning of the medication dose.

        8. Mother/guardian of the baby will be approached as soon as it is determined that the baby
           may be at risk for NAS once he/she is born and the consent obtained at that time. This
           may be before or after baby's birth but before initiation of medical/pharmacological
           treatment of NAS.

        9. Randomization to the standard therapy group (Morphine group) versus intervention group
           (Clonidine group).

             1. When the patient is determined to need pharmacological treatment for NAS by the
                treating physician, a member of the research team will be notified.

             2. Presence of consent will be verified, or consent obtained.

             3. Randomization procedure will take place.

             4. The nurses, parents, and the medical staff directly taking care of the patient will
                be blinded and be unaware of specific group the patient is randomized to.

       10. Start Medication

             1. Standard Group: Start oral (PO/NG/OG) Morphine Sulfate at 0.03 mg/kg/dose every 3
                hours or 0.04 mg/kg/dose every 4 hours depending on baby's feeding schedule.

             2. Intervention Group: Start oral (PO/NG/OG) Clonidine HCl (Catapress) at 0.38
                mcg/kg/dose every 3 hours or 0.5 mcg/kg/dose every 4 hours depending on baby's
                feeding schedule.

       11. Continue scoring as per standard protocol using the Modified Finnegan Scoring Tool.

       12. Do not wean the medication for the first 24 hours, even if the scores are low

       13. For three consecutive scores of 8 or greater, or 2 scores of greater than or equal to
           13:

           a. Increase the dose of the medication by 25% of the previous dose.

       14. If there is one Finnegan score of 12 or greater or consecutive scores over 8, may give
           one rescue dose 1-2 per 24 hours (of whichever medication the patient is receiving):

             1. Morphine 0.02 mg/kg

             2. Clonidine 0.25 mcg/kg

       15. If there are 3 consecutive scores higher than 8 and if:

             1. Clonidine needs to be increased greater than 4 times, may add Phenobarbital Sodium
                (65 mg vial or 130 mg vial depending the dose which is based on the weight of the
                patient) oral (PO/NG/OG) at 5 mg/kg/day divided BID = 2.5 mg/kg, every 12 hours. No
                loading doses.

             2. Morphine needs to be increased greater than 4 times, may add Phenobarbital oral
                (PO/NG/OG) at 5 mg/kg/day divided BID = 2.5 mg/kg, every 12 hours. No loading
                doses.

       16. Do not weight adjust Phenobarbital unless the patient's NAS symptoms are not stable or
           there is difficulty weaning Clonidine or Morphine.

       17. Clonidine or the Morphine will not be weight adjusted as the patient continues to grow
           and gain weight.

       18. Once patient is stable (scores <8 for 24-48 hours), Clonidine/Morphine will be decreased
           by 10% of the highest dose using the original/birth weight (same amount each time) every
           24 to 48 hours, provided the scores remain below 8.

           a. Example: If started at 0.04 mg/kg based on 2 kg, will wean by 0.004 mg/kg, using 2
           kg.

       19. Discontinue medication (notified by the pharmacist when reach the discontinuation dose)
           when:

             1. Clonidine - dose is at 0.15 mcg/kg/dose Q3h or 0.2 mcg/kg/dose Q4h (1 mcg/kg/day).
                The dosing interval depends on the feeding schedule of the patient.

             2. Morphine - dose is at 0.015 mg/kg/dose Q3h or 0.02 mg/kg/dose Q4h (1 mg/kg/day).
                The dosing interval depends on the feeding schedule of the patient.

       20. Monitor for a minimum of 24 hours by checking and documenting standard NICU vitals
           (heart rate, blood pressure, respirations, temperature), and Modified Finnegan Scores
           after the medication is discontinued prior to discharging home. All patients in the NICU
           are monitored continuously using cardiopulmonary monitors which include monitoring for
           heart rate, blood pressure, respiratory rate and oxygen saturation. Treating physician
           will be evaluating these vital signs.

       21. Signs of rebound hypertension may be seen within 24 hours after discontinuation of
           Clonidine.10,11,13 Treating physician will be evaluating for this, as well as standard
           vitals in all patients for 24 hours after discontinuation of therapy.

           a. As per Lexicomp:35 i. The half-life in children is 6.13 + 1.33 hours. ii.
           Discontinuation of therapy: Gradual withdrawal is needed (taper oral immediate release
           or epidural dose gradually over 2 to 4 days to avoid rebound hypertension). The
           Clonidine withdrawal syndrome is more pronounced after abrupt cessation of long term
           therapy than after short-term therapy (1 to 2 months). It has usually been associated
           with previous administration of high oral doses (>1.2 mg daily in adults) and /or
           continuation of beta-blocker therapy. Blood pressure may increase 8 to 24 hours after
           last dose.

           b. In our study we will be weaning Clonidine over a period of time and by the time
           Clonidine is discontinued it will be less than ½ of the smallest therapeutic dose. Blood
           pressure will be monitored for the whole duration of Clonidine wean.

       22. Blood pressure instability (hypotension and hypertension) will be defined as per the
           figures attached at the end of the protocol.

             1. The blood pressure ranges are as following:36

                  -  Systolic Blood Pressure (SBP) (Using the range from 35 weeks to 44 weeks)

                       -  Minimum: 50-70 mmHg

                       -  Maximum: 85-110 mmHg

                  -  Diastolic Blood Pressure (Using the range from 35 weeks to 44 weeks)

                       -  Minimum: 25-45 mmHg

                       -  Maximum: 55-70 mmHg

             2. If the systolic blood pressure is more than 113 mmHg on 3 consecutive readings,
                then this will be considered hypertension.36

                  -  The blood pressure will be measured in the right upper arm. Three consecutive
                     readings at 2 minute interval will be measured.37,38 If the average of the
                     three readings of the SBP is more than 113 mmHg, then this will meet the
                     requirement for the definition of hypertension. Medical treatment will be
                     initiated for hypertension.

                  -  Hydralazine is one of the most commonly used medication used for hypertension
                     in neonates.38

                  -  Hydralazine (PO/NG/OG) 0.25 to 1 mg/kg/dose every 6 to 8 hours; maximum dose
                     7.5 mg/kg/day37,39

                  -  Blood pressure and heart rate will continue to be monitored.

       23. Infants may be discharged on Phenobarbital.
    
  