
    
      ABT-510: In the early 1990s, thrombospondin (TSP-1) was first recognized as an endogenously
      produced inhibitor of angiogenesis. Since then, thrombospondin has been shown to inhibit
      neovascularization and tumorigenesis in numerous mouse models. Its anti- angiogenesis
      properties have been localized to its N-terminal region. Although smaller fragments of this
      region retain some of thrombospondin's anti-angiogenesis properties, researchers have
      discovered that specific amino acid substitutions can greatly enhance these properties. From
      these efforts, ABT-510, a nine-amino acid synthetic peptide has emerged as a novel
      anti-angiogenesis agent. The peptide is soluble and stable in water and is administered
      parenterally as an acetate salt in 5% dextrose solution for clinical use.

      ABT-510 has been evaluated in three Phase I studies: one single-dose study in healthy
      volunteers and two studies in cancer patients. Doses ranging from 10 mg to 260 mg have been
      evaluated as IV infusions (30-minute), subcutaneous bolus injections, or 24-hour subcutaneous
      infusions. Overall, ABT-510 has been well tolerated. A preliminary review of the 103 case
      report forms collected to date identified a total of 1306 adverse events. Ninety-one percent
      (1195/1306) of these events were considered to be mild or moderate in nature. Eighty-one
      percent (1052/1306) of these events were reported as not related to or probably not related
      to ABT-510. The most common adverse events, occurring in >10% of the patients, include
      injection site reaction, asthenia, abdominal pain, nausea, anorexia, pain, headache,
      vomiting, diarrhea, dyspnea, constipation, cough increased, back pain, peripheral edema,
      dizziness, insomnia, anemia, fever, sweating, chest pain, and rash.

      Bevacizumab (Avastin) is a recombinant, humanized, monoclonal antibody directed against
      vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). This antibody blocks binding of the ligand VEGF
      with its receptor. VEGF is known to play a pivotal role in tumor angiogenesis and is a
      significant mitogenic stimulus for arterial, venous, and lymphatic endothelial cells. It can
      induce vascular permeability essential for extracellular remodeling and can serve as an
      endothelial cell survival factor. Phase III studies in 1st line colorectal cancer, 2nd line
      colorectal cancer, 1st line breast cancer, and 1st line non-small cell lung cancer have all
      demonstrated clinical benefit in terms of overall survival, progression free survival, and
      tumor response [Refs.. HH NEJM, A Sandler ASCO2005, L Miller ASCO 2005]. Efficacy has also
      been noted in phase II studies of renal cell, ovarian, glioma, and other tumor types. Side
      effects of bevacizumab include approximately 10-20% rate of hypertension requiring
      anti-hypertensives, uncommon aterial thromboembolilc events (myocardial infarction, unstable
      angina, cerebrovascular events, transient ischemic attacks, etc) with background rates
      increased from approximately 1-2% to 2-4%, and an approximately 1-2% risk of GI perforation.

      Aside from this pivotal phase III colorectal cancer study, the dose of bevacizumab used for
      all other clinical trials has been 10mg/kg biweekly. A dose of bevacizumab at 10 mg/kg will
      be used in this study because it is consistent with the dosing used in most ongoing and
      planned bevacizumab studies and it has been shown, when compared to lower doses, to have
      comparable or improved activity.

      Based on available data, it is a reasonable hypothesis that the combination of ABT-510 and
      bevacizumab will be a safe and potentially efficacious anti-angiogenesis strategy for the
      treatment of adult solid tumors. This combination may have utility directly or may prove
      useful when subsequently combined with other anti-angiogenic agents or standard chemotherapy
      regimens. An important aspect of this proposed study will be the inclusion of a clinical
      dermal wound angiogenesis assay which will help quantify and characterize the anti-angiogenic
      contribution of each agent in this combination. Therefore, this study is meant to provide
      important safety information on this combination, but also insight into the additive
      mechanistic effects of two agents with different mechanisms of action.
    
  