
    
      Rationale for Research: Approximately 30% of maternal deaths in India are attributed to
      postpartum hemorrhage (PPH). The most common cause of PPH is uterine atony (failure of the
      uterus to contract properly after childbirth). Administration of an uterotonic drug as active
      management in the third stage of labor (AMTSL) can significantly reduce the rate of PPH.
      Oxytocin is considered the drug of choice for prevention of PPH. However, it is not always
      feasible to administer parenteral Oxytocin in resource-poor settings given the cold storage,
      sterile equipment, skilled personnel, and administration requirements. Recently, Oxytocin in
      Uniject®, a pre-filled, non-refillable easy to use device with a single measured dose has
      been found to be equally effective and safer and more convenient to use than traditional
      needle and syringe.

      Misoprostol has been explored for preventing PPH in settings where parenteral uterotonics are
      not yet available or feasible to use. In 2007, the World Health Organisation in its
      guidelines on prevention of PPH endorsed the administration of oral Misoprostol for PPH
      prevention by unskilled providers "trained in its use in settings where Active management of
      the third stage of labor (AMTSL) is not practiced".

      In spite of the evidence of clinical safety and efficacy of oral Misoprostol and/or Oxytocin
      in Uniject® as universal PPH prevention drugs, to date, there have been no studies comparing
      the programmatic effectiveness of either technology on a large scale or in nationwide PPH
      prevention programs. To address this gap, the investigators plan to conduct a large
      community-based trial in collaboration with the Aga Khan Health Services, India.

      Study Objectives: The study will assess the feasibility, cost, risks and benefits of use of
      oral Misoprostol and parenteral Oxytocin in Uniject® as prophylaxis for PPH in community
      settings.

      Study Design: The study is designed as a community-based cluster Randomised Control Trial.
      The study will enroll women delivering at Primary Health Centres (PHCs). Study centres will
      be assigned to one of the following: Group 1: 600 mcg oral Misoprostol, Group 2: 10 IU IM
      Oxytocin delivered by Uniject®.

      Study Procedures

        1. Informed consent /Enrollment: Women will be approached by trained study staff in the
           third trimester or when they present for delivery and asked if they wish to participate
           in the study. Women who meet the study's eligibility criteria and agree to participate
           will be asked to provide written consent. After enrollment, their baseline data will be
           recorded and a pre-delivery hemoglobin assessment will be done.

        2. At time of delivery: Standard procedures to manage the delivery will be followed.
           Immediately after delivery, participants will be given the assigned study medication
           (either Misoprostol or Oxytocin by Uniject®). The provider will monitor the women for
           side effects for 1 - 2 hours after delivery. Referrals will be carried out as per
           standard of care in each setting and documented.

        3. After delivery: The follow up visit will be conducted by a trained community health
           worker. Post-delivery Hb will be recorded for all women approximately 72 hours after
           delivery. Women's experiences of side effects, and acceptability and satisfaction with
           her care will be documented.

      Study Site and Sample: The study will be conducted in the Jamnagar district in Gujarat,India.
      Twenty seven PHCs will be considered eligible for participation. To detect a significant
      difference (pre- to post-delivery Hb) between the two prophylactic regimens of 0.1 g/dL (SD
      0.3 g/dL), and also adjusting for the cluster design, a total sample of approximately 1500
      deliveries is planned(750 deliveries per group).

      Study Medications: Both the drugs and Uniject device will be obtained from a pharmaceutical
      company in compliance with good manufacturing procedures. Gynuity will be responsible for
      supplying and re-supplying both the medications throughout the study and will monitor all
      logistics related to supply.

      Ethical considerations: Both the drugs are safe, effective evidence-based prophylactic
      uterotonics to prevent PPH. However, the protocol will be approved by all relevant
      Institutional Review Boards prior to enrollment of study participants. Only authorized study
      personnel will have access to study supplies and documents.

      Monitoring and Evaluation: An independent data and safety monitoring board will review the
      data periodically and make recommendations to investigators concerning study modification, if
      needed.
    
  