
    
      This randomized controlled clinical study included patients diagnosed with moderate/severe
      periodontitis who applied to the Department of Periodontology, Faculty of Dentistry, Inonu
      University. Written consent was received from each patient. Approval was obtained from the
      Malatya Clinical Research Ethics Committee for our study, which was designed in compliance
      with the Declaration of Helsinki.

      Two random split-mouth groups were formed among the patients. One side of each patient's
      mouth was administered AFG following SRP (test group), while the other side of the same
      patient's mouth was administered a placebo drug (control group).

      The following periodontal parameters were evaluated in all patients before and after SRP at
      the 1st, 3rd, and 6th months: probing depth (PD), clinical attachment level (CAL), plaque
      index (PI), gingival index (GI), and bleeding on probing (BOP) index. Measurements were
      performed using a Williams probe (Hu-Friedy, Chicago, IL, USA) for all teeth except for the
      third molars, in 4 regions (mesiobuccal, midbuccal, distobuccal, midlingual) for PI and GI
      and in 6 regions (mesiobuccal, midbuccal, distobuccal, mesiolingual, midlingual,
      distolingual) for PD, CAL, and BOP. Clinical attachment level was measured from the
      enamel-cement border. Following the initial measurement, the regions with ≥5 mm pocket depth
      were determined. Measurements were performed only in these regions in the 1st, 3rd, and 6th
      months. The initial pocket depth was considered within two subgroups as regions with 5-6 mm
      pocket depth and regions with ≥7 mm pocket depth.

      Venous blood from each patient (9 mL) was transferred into a tube without any anticoagulant.
      Following the protocol recommended by Sohn et al., the venous blood collected in the tube was
      centrifuged in a special centrifuge machine (Medifuge, Silfradent, Italy). The AFG at the top
      of the tube was collected using an injector.

      Nonsurgical periodontal treatments of the patients were completed in two sessions by a
      periodontology expert.

      In the first session, the supragingival calculus was removed, and patients were given oral
      hygiene training and encouragement. In the second session, the SRP procedure was performed
      under local anesthesia in the regions in which there were periodontal pockets of ≥5 mm in the
      quadrants considered as the control and test groups. The test group was administered AFG
      using a blunt dental injector in the subgingival region, as an adjunct to SRP, while the
      control group was administered the placebo.
    
  