
    
      -  Status of the issue and objective of the research Emergency Clinical Ultrasound (ECU)
           has shown excellent diagnostic relevance in patients presenting to emergency departments
           for dyspnea. A recent study including more than 2600 dyspneic patients in the emergency
           department shows that the diagnosis made with the ECU alone has a good concordance with
           the diagnosis of end of management in the emergency department but with a significantly
           shorter duration of obtaining it (186 ± 72 min vs 24 ± 10 min p = 0.025). This study,
           like many on the ECU, shows good performance when ultrasound is performed by experts.
           Confirmation that the ECU has a diagnostic performance comparable to all the
           examinations performed in the standard management of dyspneic patients, when applied by
           a large team of emergency physicians, is a necessity. The main objective of this study
           is to show the diagnostic concordance between the diagnosis resulting from the results
           of the ECU in dyspneic patients in the emergency department and the diagnosis at
           discharge from the emergency department in a large medical team with a heterogeneous
           level of training and experience. The secondary objective is to study these different
           diagnostic concordances according to the level of ultrasound expertise of the ER
           practitioners.

        -  Population :

      Adult patients (> 18 years old) admitted to the emergency department for a main reason of
      dyspnea.

      - Method of observation : This will be a prospective bicentric observational study.

        -  Origin and nature of nominative data collected. Data collected from computerized patient
           records.

        -  Mode of data flow The data collected will be noted on an anonymized Excel file for
           analysis.

        -  Duration and organization of the research Expected duration: 2 years, including an
           18-month inclusion period to allow for the inclusion of 2600 patients. Data is collected
           by the trial investigators.

        -  Method of data analysis Descriptive statistical analysis and comparison of concordance
           between different diagnostic methods

        -  Justification of the number of subjects or power analysis. 2600 to allow comparison with
           the original publication.
    
  