
    
      Randomized crossover study with systematic reviews in AB mode, where A is the baseline to the
      evaluation of the period of 2 weeks without any intervention and B, the two-week period with
      intervention, developed in the Evaluation Laboratory and complex intervention of shoulder at
      the Federal University of São Carlos (UFSCar).

      Patients will be divided into two groups through the online tool www.randomization.com. One
      group will start with the intervention period (BA) and the other group with the period
      without intervention (AB). As the evaluator will not know the distribution of patients in
      groups, will be blinded as to the pre and post intervention.

      The quantity variables, quality of movement, time to perform tasks and grip strength UL
      measures the MAL and WMFT, will be evaluated in five moments: at baseline, at the end of
      phase A, at the end of phase B, and monitoring of 1 and 3 months after the crossover period.
      The evaluation of scapular kinematics and trunk occur only at the beginning and the four-week
      period ends.

      Measures shall be performed by the principal investigator who is a physiotherapist who
      trained for Group Research Therapy Induced by restraining the University of Alabama at
      Birmingham in 2008, headed by Edward Taub (creator of the technique) and David Morris. The
      intervention will be carried out by three other physical therapists with the same training.
      Thus, the protocol will be based on the principles recommended by the Extremity
      Constraint-Induced Therapy Evaluation (EXCITE), a project that involved seven centers of
      North American research.

      The sample size is calculated for the main variables, quality movement measured by LAM. The
      effect size considered to be clinically relevant to the MAL is 1.0 on a scale from 0 to 5.
      The standard deviation of this variable in the population of severe hemiparesis found in
      other studies was. With a power of 80% and an α-probability error of 5% would require 16
      patients in total.
    
  