
    
      This is a multicenter, phase II, one-arm, open-label neoadjuvant study of pembrolizumab in
      combination with nab-paclitaxel followed by pembrolizumab in combination with epirubicin and
      cyclophosphamide (E/C) in patients with TNBC. Pathological complete response rate at the time
      of surgery is the primary objective of this study.

      In approximately six large breast cancer centers in Germany 50 patients are planned to be
      enrolled. All patients will undergo state of the art staging and tumor assessments prior to
      study entry to assess eligibility for the present trial. Eligible and consented patients will
      receive 12 cycles of weekly nab-paclitaxel i.v. 125 mg/m² BSA q1w in combination with 4
      cycles of pembrolizumab i.v. 200 mg q3w; followed by 4 cycles of epirubicin i.v. 90 mg/m² BSA
      and cyclophosphamide i.v. 600 mg/m² BSA, q3w in combination with 4 cycles pembrolizumab i.v.
      200 mg q3w. After the 25th patient has started trial treatment, all further included patients
      will receive 1 cycle of pembrolizumab i.v. 200 mg q3w monotherapy followed by 12 cycles of
      weekly nab-paclitaxel intravenous (i.v.) 125 mg/m² body surface area (BSA) in combination
      with 4 cycles of pembrolizumab i.v. 200 mg q3w; followed by 4 cycles of epirubicin i.v. 90
      mg/m² BSA and cyclophosphamide i.v. 600 mg/m² BSA, q3w in combination with 4 cycles of
      pembrolizumab i.v. 200 mg q3w. Clinical and bioptic tumor assessment will be performed after
      each treatment phase. Additional imaging, preferably with sonography, will be performed 6
      weeks after initiation of taxane and anthracycline therapy to allow for early progress and
      response monitoring.

      Study treatment will be applied until state of the art surgery, onset of unacceptable
      toxicities, progression or withdrawal of consent. A safety follow-up is planned 120 days
      after administration of the last dose of trial treatment.
    
  