
    
      Melasma is a common, acquired hypermelanosis that occurs in sun exposed areas, mostly on the
      face, occasionally on the neck, and rarely on the forearms.

      Melasma is generally a clinical diagnosis consisting of symmetric reticulated hypermelanosis
      in three predominant facial patterns: Centro facial, malar, and mandibular The major clinical
      pattern in 50-80% of cases is the Centro facial pattern, which affects the forehead, nose,
      and upper lip .

      The malar pattern is restricted to the malar cheeks on the face, while mandibular melasma is
      present on the jawline and chin .

      A newer pattern termed extra-facial melasma can occur on non-facial body parts, including the
      neck, sternum, forearms, and upper extremities .

      Using the Wood's light examination, melasma can be classified into four major histological
      types depending upon the depth of pigment deposition:The epidermal type, in which the
      pigmentation is intensified under Wood's light, is the most common type. The epidermal type
      is the most responsive to treatment.

      Key etiologic factors include a genetic predisposition, solar damage, barrier abnormalities,
      and unique sensitivities to hormonal changes including pregnancy, oral contraceptives, and
      hormone replacement therapy.

      Melasma is often difficult to treat, and the condition may be refractory. Despite a strong
      therapeutic demand, the treatment of melasma remains highly challenging with inconsistent
      results and almost constant relapses. The treatment of melasma should include a multimodality
      approach that incorporates photoprotective agents, antioxidant treatments, skin lighteners,
      exfoliants, and resurfacing procedures, as needed. Evidence-based studies suggest that first
      line therapies for melasma encompass intense photoprotection and topical lightening agents.

      Many depigmenting agents and other therapies such as chemical peeling are used for treating
      melasma, in the form of mono or combined therapy .

      The most commonly used peeling agents are alpha-hydroxy-acids, glycolic acid, Jessner
      solution, salicylic acid, trichloroacetic acid (TCA), pyruvic acid and phenol .

      Chemical peelings are used on a wide scale in cosmetic field including melasma treatment.
      They often provide clinicians with flexibility in tailoring treat- ments according to patient
      needs and satisfaction Chemical peelings are used on a wide scale in cosmetic field including
      melasma treatment. They often provide clinicians with flexibility in tailoring treat- ments
      according to patient needs and satisfaction Chemical peelings are used on a wide scale in
      cosmetic field including melasma treatment. They often provide clinicians with flexibility in
      tailoring treat- ments according to patient needs and satisfaction. Chemical peelings are
      used on a wide scale in cosmetic field including melasma treatment. They often provide
      clinicians with flexibility in tailoring treat- ments according to patient needs and
      satisfaction.

      Chemical peeling is a promising treatment for numerous pigmentary disorders as melasma. It
      aims to remove the melanin rather than the inhibition of melanocytes or melanogenesis by
      causing controlled necrosis and subsequent regeneration of the epidermis, apart from
      remodeling of collagen and elastic fibers in the dermis .

      TCA is widely used peeling agent in treatment of hyperpigmentation especially melasma. It is
      a keratolytic acid which cause precipitation of proteins and coagulation necrosis of the
      epidermis that leads to reepithelization with replacement of smoother skin with an even skin
      tone .It is not expensive, stable, not light-sensitive and does not need to be neutralized .

      Microdermabrasion (MDA) is a minimally invasive epidermal resurfacing procedure used to treat
      uneven skin tone/texture, photo aging, striae, melasma, and scars.Microdermabrasion uses a
      variable flow of vacuum suction to maintain contact with the skin whilst the crystals (or
      diamond tips) get to work by smoothing and buffing the skin's surface.The crystals (or
      diamond tips) cause gentle mechanical abrasion to the skin, which ultimately removes the
      stratum corneum layer of the epidermis. As part of the wound healing process, new epidermis
      forms with enhanced cosmoses. The technique is considered safe for all Fitzpatrick skin types
      and complications are minimal. In addition to the cosmetic benefits of MDA, studies have also
      shown improved skin permeability and enhanced delivery of transdermal medications dosed on an
      area of the skin treated with MDA. Microdermabrasion removes the stratum corneum, the
      outermost layer of the epidermis . MDA has also been shown to affect deeper layers of the
      epidermis and dermis. MDA causes a re-arrangement of melanosomes in the basal layer of the
      epidermis, flattening of rete ridges at the dermal-epidermal junction, increased collagen
      fiber density at the dermal-epidermal junction, and vascular ectasia in the reticular dermis
      .
    
  