
    
      This is an investigator initiated, randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled study. A
      total of 90 patients will be enrolled in the study. The study will be conducted over 4
      months. It includes 4 visits and 4 telephone calls. Patients with chronic low back pain (>3
      months) who meet inclusion and exclusion criteria and wish to participate in the study may be
      enrolled. Those who become enrolled will be scheduled for a baseline visit (Week 0). During
      the baseline visit, subjects will be given the official approved consent form to read and ask
      questions. Participants to this study will also receive a copy of the Dysport Risk Evaluation
      and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) statement. After obtaining informed consent signed by the
      subject, the subjects will be randomization into the Dysport or placebo group. The
      randomizing will be performed by a nurse and the information will be kept in a pass-worded
      computer. Blinding means that neither the participant nor the clinical rater will know which
      group the participant has been initially been assigned.

      Each subject will have a neurological examination and fill a demographic form and complete
      four rating questionnaires (appendix II-V). These include a visual analogue scale for pain (0
      to 10) and three quality of life questionnaires which depict quality of life (the American
      Chronic Pain Association's Quality of Life Scale), how pain affects ability to manage
      everyday life (Oswestry Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire), and overall physical and
      emotional health (Short Form-36). Patients will then receive an injection of either
      abobotulinumA (Dysport) or normal saline. Dysport or saline will be administered into the
      paraspinal muscles (extensors or erector spinae) at five levels (L1-L5), regardless of pain
      location. In the case of unilateral pain, this would amount to 500 units total, and in the
      case of bilateral pain, to 1000 units total, of Dysport per session.

      The primary outcome of the study is number of patients with VAS < 4 ( no or subtle pain) at
      week 6 after placebo or Dysport injection.
    
  