
    
      Primary Objectives

        1. The effect of bariatric surgery on Background Parenchymal Enhancement (BPE) on breast
           MRI through comparative analysis of images of women pre- and 1 year post-bariatric
           surgery.

        2. The effect of bariatric surgery on breast density as seen on standard four view
           mammograms by qualitative BIRADS category through comparative analysis of images of
           women pre- and 1 year post-bariatric surgery.

           Secondary Objectives

        3. The impact of bariatric surgery on obesity associated immune markers in breast tissue
           by:

             -  Comparing cellular immune infiltrate components [B cells (CD 20), cytotoxic T cells
                (CD8), helper T cells (CD4), dendritic cells (CD11c), leukocytes (CD45), and
                monocytes/macrophages (CD68)] in breast tissue lobules of obese women pre-, 14 days
                post, and 1 year post bariatric surgery, and comparing these to normal breast
                tissue of lean women from the KTB

             -  Comparing the presence of crown like structures (CLS) in breast tissue of obese
                women at pre-, 14 day post-, and 1 year post - bariatric surgery, and comparing
                these also to normal breast tissue of lean women from the KTB.

        4. The effect of bariatric surgery on aromatase expression in breast tissue of obese women
           pre-, 14 day post-, and 1 year post-bariatric surgery, as compared to levels in breast
           tissue of lean women from KTB.

        5. The effects of bariatric surgery on other blood correlatives pre- and 14 day and 1 year
           post-bariatric surgery including: 1) PGE2, TNF alpha, IL1 beta, IL-8 and IL-10 in the
           inflammatory pathway; 2) adiponectin, leptin, insulin, IGF1, and IGFBP3 in the insulin
           pathway; and 3) estradiol, SHBG, E2, T and DHEAS in the hormonal pathway. These will
           also be compared to blood samples from lean women in the KTB.
    
  