
    
      Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is an increasing global problem, especially in developing countries.
      T2D is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD), where hyperglycemia
      is especially important for microvascular damage.

      Previous studies in T2D on reduced carbohydrate intake has shown beneficial effects on
      glycemic control, indicated by reduction in HbA1c, fasting insulin and 2h-glucose (OGTT)
      values. However further studies are needed to establish the optimal diet for treating T2D.

      The investigators wishes to investigate whether a low carbohydrate diet, high in
      monounsaturated fats will:

        1. Improve glycemic control, dyslipidemia and metabolic markers in T2D despite unchanged
           anti-diabetic treatment.

        2. Improve endothelial function assessed by flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD) in the
           brachial artery as well as microvascular damage assessed by retinal scan, urine
           albuminuria and minimal forearm vascular resistance (MFVR).

        3. Improve Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) assessed by >2 points reduction in
           NAFLD Activity score with at least 1 point reduction in either lobular inflammation or
           hepatocellular ballooning, without worsening of fibrosis.

        4. Improve quality of life

        5. Improve gut dysbiosis

      The study will be conducted through a 6 month randomized controlled trial with 135
      participants with type 2 diabetes. 90 participants will be randomized to the intervention
      group, following a LCD, and 45 participants will be randomized to the control group (regular
      diet for diabetes, RDD). The below described measurements will be conducted before baseline
      and after 6 months, and the participants will fill out a QoL questionnaire at 0, 3 and 6
      months.

      Planned examinations are ultrasound assessment of flow-mediated vasodilation, Dual-energy
      X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA-scan), retina scan, liver biopsy, liver-scans, blood, urine, hair,
      saliva and feces. Accelerometers will be applied before, during and after the study to
      evaluate compliance in unchanged exercise pattern. Compliance with diet will be evaluated by
      a clinical dietitian and through food diaries.

      Baseline histology from the first 50 participants suggest that the current inclusion criteria
      doesn't cover the full spectrum of NAFLD (NASH and fibrosis) as expected. Further 50
      participants who will have had diabetes for more than 10 years and who will not fulfill
      inclusion criteria number 1 and 2 will be included. On this group of participants we will
      only perform liver-investigations and DEXA-scan. This group of participants, will not affect
      the timeschedule of the main study.
    
  