
    
      Wolman disease (WD) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by complete absence of an enzyme
      known as lysosomal acid lipase (LIPA). This enzyme is required to breakdown (metabolize)
      lipids in the body. Without the LIPA enzyme, lipids may abnormally accumulate in the tissues
      and organs of the body causing a variety of symptoms.

      WD is the most severe expression of LIPA deficiency. Milder form of the disorder are known as
      cholesteryl ester storage deficiency. The symptoms of WD usually become apparent shortly
      after birth, usually during the first few weeks of life. Affected infants may develop
      bloating or abdominal distention and may have significant hepatosplenomegaly. Fibrosis of the
      liver may also occur. In some cases, fluid may accumulate in the abdominal cavity (ascites).
      Infants with WD have serious digestive abnormalities including malabsorption, a condition in
      which the intestines fail to absorb nutrients and calories from food. Malabsorption
      associated with WD causes persistent and often forceful vomiting, frequent diarrhea,
      foul-smelling, fatty stools (steatorrhea) and malnutrition. Because of these digestive
      complications, affected infants usually fail to grow and gain weight at the expected rate for
      their age and sex (failure to thrive).

      Hepatosplenomegaly and protrusion of the abdomen can cause umbilical hernia, a condition in
      which the contents of the stomach may push through an abnormal opening or tear in the
      abdominal wall near the bellybutton. Additional symptoms may also occur in WD including
      yellowing of the skin, mucous membranes and whites of the eyes (jaundice), a persistent
      low-grade fever, and poor muscle tone (hypotonia). Infants may exhibit delays in the
      development of motor skills.

      A distinct finding associated with WD is the hardening of adrenal gland tissue due to the
      accumulation of calcium (calcification). The adrenal glands are located on top of the kidneys
      and produce epinephrine and norepinephrine. Other hormones produced by the adrenal glands
      help to regulate the fluid and electrolyte balance in the body. Calcification of the adrenal
      glands is not detectable by physical examination, but can be seen with x-ray study.
      Calcification may prevent the adrenal glands from producing enough essential hormones and can
      affect metabolism, blood pressure, the immune system and other vital processes of the body.

      Infants with WD may experience the loss of previously acquired skills required the
      coordination of muscle and motor skills (psychomotor regression). The symptoms of WD often
      get progressively worse eventually leading to life-threatening complications during infancy
      including extremely low levels of circulating red blood cells (severe anemia), hepatic
      dysfunction or failure, and physical wasting away and severe weakness often associated with
      chronic disease and marked by weight loss and loss of muscle mass (cachexia or inanition).

      WD is caused by mutations of the lysosomal acid lipase (LIPA) gene. It is inherited as an
      autosomal recessive trait. More than 50 cases have been reported in the medical literature.
      However, cases may go undiagnosed or misdiagnosed making it difficult to determine the
      disorder's true frequency in the general population.

      New methods, like mass-spectrometry give a good chance to characterize specific metabolic
      alterations in the blood (plasma) of affected patients that allow diagnosing in the future
      the disease earlier, with a higher sensitivity and specificity.

      Therefore it is the goal of the study to identify and validate a new biochemical marker from
      the plasma of the affected patients helping to benefit other patients by an early diagnose
      and thereby with an earlier treatment.
    
  