
    
      This study (B3031003) is an open-label study in pediatric subjects with Type 1 Gaucher
      Disease to characterize PK, PD and safety following an infusion of taliglucerase alfa in at
      least 5 subjects with body weight less than 15 kg; at least 5 subjects with body weight 15 to
      less than 20 kg; and at least 5 subjects with body weight of 20-25 kg. The PK sample
      collection will take approximately 4 hours to complete and will be performed one month or up
      to 6 months after the subject's first taliglucerase infusion in the registry study. The
      subject will be contacted the day after the PK samples are collected to assess any continuing
      or new adverse events and to review the subject's concomitant medications. Body weight at the
      time of the PK blood draw will determine the weight category for each subject. Subjects
      enrolled into the study will be assigned the same unique subject number assigned to them in
      the registry study (B3031002). This will allow linkage to relevant data from the registry
      study for analysis in this study.

      For the purposes of this study, baseline evaluations will be obtained from the registry study
      and must be performed prior to the subject's first dose of taliglucerase alfa. The Month 6
      and Month 12 evaluations will be performed 6 months and 12 months after the start of
      taliglucerase alfa treatment, respectively.

      Subjects will be eligible for the PK study (B3031003) only if the PD assessments (spleen
      volume/size, hemoglobin/platelet counts and height/weight measurements) immunogenicity data
      and Gaucher disease diagnostic history are available from the registry study baseline visit
      and prior to the start of taliglucerase alfa treatment. If liver volume/size is available, it
      will also be analyzed but is not necessary for eligibility for the PK study.

      Pediatric subjects prescribed 60 units/kg of taliglucerase alfa every other week by their
      physician will be recruited from the registry study. Subjects can be screened for the PK
      study at the same time as they are enrolled into the registry study (ERT treatment-naïve
      subjects) or up to 6 months after they are enrolled into the registry study (previously ERT
      naïve subjects) if PD assessments (spleen volume/size, hemoglobin/platelet counts and
      height/weight measurements), immunogenicity data and Gaucher disease diagnostic history
      (residual enzyme activity and genotype data) were performed at baseline of the registry study
      and prior to the start of taliglucerase alfa treatment.

      Baseline data from the registry study for PD and immunogenicity testing are defined as PD
      measurements (spleen volume/size, liver volume/size (if available), hemoglobin and platelet
      counts and growth measures), Gaucher disease diagnostic history and immunogenicity samples
      that were collected at entry into the registry study and prior to the start of taliglucerase
      alfa treatment.

      For the secondary PD endpoints, spleen volume/size and liver volume/size (if available) will
      be measured using MRI, CT or ultrasound, whichever is the standard of care according to the
      investigator. The method used to measure spleen and liver volume/size at Baseline will be the
      same one used at Month 12. Change from Baseline and percent change from Baseline at Month 12
      of registry study will be calculated for spleen volume, liver volume (if available),
      hemoglobin and platelet counts, and growth measures (height, weight and Z-scores).

      For each subject enrolled in this study, safety data while on taliglucerase alfa, starting
      from the baseline visit (entry into the registry study) and continuing until 28 days after
      the Month 12 PD data collection visit, will be obtained for reporting.

      Safety assessments for the study will include collection of all adverse event and serious
      adverse event data, including serious hypersensitivity reactions, procedures for
      immunogenicity testing (ie, detection and titers of binding and neutralizing antibodies and
      detection of IgE antibodies) as well as vital signs taken as standard of care during
      infusions. A pre-dose blood sample for testing of antidrug antibodies (ADA) on the day of PK
      Sample Visit will be collected in an effort to assess the impact of immunogenicity on PK.
    
  