
    
      The proposed study will be a prospective, double-blind, single center randomized study
      performed in 60 patients with ASA physical status I-II, between 18-80 years old, undergoing
      dNMB with rocuronium during ear nose and throat (ENT) surgery. Randomization will be
      performed using a table created from the website www.randomization.com, and patients will be
      divided equally into two groups: Treatment with Sugammadex (SUG group) or treatment with
      Neostigmine (NEO group). Exclusion criteria will include: A history of hepatic or renal
      disease, chron-ic or acute alcoholism, allergy or hypersensitivity to Sugammadex and/or
      atropine or Neostigmine, current medications with CNS effects, a history of neurologic
      disease, diaphragmatic palsy, pregnancy or nursing arrhythmias. Continuous neuromuscular
      monitoring will be performed using TOF ratios obtained from ad-ductor pollicis muscle. At the
      conclusion of the surgical procedure, patients will receive either Neostigmine (NEO group) or
      Sugammadex (SUG group) for NMB reversal. The physician who will administer the study drugs
      will insure that is per-formed on an open-label (non-blinded) basis. All patients showing a
      TOF ratio ≥0.9 will be extubated. Diaphragmatic function (assessed by ultrasonographic
      evaluation of the TF and amplitude of excursion) will be evaluated in each subject at the
      following time points:

        1. Prior to induction of general anesthesia.

        2. At the conclusion of the surgical procedure when TOF ratio is 0.9.

        3. 15 and 30 minutes after discharge from the operating theatre. The physician who will
           perform the ultrasound scan will be different from the one who involved with
           administration of the drug for NMB reversal and the former will be blinded with respect
           to treatment received by patients. It is likely that, despite a TOF value greater than
           0.9, higher diaphragm recovery will occur earlier and last longer when reversal of the
           NMB is achieved using Sugammadex (a specific antagonist) when compared with Neostigmine
           (a non-specific reversal).

      In order to standardize the anesthetic technique, no premedication will be administered to
      any patient candidate to undergo to microlaryngoscopy procedure. Besides each individual
      enrolled will receive neuromuscular monitoring with ulnar nerve stimulation with TOF Watch®
      (Organon, Oss, Netherlands). The device will be calibrated pre-operatively and parameters set
      using standard train of four (TOF) methodology after administration of hypnotic drug prior to
      muscle relaxation. Standard induction of general anesthesia will be performed using
      intravenous (iv) fentanyl (2 mcg kg-1), propofol (2 mg kg-1), and rocuronium (0.6 mg kg-1).
      Tracheal intubation will be performed when the patient fails to register signals with TOF.
      Rocuronium (0.15 mg kg-1) will be re-administered when PTC elicits more than 5 twitches in
      order to maintain a dNMB. Sevoflurane will be administered at1.0 MAC in an air/oxygen
      mixture. Fentanyl will be titrated with a bolus of 0.5 mcg kg-1 every 30 minutes to maintain
      analgesia. Prior to induction of anesthesia, ultrasonography diaphragm evaluation will be
      performed using an ESAOTE ultrasound machine (ESAOTE MyLab, Genova, Italy) by assessing the
      TF and amplitude of excursion. With the spontaneously breathing patient in semi-recumbent
      position, the amplitude of excursion will be evaluated following the method of Kim et al (7)
      using a 3.5-MHz ultrasound probe placed over the intercostal space above the 10th rib in the
      right mid-axillary line for the right diaphragm and the left mid-axillary line for the left
      diaphragm. The liver or spleen will be used as a window for each hemi-diaphragm. A
      two-dimensional mode will be used to find the best approach and to select the exploration
      line of each hemi-diaphragm. With the probe fixed on the chest wall during respiration, the
      ultrasound beam will be directed to the hemi-diaphragmatic domes at an angle of not less than
      70°. During inspiration, the normal diaphragm contracts and moves caudally toward the
      transducer; this will be recorded as an upward motion of the M-mode tracing. The amplitude of
      excursion will be measured on the vertical axis of the tracing from the baseline to the point
      of maximum height of inspiration on the graph. Three measurements will be performed for each
      patient and averaged for each side at each time point of the protocol (7). Moreover, TF will
      be assessed following the method of Vivier et al (6) with a linear high frequency probe set
      at 12 Mhz. The diaphragm will be located with same method described above and the zone of
      apposition will assessed at 0.5-2 cm below the costophrenic sinus. The inferior border of the
      costophrenic sinus will be identified at end-inspiration as the zone of transition from the
      artifact representation of normal lung (the lung sliding) to the visualization of diaphragm
      and liver.

      The diaphragm thickness will be recorded in time motion (TM) mode. The diaphragm will be
      outlined using the two clear bright parallel lines of the pleural and peritoneal membranes.
      Measurements will be averaged out of three or more consecutive breaths on the last valid
      image recorded at the end of each period (6) .At the conclusion of the surgical procedure and
      when TOF neuromuscular monitoring shows a minimum of 2 twitches, patients will randomly
      receive, as described above, either (NEO Group) iv Neostigmine 50 µg kg-1 and atropine 15 µg
      kg-1 or (SUG group) iv Sugammadex 2 mg kg-1 to reverse residual curarization. Extubation will
      be performed when all of the following criteria are met: Patient is awake and executes simple
      commands, shows regular respiratory pattern with a tidal volume of 6-7 mL/kg referred to
      ideal body weight (IBW) and a TOF ratio ≥0.9. During the period preceding a TOF ratio > 0.9 ,
      bilateral diaphragm ultrasonography evaluating amplitude of excursion and TF will be
      performed to assess muscle recovery in spontaneous breathing patients. These measurements
      will be compared with baseline muscle assessment. Three additional diaphragm ultrasound scans
      will be performed 15 and 30 minutes after discharge from operating theatre. Follow up will be
      performed to document every adverse event and complication that occurs until discharge from
      the hospital.

      Data will be collected by the use of paper CRF pages. Data entry will be performed at one
      central site that will maintain the overall database and will perform and be responsible for
      the data analysis.

      The study will be conducted within 8 months -1 year from approval from our ethical committee.
      A preliminary report will be completed and submitted after the first six months of data
      collection.

      Data will be collected by the use of paper CRF pages. Data entry will be performed at one
      central site that will maintain the overall database and will perform and be responsible for
      the data analysis. All the compiled CRFs will be archived. In order to eliminate possible
      data entry errors, individual data will be compared to a range of plausible values. After
      data entry, automated checks, that are defined beforehand (a priori), will be performed to
      evaluate internal inconsistencies, range errors, or missing data. For each
      atypical/out-of-range/missing data, a query will be automatically sent to the investigator.
      Once all the queries are solved, the database will be locked and used for statistical
      analysis.Statistical analysis will be performed in collaboration by the Department of
      Statistics of the University of Florence. Complete data will not be unblinded until the
      external medical and statistics review have been completed.

      Data will be collected and a single statistical analysis will be performed at the completion
      of the study using an intention to treat (ITT) analysis. With regard to the primary endpoint,
      differences between the two groups with respect to distribution of muscle function recovery
      after deep muscular blockade will be subjected to non-parametric tests depending on the
      characteristics of outcome distribution. To compare the primary endpoint between the 2
      groups, the data will be analysed using Wilcoxon rank sum test for two independent samples as
      they are expected to be continuous and not normally distributed. As a sensitivity analysis,
      parametric tests will potentially be employed after thorough evaluation of the validity
      distribution assumptions.

      The ultrasonography and TOF data will be summarized by drug treatment group as mean, standard
      deviation, quintiles, and minim and maximum values. In addition, two-sided 95% confidence
      intervals will be calculated on the comparison between the two groups for the main
      descriptive parameters of the primary and secondary variables.

      In order to compare the different percentage of respiratory events in the two arms studied, a
      chi square test will be performed.

      Finally, descriptive statistics of all variables describing characteristics of the patients
      enrolled in the study and of patients excluded from the study will be produced. The mean,
      median, standard deviation and range will be calculated for continuous data by drug treatment
      group. For categorical variables, frequency counts and percentages will be calculated.

      Power/Sample Size:

      Because this is the first clinical trial that proposes to evaluate this endpoint, no
      published data are available at this time. However, assuming a 25% of difference of TF
      between groups would be clinically meaningful, a confidence interval of 95% and power 80%,
      sample size calculation provided by StatCalc EPI INFO ver 7.0 (Center for Diseases Control,
      Atlanta, GA, USA) considered 28 patients for each group fundamental to reach the endpoint
      predefined. This proposal requests funding for a pilot study, with a double blind design,
      where participants will be randomly enrolled to receive Sugammadex or Neostigmine with a 1:1
      allocation using the standardized table created with the website www.randomization.com.
    
  