
    
      The objectives of this pilot study are to evaluate the efficacy of trace elements, versus
      placebo, on the reduction of pain, on the quality of life, on the use of rescue medication
      (ibuprofen) in patients with an endometriosis of an American Fertility Society (AFSr) score
      of 2 to 4, combined or not to an adenomyosis, during a chronic treatment of 4 months. The
      safety of trace elements versus placebo will also be assessed.

      This will be a prospective, interventional, randomized, placebo-controlled, two
      parallel-group, double-blind study.

      Trace elements or placebo are administered in the absence of any other treatment or as add-on
      treatments to common therapies such as sexual hormones, anti-inflammatory drugs or surgery.

      A run-in placebo period of 30 days will allow eliminating the patients who are responding to
      strongly to a placebo.

      The treatment will last for 4 months. The total duration of the study will be 5 months for
      each patient. Four medical visits (Days -45 to -30, 0, 60 and 120) and two phone contacts
      (Days 30 and 90) will be scheduled.

      A urine pregnancy test will be undertaken at each visit. The quality of life scale (EHP-30)
      will be filled in on Days 0, 60 and 120. During the whole study period, patients will be
      asked to fill in a diary, in which they will score their pain on a visual analog scale, their
      blood loss and their consumption of rescue medication (ibuprofen).

      Phone contacts will be used to reinforce the compliance and to collect potential adverse
      events.

      Non-serious and serious adverse events will be collected between Days 0 and 120.

      All concomitant medications will be recorded, including the rescue medication between Day -45
      and Day 120.

      A paper case report form will be used.

      A total of 60 patients (30 receiving trace elements and 30 receiving placebo) will be
      randomized to achieve a total of 50 patients.
    
  