
    
      Material and Methods Study protocol This study was designed as a multicenter prospective
      study following STROBE (STrengthening the Reporting of Observational studies in Epidemiology)
      guidelines. All procedures were performed in strict accordance with the recommendations of
      the Declaration of Helsinki as revised in Fortaleza for investigations with human subjects.
      The study protocol had been approved by the relevant ethical committee (Comitato Etico
      Calabria-Sezione Area Nord n. 55/2016). Patients, after being thoroughly informed about the
      study protocol, the treatment, its alternatives and any potential risk, signed a written
      informed consent for the participation in the study and authorized the use of their data for
      research purposes.

      Any patient with Kennedy class II partial edentulism requiring unilateral sinus floor
      elevation for the placement of two not adjacent dental implants supporting a fixed partial
      prosthesis was eligible for entering this study.

      Pre-surgical phase Patients recruited in the present study underwent a careful clinical
      examination, including assessment of periodontal conditions (probing and periapical
      radiographs), evaluation of available bone volume in the edentulous areas on cone beam
      computed tomography and analysis of occlusal relationships (diagnostic wax-up). A surgical
      resin guide was manufactured by duplicating the diagnostic wax-up.

      All patients received professional mechanical tooth cleaning and periodontal debridement one
      week prior to surgery and were prescribed with chlorhexidine digluconate 0.2% mouthwash twice
      a day.

      Surgical procedure All patients underwent antibiotic prophylaxis (2 g single-dose amoxicillin
      one hour before surgery). After performing local anaesthesia (articaine 4% with epinephrine
      1:100.000) and elevating a full-thickness flap, the surgical guide was placed in position and
      an antrostomy was created by consuming the lateral wall of the maxillary sinus with
      ultrasonic instrumentation in the area between the two planned implant sites. The sinus
      membrane was then carefully elevated and, after checking its integrity with visual inspection
      and Valsalva maneuver, the subantral space was filled with a composite graft in granules [50%
      cortico-cancellous porcine graft (Gen-Os, Tecnoss, Pianezza, Italy) - 50% synthetic
      nano-hydroxyapatite (Fisiograft Bone, Ghimas, Casalecchio di Reno, Italy)]. A resorbable
      bovine collagen membrane (Bio-Gide, Geistlich, Wolhusen, Switzerland) fixed with two pins was
      placed to cover the lateral antrostomy and flaps were sutured with Sentineri sutures and
      single stitches using synthetic monofilament. Patients were prescribed with antibiotics for 4
      days (amoxicillin 1 g three times a day) and NSAID (ibuprofen 600 mg), when needed. Sutures
      were removed after 10 days.

      After 6 months of healing, a cone beam tc scan was performed to evaluate the radiographic
      outcome of the regenerative procedure and to plan implant insertion. With the assistance of
      the surgical template, two bone-core biopsy biopsies were harvested in the planned implant
      sites by using 3-mm diameter trephine drills (2982.Y0.30, DenTag, Maniago, Italy) (Fig. 3-4).
      Dental implants were then inserted in the biopsy sites: after 5 months of submerged healing,
      they were restored with screwed ceramic crowns.

      Radiographic measurements Radiographic measurements were taken from the three cone beam CT
      cross-sectional slices (step 1 mm; width 1 mm) corresponding to the position where the biopsy
      was retrieved. Two independent calibrated examiners (A.R. and Fe.Be.) measured residual bone
      height (RBH) between the alveolar ridge and the sinus floor; sinus width (SW) (distance
      between buccal and palatal walls at 10-mm level, comprising the residual alveolar crest.
      Distances were measured by using the specific tool of an imaging software (OsiriX MD, Pixmeo
      SARL, Bernex, Switzerland) and were expressed in millimeters. Intra-examiner reliability was
      assessed with Cohen's K test.

      Sample processing for histological analysis Histologic and histomorphometric analyses of all
      specimens were performed by one of the authors (VN), blinded to the study design and to
      biopsy origin. Immediately after harvesting, biopsies were carefully rinsed with cold 5%
      glucose solution to remove blood remnants maintaining the correct osmolarity (278
      milliosmole/L).

      Specimens were subsequently fixed for three days in 10% buffered formalin solution at pH 7.2,
      and then dehydrated in an ascending series of alcohol rinses and embedded in a methacrylate
      resin (Technovit 7200 VLC, Kulzer, Wehrheim, Germany). After 12 days of polymerization,
      biopsies were cut along their longitudinal axis with a high-precision carborundum disk at 50
      µm and then ground down under running water with a series of polishing discs to about 30 ± 10
      µm. The slides were then mounted and stained with acid fuchsine-toluidine blue and von Kossa
      staining.

      Histomorphometry The following variables were measured for each biopsy: total area of the
      biopsy (in mm2), percentage of newly-formed bone (NFB),percentage of connective tissue/marrow
      spaces (MS), and percentage of residual graft particles (RG). The analysis was performed
      using transmitted brightfield light microscope (Biostar B3; Exacta Optech, San Prospero,
      Italy), connected to high resolution digital camera (Moticam 5.0; Motic Microscopy, Kowloon,
      China). A software with image capturing capabilities (Image-Pro Plus 6.0; Media Cybernetics
      Inc., Bethesda, MD, U.S.A.) was used to analyze images. Software calibration was performed
      for each image analysis by using the "Calibration Wizard" tool, which reports the number of
      pixels between two selected points. Linear remapping of the pixel numbers was used to
      calibrate the distance in µm or in mm according to the magnification degree.

      Predictor and outcome variables This prospective study tested the null hypothesis of no
      differences in new bone formation among areas of different width in the same sinus against
      the alternative hypothesis of a difference.

      The primary predictor variables were sinus width (SW) and residual bone height (RBH).

      Primary outcome measure:

      • new bone formation (NFB) after six months of healing

      Secondary outcome measures:

        -  residual graft (RG): after six months of healing

        -  any complications or adverse events

      Sample size calculation and statistical power A statistical software (Statistica per
      Discipline Biomediche, Version 6.0, Mc Graw-Hill, New York, NY, U.S.A.) was used to determine
      the sample size of this prospective study, basing on data of a previous publication. Expected
      difference in NFB (as mean percentage) between narrow and wide part of the sinus was
      13.8±18.25% (using sinus width=13 mm as a cut-off). A sample of 16 histological specimens for
      each group was required to detect significant differences between the two groups (confidence
      level 5% with statistical power of 80%).

      Statistical analysis An independent investigator (A.R.) analyzed all datasets with
      statistical software (IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows, Version 25.0, IBM Corp., Armonk, NY,
      USA). Data normality was assessed with Shapiro-Wilk test: all datasets met the required
      assumptions for using parametric methods. Descriptive statistics included mean and standard
      deviation. The value of α was set to 0.05.

      Differences in NFB between mesial and distal sites were evaluated by means of paired samples
      t-test. The potential influence of sinus width and RBH on NFB and RG percentage was evaluated
      by using Pearson correlation coefficient.
    
  