
    
      The goal of our work is to test an information infrastructure that creates a three-way link
      among individuals, health care providers and public health authorities, testing the efficacy
      of this system for improving the prevention and control of influenza. Our model comprises a
      full feedback system in which an electronic personally controlled health record (PCHR)
      provides a primary data source for population-based surveillance and a vehicle for delivery
      of health promotion messages, in this case about influenza immunization and control. This
      system will feed into and draw on data from a statewide real-time influenza surveillance
      system, and be integrated with hospital/provider data systems, forming the three-way link.
      The influenza pandemic is a "great global infectious disease threat" {Osterholm, 2005} for
      which we are ill prepared. With limited vaccine supply for the past two years and probably
      next year as well, it is critical to: understand who should be vaccinated to ameliorate
      population-wide transmission; have effective channels for delivering health directives to
      high risk groups; monitor efficacy. We will deploy and test our three-way link model and PCHR
      record system in a multisite study and evaluate using a randomized controlled design the
      effects on immunization rates of tailored messages about influenza immunization delivered to
      patients through the electronic health record. Our focus is children ages 6 months to ten
      years of age and their household members (two of four settings), all age groups including
      children and working adults (two settings), and university students/staff (one setting). The
      specific aims follow.

      Aim 1.To leverage an electronic personally controlled health record as a public health tool,
      establishing three way communication systems among individuals, health systems, and public
      health agencies. We will establish a formal mechanism for patients to integrate and share
      healthcare-based and personally entered information. Individuals can share information from
      their medical record, and in response to surveys delivered through the system. There will be
      two way communications between the record and the State Immunization Registry. Particular
      attention will be paid to information security, compliance with the Health Insurance
      Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) privacy rule, and personal control. Primary
      measurements include the structural integrity of the information system, use and usability of
      the system, and user acceptance. The main hypothesis to be tested is that people are
      generally willing to share their personally controlled data to promote personal and public
      health.

      Aim 2. To adapt a traditional syndromic surveillance system, initially designed as an early
      detector of outbreaks, to nimbly identify patients to be targeted for behavior change through
      personally controlled electronic records. We will develop health messages as cues to action,
      directed at improving individual compliance with influenza prevention, calibrating our
      detection models to identify high risk groups, based on demographic and clinical data
      contained in personal health records. Messages will be targeted at appropriate risk groups
      and contain information tailored to the individual's characteristics. The primary focus will
      be to encourage influenza immunization when indicated and conversely, to encourage delay in
      immunization under conditions of low risk and scarcity. We will change the content, tempo,
      and targets of the messages based on real time influenza surveillance. The main hypothesis to
      be tested is that a real-time surveillance system can be used to calibrate health messaging.
      A second hypothesis is that sentinel individuals can provide data to surveillance systems
      that adds value to what is already collected.

      Aim 3. To measure the impact on immunization rates of tailored health messages, linked to
      surveillance, and delivered through a personal health record. We will evaluate the impact of
      directed communications delivered to randomly selected study participants through a personal
      health record on influenza vaccination rates comparing them to rates among control
      participants. Secondary outcomes will include message impacts on rates of self-reported
      illness, knowledge, attitudes and beliefs about influenza and immunization efficacy, use of
      recommended health protective behaviors. We will investigate the impacts on technology use
      and immunization rates of a range of individual social demographic characteristics, household
      characteristics, and computing-related factors that may influence the acceptability of the
      proposed technology and/or target health behaviors. The main hypothesis to be tested is that
      individuals exposed to tailored health messages delivered through a PCHR will have higher
      influenza immunization rates than their unexposed peers. Secondary hypotheses are that
      compliance will be moderated by computing experience, acceptability/accessibility, individual
      demographics (e.g., age, sex, race/ethnicity, social class) social and scheduling supports
      (e.g., work/time schedule flexibility) , family health factors, and logistical factors
      (transportation, ease of access to immunization sites, convenience, clear
      scheduling/notification and minimal waiting time for services).
    
  