
    
      Under an IRB-approved protocol, medical students, residents, fellows, and attending surgeons
      of the Department of Surgery and the Department of Obstetrics-Gynecology of Washington
      University School of Medicine who respond to the email or mailed letter invitation for
      recruitment will be screened by the Principal Investigator or one of the approved study
      members listed on the IRB protocol for inclusion and exclusion criteria using the following 5
      screening questions:

        1. What is your date of birth?

        2. Are you a medical student, a resident, a fellow, or an attending surgeon in general
           surgery, urology, or obstetrics-gynecology?

        3. Approximately how many laparoscopic surgeries have you performed as primary surgeon or
           first assistant surgeon during your career?

        4. Approximately how many robotic surgeries have you performed as primary surgeon or first
           assistant surgeon during your career?

        5. Do you have any known severe skin sensitivities or allergies to adhesives?

      Those subjects who meet the inclusion criteria yet who are not disqualified by the exclusion
      criteria will be prospectively enrolled by an informed consent process into one of the three
      experimental groups of the study, defined by the subject's degrees of expertise in Minimally
      Invasive Surgery:

      Inclusion Criteria:

        1. age> 18 years

        2. medical student, resident, fellow, or attending in Surgery, Urology, or
           Obstetrics-Gynecology at Washington University School of Medicine

        3. Inclusion in Novice Laparoscopist/Novice Roboticist Group: performance of <100
           laparoscopic cases and <50 robotic cases as primary surgeon or first assistant surgeon
           during one's career

        4. Inclusion in Expert Laparoscopist/Novice Roboticist Group: performance of = or >100
           laparoscopic cases and <50 robotic cases as primary surgeon or first assistant surgeon
           during one's career

        5. Inclusion in Expert Laparoscopist/Expert Roboticist Group: performance of = or >100
           laparoscopic cases and = or >50 robotic cases as primary surgeon or first assistant
           surgeon during one's career

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. age <18 years

        2. known severe skin sensitivities or allergies to adhesives

      Screening, recruitment, and informed consent processes may be conducted by the Principal
      Investigator or any of the approved study members listed on the IRB protocol. To eliminate
      any potential for conflict of interest, recruitment and consent of medical students and
      residents for this study will be performed by a study investigator who does not have a
      supervisory role to medical students and residents, and not the Principal Investigator. To
      ensure that each subject is adequately informed of the study, the informed consent process
      will include but not be limited to discussion of the research procedures; anticipated
      frequency and types of participant interactions; length of the study period; potential risks
      and benefits to the participant; practices to protect the privacy and confidentiality of
      participants; the alternative to not participate in the clinical study; and means by which to
      ask questions, report concerns, or withdraw from the study at any time. Each subject will be
      informed that his decision to participate or not participate in the study does not in any way
      impact the health care decisions of his health care providers, or the clinical or academic
      performance evaluations of his evaluators. This information will also be included in the
      "Informed Consent Document" and the "Notice of Privacy Practices", and the content of these
      documents will be reviewed with each subject at the time of the informed consent discussion.
      Each subject will have the opportunity to review these documents at his leisure both before
      and after his decision to participate in the study, and each subject will receive at the time
      of the informed consent discussion a signed copy of the "Informed Consent Document" and the
      "Notice of Privacy Practices" to keep for his personal records. Each subject will be enrolled
      by informed consent discussion in a private environment to facilitate subject comfort in
      discussing details of the study and asking questions. During each subject enrollment attempt,
      the opportunity will be provided for the subject to meet individually with the approved study
      member listed on the IRB protocol to address private questions or concerns. Private
      environments may include a private office, a private conference room, or a private laboratory
      room. The subject will be able to discuss the study with family, friends, and/or others
      before deciding on participation. The subject will have until the end of the study enrollment
      period to consider study participation. Each subject who does not respond to the invitation
      to participate in the study at the time of the informed consent discussion will receive a
      copy of the "Informed Consent Document" and the "Notice of Privacy Practices" signed by the
      approved study member listed on the IRB protocol with whom informed consent was discussed,
      and a stamped envelope addressed to the Principal Investigator in the event that the subject
      wishes to consent to the study at a later time within the enrollment period. There will not
      be any follow-up contact regarding the study with subjects who do not wish to respond to the
      invitation to participate in the study. Capacity to consent for all subjects to be enrolled
      in the study will be determined by the approved study member listed on the IRB protocol
      conducting the informed consent. Capacity to consent will be assessed in a variety of ways
      such as explaining the study to the subject and then asking him to answer basic questions
      about the study procedures, risks and benefits, options for skipping questions, or how to
      withdraw from the study. The document entitled "Evaluation to Sign an Informed Consent"
      provided by the IRB may be a resource used to assist with this assessment. If at any time the
      approved study member listed on the IRB protocol has reason to believe that the subject is
      incompetent or incapacitated to make decisions for himself, the consent process will be
      aborted, and the subject will not be enrolled in the study.
    
  