
    
      Osimertinib is a third-generation epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase
      inhibitor (TKI) designed to inhibit activating EGFR mutations (exon 19 deletion and L858R)
      and resistant T790M mutations with low activity against wild type EGFR. Repotrectinib,
      potently inhibits Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase (ALK), Ros proto-oncogene 1 (ROS1), and
      Tropomyosin receptor kinases (TRK) family kinases; this novel target drug also inhibits Janus
      kinase 2 (JAK2), sarcoma (SRC), and focal adhesion (FAK), which have shown to be important
      targets associated with EGFR TKI resistance.

      This is a Phase I study of repotrectinib in combination with osimertinib in patients with
      advanced or metastatic EGFR mutant NSCLC. The study will be conducted in 2 parts, Part Ia and
      Part Ib:

      Part A: of the Phase I study will enroll approximately 9-18 patients in up to 3 dose levels
      of 3-6 patients each: 80 mg once a day (QD), 160 mg QD or 160 mf QD during 14 days followed
      by 160 mg twice a day (BID); in combination with 80 mg QD of osimertinib. Patients will
      receive the combination treatment daily in 3-week cycles until disease progression occurs.

      Part B: of the Phase I study is a dose expansion to assess additional PK and safety
      parameters. Part B will enroll between 20 and 30 patients in 2 cohorts of at least 10
      patients each. The 2 cohorts are defined by treatment history: Cohort I, those who have
      progressed on osimertinib; Cohort II, those who progressed on any first or second generation
      TKI.

      The phase 1A portion of this study will test the safety, tolerability, PK effects, and
      preliminary efficacy of the EGFR TKI inhibitor osimertinib in combination with repotrectinib
      in adult patients with advanced/metastatic EGFR mutant NSCLC. The phase 1B (expansion cohort)
      of this study will test the efficacy of the combination of osimertinib and repotrectinib in
      terms of progression-free survival and response rate in EGFR TKI-naïve patients with EGFR
      mutant NSCLC.
    
  