
    
      The goal of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of the Men in Life Environments (MILE)
      intervention, adapted from the Men of African American Legacy Empowering Self (MAALES)
      Project, an innovative and culturally congruent intervention designed to reduce HIV
      risk-related behaviors and improve psychosocial outcomes in recently incarcerated African
      American men who have sex with men and women (MSMW). The MILE intervention is guided by the
      Theory of Reasoned Action and Planned Behavior, the Critical Thinking and Cultural
      Affirmation (CTCA) Model, and the Empowerment Theory. The small group MILE intervention
      involves six two-hour group sessions held over three weeks and is lead by two
      African-American co-facilitators. The investigators will test the intervention with a total
      of 260 African American MSMW, evenly randomized to intervention and control conditions. For
      this study, participants will be interviewed at baseline, shortly after completion of the
      intervention (~ 4 weeks after baseline), and again 3 months following the second interview.
      This project will be among the first to develop and test an HIV risk-reduction intervention
      designed specifically for African American post-incarcerated MSMW. Study aims are as follows:

      Aim 1: To evaluate the impact of the MILE intervention on rates of condom use, having sex
      while under the influence of drugs and alcohol, and number of sex partners among recently
      incarcerated bisexual African American MSMW.

      Hypothesis: Compared to the control condition, the MILE intervention condition will be more
      effective in decreasing episodes of unprotected anal and vaginal intercourse, incidents of
      sex under the influence of drugs and alcohol and numbers of intercourse partners at the
      3-month follow-up assessment.

      Aim 2: To evaluate the impact of the MILE intervention on uptake of testing for sexually
      transmitted infections (STI) among recently incarcerated African American MSMW.

      Hypothesis: Compared to the control condition, the MILE intervention participants will be
      more likely to accept STI testing after the post-intervention assessment.

      Aim 3: To describe social support and social networks of recently incarcerated African
      American MSMW and to examine whether these factors are associated with HIV risk in this
      population.

      The MILE intervention will be implemented by The Center for Health Justice (CHJ) - a
      community-based HIV prevention and care advocacy organization that has been working with
      incarcerated and post-incarcerated populations since 1997. The adaptation and implementation
      of this intervention by CHJ should increase the dissemination and applicability of the
      intervention to other locales should it prove to be effective.
    
  