
    
      ICDs provide different detection zones for the therapy of VT and VF. An established form of
      therapy in the VT-zone is antitachycardia pacing (ATP). It is an effective, safe and painless
      method to terminate episodes of slow VT with a cycle length > 300 ms. Episodes detected in
      the VF zone will result in the delivery of a high-energy shock to terminate life-threatening
      VF. Many arrhythmia detected in the VF-zone picture monomorphic VT and could be easily
      terminated by ATP. Advantages of a successful termination by ATP therapy would be the
      painlessness and the shortened duration of the episode, as there would be no need to load
      shock capacitors. Fast VT are often hemodynamically poorly tolerated by the patient and
      should be terminated within very short time. The ATP One Shot algorithm is integrated in the
      latest family of ICDs from BIOTRONIK (Lumax) to allow a single delivery of ATP before
      charging capacitors.

      The main objective of the study is the assessment of the efficacy of the ATP One Shot
      algorithm for the termination of fast VT episodes. To this end, spontaneous episodes detected
      in the VF-zone of the ICD are evaluated with regard to cycle length, episode duration and
      course of device therapy. In the context of the study, a confirmatory (hypothesis-testing)
      primary problem is investigated. The goal is to measure the time to first adequate shock
      therapy for episodes detected in the VF-zone of the device and to analyze the hazard ratio of
      the standard ICD setting compared to a therapy with the ATP One Shot algorithm.

      The clinical project is conducted as randomized prospective multicenter study. The
      chronological order and the scope of the follow-ups meet the medical standard according to
      the international guidelines. A center-based, stratified block randomization will be
      performed. In approximately 50% of the patients the ATP One Shot algorithm will be activated,
      while the other 50% will be randomized into the control group.

      A total of about 20 European investigational sites will participate in the study. Each center
      should enroll about 10 patients who will be followed for 18 months.
    
  