
    
      Premature birth abruptly ends the transplacental transmission of nutrients that allows normal
      foetal growth and development. Providing adequate nutrition is essential to allow premature
      babies to continue to grow and mature. Very preterm infants often have difficulty tolerating
      adequate volumes of milk feeds shortly after birth and so are given supplemental parenteral
      nutrition (PN). Preterm babies are among the highest PN users of all NHS patients. It has
      been estimated that PN is received by around 70% of neonatal unit admissions but it is not
      known exactly which babies receive PN. In addition, how PN affects outcomes has never been
      tested in a large scale, randomized, placebo controlled neonatal trial.

      It is known that PN carries well established risks, of which the most serious and the most
      common is sepsis with estimates of risk ratios varying from 2.2 to 14.6. In addition there is
      a growing body of evidence that use of PN within the first seven days of admission to an
      intensive care unit is associated with worse outcomes in critically unwell adults and
      children. A subgroup analysis of the paediatric intensive care unit population focusing on
      neonates showed an increase in infections with early PN use. This suggests that uncertainty
      exists over the benefit of giving neonates PN in the early postnatal period. It is generally
      accepted that PN is beneficial to extremely preterm neonates, but in moderately preterm
      neonates the effect that PN use has on neonatal survival has never been conclusively
      demonstrated.

      The uncertainty over how PN use affects neonatal outcomes is reflected by the wide variety in
      how PN is used in different units with large variation in use, timing and composition of PN.
      This is, in part, due to the lack of clear evidence of how PN affects neonatal outcomes like
      growth and survival. Neonates are also vulnerable to unanticipated treatment effects which
      can occur in different organ systems and so it is important to show that PN is not
      detrimental to important neonatal outcomes.

      The postmenstrual age at which the nutritional benefits of PN outweigh the risks in
      moderately preterm babies (30-33 weeks postmenstrual age) is unknown. It is therefore
      unsurprising that their nutritional management is very variable. In moderately preterm
      neonates in 2012 and 2013 across England, Scotland and Wales PN was given to 45% of neonates,
      suggesting clinician equipoise around the balance of benefit to risk. Identifying whether
      moderately preterm neonates benefit from PN would have important implications for practice in
      the UK. This work will provide information to guide practice and inform future research.

      In summary, PN is widely used in neonates but it is not known exactly how it is used in the
      UK. It is known to have risks and benefits but there is insufficient evidence to guide
      practice in moderately preterm neonates.

      Study objectives:

        -  To describe the use of PN in neonatal units across England, Scotland and Wales.

        -  To identify if use of PN in the first seven postnatal days affects survival in neonates
           born between 30 and 33 weeks postmenstrual age.

        -  To explore how PN use in the first seven postnatal days affects other important neonatal
           outcomes in neonates born between 30 and 33 weeks postmenstrual age.

      Study design:

      Project A: an epidemiological survey of practice using the National Neonatal Research
      Database (NNRD).

      Project B: a retrospective cohort study of matched groups of babies using data held in the
      NNRD.
    
  