
    
      Protocol summary Background: Health systems in low-income countries are overburdened. Corona
      virus disease-19 (COVID-19) is a pandemic caused by a novel corona virus, Severe acute
      respiratory syndrome-corona virus 2 (SARS-CoV2) while diabetes is a long-standing global
      epidemic. COVID-19 further stresses the already overburdened health systems and Public Health
      measures to contain COVID-19 have severely disrupted health service delivery, particularly
      routine care. Delivery of diabetes specific education has traditionally been tied to routine
      visits and delivered in-person. COVID-19 will likely continue to influence service delivery
      beyond the pandemic, thus alternative ways of delivering diabetes specific education is
      needed.

      Diabetes self-management education is vital to providing diabetes care. It equips patients
      with critical knowledge and skills for self-care. Recent edicts to stay home in relation to
      COVID-19 have further heightened the importance of self-care. Appropriate self-management
      behaviours are associated with lower levels of diabetes related distress, better quality of
      life and diabetes outcomes overall. Maintaining tight glycaemic control, early in diabetes is
      associated with fewer microvascular complications and vice versa. Complications of diabetes
      are prevalent in low resource settings in Africa; partly because of inadequate knowledge on
      self-care. Diabetes self-management education which is structured and tailor-made for low
      resource settings may modify self-care behaviors and result in improved self-care, glycaemic
      control and quality of life.

      Aim:

      To compare structured diabetes self-management education with standard of care among adults
      living with type 2 diabetes

      Methods:

      A prospective parallel-group randomised controlled trial with three months follow-up will be
      conducted in KBTH Polyclinic/Family Medicine Centre and Weija Gbawe Municipal Hospital, two
      primary care facilities in Accra. Participants will be individually randomised to standard of
      care or 6 hours of structured diabetes self-management education (DSME) delivered in person
      on one day . Each arm will have hundred participants. The standard of care arm will receive
      unstructured DSME as per existing protocols at each study site. The study population will be
      adults living with diabetes. The primary outcome, mean glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c ) will be
      measured at three months.

      Expected outcomes:

      It is expected that there will be no difference in change in mean glycaemic control,
      self-efficacy or quality of life at three months between the two arms.
    
  