
    
      PanDox is a phase I prospective, non-randomised, safety cohort study with the primary aim to
      quantify the enhancement in delivery of intratumoural doxorubicin concentration in pancreatic
      tumours, for a given systemic dose. Drug release is triggered from systemically circulating
      ThermoDox® by highly localized hyperthermia induced by extracorporeal ultrasound-guided FUS
      device at sub-ablative powers.

      The study will have all patients recruited from a single UK site (Oxford) and will comprise
      adult patients with non-resectable pancreatic adenocarcinomas.

      Patients referred to Oncology will have cross-sectional imaging reviewed for suitability of
      tumour targeting, and MDT (Multi-Disciplinary Team) agreement before being approached.
      Screening comprises clinical history and examination, routine blood tests, cardiac assessment
      by ECG (Electrocardiogram) and ECHO (Echocardiogram), abdominal ultrasound examination and a
      pre-operative assessment to ensure suitability for general anaesthetic. Suitability of
      potential target lesions will be based on ultrasound examination.

      The study has an open label design with all participants receiving a single dose of either
      standard doxorubicin OR systemic ThermoDox® with ultrasound guided FUS targeted at a pancreas
      tumour using the Model JC200 Focused Ultrasound Tumour Therapeutic System (Haifu Medical,
      JC200), which is clinically approved (CE-marked) for tumour therapy in Europe and China.

      Participants who successfully complete screening will be allocated to either Arm A
      (doxorubicin) or Arm B (ThermoDox® with FUS) based on pre-determined checklist. This is to
      ensure feasibility and safety of patients to undergo FUS. It also permits patients who have
      successfully completed screening, but who are not suitable for FUS, to participate in a
      clinical trial.

      Baseline imaging is performed in the week prior to intervention and consists of
      fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) positron emission tomography / CT (PET-CT) for all patients.
      Participants in Arm B also undergo dynamic contrast-enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging
      (DCE-MRI).

      For Arm A patients: following pre-medications, a single intravenous dose of Doxorubicin, 50
      mg/ m2 in 250 mL of normal saline or 5% dextrose over a 30-min infusion is delivered as per
      local practice.

      For Arm B patients: a single pancreatic tumour (or partial tumour volume), is targeted for
      drug delivery.

      Patients will receive pre-medications and general anaesthetic (Fig. 1b), In order to minimise
      respiratory movement of the target tumour during the intervention, appropriate anaesthetic
      techniques, such as high-frequency jet ventilation may be employed. High intensity focused
      ultrasound to cause a small area of tumour ablation will be used to help confirm location
      targeting accuracy and may give a treatment reference point for Endoscopic Ultrasound
      Sampling (EUS) biopsy. No more than 2 ablation spots will be applied. Once confirmed,
      lower-intensity FUS is then moved through the target tumour volume to raise the bulk tumour
      temperature above the thermal release threshold. This is based on an individualised plan of
      FUS parameters (power, duty cycle, scanning speed, unit spacing), devised from patient
      imaging and computer modelling, accounting for differences in propagation path length and
      overlying tissue structures. (Gray et al., 2019) At target temperature, a single intravenous
      dose of ThermoDox®, 50 mg/ m2 in 250 mL of normal saline or 5% dextrose over a 30-min
      infusion is delivered concurrently to FUS, in line with the pharmacy manual provided by the
      manufacturer. FUS will continue following infusion, for no longer than two hours from
      infusion commencing.

      FUS-mediated hyperthermia is delivered under ultrasound guidance using clinically approved
      treatment modes of the therapeutic device, namely either linear (moving beam) or dot
      (shot-by-shot) mode, using the on-board plane-by-plane treatment planning tool to encompass
      all or part of the target tumour volume. Device settings are chosen to achieve hyperthermia
      in the range of 40-42 °C in the target region. The specific treatment parameters will
      naturally vary depending on tumour anatomy The addition of a passive material layer for beam
      expansion may be used to expand the beam size for optimal heating control and efficiency.
      Supplemental hand-held diagnostic ultrasound probes may be used during treatment to monitor
      and quantify natural target motion and/or the presence of cavitation.

      For all patients, tumour sampling for primary end point will be acquired via EUS, performed
      within thirty hours of treatment. These will be analysed using a Good Laboratory
      Practice-validated high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) assay, to quantify
      doxorubicin at the targeted site. Plasma samples are collected immediately before the start
      of ThermoDox® infusion, immediately after completion of ThermoDox® infusion, and immediately
      after completion of FUS exposure, to evaluate doxorubicin pharmacokinetics.

      In the post-treatment period, Arm B patients will have a repeat DCE-MRI scan for comparison
      with baseline. Additionally, all study patients will have follow-up imaging performed at
      21days following intervention to assess potential response in the target tumour activity and
      volume.
    
  