
    
      This is a pilot open-label, national, multi-centre, Phase IV trial. This trial will be
      conducted with outpatients. Once subject has met all eligibility criteria, she will be
      treated with Gonal-f® prefilled pen and will receive on a randomization basis the GnRH
      agonist or antagonist. The follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) stimulation will start on day 2
      of the menstrual cycle with a pre-defined fixed dose of 150 IU per day until follicles are
      recruited and developed. Dose adjustment will be allowed strictly in case of risk of ovarian
      hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS). Ovulation triggering will be performed using a single
      injection of 250 mcg Ovitrelle®.

      Ultrasound scans (US) will be performed concomitantly with hormonal assessment at each visit.
      Ovulation will be triggered as soon as there are at least 3 follicles > 16 mm, and with E2 >
      1 mcg/L if agonist used. Oocyte retrieval, in vitro fertilization (IVF) or intra-cytoplasmic
      sperm injection (ICSI) and blastocyst transfer will be performed as per centre's standard
      practice. Vaginal progesterone will be administered in the luteal phase for all subjects (600
      milligram per day [mg/d]).

      Hormonal assessment and endometrial biopsy will be performed on:

        -  Day Luteinizing Hormone+7 ("LH+7") of the previous spontaneous cycle

        -  Day of Oocyte Retrieval (OR) of the stimulated cycle

        -  Day "OR+5 or 6" (biopsy performed only in subjects that did not have blastocyst(s)
           transfer).

      Gene expression profiling will be carried out on ribonucleic acid (RNA) from endometrial
      tissue. As the main objective of this trial is to determine the gene expression profiles of
      endometrial tissue before and after controlled ovarian stimulation with Gonal-f®, a minimum
      of 2 endometrial samples per subject will be collected, 1 at day LH+7 of spontaneous cycle
      and 1 after the stimulation, on the day of OR.

      The subjects will be followed up until 15 days after the last injection of Investigational
      Medicinal Products (IMPs) for the safety assessment. For subjects who will have blastocyst
      implantation, the pregnancy outcomes will be recorded until 12 weeks of gestation if a
      pregnancy is ongoing up to that period.

      OBJECTIVES

      Primary objective:

        -  To determine the gene expression profile and histological changes of endometrial tissue
           before (at day LH + 7 of spontaneous cycle) and after stimulation with Gonal-f® (Day of
           OR: 36 +/- 2 hours post r-hCG administration) in Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART)
           [IVF/ICSI]

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To correlate the gene expression profile of the endometrial tissue at Day LH + 7 of the
           spontaneous cycle with the blastocyst implantation rate in subjects undergoing ART with
           Gonal-f®

        -  To correlate the gene expression profile and histological changes in endometrial tissue
           before and after stimulation by Gonal-f® with the "down regulation" protocol used
           (agonist or antagonist) and fertilization mode, IVF/ICSI

        -  To correlate the gene expression profile and histological changes in endometrial tissue
           before and after stimulation by Gonal-f® according to the hormonal status of subjects

        -  To characterize the gene expression profile and histology of endometrial tissue after
           stimulation with Gonal-f in subjects without blastocyst during the theoretical window of
           implantation (OR + 5 or 6 days)

        -  To characterize the gene expression profile and histology of endometrial tissue of good
           and poor responders to stimulation with Gonal-f® on the Day of OR (response being based
           on the following criteria):

             1. Quantity of mature oocytes retrieved:

                  -  Poor responders: 5 mature oocytes or less

                  -  Good responders: more than 8 mature oocytes

             2. Quantity of Gonal-f® used
    
  