
    
      This project will offer two training approaches targeting difficulties with goal-directed
      functioning associated with traumatic brain injury. Both approaches will be delivered
      remotely via tele-rehabilitation and augmented by digital apps - an intervention framework
      that addresses known barriers to engagement (e.g., convenience and access) and provides tools
      to intensify training. The study will be open to eligible Veterans (ages 21-60 years old)
      with history of mild-to-moderate TBI who experience difficulties with cognitive-emotional
      regulation and goal-directed functioning. After screening for eligibility and providing
      informed consent, participants will be allocated by permuted block randomization into one of
      two treatments: Education to optimize brain functioning (OPT), which will teach Veterans
      about brain health, brain injury and factors that affect brain functioning, or training in
      goal-directed state regulation skills (GSR), which will teach Veterans skills for regulating
      cognitive-emotional functioning during goal pursuit. A special emphasis on outreach will be
      to recruit student Veterans with TBI.

      Each intervention will be matched for delivery method, expectation of benefit, workload and
      attention, and overall duration. Training will last approximately five weeks, accommodating
      typical academic schedules. Participants will undergo multi-level assessments at baseline
      (prior to interventions), immediately after training, and at 3 months follow-up, administered
      in-person by staff at study sites. In order to investigate effects on goal-directed
      functioning at multiple levels, assessments will include (1) measures of performance on
      neurocognitive tasks; (2) functional performance on complex, goal-based tasks; (3) ratings of
      changes in functioning in personal life, and (4) progress toward personal goals as measured
      with goal attainment scaling procedures. Data will be analyzed to assess immediate and long
      term changes associated with each intervention; immediate and long-term differences between
      the interventions; and moderators and mediators of intervention effects.
    
  