
    
      Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a growing concern for the aging female population, and
      symptomatic women often require surgical intervention. Approximately 200,000 surgical
      procedures for POP are performed annually in the United States. This number is anticipated to
      increase with the growth in the aging population.1 Surgical prolapse repairs are often
      categorized into either mesh augmented or native tissue repairs. During a native tissue
      repair, the surgeon uses a woman's natural tissue to repair the prolapse without augmenting
      the repair with synthetic mesh.

      Women often have post-operative pain with native tissue posterior colporrhaphy. Native tissue
      posterior repairs are performed to address symptomatic posterior compartment prolapse,
      defects in the rectovaginal fibromuscularis, and/or a widened genital hiatus. This type of
      repair may improve obstructed defecatory dysfunction and bulge symptoms, but can be
      associated with postoperative pelvic pain and dyspareunia. Paraiso et al evaluated three
      surgical techniques for posterior colporrhaphy (site-specific, midline plication, and porcine
      graft) and found no difference in overall symptom improvement, quality of life, and
      post-operative sexual function. Regardless of the technique used, a posterior colporrhaphy
      can cause considerable postoperative pain and can contribute to de novo dyspareunia in 9-20%
      of women. Most studies evaluating pain after posterior colporrhaphy tend to focus on various
      methods of analgesia and surgical technique rather than the suture materials used.

      Suture choice may contribute to postoperative pain at the time of posterior colporrhaphy.
      There are few studies evaluating suture in the posterior compartment with no defined standard
      suture material for posterior colporrhaphy. Available studies, when comparing subjective
      bulge and quality of life outcomes, do not demonstrate superiority of one suture type over
      the other. Delayed absorbable suture has the benefit of retaining tensile strength for
      approximately 3 months. Delayed absorbable suture material itself, however, can remain in
      place for up to 8 months. These properties may decrease postoperative pain by decreasing knot
      burden. Barbed suture has been successfully applied to vaginal cuff closure, myomectomy,
      sacrocolpopexy mesh attachment, and closure of bowel and bladder injuries with demonstrated
      reduced operative times. To date, no studies have evaluated the impact of barbed suture on
      postoperative pain or surgical time after posterior colporrhaphy.

      The primary objective for this study is to compare delayed absorbable barbed suture versus
      non-barbed delayed absorbable suture at the time of posterior repair on post-operative
      posterior compartment pain scores, as measured by the Visual Analog Scale (VAS), at 6 weeks

      Secondary objectives include a comparison of VAS pain scores in the posterior compartment at
      6-months, evaluation of operative time for posterior repair in minutes, evaluation of suture
      burden and pelvic pain on examination of the posterior compartment, evaluation of pain versus
      the length of a repair, evaluation of postoperative patient quality of life (QoL) using
      series of standardized questionnaires, evaluation of suture cost, and a comparison of
      anatomical and surgical failure in the posterior compartment.

      Participants will be approached for participation preoperatively. Baseline demographic data
      will be abstracted from the medical record. A baseline Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantification
      (POP-Q) and pelvic myofascial exam will be performed. Baseline VAS and validated
      questionnaires: Pelvic Floor Distress Inventory-20 (PFDI-20) sub-scales Colorectal-Anal
      Distress Inventory-8 (CRADI-8) and Pelvic Organ Prolapse Distress Inventory-6 (POPDI-6) and
      Pelvic Organ Prolapse/Urinary Incontinence Sexual Questionnaire- 12 (PISQ-12 )will be
      completed. Participants will be randomized in the operating room after posterior vaginal
      dissection to either barbed or non-barbed suture in a standardized technique. All concurrent
      minimally invasive pelvic reconstructive surgical procedures are allowed. Randomization will
      be stratified for minimally invasive (robotic or laparoscopic) versus vaginal surgery.

      Perioperative care is standardized.

      Participants will be scheduled for a post-operative follow up visit at approximately 6 weeks.
      At this visit they will have a structured postoperative interview and pelvic examination,
      including POP-Q, standardized assessment of suture burden and myofascial trigger points. They
      will also complete a VAS and validated questionnaires. Participants will be called at
      approximately 6 months after their original surgery. They will have a structured interview
      and complete VAS and complete validated questionnaires.

      Adverse postoperative outcomes will be collected at each visit.

      Investigators will use a standard deviation estimate of 23.4mm to detect a difference on a
      100mm VAS for pain. Accounting for a 15% drop-out rate, the investigators aim to enroll 64
      participants with 32 in each group.
    
  