
    
      This study will test the null hypothesis that low-dose ketamine given peri-operatively will
      have no effect on the development of chronic post-surgical pain, in patients undergoing
      thoracotomy or video assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) procedures

      A double-blind, randomised placebo-controlled trial will be used to test the null hypothesis.
      Potential participants due to undergo either thoracotomy or video assisted thoracic surgery
      (VATS) will be identified by the collaborating thoracic surgeons in the out-patient
      department. Patients will be sent information about the study by post, prior to admission for
      surgery. If they are willing to participate, written consent will be sought on the ward
      preoperatively, where they will complete baseline measures of pain.

      Patients will be randomised to receive an intravenous infusion of placebo (saline) or
      ketamine running at 0.1mg/kg/hour, starting 10 minutes prior to the surgical incision and
      continuing for the first three postoperative days (96 hours in total). Prior to starting the
      infusion a loading dose of ketamine (0.1 mg per kg) will be administered. All staff,
      including the anaesthetist, surgical team, ward nurses and the principal investigator will be
      blind to the treatment given throughout the study. The key to the randomisation will be
      revealed at the end of the study.

      Patients will be asked to complete a numeric pain score (NPS) and standard pain
      questionnaires which includes the Brief Pain Inventory [BPI], short form Leeds Assessment of
      Neuropathic Symptoms and Signs [S-LANSS]) prior to surgery, then at 6 weeks, 3, 6 and 12
      months after surgery. The surgical area will also be examined at 6 weeks, 6 and 12 months for
      signs of neuropathic or nerve pain. Whilst in hospital patients will be asked to score their
      pain daily, on a numeric pain scale of 0 to 10. Consumption of morphine and side-effects will
      be recorded.

      Patients will receive standard post-operative analgesia.

      A sample size calculation based on a previous study, to detect a reduction in pain of 2
      points the 10 point numeric pain scale at the 6 week assessment, with α = 5%, 1 - β = 90% and
      a bilateral hypothesis, would require a sample size of 36 per group, 72 patients in total.
      This will require a total study population of 144 patients, as both video assisted thoracic
      surgery (VATS) and thoracotomy patients will be studied.

      A two samples t-test will be used to compare the numeric pain scores between the ketamine and
      placebo groups at each time point. If these data are not normally distributed then the Mann
      Whitney test will be used. The scores from the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) and short form
      Leeds Assessment of Neuropathic Symptoms and Signs (S-LANSS) will be analysed in the same
      manner. The Chi Squared test will be used to compare dichotomous data, such as the incidence
      of side-effects.
    
  