
    
      Few behavioral intervention models exist that focus on pre-sexually active adolescents in
      high-prevalence environments. As a result, there is a paucity of scientific research on HIV
      education models that impact risk factors among pre-sexual adolescents or that address the
      underlying causes and contextual factors associated with the sexual risk behaviors that leave
      adolescents vulnerable to HIV infection. Project AIM (Adult Identity Mentoring) is an
      evidence-based youth development HIV prevention intervention designed for youth ages 11-14
      years. The goals of Project AIM are to provide youth with the motivation to enact safe
      choices and to address social barriers to sexual risk prevention such as hopelessness, peer
      pressure, and risk opportunities in low income environments. Results of a United States
      (U.S.)-based behavioral study have demonstrated a positive effect in reducing sexual
      intentions and increasing sexual abstinence. Project AIM has not previously been evaluated
      for use in an African context.

      The purpose of this 50 site, stratified, cluster, randomized control trial is to examine the
      efficacy of Project AIM to delay onset of sexual activity and reduce sexual risk behaviors
      among students (approximate ages 12- 17 years) in junior secondary schools (JSS) in Eastern
      Botswana.The study will involve enrolling a longitudinal cohort consisting of Form 1 students
      who will be randomized to either the intervention (Project AIM) or control condition and
      followed from the start of the Form 1 year to the end of the Form 3 year.

      Outcomes will be assessed through participant self-report of sexual risk behavior and HSV-2
      testing as a biomarker of self-reported sexual activity. Participants will complete a
      behavioral survey three times (baseline, 12 months, and 24 months) and HSV-2 testing two
      times (baseline and 24 months).

      Effective implementation of Project AIM as part of the school health curriculum in Botswana
      would provide an evidence-based, in-school program option to aid and inform HIV prevention
      efforts for young adolescents across southern Africa. Implementation of the program will also
      build on existing programmatic efforts and infrastructure and attempt to demonstrate how the
      addition of an evidence-based, multi-component HIV prevention program will strengthen current
      youth HIV prevention policies and programming. In addition, rates of herpes simplex virus
      type 2 (HSV-2) from the study will provide the region with sexual risk behavior data and
      HSV-2 prevalence estimates for young adolescents in Eastern Botswana, which can inform public
      health recommendations as well as national policies for sexual/reproductive health and
      education among this population.
    
  