
    
      Skin color affected by many agents as it is determined by several chromophores such as
      melanin, hemoglobin and carotenoids. Among these, melanin is the main one responsible for
      different skin colors.

      Melanin is produced by special skin cells called melanocytes and packed in organelles called
      melanosomes. Sometimes, human skin may present a non-uniform melanin distribution in two
      different ways, leading to pigmentary disorders.

      In the first, melanin concentration increases to levels above normal resulting in
      hypermelanosis. In the second, the melanin concentration decreases to levels below normal,
      resulting in hypomelanosis.melanogenesis is acomplex process when disturbed ,it results into
      various pigmentary disorders either hypo or hyper pigmentation.

      These disorders may be congenital or acquired, permenant or temporary, systemic or region
      restricted).

      Pigmentary disorders are include alarge number of heterogenous conditions that are usually
      characterized by altered melanocyte density, melanin concentration, or both, and result in
      altered pigmentation of the skin. Some of these disorders are extremely common such as
      (melisma and vitiligo), whereas others are rare

      Differential Diagnosis of Hyper and Hypopigmentation:

      Hyperpigmentation Hypopigmentation Postinflammatory hyperpigmentation (acne, psoriasis,
      atopic and contact dermatitis, lichen planus, trauma, drugs, and fixed-drug eruptions)
      Melasma Solar lentigines Ephelides (freckles) Café-au-lait macules Nevi Melanoma and
      precursors Acquired (common) Vitiligo Pityriasis alba Tinea versicolor Postinflammatory
      hypopigmentation Congenital (uncommon) Albinism Piebaldism Tuberous sclerosis Hypomelanosis
      of Ito

      Several studies have shown that dermoscopy may come in very handy for assisting the
      noninvasive diagnosis of various general dermatological disorders, including scalp/hair
      diseases (trichoscopy) , nail/nailfold abnormalities (onychoscopy) , cutaneous
      infections/infestations (entomodermoscopy) and inflammatory dermatoses (inflammoscopy) .

      Dermoscopy is a non-invasive method that allows evaluation of colors and microstructures of
      the epidermis, the dermoepidermal junction, and the papillary dermis not visible to the naked
      eye. These structures are specifically correlated to histologic features. The identification
      of specific diagnostic patterns related to the distribution of colors and dermoscopy
      structures can better suggest a malignant or benign pigmented skin lesion. The use of this
      technique provides a valuable aid in diagnosing pigmented skin lesions, This traditionally
      consists of a magnifier , a non-polarised light source, a transparent plate and a liquid
      medium between the instrument and the skin .

      The increasing use of dermoscopy in general dermatology can be partially explained by
      commercially available new generations of handheld dermoscopes, which are small enough to be
      easily placed in every dermatologist's pocket . It is a safe and rapid diagnostic tool that
      assists in clinical examination and management decision in dermatology
    
  