
    
      - Inspection of Records: Investigators and institutions involved in the trial will permit
      trial-related monitoring, audits, Independent Ethics Committee (IEC) review, and regulatory
      inspection(s) by providing direct access to all trial records. In the event of an audit, the
      investigator agrees to allow the sponsor, representatives of the sponsor and applicable
      regulatory authorities access to all trial records. The confidentiality of records that can
      identify participants will be protected, respecting the privacy and confidentiality rules in
      accordance with regulatory requirements.

      The investigator must promptly notify the sponsor of any audits scheduled by any regulatory
      authorities and promptly forward copies of any audit reports received to the sponsor.

      In order to ensure data accuracy, data for individual participant visits must be completed as
      soon as possible/ during/ immediately following the visit. All completed data will be
      reviewed, signed, and dated by the investigator in a timely manner.

      - Database Management and Quality Control: Data management, including the development and
      management of a database, will be performed in accordance with regulatory requirements. The
      designated data management vendor will review the CRF data for completeness and accuracy. A
      formal querying process will be followed whereby the data management group will request the
      site personnel to clarify any apparent erroneous entries or inconsistencies and will request
      additional information from the site as required.

      Medical history/current medical conditions and adverse events will be coded using the Medical
      dictionary for regulatory activities (MedDRA) terminology.

      - Sample Size: As this research is exploratory in nature a sample size was calculated based
      on some assumptions as there is no current data to compare in pediatrics, tPCS, and ADHD.
      Since no preliminary data is available a clinically relevant improvement is regarded as a 15%
      shift on the total range of the two ADHD sub-scales (Inattention and
      Hyperactivity/Impulsivity), with 9 items in each, i.e. 4.05 (=0.15 x 27 where items score 0
      to 3 Likert scale). The standard deviation is estimated as range/6 = 27/6 = 4.5, i.e. the
      total range of a Gaussian distribution was 6 standard deviation. A sampling ratio of 2:1 is
      used. A sample size of 48 children (32:16) will have 80% power to detect a difference of 4.05
      points between the groups when testing two-sided using Students t-test at the 0.05 level of
      significance.

      Continuous data will be summarised using descriptive statistics. Categorical data will be
      presented using N and % (using the number of participants without missing data in the
      calculation). 95% confidence intervals will be determined for all data, where applicable. No
      imputation of missing values will be performed in the calculation of summary statistics.

      - Safety Data Analysis: The safety analyses will be performed for the safety population only.
      All safety parameters (adverse events, physical examination findings, vital signs, physical
      measurements and qEEG findings) will be summarised descriptively by treatment group. The
      descriptive statistics will include the number of observations, mean, standard deviation,
      median, minimum and maximum for continuous variables and number of observations and their
      percentages for categorical variables. Changes from baseline as well as shift tables will be
      provided for the safety laboratory parameters (within, below or above normal range).

      The analysis of adverse events will include all treatment emergent adverse events. Adverse
      events will be coded using MedDRA and will be presented by system organ class and preferred
      term for each treatment group.

      - Efficacy Data

        1. Primary Efficacy analysis:

           The mean change in both the Inattention and Hyperactivity-Impulsive subscales of the
           SNAP-IV-C rating scale as well as the Conners'3 Parent rating scale from baseline to Day
           42 will be calculated for each group. Mean changes from baseline at the other trial time
           points (Days 0, 14, 28, and 42) will also be calculated.

           The statistical analysis methods will consist of paired t-tests within groups and
           analysis of Co-variance (ANCOVA) between groups for the change in assessments over time.
           The paired t-tests will compare the change variable from before tPCS administration to
           after tPCS within groups (active and sham condition). A one-way ANCOVA, with factor
           groups (active or sham) and co-variance baseline value, will be employed to compare
           groups with respect to change from baseline for estimated outcomes, e.g. change in
           complete scores from baseline to 6-weeks for inattentive and hyperactivity-impulsivity
           on SNAP-IV-C and Conners'3 Parent rating scales. Groups will also be compared over time
           (Days 0, 14, 28 and 42) using a linear mixed model analysis and of particular interest
           will be the interaction between group and time.

        2. Secondary Efficacy analysis:

      The mean change in the psychometric test-battery from baseline to Day 42 will be calculated
      for each group. Mean changes from baseline at the other trial time points (Days 0, 14, 28,
      and 42) will also be calculated.

      The statistical analysis methods will consist of paired t-tests within groups and analysis of
      Co-variance (ANCOVA) between groups for the change in assessments over time. The paired
      t-tests will compare the change variable from before tPCS administration to after tPCS within
      groups (active and sham condition). A one-way ANCOVA, with factor groups (active or sham) and
      co-variance baseline value, will be employed to compare groups with respect to change from
      baseline for estimated outcomes, e.g. change in complete scores from baseline to 6-weeks for
      the psychometric test-battery. Groups will also be compared over time (Days 0, 14, 28 and 42)
      using a linear mixed model analysis for repeated measures and of particular interest will be
      the interaction between group and time.

      EEG analysis Power spectra will be determined for each epoch of data for the frequency-domain
      analysis. Mean and median power frequencies will be calculated within each of the 4 EEG
      frequency bands (intraband) and over the entire EEG range (interband). Also, the band power
      fractions or relative amount of power within an EEG band with respect to the total amount of
      spectrum power will be determined. The coherence analysis will be completed using two bands
      (alpha and theta) and four sub-bands (low-alpha (8-10 Hz), high-alpha (10-12 Hz), low-beta
      (12-20 Hz), and high-beta (20-30 Hz)). We will use the Welch's averaged modified periodogram
      method to find the estimated coherence of signal x and y, representing each electrode site.
      It is a function of the power spectral densities of x and y and their cross power spectral
      density. Groups will also be compared over time (Days 0, 42 and 84) using a linear mixed
      model analysis for repeated measures and of particular interest will be the interaction
      between group and time.
    
  