
    
      1. Scientific context:

           Cardiac MRI has become a standard technique for determining the size of myocardial
           infarction as well as evaluating myocardial function and perfusion. However, the
           quantitative analysis of the images targeted on the left and right ventricles relies on
           computer treatments often manual so tedious and dependent on the user, or at best
           semi-automatic. The absence of a completely automated method limits the extraction of
           quantitative and reproducible parameters for each patient, which is necessary for the
           follow-up of patients who have had an acute myocardial infarction.

        2. Objective (s):

           The goal is to integrate in a telemedicine software solution (partnership with the
           company Covalia) an automated method of processing these data completely identical for
           both CHUs. This development could be made available to other UHC seeking a tool suitable
           for multicenter studies.

        3. Materials and Methods:

      An engineer will be recruited to develop algorithms for robust, reliable and ergonomic
      software for the study of myocardial function and perfusion. The software will be accessible
      by users via the internet, and will integrate all the security and personal protection
      constraints that a telemedicine tool requires. The telemedicine aspect will be done in
      partnership with the company Covalia, which obtained for its software solutions CE marking
      thanks to an organization ISO 13485 applied to the whole of the company.

      The images used for the realization of the software will be taken from the Besançon patient
      examinations included in the previous PHRC (1) and will be used after anonymisation.

      Validation of the software will be based on current BioCard PHRC examinations in Dijon and
      Besançon. This study concerning the implementation and the validation of a software, a
      hundred of cases will be included in order to obtain a sufficient representation of the
      included population (ie sufficient observable variability) to validate the technical
      characteristics of the software (reliability, reproducibility, sensitivity, precision).

      The software will automatically provide the calculation of tele-diastolic and tele-systolic
      volumes, ejection fraction, thickness and myocardial thickening. In addition, the study of
      myocardial infusion after injection of a contrast medium will consist of the construction of
      parametric perfusion maps, as well as an automatic determination of myocardial viability. The
      development of the computer tool will be based on the software "Quantified Imaging Resource",
      developed by Alain Lalande and Alexandre Comte and whose results have already been the
      subject of publications.

      The aforementioned parameters will be calculated automatically (with the software) and
      manually (2 experts will perform these calculations). The results will then be compared and
      analyzed by the statisticians of the Besançon and Dijon clinical investigation centers

      (1) : Détermination du taux et du type de progéniteurs vasculaires dans l'infarctus
      myocardique avec et sans sus décalage du segment ST - 2005 - Dr Meneveau (cardiologie)

      4- Expected results and perspectives (less than 30 words)

        -  Complete software development and validation on the BioCard PHRC exams.

        -  Integration of the software in a tele-medicine application.

        -  Submission of at least two articles for international journals.
    
  