
    
      Background : The transitional care OMAGE-P combines three best practices recommendations from
      the French National Authority for Health (HAS) (i) a comprehensive review of diagnosis and
      treatments (ii) a standardized medical report and (iii)a patient education program
      specifically designed for older people with multiple chronic conditions and polypharmacy.
      This transitional care is implemented in a pilot general hospital with the support of French
      ministry of Health and Regional Agency for Health of Ile de France .The aim of the study is
      to assess the impact of the OMAGE P transitional care on the readmissions of non demented
      older people aged 75 years and over within the 3 months following their discharge to home and
      its cost-effectiveness Study Population: non demented people aged 75 years and over admitted
      in emergency (ie via an emergency department ) in the participating units

      Study design:

      Observational prospective monocentric non randomized comparative study Exposed patients:
      eligible patients admitted in participating units and who does not oppose to the collection
      of his personal data. The hospital physician in charge will conduct the comprehensive review
      of diagnosis and treatments and will do the standardized medical report. Patient education
      program will be conduct by the hospital physician and the OMAGE nurse during the
      hospitalization (two sequences) and during 2 to 4 home visits in the month following patient
      's discharge from hospital.

      Non exposed patients: eligible patients from the usual care arm of the RCT OMAGE (Legrain et
      al, JAGS, 2011). To ensure that risk for emergency readmissions is not different between
      exposed and non exposed , the rate of emergency readmissions of non exposed group will be
      compared with the one of eligible patient admitted in the participating units in 2013 and
      2014.

      Setting: General hospital of Eaubonne : geriatric department (acute geriatric unit,
      rehabilitation unit , geriatric mobile unit ) and internal medicine department The OMAGE-P
      transitional care: this transitional care is derived from the OMAGE intervention, which has
      proved to be associated with a significant reduction of readmitted patient 3 month after
      their discharge from acute geriatric unit (, 20.2% of Intervention group participants had
      been readmitted on an emergency basis, compared with 28.4% of control group participants, P =
      .01, RRR = 28.9%, 95% CI = 6.0-51.5%, Legrain et al JAGS 2011). The OMAGE -P transitional
      care consisted in (i) a comprehensive review of diagnosis and treatments, performed by
      hospital physician. The physician of participating units have been training to this medical
      review using a simple tool derived from a HAS program for the optimization of prescription in
      elderly. This tool consists in a table confronting patient's health problems and its
      treatments . This review necessitate an in depth treatments history (performed by physician
      in collaboration with usual patient's pharmacist ), a collaboration with general practitioner
      and an assesment of patient's problems regarding drug management (including adherence,
      self-medication ..etc) performed by the OMAGE nurse.

      (ii) a standardized medical report. This report relies on the HAS recommendations regarding
      medical report which include notably a table indicating drugs at admission, drugs at
      discharge and reasons for modifications.

      (iii) a patient education program specifically designed for older people with multiple
      chronic conditions and polypharmacy . This program aimed to promote the participant as active
      partners in care by assessing the participants' health priorities (preferences, values, and
      treatment burden) and strengthening participants' ability to better manage their own
      follow-up. It consists in two sequences at hospital (educational assessment by OMAGE nurse
      and sequence about links between patient's health problems by hospital physician) and 2 to 4
      sequences during home visits by OMAGE nurse about red flags and situations at risk for
      patient's health, drug management and nutrition and physical activities adapted to patient's
      health. The OMAGE nurse performs this visits in close collaboration with GP and usual health
      professionals implicate din patient's care.

      Statistical analysis: intention to treat analysis . Our hypothesis, based on the results of
      the OMAGE RCT, is that the OMAGE P transitional care is associated with a reduction in
      3-month emergency readmissions from 30% to 20%. To detect such reduction with 80% power and
      an alpha risk of 5%, 242 participants are required per arm.
    
  