
    
      BACKGROUND: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac rhythm disorder, which
      affects patients' morbidity and mortality. AF ablation has emerged as a promising treatment
      strategy, offering the possibility of a durable treatment. Currently, there is no general
      agreement regarding NPAF ablation strategy. Obviously, pulmonary vein isolation is the corner
      stone for all types of AF ablation. The consensus is that CPVI alone is insufficient for NPAF
      ablation. However, the recent clinical trials did not show the additional benefits of other
      substrate modification strategies. Furthermore, the widely used cryo-ablation dilutes the
      concept that NPAF needs additional substrate modification to further improve the clinical
      outcome. It seems that CPVI only as the optimal strategy is more commonly accepted for NPAF
      patients in most of the centers. Based on the results from our pilot study and STABLE-SR
      trial, we believe that fibrotic substrate modification beyond CPVI is very promising for NPAF
      ablation, but its superiority over CPVI alone needs a large scaled randomized trial to prove.

      AIM OF THE STUDY: The primary objective of this investigation is to compare the efficacy of
      two different AF ablation strategies in patients with non-paroxysmal AF: CPVI plus
      electrophysiologic substrate ablation in the left atrium during sinus rhythm (STABLE-SR) and
      CPVI alone. The primary endpoint is freedom from AF and/or ATs with or without antiarrhythmic
      drugs (AADs) at 12months after a single-ablation procedure. AF and/or AT occurring in the
      first 3 months after the ablation (blanking period) was censored. Each episode lasts > 30
      seconds. The secondary endpoint are incidence of peri-procedural complications, including
      stroke, PV stenosis, cardiac perforation, esophageal injury and death; procedure time;
      fluoroscopy time (including the total fluoroscopy time, during CPVI and after CPVI); the
      occurrence of the conversion from AF to AT, and its relationship with long-term outcome; the
      relationship between acute termination of AF and long term outcome.

      STUDY DESIGN: This is a randomized, prospective, parallel, single-blind multicenter design.
      The enrollment target for this investigation is 300 patients. Patients are randomized in a
      1:1 fashion into one of the investigation arms: CPVI plus electrophysiologic substrate
      ablation in the left atrium during sinus rhythm (STABLE-SR) and CPVI alone. Follow-up for
      these patients includes visits at 3 m, 6 m, 9 m, 12 m.
    
  