
    
      SLE is a chronic systemic autoimmune and inflammatory disease. Approximately 65% of patients
      develop SLE between 16 and 55 years of age, and it is 8-10 times more common in women.
      Overall prevalence is estimated at 40-50 per 100,000 individuals in the US. SLE typically
      includes periods of remission and flares. Systemic manifestation of SLE includes fatigue,
      fever, arthralgia, weight loss, and skin rash. Disease progression is variable and
      unpredictable from one individual to the next. Treatment is aimed at preventing damage due to
      inflammation of the involved tissues. Death occur primarily from severe systemic infections
      and renal insufficiency. Futhermore, patients with long-standing SLE on chronic steroid use
      may succumb from atherosclerotic complications such as myocardial infarction.

      The mainstay of treatment of acute disease manifestations is steroids, in
      particular,prednisone. Once started, it is difficult to reduce or stop treatment without new
      flares or severe steroid withdrawal. Longitudinal studies in SLE cannot dissociate morbidity
      caused by the disease from that caused by prolonged steroid use.

      Specific Objectives:

        1. To measure the efficacy, safety and tolerance of methotrexate with folic acid compared
           to placebo with folic acid.

        2. To measure the steroid-sparing effects of methotrexate in SLE

        3. To perform a cost-effectiveness and a cost-utility analysis of methotrexate with folic
           acid using generic and disease specific health status measures.

      Qualification for the study:

      Once written informed consent is obtained, subjects will have a screening visit and
      laboratory evaluations performed to determine if they qualify for the study. A patient is
      enrolled in the study once all eligibility criteria are met. No change in dosage of
      prednisone, NSAIDs or plaquenil will be allowed between screening and qualifying visits.

      Assignment of the treatment:

      After qualifying for the study, subjects will be randomly assigned to receive one of two
      treatments: placebo with folic acid 2.5 mg/day except on the day they take methotrexate or
      placebo, or methotrexate at doses described below with folic acid 2.5 mg/day except on the
      day whem methotrexate or placebo is taken.

      Treatment period: All patients will receive study medication (placebo or methotrexate) for at
      least 12 months. If the patient is on steroid, every effort will be done to taper prednisone
      according to a schedule. One flare requiring increase dose of steroid higher than baseline
      (dose determined by local investigator) will be allowed. If a second flare occurs, it will
      mean stopping the trial. There will be an open phase at the end of the trial during which
      those responding favorably to methotrexate and those on placebo will be offered to either
      continue or start methotrexate for 6 months.

      Drug formulation, route of administration, dosage and duration:

      Methotrexate:

      Patients will be randomly assigned to receive either methotrexate or MTX-placebo (except
      formulation of the placebo consists of 44.00 mg of lactose, 31.00 mg of maize starch, 2.5 mg
      of pregelatinized starch, 0.20 mg of polysorbate 80, 1.00 mg of riboflavin, 20.70 mg of
      microcrystalline cellulose, 1.50 mg of magnesium stearate and small quantities of purified
      water and sodium hydroxide 1N). It will be given orally. Each tablet contains 2.5 mg of
      methotrexate or equivalent color, size and shape-matched placebo. Subject will be given 3 MTX
      tablets, 2.5 mg increment or an equivalent number of MTX-placebo. Subjects ill be given 3 MTX
      tablets, of 2.5 mg.increment or an equivalent number of MTX-placebo tablets to take all
      together once a week for 12 months. If the patient does not have symptoms, signs or
      laboratory evidence of toxicity after 2 weeks, MTX will be increased by 2.5 mg per 8 week
      intervals until maximal does of 0.25 mg/kg/week or 20 mg/week is achieved. In the absence of
      toxicity, MTX will be continued at that does or the maximal tolerated dose for 12 months.Dose
      will be adjusted according to the guidelines for MTX does reduction for toxicity. At the end
      of the blinded period, those patients who have completed the 12 months blinded study, who
      have benefited from MTX with FA and want to continue or try it (for those who were on
      placebo) will be offered to continue into an open-label trial of MTX with FA.

      Folic Acid:

      Folic acid at a dose of 2.5 mg/day for 6 days/week will be given early to all patients. Folic
      acid will not be given on the day the methotrexate or placebo is taken. folic acid is a
      vitamin which has no known anti-inflammatory or immunosuppressive activity at this dose and
      no known toxicity.

      Guidelines for methotrexate dose reduction for toxicity:

      Strict guidelines have been defined for the adjustment of the dose of MTX or placebo. In each
      participating centre, the physician who will review the laboratory tests and adjust the dose
      will be different from the physician who will assess disease activity and clinical response
      to the treatment. Both physicians will be blinded to the study drug, but this is done as
      supplementary precaution to protect blinding should blood tests suggest that a patient is on
      placebo or on MTX.

      Open-label trial:

      Patient who terminate from the study prematurely will not be eligible to receive further
      treatment with MTX in this follow-up study. The open trial model will be modeled on the
      protocol except for the blinding. Patients who were receiving MTX will be offered
      continuation of the drug with the same surveillance mechanism for an extra 6 months. Those
      who were receiving MTX-placebo will be offered to try MTX. At the end of this 6 months, the
      open label trial will be terminated.
    
  