
    
      Cell phones with internet access (so-called smartphones) represent a rich source for user
      activity data. Each time one places a call, sends a text message, or uses an app, a data
      trace is being produced which overall reflects the user's social activity and behavior. This
      data is called 'social sensing data'. Researchers connected this type of data to the health
      status of the person operating the cell phone. An example is that an outbreak of seasonal flu
      may lead to fewer calls and text messages among cell phone users. Thus, the social sensing
      data may show for example how severe an outbreak is and how fast it is spreading.

      "Circadian rhythmicity" describes the concept that many of the bodily functions follow a
      roughly 24-hour rhythm. Usually, the ability to do concentrated and focused work is best
      during daytime while rest and sleep occurs during nighttime. A disturbance of this pattern,
      for example by regular nightshift work, may lead to an increased disease risk, such as for
      the cardiovascular system, the heart and blood vessels. Natural factors within a body produce
      our 24-hour rhythm. This rhythm is affected by outside cues such as sunlight. Jet lag is a
      short-term form of a disturbed 24-hour rhythm. When a person travels fast through several
      time zones, by plane for example from the East to the West Coast of the US, s/he arrives with
      a time difference of 3 hours. Upon arrival, the body runs still at East Coast time, but is
      exposed to the environmental cues following the West Coast time, which may make the person
      feel groggy and disoriented at first. Within a couple of days the body time usually adjusts
      and the complaints discontinue.

      The current study wishes to look for a relationship between patterns in the participant's
      cell phone use (Android only at this point) and several of the bodily functions. As bodily
      functions the investigators will measure blood pressure and breakdown products (metabolites)
      in urine, blood and saliva samples. The investigators will collect stool samples and use
      swabs to collect the microbes inhabiting the mouth as well as the rectum. The investigators
      will also measure messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA), messenger products of the participant's
      heritable information, in the blood. A cell phone application called "Ginger.io" will collect
      the participants' cell phone usage information. This application will also ask the
      participant several questions during the installation, during participation as well as at the
      end. Furthermore, the investigators will ask the participant about the dietary intake and
      habits.

      The aim is to learn how the 24-hour rhythm is connected to the social activity and behavior
      as well as blood pressure and metabolites as markers for the health status.
    
  