
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate overall survival (OS) of adjuvant reirradiation plus concurrent pembrolizumab
      followed by pembrolizumab to complete 12 months total of pembrolizumab to adjuvant
      reirradiation plus concurrent platinum chemotherapy in high risk head and neck squamous cell
      carcinoma (HNSCC) patients.

      II. To evaluate OS of adjuvant pembrolizumab for 12 months compared to adjuvant reirradiation
      plus concurrent platinum chemotherapy in high risk HNSCC patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the following endpoints in all arms: disease free survival (DFS), locoregional
      control, rates of distant metastasis, toxicity.

      II. To evaluate whether high PD-L1 expression (defined as Combined Positive Score [CPS] >=
      20) is predictive of increased efficacy in the experimental groups compared to control.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 6 weeks for 9 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients also undergo intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) or proton beam
      radiation therapy (PBRT) once daily (QD) for a total of 30 fractions in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive cisplatin or carboplatin IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 7 days
      for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also
      undergo IMRT or PBRT QD for a total of 30 fractions in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM C: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 6
      weeks for 9 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, and then every 6
      months for up to 5 years from the date of registration
    
  