
    
      30 patients suffering from AERD will be included in this single-center, prospective,
      explorative study for treatment with dupilumab. Before study initiation, informed consent
      will be obtained from all subjects. All patients with AERD can be included according to
      inclusion- and exclusion criteria.

      AERD patients who had already obtained a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of asthma or
      polyps will also be included if at least a wash out period of 5 half -lives or 3 months has
      passed. The first visit will be performed at screening (day 0, V1/before dupilumab therapy).
      Clinically significant abnormal laboratory values will be ruled out prior to the first dose.

      All patients will be administered subcutaneous doses of dupilumab in a biweekly fashion.

      For several reasons comparison with placebo will not be performed:

        -  All patients included are in urgent need for an effective treatment.

        -  The only currently available alternative treatment option is a functional endoscopic
           sinus surgery (FESS). Usually there is a high recurrence rate after surgery.

        -  All included patients have a long medical history concerning AERD. The rate of a
           spontaneous improvement or resolution in this patient population is negligible.

      Spirometry (peak-flow and FEV1) and an asthma control test will be performed prior to
      dupilumab therapy, after 1, 3 and 6 months. In addition, the sinonasal outcome test-22 and
      the total nasal endoscopic polyps score as well as nasal congestion score, disease severity
      (by visual analogue scale=VAS), total symptom score (TSS) will be performed at baseline,
      after 1,3 and 6 months. To further evaluate the polyp size, a nasal CT will be performed at
      screening visit. To evaluate the sense of smell we will perform UPSIT testing before and
      after 6 months dupilumab.

      All patients will have routine laboratory testing (blood chemistry, hematology) before and
      after 6 months of therapy. Adverse events will be recorded at each visit. Biological activity
      will be evaluated based on peripheral blood eosinophil counts, serum total Immunoglobulin E
      (IgE) levels and measurement of eosinophilic cationic protein in patients' sera at baseline
      and after 6 months.

      To assess local changes in the nose caused by dupilumab treatment, nasal secretions, nasal
      mucosa samples (nasal curette), nasal microbiome as well as nasal biopsies will be collected.

      After the end of study, treatment will be continued in all patients with significant
      improvement in asthmatic symptoms, nasal symptoms as well as a reduction of polyps.

      For patients who did not experience clinical improvement, dupilumab treatment will be
      discontinued after 6 months.
    
  