
    
      Patients with chronic acquired demyelinating neuropathy may be referred for instability or
      falls when walking. Some of them have complaints of dysesthesia, paresthesia. The majority of
      these patients, due to the involvement of large sensory fibres, have deep and superficial
      sensitivity disorders (hypoesthesia or anaesthesia), which explain proprioceptive ataxia and
      balance disorders.

      In a given situation, an individual maintains his or her balance thanks to sensory
      information, among which he or she may have to choose the most appropriate one for the
      context. A good balance control depends on the ability to select the best information, but
      many subjects do not have, or have lost, this ability, giving too systematically priority to
      the same sensory input. This is what is called sensory preferences or sensory profiles that
      differ from one subject to another. The most common behaviour is visual dependence.

      This tendency to visual dependence has been described in different pathological situations,
      especially after a stroke. Research has shown that specific rehabilitation in visual
      deprivation can reduce visual dependence and improve balance and walking autonomy in stroke
      patients.

      The investigators have shown in previous work that patients with acquired chronic
      demyelinating neuropathy have ataxic symptomatology with a visual dependence behavior, while
      a good sensitivity to vibration stimulation of proprioceptive pathways persists. The
      proprioceptive potential still present seems to be under-used.

      Rehabilitation of patients with peripheral neuropathy involves many techniques, such as
      muscle strengthening, vibration, virtual reality, Tai chi, electrical stimulation, etc.
      However, some techniques, such as the use of virtual reality or visual biofeedback, tend to
      increase the use of the visual input, which could be detrimental to other inputs. The
      specific approach to balance disorders in these patients through manipulation of the visual
      input has, to our knowledge, not been studied. This is the objective of the study.

      The main hypothesis of this research is that rehabilitation with modified visual input can,
      by reducing visual dependence, strengthen the proprioceptive input that still appears to be
      available in these patients with acquired chronic demyelinating neuropathy, despite deficits
      already present, and thus improve balance and walking ability.
    
  