
    
      STUDY DESIGN: Prospective, multicenter, non-randomized, single-arm registry

      OBJECTIVE: The primary objective is to evaluate the iCAST covered stent to a performance
      metric derived from studies of FDA-approved iliac stent devices for treating iliac artery
      stenoses in patients with de novo or restenotic lesions in the common and/or external iliac
      arteries.

      NUMBER OF SUBJECTS: 165 subjects, including up to 25 subjects with totally occluded lesions.

      PRIMARY ENDPOINTS: The primary endpoint is a composite endpoint defined as the occurrence of
      death within 30 days, target site revascularization or restenosis (by ultrasound
      determination) within 9 months post-procedure.

      SECONDARY ENDPOINTS: Secondary endpoints include:

        1. Major adverse vascular events (MAVE) defined as a composite rate of myocardial
           infarction at 30 days, stent thrombosis, clinically apparent distal embolization,
           defined as causing end-organ damage (e.g. lower extremity ulceration, tissue necrosis,
           or gangrene), arterial rupture, acute limb ischemia, target limb amputation or procedure
           related bleeding event requiring transfusion.

        2. A major adverse event (MAE) is defined as a composite rate of MAVE or any death, or
           stroke, up to 30 days post-procedure.

        3. Device success, defined as the successful delivery and deployment of the study stent and
           intact retrieval of the delivery system.

        4. Acute procedural success, defined as device success and achievement of < 30% residual
           stenosis immediately after stent deployment, mean transtenotic pressure gradient of < 5
           mmHg and without occurrence of in-hospital MAVE.

        5. Clinical success, assessed both early (30 days) and late (6, 9 and 12 months).

        6. Patency assessed at each follow-up time point, categorized as primary, primary-assisted
           or secondary patency.

        7. Composite rate of 30 day death, 9 month target site revascularization and 9 month
           restenosis in subjects without iliac total occlusions.

      PATIENT POPULATION: Eligible patients have symptomatic claudication or rest pain and
      angiographic confirmation of either de novo or restenotic lesions in the common and/or
      external iliac artery.
    
  