
    
      Specific Aims, among asymptomatic first degree relatives (FDRs), aged 18-30, of multiple
      sclerosis (MS) patients:

        1. Determine the prevalence of brain MRI lesions disseminated in space (DIS), consistent
           with MS

        2. Gather data on potential risk factors or early signs related to MS development,
           including markers for: genes, immunological function, environmental factors, neuroaxonal
           damage, Vitamin D levels, lipid metabolism, activity levels, mood abnormalities, and
           cognitive function. From this, develop a risk factor score, incorporating all relevant
           potential markers of increased risk of DIS.

        3. To use this pilot, cross-sectional study as a base for development of a long-term,
           longitudinal, multi-center study to determine genetic and environmental risks for
           pre-symptomatic MS

        4. To create and maintain a biobank of specimens for future analysis as other potential
           biomarkers become available.

      Sequences to include

        1. Whole brain T1-weighted images acquired using 3-Dimensional fast spoiled-gradient
           recalled acquisitions (T1-3D-FSPGR) with 1 mm slice thickness and isotropic voxel
           dimensions.

        2. Whole brain 3-Dimensional Double Inversion Recovery (DIR) acquisition with 1.5 mm slice
           thickness.

        3. Whole brain T2-weighted Fluid Attenuated Inversion Recovery (FLAIR ) images with 1 mm
           slice thickness and isotropic voxel dimensions will be combined with

        4. Whole brain T2*-weighted segmented echo-planar imaging (segEPI) images with <=1 mm slice
           thickness and isotropic voxel dimensions to obtain FLAIR* images.

      Blood analysis for:

        1. Single Nucleotide Polymorphism analysis of greater than 200 known mutations associated
           with risk of MS, and do an human leukocyte antigen (HLA) analysis

        2. CD20 on CD4+ cell analysis

        3. B Cell Anergy analysis Lipid levels

        4. Viral serologies (HSV, EBV, CMV, VZV)

        5. Neurofilament Light

        6. Vitamin D levels

      Bioscreen analysis based on that from the Diabetes Autoimmunity Study in the Young (DAISY);
      and to include the Godin Leisure-Time Exercise Questionnaire (GLTEQ), which has been
      validated in both adults and children and a validated dietary/food frequency questionnaire.
      In addition perform a cognitive screen with a Symbol Digit Modality test.

      Blood will also be stored for future potential analysis, including peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells, serum, and Ribonucleic acid (RNA).
    
  