
    
      Charles Bonnet Syndrome (CBS) has been reported in people with visual impairment, and is
      surprisingly common with an estimated prevalence of 10-34% of low vision patients from local
      audits. It consists of complex visual hallucinations such as seeing snakes rising from
      people's heads or elephants inside a room (see review, Carpenter, Jolly et al. 2019).
      Patients experience CBS hallucinations over many years, and although they retain knowledge it
      is not real, the hallucinations can be frightening and cause considerable distress. Patients
      with CBS have a lower quality of life compared to patients with vision loss without CBS.
      Moreover, CBS is under reported due to the fear of being labelled with mental health disease,
      adding to the negative consequences.

      There is currently no established treatment for CBS, with the mainstay of management in low
      vision clinics revolving around reassurance. Many patients receive inappropriate care from
      other healthcare practitioners as reported by Judith Potts, founder of Esme's Umbrella, a
      patient support charity dedicated to Charles Bonnet Syndrome. A clearer understanding of the
      mechanisms underlying CBS would help to ensure the medical community takes the condition
      seriously and therefore adequately counsel presenting patients. In addition, understanding
      the neural mechanisms of CBS can provide a model for investigating how the brain reorganizes
      in response to sensory impairment and may eventually lead to improvement in the management
      and treatment of the neurological consequences of eye disease.

      Visual processing becomes more complex throughout the pathway from the retina, primary visual
      cortex to the more specialised processing in higher visual areas. Thus, the complex nature of
      the hallucinations in CBS (faces, objects, animals), in spite of blurred vision, appears to
      implicate the higher visual areas in the visual ventral stream that are known to be process
      objects.

      Neurotransmitters are the chemicals that allow communication across the brain. Some
      neurotransmitters increase the activity in the brain (excitatory) and others reduce activity
      (inhibitory). A candidate mechanism for CBS from computational modelling is the imbalance of
      excitation:inhibition: loss of feedforward visual input may give greater prominence to
      feedback in higher visual areas, causing hallucinations. A recent EEG study has provided
      experimental support, showing that hyperexcitability of the visual cortex was a key
      difference between people who have hallucinations versus those who do not. A critical proof
      of this theory would require measurement of excitatory and inhibitory neurochemicals,
      glutamate and GABA respectively, in visual areas. This is still outstanding and will be
      tackled by this study. MRS-imaging is a cutting-edge method to quantify the concentration of
      neurochemicals in the brain. Rather than providing a single measurement from a large volume
      of tissue (30x30x30mm), this technique provides high spatial resolution (5x5x20mm)
      measurements that permits comparison across the visual cortex. MRSI is the only technique
      that can non-invasively quantify neurochemicals in the living human brain, and MRS-imaging
      can provide concentrations of the neurotransmitters in multiple locations, which can then be
      compared across groups.

      In summary, based on previous work and the nature of the hallucinations, the investigators
      predict that patients with CBS likely show 1) changes in the neurotransmitter balance across
      the visual cortex; 2) increased influence of feedback mechanisms from higher visual areas and
      3) abnormal activity in the ventral visual stream to visual stimulation. Our goal is to
      characterise the visual cortex of CBS patients by using rigorous non-invasive multi-modal MR
      imaging techniques. Using state-of-the-art methods, the team will measure concentrations of
      excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters, identify changes in connectivity, and measure
      evoked visual activity in patients with CBS and visually impaired participants without CBS.
      In addition, the team will obtain clinical evaluation and qualitative assessments of
      hallucinations.
    
  