
    
      Surgical samples of human primitive breast: In order to use human samples from the
      anatomo-pathological laboratory collection, several statements will be signed and coordinated
      by the legal department of Centre National de Recherche Scientifique (CNRS) and Institut
      National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM) in accordance with Centre
      Hospitalier Universitaire (CHU). Representative and various surgical samples of human
      primitive breast carcinoma in terms of histological type (no special type, lobular etc …),
      grade, tumor size (except tumor less than 1 cm for having enough material), hormone receptor
      status, HER2 status and index of proliferation will be prospectively analysed. Moreover,
      healthy tissue from the same patient will be analysed in parallel. Adjacent normal epithelial
      structures will be defined as at least 5 mm away from the tumor and histologically normal in
      appearance, as independently determined by a clinical pathologist.

      All clinical characteristics of the patients will be collected : age at diagnosis, body mass
      index, nulliparous status or not, pre-peri- or post- menopausal status, systemic adjuvant
      treatment in terms of hemotherapy, tailored therapy and local treatments. Moreover all
      histo-pathological characteristics of the infiltrative primary breast carcinoma will be
      determined by team 2 :histological type (no special type, lobular etc …), grade Scarff-Bloom
      et Richardson (SBR), tumor size, hormone receptor status (estrogen and progesterone
      receptor), HER2 status (overexpression/amplication), index of proliferation (count of mitosis
      and antigen KI67), presence or not of embole vascular, presence or not of in-situ carcinoma
      and nodal status. For the human breast tissue cohort, the amounts of connective tissue and
      collagen will be determined as percent of positive intralobular stain to total lobular area
      per case. Intralobular connective tissue content will be examined using Hematoxylin and Eosin
      (H&E) stain and fibrillar collagen content via Masson's trichrome stain.

      Isolation and differentiation of human monocyte-derived Mphs: Human Mphs will be
      differentiated from blood monocytes isolated from the same patient than the tumor sample.
      Blood samples will be obtained following standard ethical procedures and with the approval of
      the concerned Internal Review Boards.

      Human blood-derived Mphs will be stained with CellTracker™ Green 5-chloromethylfluorescein
      diacetate (CMFDA) Dye prior to co-culture with breast tumors explants to allow distinguishing
      them from endogenous Mphs in immunohistochemistry staining.

      Ex vivo tumor slice preparation and co-culture with Mphs: Ex vivo tumor slices will be
      performed. Surgical samples will be embedded in 3% low gelling temperature agarose prepared
      in Phosphate Buffered Saline (PBS) to allow for easier slicing. 500-µm slices will be
      obtained with a microtome dedicated to live tissues, a Krumdieck tissue slicer filled with
      ice-cold PBS set to medium blade and arm speeds. Slices will be cultured on 30-mm cell
      culture insert featuring a hydrophilic PolyTetraFluoroEthene (PTFE) membrane with pore size
      of 0.4 µm (Merck Millipore) placed inside 6-well plates containing 1.1 mL of Dulbecco's
      Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM) with or without Ameboid Migration (AM) or Mensenchymal Migration
      (MM) inhibitors. The same day, co-cultures will be performed by seeding 5 × 105 human
      Monocyte Derived Macrophages (hMDMs) on top of tumor slices and left in a 37°C 5% CO2
      environment. Culture medium will be replaced daily for three days before overnight fixation
      with formalin at 4°C (Sigma-Aldrich).

      For determination of the Mph migration mode, two parameters will be evaluated to determine
      the migration mode of Mphs inside tumors: the sensitivity to inhibitors and the cell
      morphology.Mph will be layered on tumor slices from breast tumor biopsies in the presence or
      absence of the AM inhibitor (20 µM Y27632) or the MM inhibitor (10 µM Batimastat) to identify
      the Mph migration mode.

      Inhibitors: If the infiltration of Mphs into tissues is inhibited by Y27632 (a ROCK
      inhibitor) and insensitive to protease inhibitors, and then allow to conclude that they use
      the AM. If the opposite is true, it will conclude that they use the MM. If inhibitors have an
      additional effect, it will conclude that both AM and MM are used.

      Cell morphology: [Mph have an elongated and protrusive morphology during MM. In contrast,
      during AM, Mph show a round morphology. Although difficult to assess on ImmunoHistoChemistry
      (IHC) slices, Mph morphology will be analyzed. If elongated Mph can be detected, it will
      provide us with additional information to conclude on the migration mode.

      Immunohistochemistry on tumor slices: Tumor slices used in co-cultures with hMDMs will be
      embedded in paraffin. For Mph infiltration quantification assays, slices will then be cut
      along the diameter and serial sectioning will be performed along the cut. Sections will be
      stained using an anti-CellTracker™ Green CMFDA Dye Rabbit Polyclonal Antibody (Life
      technologies) to specifically stain exogeneously added human MDMs. To determine viability of
      tissue slices, sections will be stained with hematoxylin and eosin to assess cell apoptosis
      and necrosis. Slides will then be scanned using a Panoramic 250 Flash II slide scanner
      (3DHISTECH, Hungary) with a 20× magnification lens..The number of Mphs per mm2 of tissues
      will be quantified (Mirax Scan Zeiss virtual slide scanner). This task will be accomplished
      withDrTalal Al Saati, supervisor of the experimental histopathology technical platform
      (INSERM-IFR150/Génopole Toulouse-Midi Pyrénées, CHU Purpan, Toulouse).

      Value-creation of experimental results: The Mph migration mode will be identified in a
      significant number of human primitive breast carcinoma of each type as defined by clinicians,
      based on their histological type, grade, tumor size, hormone receptor status, HER2 status and
      index of proliferation and clinical characteristics of the patients collected by team2.
      Moreover, the migration mode of Mph in the healthy tissue from the same patients will be
      analysed in parallel and will be used as a reference of Mph migration in non-tumoral tissue
      in each patients. Then, it will determine i) if Mph perform MM in all types of tumor or if
      they use MM in some tumors and AM in others, and ii) whether a correlation exists between the
      migration mode used by macrophages to infiltrate tumors and the type of tumor. Finally, it
      will establish if there is a correlation between the invasive properties of the studied
      breast cancer (which will be determined by histo-pathological analysis performed by team2)
      and the migration mode used by Mph in order to determine whether a correlation exists between
      the migration mode used by macrophages and tumor invasiveness. Actually, the result expected
      is that when TAMs use the MM which involves proteases and deep remodeling of the
      extracellular matrices, the tumor invasiveness will be higher than in tumors in which Tyro-3,
      Axl, and Mer (TAMs) use the AM.

      In the long term, the patient outcome will also be taken into account in these analyses as an
      additional knowledge about the relationship between TAM migration and tumor progression.
    
  