
    
      An estimated 26 million smokers still receive no treatment for their smoking during their
      primary care visits. Given the persistent clinical system, provider, and patient barriers to
      addressing smoking in primary care, especially for poor populations, an electronic health
      record (EHR)-automated population health management approach that directly links the
      healthcare system with public health services to engage all smokers may increase access to
      effective treatment. Increased access is especially significant for low-income smokers who
      are underserved and who carry a disproportionate burden of tobacco-related disease. While 90%
      of smokers are not ready to quit, many are interested in cutting down, and smoking reduction
      increases the likelihood of future quit attempts and smoking cessation. Based on
      self-determination theory, population outreach targeted to low-income smokers that offers
      them the choice to either quit or cut down as a first step towards cessation may increase
      their engagement in and utilization of smoking cessation treatment and likelihood of
      achieving abstinence. This 2-group randomized controlled trial will evaluate the
      effectiveness of a population health management intervention for smoking cessation in
      low-income smokers. Participants will be 530 diverse, low-income smokers of a large Federally
      Qualified Health Center (FQHC) in Chicago identified using its EHR system. Automated via the
      EHR system, participants will be mailed a letter on behalf of their providers that encourages
      smoking cessation or smoking reduction as a first step to quitting (Choose to Change; N=265).
      The letter will be paired with 5 text messages 2-3 days apart that are designed to reinforce
      the central messaging of the letter ("Choose to change and make your own goal"). All
      components of the Choose to Change intervention will be offered in English and Spanish. Two
      weeks after letter mailing and automated electronic referral, participants will receive a
      call from the Illinois Tobacco Quitline and offered free behavioral counseling and free
      nicotine replacement therapy (NRT; patch, gum, or lozenge) for smoking cessation or
      reduction. Treatment will continue as either accepted or initiated by participants for 28
      weeks. Treatment outcomes will be transmitted directly from the Quitline server to the EHR
      system. Choose to Change will be compared with Enhanced Usual Care (N=265), in which an
      electronic referral for proactive Quitline treatment is made during a clinic visit. The
      primary study outcomes will be treatment engagement (initial counseling call completed) at 6
      weeks, utilization (one or more additional counseling calls completed) at 14 weeks, and
      smoking cessation (bioverified 7-day point-prevalence abstinence) at 28 weeks. An exploratory
      aim is to examine moderators of intervention effects. An EHR-automated population health
      management intervention targeted to low-income smokers could reduce critical disparities in
      treatment access, utilization, and cessation. If determined to be effective, the Choose to
      Change intervention could be readily disseminated to 11 other FQHCs in Chicago, comprising 85
      clinical sites that care for almost 500,000 low-income patients.
    
  