
    
      Introduction: The hypertension arterial and diabetes mellitus are chronic diseases with a
      high burden of disease. It affects approximately 25% of the adult population worldwide and is
      an important risk factors for global mortality. As for the diabetes, worldwide there are
      about 346 million people with diabetes and 80% of them live in countries with low and middle
      income. The recommendations for treating of these diseases includes the pharmacological
      treatment and modification of lifestyle: salt restriction, moderation in alcohol consumption,
      high consumption of fruits and vegetables, low-fat diet, weight reduction and regular
      physical activity. The adherence to these guidelines are essential keys to success in
      handling these pathologies. The lack of adherence to the prescribed treatment regimen remains
      a problem among patients with long-term treatment.

      Objective: To evaluated the efficacy of nursing intervention "Teaching: Individual" compared
      with usual care, to increase adherence of therapeutic regimen in people with hypertension
      arterial and/or diabetes mellitus type 2.

      Methods: Randomized controlled trial. 200 patients with hypertension arterial and/or diabetes
      mellitus type 2 attending cardiovascular risk programs of Bucaramanga, Colombia will include
      . Nursing intervention to evaluate is "Teaching: Individual" consisting in six educational
      sessions. The investigators will measure 0, 6 y 12 months: Treatment Behavior: Illness or
      Injury (1609) (adherence treatment), glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) and systolic blood
      pressure for 24 hours. Base characteristics of the groups will be compare through
      chi-square/Fisher´s exact or Students-T/Mann-Whitney U test. Outcomes will be evaluate by
      paired T-tests or Wilcoxon test at different follow-up times and statistical significance
      with p-value < 0.05 will considered.
    
  