
    
      Farber disease (FD), also known as Farber's lipogranulomatosis, is an autosomal recessive
      lysosomal storage disease marked by a deficiency in enzyme ceramidase which causes a
      progressive accumulation of fatty material lipids leading to abnormalities in the joints,
      liver, throat, tissues and central nervous system.

      FD is an extremely rare disorder, with a prevalence of less than 1/1000000. Currently only
      about 80 cases are reported worldwide. Disease onset is typically in early infancy but may
      occur later in life.

      FD is caused by a mutation in the ASAH1 gene, situated on the short arm of chromosome 8. This
      gene codes for acid ceramidase, a lysosomal heterodimeric enzyme that hydrolyzes ceramide
      into sphingosine and fatty acid. To date, less than 25 distinct mutations have been
      identified in Farber patients, but no large deletions have yet been reported. It is inherited
      with an autosomal recessive pattern.

      The clinical presentation of FD is characterized by the appearance of subcutaneous skin
      nodules, ordinarily near the joints, most often interphalangeal, wrist, elbow and ankle
      joints, or over points of mechanical pressure. These manifestations are very painful and lead
      to progressive joint stiffness, limitation of motion by contractures and finally to
      immobilization and deformation of joints. Also, a characteristic sign of FD is the
      development of a progressive hoarseness due to laryngeal involvement.

      Beside these major manifestations seven phenotypes have been described which differ in
      severity and additional organ involvement, like the lungs, nervous system, heart and lymph
      nodes. Dependent on residual lysosomal ceramidase turnover, patients have a variable degree
      of central nervous system disease, leading to progressive neurologic deterioration. In most
      cases the neuronal dysfunction rather than the general physical dystrophy seems to limit the
      duration of FD. As well, patients with FD may die due to pulmonary disease with interstitial
      pneumonia.

      First symptoms usually appear between the newborn period and the first birthday. Milder forms
      of type 3 were described with onset at 20 months of age. Clinical manifestation in type 5 of
      FD, dominated by neurologic deterioration, begins at 1 to 2 1/2 years of life. Patients
      mainly die within the first years of life, but prolonged courses in patients without severe
      nervous disease may also be observed.

      Type 1 is the most common or classical form of this condition and is associated with the
      classic signs of voice, skin, and joint problems that begin a few months after birth.
      Developmental delay and lung disease also commonly occur. Infants born with type 1 FD usually
      survive only into early childhood.

      Types 2 and 3 generally have less severe signs and symptoms than the other types. Affected
      individuals have the three classic signs and usually do not have developmental delay.
      Children with these types of FD typically live into mid- to late childhood.

      Types 4 and 5 are associated with severe neurological problems. Type 4 usually causes
      life-threatening health problems beginning in infancy due to massive lipid deposits in the
      liver, spleen, lungs, and immune system tissues. Children with this type typically do not
      survive past their first year of life. Type 5 is characterized by progressive decline in
      brain and spinal cord (central nervous system) function, which causes paralysis of the arms
      and legs (quadriplegia), seizures, loss of speech, involuntary muscle jerks (myoclonus), and
      developmental delay. Children with type 5 FD survive into early childhood.

      Types 6 and 7 are very rare, and affected individuals have other associated disorders in
      addition to FD.

      New methods, like mass-spectrometry give a good chance to characterize specific metabolic
      alterations in the blood of affected patients that allow diagnosing in the future the disease
      earlier, with a higher sensitivity and specificity.

      Therefore it is the goal of the study to identify and validate a new biochemical marker from
      the blood of the affected patients helping to benefit other patients by an early diagnose and
      thereby with an earlier treatment.
    
  