
    
      Peanut allergy is a significant clinical problem. Food immunotherapy provides the latest
      approach to managing food allergy. Oral immunotherapy is considered as the most effective and
      safe, according to current research. What is more, this type of therapy is easily available
      and can be continued at patient's home. Obtaining and maintenance of tolerance to the
      allergic food is the main goal of this procedure.

      The study will include children with peanut allergy, confirmed during open oral food
      challenge (OOFC) with peanut protein. First OOFC will be performed before immunotherapy,
      second one at the end of procedure. Participants will be randomly assigned to two groups.
      During the maintenance phase, the first group will receive low dose of peanut protein, which
      amounts 150mg, the second will get high dose, which is 300 mg of peanut protein. Oral
      immunotherapy with low and high dose of peanut protein in children randomly assigned to two
      groups (1:1).

      In the following phase, every two weeks the dose of ground roasted peanut will be increased
      and applied to a child during hospitalization (1-day procedure). Precondition to increase of
      dose is good tolerance of previous portion of peanut. The maximum time frame for this phase
      is 14 months.

      After achieving tolerance, immunotherapy will be continued for 2 months in maintenance phase,
      with dose 150mg or 300 mg peanut protein, depending on a study group.

      The dosage increasing phase will last maximally 14 months. If patients achieves the
      maintenance dose earlier, this period may be shorter. Maintenance dose is determined by
      random patients' assignment to one from study's group and amounts 150mg or 300 mg of peanut
      protein, respectively.

      The duration of the maintenance phase is 8 weeks (+/-2 weeks). After 2 months (8 weeks +/-2
      weeks) of maintenance dose the final OOFC and evaluation of tolerance of peanut protein will
      be performed. Confirmation of the total desensitization of peanut is the tolerance of a
      single dose of 4500 mg peanut protein.
    
  