
    
      Reports about postoperative pain in endodontics range from 3%-58% in different studies .

      Pain can be provoked by mechanical, chemical, or microbiological injuries to periodontal
      tissues . A number of treatment related parameters have been shown to be associated with the
      presence of postoperative pain, including working length (WL) estimation with an apex locator
      connected to every file , the number of visits , the choice of instrumentation , and the
      choice of root canal sealer .

      Sealers placed in the root canals interfere with periodontal tissues through the apical
      foramina, lateral canals, or leaching and can potentially affect the healing process in the
      periodontium. Thus, the local inflammation caused by root canal obturation materials may
      result in postoperative pain. The intensity of inflammatory reactions depends on a number of
      different factors, including the composition of the sealer .

      The use of a sealer during root canal obturation is essential for success of root canal
      treatment. The sealer has various functions:

        -  Attainment of impervious seal

        -  Filler for canal irregularities and minor discrepancies between the root canal wall and
           core-filling material Expressed through lateral or accessory canals

        -  Can assist in microbial control

        -  Act as lubricant

        -  Can have adhesive property to dentin

      The evolution of newer techniques, instruments, materials, and better understanding of canal
      anatomy, has changed the face of endodontics completely. One concept that has emerged is the
      single-visit root canal therapy. Single-visit root canal treatment (RCT) has become a common
      practice and offers several advantages, including a reduced flare-up rate, decreased number
      of operative procedures, and no risk of interappointment leakage through temporary
      restorations.

      The major consideration regarding one-appointment endodontics has been the concern about
      postoperative pain . Various studies have evaluated the post-endodontic pain difference
      between single- and multiple-visit RCT, but most studies have ruled out any significant
      difference in postoperative pain .

      It has been suggested that bioceramic materials improve the outcome of endodontic treatment
      by promoting the differentiation of odontoblasts and by releasing biologically active
      substances . The bioceramic materials have been shown to be less cytotoxic compared with
      resin-based AH Plus (Dentsply Maillefer, Ballaigues, Switzerland) in vitro . However, AH Plus
      (FKG Dentaire SA, La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland) exhibited stronger bonding capacity and
      higher radiopacity compared with bioceramic sealers. The clinical significance of these
      characteristics is still unclear. Data on the clinical behavior of bioceramic sealers are
      scarce and of great interest.
    
  