
    
      This prospective, longitudinal, case-control study will include 30 subjects with type 1
      diabetes mellitus who require extraction of 1 or more erupted teeth, which will make part of
      study group (SG). Other 30 healthy subjects, without diabetes mellitus, in need of tooth
      extraction will make part of control group (CG). The groups will be matched by gender and
      age.

      This project will be submitted to the Research and Ethics Committee of Dentistry College in
      University of Sao Paulo and all participants will sign a Consent Term.

      All subjects who agreed to participate of this research will sign the Consent Term. A
      questionnaire will be filled by the researcher, through information obtained by direct
      questioning of the participant, contaning demographic data (gender, age), medical history,
      dental history, medications and other health problems.

      After anamnesis, the researcher will make a clinical evaluation of oral health to see the
      necessity of tooth extractions. If there is any indication of tooth extraction, a periapical
      radiograph will be performed. Also, will be required complimentary blood exams with blood
      count, fasting glycemia and coagulation factors. Subjects that will be in use or that made
      use antibiotics at least a month before the tooth extraction will be excluded from this
      study.

      On the day of the surgical procedure, will be measured, in the individuals of SG, quick exams
      of glicated hemoglobin (A1C) through the equipment A1C Now+ Multi-Test HbA1c System Bayer速.
      The glycaemia will be measured with the equipment Accu-Check速, before and after the tooth
      extraction and in each appointment of post-surgery (Day 3, Day 7, Day 21, Day 60). The blood
      pressure will also be measured before and after the tooth extraction.

      The saliva collection will be performed before the surgical procedure, at least one hour
      after the patient has fed. It will be collected stimulated saliva through the chewing of
      parafilm. In the first minute the patient only will normally chew and swallow saliva, in the
      next five minutes all saliva produced will be deposited in a graduated Falcon tube. Salivary
      flow is going to be measured and expressed in mililiters per minute. The collected saliva
      will centrifuged at 14000 rpm for 15 minutes. The supernatant will be collected and freeze at
      -80oC and the sediment content will be discarded.

      The saliva analysis for measuring the concentration of EGF will be carried out by immunoassay
      using an EGF ELISA kit (Novex速). The EGF concentration is expressed by the optical density
      reading of the samples compared to a standard curve, with the aid of a microplate reader with
      an absorption of 450nm, followed by 570nm wavelength.

      The Invitrogen human EGF kit is a solid phase sandwich Enzyme Linked-Immuno-Sorbent Assay
      (ELISA). A polyclonal antibody specific for human EGF has been coated onto the wells of the
      microtiter strips provided. Samples, including standards of known human EGF content, control
      specimens, and unknowns, are pipetted into these wells.

      During the first incubation, the Hu EGF antigen binds to the immobilized (capture) antibody
      on one site. After washing, a biotinylated monoclonal antibody specific for Hu EGF is added.
      During the second incubation, this antibody binds to the immobilized Hu EGF captured during
      the first incubation.

      After removal of excess second antibody, Streptavidin-Peroxidase (enzyme) is added. This
      binds to the biotinylated antibody to complete the four-member sandwich. After a third
      incubation and washing to remove all the unbound enzyme, a substrate solution is added, which
      is acted upon by the bound enzyme to produce color. The intensity of this colored product is
      directly proportional to the concentration of Hu EGF present in the original specimen.

      On the same day, after measuring blood pressure, glycaemia and A1C, and saliva collection,
      the tooth extraction will be performed. No antibiotics will be prescribed before or after
      surgery, as prophylactic function. Individuals of SG will be oriented to feed and administer
      insulin normally. Subjects with abnormal laboratorial exams or abnormal glycaemia (under 70
      or above 400) will re-evaluated and the tooth extraction post-pone.

      The tooth extractions will be performed by the same dentist with experience in minor oral
      surgery, in the Special Care dentistry center of the Dental School of University of Sao
      Paulo. The subjects of both groups who agreeded to participate will be submitted by
      conventional extraction technique, which is the same technique for any other patient of the
      Center. The participants will receive the same intervention of tooth extraction of patients
      who are not enrolled in the study, as following: after the anesthetic block will be held
      sindesmotomy, taking off the periodontal, tooth dislocation with the aid of lifts and removal
      of the tooth with forceps. The surgical technique will be modified depending on the condition
      of the tooth in the alveolus, performing dental section or osteotomy when necessary. Finally,
      curettage of the socket will be held and a simple suture with silk thread 3-0.

      At the end of surgery, the blood pressure and glycaemia will be measured again. Information
      of the surgery procedure will be recorded, such as the tooth that was extracted, the reason
      of tooth was extracted (caries, periodontal disease, orthodontic needed), time spent on the
      surgery, number of anesthetic tubes and complications.

      It will be asked for the participants to press with a gauze the alveolar region for 30
      minutes to control bleeding. It will be prescript only analgesic, every 8 hours, for 3 days,
      in case of pain. The participant will receive postoperative written instructions.

      Evaluation of repair and possible complications of the surgical wound will be held in 4
      different moments, on day 3, 7, 21 and 60 after surgery. These evaluation it will always be
      perform by the researcher, trained and calibrated. Will be observed signs and symptoms such
      as edema, erythema, bone exposure, fever, pain and analgesic need. Glycaemia will be measured
      in all appointments from individuals from SG. Digitalized periapical radiograph will be
      performed at the days 7 and 60.

      The repair process will be considered late when the following events do not match the period
      considered normal: day 3- alveolus filled by blood clot and fibrin; day 7- alveolus filled
      with granulation tissue; day 21- complete epithelialization of the wound; day 60- alveolus
      exhibiting bone deposition, radiographically observed. In case of delay in complete
      epithelialization after day 21, the subject will be accompanied by further consultations
      every 7 days for evaluation. If there is a delay in the alveolar bone deposition in the day
      60, the subject will undergo another monitoring at day 90 for new radiography and evaluation.

      In case of post-extraction infection (alveolitis), will set up the recommended treatment
      described by Kaya et al., 2011, with removal of infected debris, with abundant irrigation
      with saline 0.9% NaCl and curettage. It will also be prescribed antibiotics, Amoxicilin 500mg
      or Clindamicin 300mg, every 8 hours for 7 days, and anti-inflammatory, Nimesulide 100mg,
      every 12 hours for 5 days (Barasch et al., 2008).

      The pain will be evaluated and assessed at the time of each appointment, through the Visual
      Analogue Scale (VAS), that consists of direct questioning to the patient and a visual
      demonstration of the scale (Annex A), being zero the total absence of pain and ten the
      maximum bearable level of pain by the patient.

      After 60 days of surgery, the post-operative will be classified as: without complications or
      with complications, according to the presence or absence of signs and clinical symptoms
      observed. It will also be classified in: without delay and delay, according to the chronology
      of repair observed. According to Cheung et al., 2001, the following situations will be
      considered as post-operative complications:

        -  Acute alveolar infection: characterized by pain, erythema, edema, purulent secretion and
           fever;

        -  Acute inflammation of the alveolus: characterized by pain, inflammation, perialveolar
           tissue, but without purulent secretion and no fever;

        -  Alveolitis: characterized by persistent throbbing pain and bone exposure. All data will
           be transferred to an Excel spreadsheet and analyzed descriptively and associated with
           each other. Complications will be compared between the two groups. Additionally, in the
           study group, we will investigate if the occurrence of complications was related to A1C,
           glycaemia at surgery day, as well as EGF of saliva.

      Will be held in all subjects (SG and CG) at least 3 periapical radiographs through
      paralleling technique, for each tooth requiring extraction. The first radiograph will be
      performed at the time of anamnesis, with conventional radiographic film in order to diagnose
      the need for extraction and assess the condition of the tooth. The second and third
      radiographs will be carried out using a digital sensor, at day 7 and day 60, using the
      digital device Soredex DIGORA Optime速, to evaluate the alveolar bone repair by grayscale
      concentration captured.

      For standardization of these 3 X-rays of the same tooth in the same subject, a bite record of
      each subject will be carried out with silicone and will always be used to take the
      radiograph. The alveolus will be considered repaired and without delay when, at the day 60,
      show complete bone deposition.
    
  