
    
      Description of intervention(s) / exposure The intervention group will be instructed to
      include the reverse Nordic curl exercise into their warm up 15 to 20 mins before training
      session (3 times per week) during one season (6 months).

      Group sessions will be administered by an exercise physiologist and/ or athletic trainer and/
      or soccer coaches and/ or strength and conditioning specialists and/ or physiotherapist.

      Session attendance checklists will be used to assess or monitor adherence to the
      intervention.

      The reverse Nordic curl is a body-weight exercise which mainly works the quadriceps and hip
      flexors. It has a large eccentric component, meaning the muscles are working whilst
      lengthening.

      This is a very simple movement to do, but maintaining strict positioning is vital to get the
      full benefits. Here's how to do it:

      Grab a mat on a soft floor. Kneel down, and sit on top of the feet. If trying this exercise
      for the first time, place the knees and feet close together, approximately hip-width apart.
      For more advanced, the feet and knees slightly wider, just outside the hips, to be able to
      lay back farther without hitting the legs.

      Sit up in a tall kneeling position, push the hips forward, and lock the rib cage down.
      Looking to create a straight line down the front of the body, especially at the hips. This is
      to create a stretch at the hip flexor muscles.

      Lower the shoulders towards the floor by bending at the knee, maintaining the "plank"
      position previously created. If hip extension is maintained, and the core adequately braced,
      there should be no strain on the low back, and an intense stretch felt down the front of the
      legs.

      Continue to lean back as far as it is possible to control, then squeeze the quads to return
      to the starting position (this may not be very far to begin with). It is crucial to NOT let
      the hips drop backwards at any point during the movement. If they do, the stretch on the hip
      flexors will be released, defeating the point of the exercise.

      Once reaching the floor and back is possible for multiple sets of 10+ repetitions, can begin
      loading the movement by holding a light plate, kettlebell or dumbbell.
    
  