
    
      Iron homeostasis is tightly regulated in humans. Iron is mostly recycled from hemoglobin,
      myoglobin and other enzymes. Since humans lack the capacity to excrete excess iron, it must
      be intricately regulated at the site of its absorption in the duodenum and proximal jejunum.
      In the last decade, hepcidin has emerged as a master regulator of iron homeostasis. It
      decreases iron absorption from the gut mucosa by limiting its transport from the enterocyte
      across the basolateral membrane into the circulation. It does so by down-regulating the
      synthesis or promoting internalization of a basolateral membrane protein 'Ferroportin', the
      only known cellular iron exporter.

      Vitamin D is hypothesized to exert a significant and independent effect on the iron
      metabolism. In the CKD population, low vitamin-D levels independently correlate with the
      severity of anemia. Hepcidin C levels are found to be elevated in the CKD population.
      Mechanisms underlying the effect of vitamin D on iron homeostasis potentially include vitamin
      D induced expression of erythropoietin receptors, increased proliferation of erythroid
      precursors, and reduction in hepcidin C levels due to reduction in IL-6 from the
      anti-inflammatory effects of vitamin D. More recently, a study revealed direct relationship
      between vitamin D replacement and a sustained fall in hepcidin C levels. The same group of
      researchers found the above relationship to be due to a direct effect of vitamin D on
      hepcidin expression.

      Hemojuvelin (HJV) is a protein encoded by the HFE2 gene and is found in the membrane bound
      and the soluble form (sHJV) in the humans. Mutations in the HJV gene are responsible for
      Juvenile Hemochromatosis. It is an upstream regulator of hepcidin transcription and appears
      to be essential for hepcidin expression in the hepatocytes and has important role to play in
      iron homeostasis. Recently, an assay has become available to measure the sHJV levels in the
      serum.

      Although, we know that hepcidin plays a central role in iron homeostasis and recent studies
      have given us insight into the role hemojuvelin and vitamin D play in iron metabolism, to
      date, no studies have examined the effect on vitamin D replacement on hepcidin, hemojuvelin
      levels and iron metabolism in individuals with CKD.

      Hypothesis 1: Treatment with an activated vitamin D analog in the individuals with CKD
      results in a statistically significant fall in hepcidin C levels as compared to individuals
      provided with placebo.

      Hypothesis 2: Treatment with an activated vitamin D analog results in decreased levels of
      soluble hemojuvelin in individuals with chronic kidney disease.

      Hypothesis 3: Vitamin D replacement in the individuals with CKD results in improved iron
      parameters as compared to the placebo.
    
  