
    
      The 'defocus curve' assessment technique aims to simulate different distances from near to
      far over which the patient's visual acuity (VA) is evaluated. Defocus curves are created by
      first measuring best-corrected distance and near VA of the examinee. Then, a series of
      positive- and negative-powered trial lenses are added to the best-corrected distance visual
      acuity (BCDVA) of the patient's eye. Viewing through the addition of a minus lens creates
      divergent light rays with the same refractive effect as bringing the eye chart closer to the
      viewer. For instance, a -2.50 D lens represents the distance of 40 cm.

      The "defocus curve" assessment technique is a method used widely for the assessment of the
      functional vision range following multifocal intraocular lens (IOL) implantation. Since this
      method is a simulation of the near vision, it would be ideal if near vision could be
      evaluated objectively with a near vision chart. However, the conventional printed near vision
      charts are not available for a variety of reading distances. In addition, the measurement of
      near VA at different distances with a printed reading chart intended for one predefined
      distance (e.g. printed chart for 40 cm) and the transformation of the reading score at 40 cm
      to an equivalent score for the examined distances is impractical in clinical setting.

      For this reason, a digital reading test that allows the text calibration for all reading
      distances could be a practical method for the rapid and ease evaluation of the near VA,
      especially in patients implanted with multifocal IOLs. The web-based digital near and
      intermediate vision reading test wDDART offers the ability to estimate VA at different
      distances with automated measurement of the patient-screen distance.

      Therefore, the present study aims to investigate the level of agreement between clinical
      defocus curves and the web-based digital near and intermediate vision reading test wDDART.
    
  