
    
      A research and community service partnership of the Medical College of Wisconsin, the Univ.
      of Wisconsin-Milwaukee School of Nursing and the non-profit asthma coalition Fight Asthma
      Milwaukee Allies (FAM) was developed to describe and improve health relevant air quality
      conditions within urban Milwaukee daycare environments. Daycare air quality and the ability
      of education to improve air quality, both within Milwaukee and elsewhere, has not been
      extensively studied nor addressed in Wisconsin state law to date.

      This project aims to understand the levels of indoor organic pollution and fine particles in
      the air, as well as temperature and humidity with using inexpensive, consumer-grade, internet
      cloud enabled continuous indoor air quality (IAQ) monitors. These air quality variables are
      scientifically established important risk factors for both the development and exacerbation
      of asthma.

      This project aims to train UWM Nursing students, FAM Allies volunteers and MCW staff to teach
      an established educational programing curriculum developed by FAM Allies to daycare staff.
      Daycare programs may be motivated to participate in study as the curriculum is approved
      continuing education credits for daycare staff members.

      The FAM Allies curriculum will address understanding of the importance of asthma and IAQ with
      irritant reduction measures, and safer cleaning and pest-control techniques. Additionally,
      the program will review the importance of IAQ upon the lungs and review knowledge about
      asthma.

      The proposal is a 4-month intervention in which the IAQ monitor will be placed in daycares to
      obtain baseline measurements. Half of the facilities will receive education at the second
      month allowing the team to assess before and after education air quality readings. The rest
      of the facilities will receive the same education at the third month. After 4 months, the
      devices will be removed from the facilities and results in aggregate will be shared with the
      daycare.
    
  