
    
      Acute lung injury (ALI) and the acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) represent a
      spectrum of clinical syndromes of rapid respiratory system deterioration that are associated
      with both pulmonary and systemic illness. These syndromes are associated with 30-40%
      mortality with our current standard of care and are responsible for approximately 75,000
      deaths in the US yearly. The current evidence-based care consists of a strategy of mechanical
      ventilation utilizing low lung volumes (ARDSNet ventilation) intended to limit further lung
      injury from overstretch of the lung induced by the ventilator. However, this strategy has
      been shown to be associated with continued lung injury in some studies and still is
      associated with about a 30% mortality rate. Airway pressure release ventilation (APRV) is a
      different, nonexperimental strategy of mechanical ventilation currently in routine clinical
      use. APRV allows a patient a greater degree of autonomy in controlling his/her breathing
      while achieving a higher mean airway pressure (at similar plateau pressures) than that
      typically achieved with ARDSNet. APRV has been associated with less ventilator-associated
      pneumonia, better oxygenation, and less sedative usage in small studies when compared with
      other methods of ventilation. However, debate exists over net effects of APRV with regard to
      ventilator-associated lung injury. Additionally, we recently completed a study showing that
      APRV was associated with lower ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP) rates, but this benefit
      did not appear to be mediated by sedation differences. We hypothesized that the VAP benefits
      might be mediated by greater lung recruitment and possibly less ventilator-induced lung
      injury with APRV. We propose a randomized, crossover study looking at biomarkers of lung
      injury in patients with acute lung injury ventilated with APRV and ARDSNet. Our hypothesis is
      that airway pressure release ventilation is associated with lower levels of lung injury
      biomarkers than ARDSNet ventilation.
    
  