
    
      Background: Degenerative diseases and traumatic injuries of the shoulder joint, lead to
      dysfunction of the arm. Arthroplasty has recently become an increasingly popular operation
      for severe damage to the shoulder joint. In clinical practice, the most effective operation
      today is the reverse shoulder arthroplasty (RSA), after the installation of which the pain
      syndrome disappears in patients and a satisfactory range of motion in the shoulder joint
      resumes. With the increasing use of reverse shoulder arthroplasty and its expanding
      indications, surgeons today are facing tougher reconstructive challenges while still
      providing the patient with a good clinical outcome. The damaged joint presents a problem for
      the surgeon during component positioning. Implants must place in a location and orientation
      that optimizes range of motion and stability while minimizing impingement. In order to
      address this, surgeons can look to the use of 3D imaging in order to better understand each
      patient's pathology.

      Purpose: show the effectiveness of accurate preoperative planning and prove it using
      patient-specific instrumentation.

      Methods: Patients aged 18 and older, male and female, are participating in our study. The
      established diagnosis: multifragmental fracture of the humerus head; aseptic necrosis of the
      humerus head; complete tears of the rotator cuff; arthrosis of the shoulder joint; rheumatoid
      arthritis of the shoulder joint. The study included 65 shoulders with shoulder joint
      pathology. The main group included 15 patients. This group of patients will undergo reverse
      shoulder arthroplasty with patient-specific instrumentation. Second group of patients will
      undergo conventional reverse shoulder arthroplasty.

      In investigators work, all patients are performs MSCT of the shoulder joint, clinical
      assessment of the shoulder joint and assessment of neurological status.

      The planning of the position of the endoprosthesis components in the main group of patients
      was carried out in several stages. The first stage: the position of the guide wire was
      calculated, taking into account the individual anatomy of the patient. The second step is to
      measure the angle of the pilot spoke in the axial projection. In the third stage, the
      planting depth is estimated. It is necessary to strive for complete adherence of the
      component, but at the same time, one should not forget about the preservation of the glenoid
      bone mass. At the fourth stage, the position of the fixing screws was calculated. Given the
      angle of inclination of the screws of 30 degrees, it is necessary to design the position of
      the screws on the 3D model so that they are as deep as possible in the bone mass. Due to
      this, we will obtain a reliable fixation for the glenoid base. Then we measure the length of
      the bone canals for the screws. The fifth stage is to calculate the direction of resection of
      the humeral head. For this, in a direct projection in the area of the anatomical neck, an
      angle of 135 degrees is built relative to the central axis of the bone.

      Construction of a 3D model is carried out using the obtained data first group patients.
      Taking into account the individual features of the bone structure of the shoulder joint,
      images of the pilot wire guides, fixing screws and a resection template for the humerus are
      created. Holes for fixing spokes for the planned structures are also calculated.

      Using a 3D printer, models of guides and a resection template are printed. During the reverse
      shoulder arthropalsty, instead of a standard guide, patient-specific instrumentation are used
      for first group patients.

      In the early postoperative period, all patients are performs MSCT of the shoulder joint. The
      obtained data are compared with the results of MSCT of the shoulder joints of patients
      previously operated on using the standard technique. Functional outcomes are assessed
      according to the Constant-Murley Score, the University of California, Los Angeles Shoulder
      Assessment, and (Shoulder assessment form american shoulder and elbow surgeons, (ASES)
      Shoulder Outcome Score). Functional results are seen after 1, 6 and 12 months.

      Planned results: in this study, we hope to prove the effectiveness of preoperative planning.
      The investigators expect that the precise positioning of the components using
      patient-specific instrumentation will increase the range of motion in the shoulder joint,
      reduce the complication rate, and also improve the quality of life of patients after reverse
      shoulder arthroplasty.
    
  