
    
      Women of reproductive age and young children are especially vulnerable to micronutrient
      deficiencies which may lead to life-long disabilities. In Haiti, deficiencies in
      micronutrients such as iron, zinc, and vitamin A, are likely prevalent, but recent national
      estimates of the burden are not available. The most recent Demographic and Health Survey
      reported that 49% of women of reproductive age and 66% of preschool children were anemic. In
      addition, the Haitian population also has a high prevalence of overweight and obesity, with
      38.5% classified as either overweight or obese. Fortification of staple foods with
      micronutrients is considered a cost-effective intervention to reduce the burden of
      micronutrient deficiencies. Through the Copenhagen Consensus Haiti Priorise exercise,
      fortification of flour with iron and folic acid was identified as the Number 2 development
      priority for Haiti. Prior to implementing a large-scale fortification program, however, the
      World Health Organization recommends the collection of detailed baseline information on
      nutritional status and dietary intake in the target population. In addition, information on
      certain biochemical indicators of nutritional status is needed to confirm the need for
      program implementation and to establish a baseline for later program evaluation and
      modification. Data on dietary patterns and nutrient intake are needed to 1) adapt nutrition
      intervention programs to match dietary nutrient gaps, and 2) design and manage complementary
      programs to address nutritional deficiencies in at-risk population subgroups that may not be
      reached or effectively covered by large-scale fortification programs.

      The general objective of this project is to collect information on dietary intake and
      nutritional status of women and young children in Haiti, to inform the design and management
      of national and subnational micronutrient intervention programs, with a focus on large-scale
      food fortification, and to serve as a reference point for later program evaluation.

      The specific objectives of the project are:

        1. To describe the prevalence, at national and subnational levels, of anemia and selected
           micronutrient deficiencies among women and young children in Haiti (in addition to
           health indicators such as systemic inflammation, malaria infection, and anthropometric
           indices), to serve as a reference point for management and evaluation of a large-scale
           food fortification program, and other nutrition-related programs.

        2. To measure dietary intake of micronutrients and potentially fortifiable foods, using
           24-hour dietary recalls and the Fortification Assessment Coverage Toolkit (FACT), to
           confirm appropriate food vehicles for fortification, and to determine the specific
           micronutrients and fortification levels to be included in the program.

        3. To measure micronutrient content in wheat flour samples collected from households,
           markets and/or bakeries to assess the current reach and fortification levels of
           fortified wheat flour.

        4. To collect information on access to and use of public and private health care services
           and government programs (including food aid), to identify platforms, and their
           associated costs, for delivering nutrition programs to individuals not reached by
           large-scale food fortification.

        5. To assess biological and behavioral risk factors for noncommunicable diseases, including
           blood glucose and lipid levels, to identify associations with health and nutritional
           status among women.

        6. To measure micronutrient concentrations in human milk to assess micronutrient status of
           mothers and micronutrient intake of breastfeeding children.

        7. To collect images to assist in the development of a novel digital anthropometric
           assessment method (technology for measurement of body size using photos).

      The study will be designed as a stratified cluster survey with three ecological strata.
      Enumeration areas (clusters) and households within each cluster will be selected such that
      the sample is representative at the stratum level and national level.
    
  