
    
      This is a multi-center, randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled trial investigating the
      effect of 6 weeks of dupilumab treatment on quantitative and qualitative measures of
      cutaneous microbial community structure, skin barrier biology, and circulating T cell
      profiles, in adults with chronic moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis (AD).

      After obtaining informed consent, eligible participants will return to clinic for their
      Treatment Initiation Visit (Day 0) and will be randomized 2:1 active to placebo. Participants
      will receive three doses of dupilumab or placebo based on their randomization assignment. The
      first dose (600 mg loading dose of dupilumab or placebo) will be administered on Day 0 and
      the second and third doses (300 mg dupilumab or placebo) on Day 14 and Day 28, respectively.

      Participants will return to clinic on Days 3, 7, and 21 during the double-masked portion of
      the study. Participants will begin the open-label extension (OLE) at Day 42 and will receive
      dupilumab (600 mg loading dose [two 300 mg injections] for those initially randomized to the
      placebo group and a 300 mg dose plus placebo injection for those initially randomized to the
      dupilumab group). Participants will return to clinic on Days 77 and 112 during the OLE
      portion of the study. During all visits (Day 0-Day 112), Adverse Events (AEs), concomitant
      medications, and medical history will be assessed and physical exams including assessment of
      AD severity will be performed. Blood, urine, skin swabs, skin tape strips, and skin biopsies,
      as applicable, will be collected, and barrier assessments will be performed per the Schedule
      of Events, per protocol. Samples will be collected prior to dupilumab or placebo
      administration on Days 0, 14, 28, and 42. After Day 112, a follow-up call (Day 182) will be
      made to assess for pregnancy, current medications, and adverse events (AEs).

      If concerns arise between regularly scheduled visits, participants will be instructed to
      contact study personnel and may be asked to return to the study site for an "Unscheduled
      Visit." Participants may be asked to return for Unscheduled Visits, as needed for the
      duration of the study, to provide additional blood, skin swabs, skin tape strips, or skin
      biopsies,as applicable, for further mechanistic and functional studies, if biosamples are
      lost or destroyed, or if insufficient yields were obtained at a previous study visit.
    
  