
    
      Subjects (DoD beneficiaries) that are 18 years or older with a scheduled ambulatory
      arthroscopic knee surgery will present for their pre-op appointment. At the time of check-in
      the subjects meeting the inclusion criteria, will be offered the opportunity to participate.
      Informed Consent and HIPAA Authorization will be obtained prior to any study-related
      procedures or any sedation being performed. The subject will be asked the screening questions
      for exclusion criteria (See attached instrument). The PI will have the AI or Study staffs
      recruit their patients to prevent any misconception of coercion. The subjects Armed Forces
      Health Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA) record including previous encounters,
      vital signs review, medication list, demographics and problems list will be reviewed by one
      of the investigators to confirm the inclusion/exclusion criteria have been met. The
      investigator will evaluate the subject and determine any further exclusion criteria based on
      exam. These subjects will then be randomized into two groups using a random number generator
      via block randomization by the Research Coordinator:

      Group 1: Standard treatment alone Group 2: Standard treatment plus ear acupuncture

      Subjects will be asked upon admittance to the PACU and the SDSU to answer the questions in
      the Data Collection Tool. Subjects will be given treatment while in the operating room and
      while under sedation according to their randomization group. The right and left ears will be
      cleansed with an alcohol swab prior to ear acupuncture. All subjects, regardless of study
      group, will get band aid to cover both ears. This is done to blind the orthopedic surgeon,
      the anesthesiologist and any nursing staff that comes in contact with the patient. Even
      though they are getting standard of care pain treatment, the investigators are blinding these
      individuals to remove any potential of bias when they are assessing a subject's pain.
      Subjects in both groups will be instructed to remove the band aids 24 hours after their
      surgery. After the subject has been discharged, phone calls, emails or text messages will be
      made at 24 and 48 hours, 1 week and 1 month. These contacts will be used to assess the
      subject's pain level, ambulation status, doses of analgesics taken and time to return to full
      duty. At 1 week and 1 month, subjects will be asked the PIQ-6 Pain Impact Questionnaire.

      Subjects are getting the knee arthroscopy as part of standard of care in this study. It is
      standard of care to have military members return to to light-duty 2 weeks after knee
      arthroscopy and full-duty 6 weeks after knee arthroscopy. Should the subject return to duty
      with the acupuncture needles still in place, this will not affect their ability to perform
      their duties, however, to maintain compliance with AFI 36-2903, you may want to remove the
      needles or place a bandage over both ears to cover the ear acupuncture needles.

      Ear acupuncture utilizes up to 10 needles. The ear Acupuncture points on the right ear
      include Cingulate gyrus, thalamus, omega 2, shen-men, point zero. The ear Acupuncture points
      on the left ear include Cingulate gyrus, thalamus, omega 2, shen-men, point zero. The subject
      will receive five needles intra-operatively on each ear.

      Subject's participation in this study is completed after 1 month.

      Patients in group 2 who are receiving ear Acupuncture will be instructed to have no heavy
      meals, excessive hot or cold foods, heavy exercise or intercourse and no alcohol for 24
      hours. Ear Acupuncture needles will fall out on their own within about 6 days.

      All investigators are trained in Battlefield Acupuncture and credentialed by the MOFH
      Credentials committee to perform Battlefield Acupuncture.

      The investigators anticipate that the ear acupuncture will reduce the doses of analgesics
      needed to control pain, decrease time to discharge, reduce time to ambulation without
      assistance and improve return to duty time.

      The standing orders for post-operative care pain control are attached. The risks associated
      with the use of ear acupuncture needles include: pain, bleeding, infection (very rare) and
      flare of signs and symptoms. In the event the acupuncture needles do not fall out within 6
      days, patients will be instructed to come in and have them removed by one of the
      Investigators. In this study the investigators are using Sedatelec ASP Original Gold needles.
      These acupuncture needles are sterile, gold plated semi permanent ear acupuncture needles for
      single use.

      If at any time during the study, the subject decides to withdraw from the study, they can
      come in and have the ear acupuncture needles removed by one of the Investigators. If patients
      are withdrawn from the study, they will have the option to either have the acupuncture
      needles removed by one of the investigators or allow them to fall out on their own.

      Patients must agree to take precautions to prevent pregnancy during the initial phase
      (surgery) of this study. Pregnancy tests are routinely done as standard of care for all women
      prior to surgery. The only completely reliable methods of birth control are total abstinence
      or surgical removal of the uterus. Other methods, such as the use of condoms, a diaphragm or
      cervical cap, birth control pills, IUD, or sperm killing products are not totally effective
      in preventing pregnancy. Also, women who are breastfeeding at the time of surgery may not
      participate in this study.
    
  