
    
      There are significant safety and image quality issues associated with transferring neonates
      from the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) to the main Radiology Department for imaging in
      an adult-sized magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner. For these reasons, the smallest
      and/or sickest neonates are typically precluded from receiving an MRI exam. The goal of our
      research effort is to bring high-performance MRI into the NICU so that all neonates can
      benefit from the same quality of diagnostic imaging as adults. To accomplish this, we have
      converted a commercial small-bore 1.5 Tesla (T) MRI scanner designed for orthopedic use into
      a neonatal MRI system optimized for whole body imaging of neonates (NICU MRI). To expand the
      imaging capabilities of the NICU MRI system, the measurement control electronics and
      operating system software of the FDA cleared OPTIMA platform have been augmented with state
      of the art HDX electronics and software currently used on a conventional commercially
      available adult sized whole body MRI scanner. The clinical safety of the integrated
      HDX/OPTIMA NICU MRI system and its ability to produce diagnostic image quality has been shown
      in 15 pilot patients (CCHMC Protocol 2011-2045). Further we have scanned almost 600 patients
      under a prior protocol (CCHMC Protocol 2011-2850) without an adverse event.

      The present protocol seeks to allow continued performance of clinical MRI exams on the NICU
      magnet with improved administrative processes and procedures. NICU patients for whom an MRI
      exam is medically indicated will be recruited for the present study. Images will be obtained
      using both the FDA cleared OPTIMA NICU MRI platform and the integrated HDX/OPTIMA NICU MRI
      platform with the additional HDX images augmenting the OPTIMA images and contributing to
      diagnosis and guidance of subsequent clinical management. The specific MR imaging
      methods/procedures utilized will be determined by the type of exam to be performed and the
      medical indication. All of the MR images obtained will be reviewed by a board certified
      pediatric radiologist as part of clinical care and a clinical report will be generated and
      included in the infant's medical record.
    
  