
    
      Neural miRNAs are responsive to environmental, synaptic, and pathological changes and can be
      actively secreted by cells such as exosomes from brain into blood. These exosomes bear
      cell-type specific surface markers. Using a neural specific surface marker, the investigators
      successfully isolated neural-derived exosomes and found that these exosomes are enriched with
      miRNAs/mRNAs that are expressed in brain. Using this novel approach the investigators aim to
      examine whether neural derived exosomal miRNAs are differentially expressed that are specific
      to suicidal ideation or behavior, and which by affecting specific mRNA targets and pathways,
      are associated with suicidal behavior and response to ketamine.

      The following groups of subjects will be examined: 1) major depressive disorder (MDD) with a
      recent suicide attempt (in past 2 weeks), 2) MDD with serious ideation (in the past 7 days)
      without recent suicide attempt (in the past 6 months), 3) MDD without clinically significant
      suicidal ideation (in the past 7 days) or suicide attempt in the past 6 months, and 4)
      healthy controls. Both suicidal and non-suicidal MDD will be given ketamine (0.5 mg/kg, IV)
      and blood will be drawn at pre-infusion, 30 minutes and 180 minutes post-infusion to measure
      changes in miRNAs. Healthy controls will have a one-time blood draw. The investigators also
      propose a parallel human postmortem brain study to examine whether changes in miRNAs in
      suicidality correspond to miRNA changes in brain by comparing dlPFC and hippocampus from MDD
      suicide, MDD non-suicide, and control subjects.

      With this the investigators attempt to discover 1) whether suicidal ideation or behavior is
      associated with differences in the expression of specific miRNAs, 2) whether
      anti-suicidal/antidepressant effects of ketamine is associated with miRNAs changes, and 3)
      whether miRNA/mRNA-regulatory pathways contribute to suicide pathogenesis and treatment
      response. Our study will provide a novel avenue for the development of miRNAs as ''molecular
      tool'' to identify suicidality and treatment response and in generating target based
      therapies to treat this devastating disorder.
    
  