
    
      Periodontitis is a destructive chronic inflammatory disease that can start with localized
      inflammatory reactions created by the supporting tissues surrounding the teeth against
      microorganisms and then result in loss of teeth. Cytokines play an important role in
      inflammation that occurs in periodontal disease.

      Tumor Necrosis Factor-α (TNF-α), Interleukine -1β ( IL-1β )and Interleukine-6 (IL-6),
      Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and Interferon gamma (IFN- γ) levels are associated with periodontal
      destruction in the pathogenesis of periodontal disease. Vascular endothelial growth factor
      (VEGF) are important features of inflammation, wound healing and bone healing. Cytokines such
      as Interleukine-10 (IL-10) and transforming growth factor- β (TGF-β) have been reported to
      decrease periodontal disease progression rate.

      Gingival crevicular fluid shows the cellular response in the periodontium. The most important
      host-related ingredients are inflammatory markers, including cytokines, enzymes, and
      interleukins. Saliva analysis is used in the diagnosis of systemic conditions as well as in
      the diagnosis of oral pathologies.

      Meteorin- like (Metrnl) is a protein that plays a role in natural and acquired immune-related
      functions and inflammatory responses, and expressed in barrier tissues (skin and mucosa) as
      well as various macrophage populations, from dendritic cells and some granulocytes. Metrnl
      has proven to be an inflammatory-related immunoregulatory cytokine and shown to play a role
      in the pathogenesis of human inflammatory diseases. Metrnl, which is highly expressed from
      the oral mucosa to the esophagus, may play a role in the onset of periodontitis and an
      effective marker in preventing the progression of destruction. We think that Metrnl plays an
      important role in periodontitis, an inflammatory disease. The aim of this study is to compare
      the Metrnl, TNF-α, IL-1β, TGF-β, IL-10 and VEGF levels of healthy and periodontitis
      individuals
    
  