
    
      This is a randomised phase II study comparing the efficacy of avelumab alone with avelumab +
      cetuximab combination in patients with platinum-resistant advanced or metastatic head & neck
      cancer. The randomised phase II part of the trial will be preceded by a safety run-in.The
      objective of the safety run in is to make sure the combination of cetuximab and avelumab at
      the doses selected for the study are safe and tolerable.

      In phase II, the main question the investigator wants to answer is whether or not giving
      avelumab and cetuximab together is better than giving avelumab alone to treat patients with
      head and neck cancer that have had previous treatment with cisplatin and whose cancer has
      come back or spread to other parts of the body. The investigator will compare the number of
      patients in each group whose cancer has not gotten any worse 6 months after joining the
      study.

      The phase II part of the trial will recruit patients with head & neck squamous cell carcinoma
      only. However, during the safety run-in, patients with other types of squamous cell
      carcinomas will also be eligible.

      Target accrual:

      Safety run-in: up to 16 patients with squamous cell carcinomas; Phase II: 114 patients with
      head & neck squamous cell cancer

      The safety run-in will recruit patients in cohorts of 3 at a time and all patients will be
      treated with the combination. The safety run in is a dose de-escalation design. That is,
      patients will be given the dose that is planed for use in phase II and if this proves not
      tolerable, the dose of cetuximab will be de-escalated and another cohort of patients will be
      recruited. The investigator will conclude the combination is safe and tolerable if less than
      33% of patients who are treated experience side effects that lead to a dose reduction. The
      purpose is to ensure the safety of the combination prior to starting phase II, as these drugs
      have not been given together before. However, there is evidence from previous studies that
      these types of drugs can be combined safely. The trial aims to complete the safety run-in
      within 5 months and the phase II study within 24 months. The entire duration of recruitment
      is expected to be 29 months.
    
  