
    
      To date, there are a limited numbers of tests available for screening ocular dryness:

      i) assessement of tear production through Schirmer's test (paper strips are inserted into the
      eye for 5 minutes to measure the production of tears: normal value is superior to 15 mm
      wetting of the paper after 5 minutes, pathologic if inferior to 5-10 mm) ii) assessment of
      the ocular surface damage after instillation of fluorescein (presence of punctuate
      superficial lesions on the corneal and conjunctival epithelium) the with the slit lamp + blue
      filter iii) assessment of the FBUT (measurement of the tear breakup time after fluorescein
      dye instillation): normal value is superior to 15 seconds, pathologic value inf inferior to
      5-10 seconds iv) assessment of the inflammation of eyelids (with the slit lamp). These
      diagnostic tests are used in everyday clinical practice, but however the international
      consensus conference (Dry Eye Workshop II, 2017) clearly recommended that, whenever
      practicable, some other tests must be carried out to optimize the efficacy the diagnostic
      procedure of dry eye disease. This is the case for the NDBUT (in opposition to the FBUT which
      uses fluorescein), the tear meniscus height (TMH) which give an rapid hint on the quantity of
      tears present on the ocular surface, the measure in real time of the tear osmolarity and, at
      last, the analysis of the thickness of the tear's layer by interferometry (measurement of the
      light fringes reflected by the tears when illuminated with polarized light, whereby the
      complete layer or the lipid layer alone can be evaluated separately depending on the machines
      used) and of the assessment of the quality of the Meibomian glands (non-contact imaging by
      infrared illumination).

      All these techniques are recommended for the detection and the analysis of the mechanism
      inducing ocular dryness because they are non-invasive and painless. They also are recommended
      to be carried out jointly because there is still no single objective criterion that is
      sufficiently robust to be used alone to make this diagnosis, which is therefore ultimately
      based on an overall analysis of these various parameters.

      Furthermore, the nature of the relationships between these different objective diagnostic
      tests remains still poorly understood.

      One of the least well elucidated points in this respect is the relationship between the FBUT
      and the NDBUT, the latter having the theoretical advantage of being less subjective (the
      measurement is made by a medical device that detects the deformation time of a light test
      pattern projected onto the tear film). This method therefore tends to measure rather the
      moment when the film becomes thinner (generating the deformation of the test pattern),
      whereas the measurement of FBUT (i.e. after instillation of fluorescein), is certainly
      subjective but it measures the real tear break time, which corresponds physiologically to a
      critical moment (regulated by the blink reflex when sensitivity is normal). A retrospective
      study, carried out in patients known to suffer from dry eye disease and using many of the
      same instruments as those to be used in the present study, suggested that the NDBUT is
      generally longer than the FBUT (with an increasing difference with the values), which could
      be considered paradoxical (the thinning being expected to precede the complete rupture). This
      relationship must therefore be studied prospectively to analyze the nature of this difference
      (correlation?) and its relationship with other markers of dry eye disease.

      The level of subjective symptoms and the impact on the quality of life felt by the patient
      will be recorded in order to explore whether the possible difference between NDBUT and FBUT
      is correlated with the intensity and/or frequency of the symptoms felt.
    
  