
    
      Background

      Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) is a category of gastrointestinal infection,
      characterized by an increased concentration (>100,000 CFU/mL proximal jejunal fluid) of
      bacteria in the small intestine. Symptoms of SIBO commonly afflict the gastrointestinal tract
      and include but are not limited to: abdominal pain, discomfort, bloating, cramping,
      flatulence, diarrhea, constipation, eructation, and low serum B12.

      SIBO is believed to be severely under diagnosed and is associated with numerous comorbid
      conditions including irritable bowel syndrome, diabetes mellitus and hypothyroidism.
      Small-bowel aspiration (SBA) or breath tests are used to aid in the diagnosis of SIBO.
      Glucose or lactulose breath tests are more commonly performed, due to the cost and invasive
      nature of SBA.

      Treatment of SIBO frequently consists of antibiotic therapy. Rifaxamin is a poorly absorbed
      antibiotic with bacteriocidal activity against enteropathogens that is widely prescribed for
      the treatment of SIBO. However, both patients and practitioners frequently turn to
      complementary and alternative treatment options, due to the adverse effects associated with
      antibiotic use and the recurrent nature of SIBO. In 2014, a retrospective study (Chedid et
      al.) found that the efficacy of a particular herbal therapy was comparable to Rifaxamin.
      However, both treatment options demonstrated a response rate of less than 50%. This
      investigation will test a more comprehensive, supplement-based therapy in hopes of achieving
      a greater response rate in patients diagnosed with SIBO.

      Objectives

      This investigation aims to determine the efficacy of a supplement protocol in combination
      with a low FODMAP diet for the treatment of SIBO.

      Patient Selection

      Patients diagnosed with SIBO at Dr. Morris' clinic will be offered the opportunity to enroll
      in this study as a theoretical treatment option for SIBO. Other treatment options will be
      discussed with the patient. Enrolled patients must satisfy the following inclusion and
      exclusion criteria:

      Study Procedures

      The supplement protocol is designed to take 8 weeks. Due to the delay in receiving and
      interpreting test results, the investigation, in its entirety, is estimated to take 12 weeks.

      Visit -1 Dr. Morris will assess patient history and symptoms, at his facility in Oxford,
      Ohio. If suggestive of SIBO, a lactulose breath test will be prescribed. Additional testing
      may be performed, at the discretion of Dr. Morris, to aid in the initial diagnosis of the
      patient.

      Visit 0 Dr. Morris will assess the results of the breath test and confirm or deny the
      diagnosis of SIBO. Treatment options for SIBO will be discussed, and the patient will be made
      aware of this investigation as a theoretical treatment option. Patient eligibility will be
      determined by completion of the the Patient Eligibility Checklist for each patient. All
      female patients will be asked to complete a urine pregnancy test to confirm pregnancy status.
      Eligible patients will be asked to review and sign the Informed Consent document. Carman
      Clark (Medical Assistant at Good Medicine) will be available to discuss patient consent and
      confidentiality. Enrolled patients will be asked to complete a baseline Medical Symptom
      Questionnaire. Afterwards, Ms. Clark will review the supplement therapy and low FODMAP diet.
      Patients will then be provided with all supplements necessary to complete the investigation.
      Patients will be asked to discontinue all other supplements during the study. No wash out
      period is required. Prescription medications, over-the-counter medications and/or supplements
      deemed medically necessary by the patient's primary care physician and/or Dr. Morris may be
      continued.

      Visit 1 will occur approximately 4 weeks after the patient begins the supplement protocol.
      Patients will be asked to report their compliancy with the supplement protocol and low FODMAP
      diet and describe adverse effects. Patients will complete the Medical Symptom Questionnaire,
      be provided with the post-treatment lactulose breath test kit and instructed to perform the
      test within 2 weeks of completing the supplement therapy.

      Visit 2 will occur after the results of the post-treatment breath test are available. Dr.
      Morris will interpret the results of the second breath test. Patients will again be asked to
      complete the Medical Symptom Questionnaire, report compliance with the supplement protocol
      and low FODMAP diet, and describe any adverse effects. Further treatment options will be
      discussed if necessary; follow-up treatment will be outside the scope of this investigation.

      Risk/Safety Information

      This study presents a risk in the form of adverse reactions to ingredients in the supplement
      therapy. Patient risk will be minimized by excluding patients who may respond poorly to the
      supplement therapy or testing procedures from the study, i.e., by abiding by the
      aforementioned patient enrollment exclusion criteria.

      Monitoring/Reporting

      Patients may report adverse events to Good Medicine during scheduled office visits or by
      phone during office hours. If serious or life-threatening side effects arise, patients are
      instructed to call 911. Possible side effects include but are not limited to: diarrhea,
      constipation, nausea, vomiting, bloating or headache. When necessary, Dr. Morris or Ms. Clark
      will communicate with patients outside the office by phone. Medical guidance will be provided
      as necessary. Adverse events will be recorded in confidential patient files.

      Study Oversight

      This study will be terminated if one-half or more of enrolled patients withdraw due to
      adverse events. Dr. Morris and Dr. Kelly Heim (Senior Director, Scientific Affairs at Atrium
      Innovations) will monitor, determine the need for and facilitate the termination of the
      study. Direct access to study related data will be made available for monitoring, auditing,
      IRB review and regulatory inspection.
    
  