
    
      Asthma is an important chronic disease and a significant public health problem. Prevalence of
      asthma is on the rise in all regions of the world, affecting all ages but more commonly among
      children.The burden and suffering caused by chronic respiratory disease has been identified
      by the World Health Organization (WHO) as a priority. In Malaysia, asthma is among the
      commonest medical conditions treated in health clinics giving rise to considerable morbidity
      and mortality (Bahari, Mohd Nur & Rahman, 2003).Much of the morbidity from asthma is believed
      to be due to factors such as denial of having a chronic condition (GINA, 2002), poor
      knowledge of the disease process and medication use (Gibson et al., 2004) , poor
      understanding on the use of inhalers (Thapar, 1994) and poor self-management (Wilson et al.,
      1993; Hilton, Sibbald, Anderson & Freeling, 1986). Patient education is becoming an essential
      area of service provision, with our increasing population of people with chronic diseases and
      conditions requiring long-term management in the community. Inadequate patient education has
      been cited as a potential cause of re-attendance and the optimal format of education is
      uncertain. Numerous studies worldwide have evaluated the impact of patient education and
      indicated that each of the above components is amenable to asthma education (GINA, 2002).
      Thus, patient education has become a key component of asthma management for asthma patients
      at all age groups (Lai, et al., 2002; Harrison, 1998). Despite the means to control asthma
      effectively, many asthma sufferers in Malaysia are not availing themselves of such
      strategies, leading to avoidable problems that can range from frequent asthma attacks to even
      death in certain circumstances. Much of the morbidity from asthma is believed to be due to
      factors such as denial of having a chronic condition (Gibson, et al., 2004), poor knowledge
      of the disease process and medication use (Thapar, 1994), poor understanding on the use of
      inhalers (Wilson, et al., 1993) and poor self-management (Lai, et al., 2002; Hilton, Sibbald,
      Anderson & Freeling, 1986). However the effectiveness of patient education for asthma in a
      hospital-based setting in Malaysia has not been previously evaluated and remains a puzzle to
      the researcher. With the concern the researcher would like to explore the effectiveness of
      Asthma Education Programme in improvement of patients' knowledge regarding asthma, medication
      adherence and inhaler technique.

      Research question. Does an Asthma Education Programme result in improvement of patient's
      knowledge regarding asthma disease and inhaler technique?

      Research aims. i. To compare patient knowledge regarding asthma disease between intervention
      and control group . ii. To compare patient inhaler technique between intervention and control
      group. iii. To assess the association between patient's demographic data and health outcomes
      (Knowledge and inhaler technique).

      Study design. This is an experimental study a clinical trials. The period of this study is
      six month which is start from July 2015 to January 2016.

      Study Setting This study will be conducted in Ampang Hospital a government public tertiary
      specialist hospital in Ampang, Selangor Malaysia.

      Population (N). Asthmatic patients who treated in Ampang Hospital during the study period.

      Target Population. Asthmatic patients who will be presented in Asthma Bay, Respiratory Clinic
      or who are admitted to general medical wards for uncontrolled acute asthma attack.

      Sample Size (n). The sample size of the study calculated using formula of hypothesis testing
      for difference in proportions and the researcher determine effect size of 15% as significant
      change, so the study need at least 129 subjects in each of arm.

      Inclusion Criteria.

        -  Patient above age of 18 years.

        -  Have confirmed diagnosis of bronchial asthma in the medical record.

        -  Have used inhaler medication past 1 year.

      Exclusion Criteria.

      - Patient with significant medical comorbidity such as heart disease, chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease, chronic renal disease, stroke, psychiatric problem or inability to follow
      instruction.

      Sampling method. Patients who are presented in Asthma Bay, Respiratory Clinic and been
      admitted to general medical ward and fulfil the inclusion criteria will be recruited to be
      subject of the study. Patients' will be given an explanation about the study and written
      consent will be obtained who are agreeing to participate in the study. Patients will be
      randomized using simple computer randomization.

      Instrument. The data for the study will be collected utilizing three adapted instrument from
      previous study and the permission to use the questionnaire will be obtained through email.

      Questionnaire (Part A) : Demographic data Part A consist of information about subjects
      demographic data, such as age, sex, race, education level, history of childhood asthma and
      number of ward admission or ED visits in the past one year. In the post test questionnaire
      this part will be omitted but the subsequent layouts were similar.

      Questionnaire (Part B) : Asthmatic patients' knowledge about their disease. Part B consists
      of twenty close ended question, to assess respondents' basic knowledge on their disease,
      medication and treatment maintenance. The questionnaire adapted from previous study by Baez
      Saldana, et.al (2007). Responses will be made on selection of three choice of answer which is
      "a", "b" or "c".

      Questionnaire (Part C) : Multiple checklist of inhaler technique. To evaluate the
      respondents' inhaler technique a single page with multiple checklist created by Vicky
      Kritikos will be adapted. The checklists contain six types of inhaler technique medication,
      such as Metered Dose Inhaler (MDI) with spacer, MDI, Turbuhaler, Accuhaler, Intranasal device
      and Handihaler. Subjects will be asked by investigator to demonstrate how they use the
      inhaler medication individually. Incorrect step of inhaler technique will be highlighted and
      emphasis during the AEP.

      Validity and Reliability. The validity and reliability of instruments content will be checked
      by expertise panel such as a respiratory physician and pilot study will be held for
      test-retest and Cronbach alpha test.

      Data Collection. There are three phases involve in data collection of this study. Following
      Ethic Committee approval the researcher will meet up with Head Department of Emergency
      Department, Medical and respiratory physician in charge of Respiratory Clinic to notify them
      about the study and formal letter explaining the purpose of the study and copy of ethical
      approval will be given to them.

      Phase 1: Recruitment and randomization. Patients who are fullfill the subjects inclusion
      criteria in those units will be approached and subject will be given briefly explanation
      about the study and written consent will be obtained. Subjects (single blind study) will be
      randomized using simple computer randomization. Subjects in intervention group will be given
      an appointment date to attend the an Asthma Education Programme and subjects in control group
      will routinely go for the normal follow up.

      Phase 2: Baseline data collection and AED session for intervention group. Baseline data
      collection for subject in control group will be held in wards or Respiratory Clinic and for
      subject recruited from Asthma Bay the baseline data will be collected during their routine
      follow up in Respiratory Clinic. Upon completion collection of baseline data subject will be
      given appointment date 4 weeks or same day clinic visit for second session of data
      collection. For intervention group the baseline data collection will be held prior to Asthma
      Education Programme and appointment date will be given after 4 weeks for second data
      collection.The Asthma Education Programme consists of four items.

        1. Education video for Asthmatic patient adapted from Info Sehat by Bahagian Pendidikan
           Kesihatan Kementerian Kesihatan Malaysia which is explaining about Asthma disease,
           medication and patient responsibility in Asthma management.

        2. Small group discussion with subject's to help them understand better in Asthma
           management.

        3. Face to face demonstration and teaching of inhaler technique.

        4. Pamphlet will be given to subjects which is prepared by Bahagian Pendidikan Kesihatan
           Kementerian Malaysia containing vital information about Asthma disease and management.

      Phase 3: Second data collection, After four weeks collection of the baseline data, both group
      of subjects who are attending follow-up in Respiratory Clinic or by appointment given by the
      researcher will be required to answer the same questionnaire and demonstrate their inhaler
      technique.

      Data Analysis The collected data will be reviewed by researcher and cross-check by two
      independent individuals. The data will be entered into Statistical Package for Social Science
      (SPSS) version 20 and will be analysed using descriptive and inferential statistical.
      Questionnaire Part A will be analysed using frequency and mean statistical, the result will
      be displayed in tables.To analyse the association between subjects' demographic data and
      knowledge status and inhaler technique Chi-square test or independent t-test will be used.
      Part B of the questionnaire containing of 20 items asking regarding respondents' knowledge of
      their disease, medication and treatment maintenance. ". Responses will be made on a three
      choice of answer. Each of the correct answer will be given scores 1, and 0 scores for wrong
      answers. Researchers will determined the status of respondents' knowledge in two categories,
      which is the total score from 15 to 20, is in category of good knowledge and total score from
      one to 14 is in poor knowledge category. In order to obtain result descriptive statistic
      (mean(SD) analysis will be performed. For result comparison between statistic (mean (SD)
      analysis will be performed. For result comparison between intervention and control group
      Independent t- test analysis will be used. Part C of the questionnaire is to evaluate the
      respondents' inhaler technique using a single page with multiple types of inhaler technique
      checklist such as Metered Dose Inhaler (MDI), MDI with spacer, Turbuhaler, Accuhaler,
      Intranasal device and Handihaler.

      Ethical Considerations The study is registered and approved by National Medical Research
      Register, Malaysia.
    
  