
    
      -  To prepare for surgery, a small "clip" will be placed into the tumor area so that the
           surgeon can locate the site of the tumor at the time of surgery. This is a standard
           procedure for breast cancer.

        -  The study drugs will be given in four 3-week cycles (about 3 months). Participants will
           come into the clinic each day they receive study treatment intravenously. Cisplatin will
           be given on day one of the treatment cycle (once every 3 weeks) for four cycles.
           Bevacizumab will be given on day one of the treatment cycle for three cycles.

        -  On day one of each 3-week cycle a physical exam, routine blood tests and urine test will
           be performed. 7-8 days after chemotherapy, blood tests and a hearing test will be
           performed. A preoperative study visit will take place 7-10 days before surgery and a
           physical exam, routine blood tests, Electrocardiogram (EKG) and an Magnetic Resonance
           Imaging (MRI) of the breast will be performed.

        -  Surgery to remove the tumor will occur at least three weeks after the last dose of
           cisplatin and is considered standard of care.

        -  Postoperative chemotherapy will begin at least three weeks after surgery. Everyone on
           the research study will receive four 2-week cycles of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide
           plus bevacizumab. After the 8 weeks, the doctor will decide which of the following two
           treatment regimens the participant will receive: Bevacizumab for four 2-week cycles
           (once every two weeks) or; Paclitaxel plus bevacizumab for four 2-week cycles (once
           every two weeks).

        -  At the end of the postoperative chemotherapy, the participant will return to the clinic
           for a medical history, physical exam, vital signs, performance status, routine blood
           tests, multiple gated acquisition scan (MUGA) or Echocardiogram Scans, and a hearing
           test.
    
  