
    
      Acute pain is a common reason for patients admitted to Emergency Departments (ED) . Globally
      over 1 million hip fractures occur yearly , a trauma that is close related with acute
      distinct pain in the proximal part of the affected extremity. Experiencing severe pain is
      associated with increased length of stay, higher risk of delirium, movement restriction,
      difficulties with mobilization and reduced health related quality of life. There is
      considerable research regarding patients' satisfaction with their ED experiences. These
      studies indicate that patient dissatisfaction with the stay at ED has been an international
      challenge over several years . Disapproval such as; pain management , but also limited
      information on potential latency before further treatment and poor explanation about the
      causes and treatment of the condition is prominent.

      Pain control can be difficult , and often requires advanced nursing and physician care due to
      co-morbidity . Inadequate analgesia appear to be risk factors for delirium in frail older
      adults, and research indicates that total avoiding opioids or using very low or high doses of
      opioids may increase the risk of delirium. Therefore, optimizing acute pain management is
      important. Ultrasound Guided Femoral Nerve block (UGFNB) performed in hip fracture patients
      is a valuable alternative to systemic analgesic, as it provides analgesia to the fractured
      area, thereby facilitating reduction in opioid administration. Traditionally, an UGFNB is
      performed by an anesthesiologist. Recently, several examples of task shifting from physicians
      to nurses are described with no significant difference in successful treatment results with
      equal patients satisfaction and safety as physician performed procedures. Task shifting
      approach is endorsed by the World Health Organization (WHO) in order to make more efficient
      use of the available human resource of health. A recent report from the European Union (EU)
      states that implementation of task shifting has been rarely evaluated and limited documented.
      Therefore, we need studies to examine the methodology in how we can train nurses in the ED to
      take more responsibility for assessing and treating patients.

      In the study we aime to;

        1. describe a methodology for a training course for nurse led UGFNB.

        2. evaluate if the training process resulted in a safe and successful UGFNB.

      Data which will be collected are

        1. ASA classification (ASA Physical Status Classification System )

        2. Length of stay

        3. Morbidity

             -  Hospital acquired pneumonia

             -  Acute myocardial infarction (AMI)

             -  Acute renal failure

             -  Respiratory failure

        4. Complication rate, number of;

             -  intravasal injection - visually + circulatory and neurological symptoms

             -  hematoma - defined as a new tumor > 2 cm in the groin / injection site measured by
                ultrasound

             -  Neurologic systemic outcomes / symptoms / paresthesia that have occurred after
                admission and which persist until discharge.

             -  Allergic reaction

        5. Number of total morphine equivalents, mg (iv/po) administered prehospital and during
           Emergency Department stay

        6. Patients physical characteristic (physical examination; gender, age, height, weight, ,
           blood pressure, heart rate, SpO2 (oxygen saturation) and use of oxygen will be noted
           together with current disease

      A short, but personal interview with the patients having received an UGFNB by a study nurse
      can describe both the service received and the patient's experience with it. The interviews
      will be performed after the patient has been relieved of pain. The PhD (Philosophiae
      Doctor)-candidate, not the study nurse having performed the nerve block, will conduct the
      interviews. The patients will be asked whether the nerve block relieved them of pain, how
      they experienced the procedure and the fact that it was performed by a nurse had any
      relevance. Also, the PhD-candidate will interview the patient at a later point during the
      hospital stay for a second time to compare the answers

      The study nurses and the anesthesiologists that has supervised the nurses will be presented
      with a questionnaire after each UGFNB conducted. The PhD-candidate will hand out the
      questionnaire immediately after the FNB is conducted by a study nurse. The items in the
      questionnaire include feasibility and success of the procedure and are identical for nurses
      and anesthesiologists.

      Finally, each study nurse will do three UGFNB with supervision by an anesthesiologist before
      we start inclusion in a later randomized controlled trial. Five study nurses will be included
      and fifteen patients.

      The inclusion criteria for patients will be:

        -  Patients arriving at the ED diagnosed with a hip fracture (radiological confirmed)

        -  ASA- classification 1-4

        -  Written and verbal informed consent by patient

      Exclusion criteria for patients will be:

        -  Patients with; dementia, without ability to give informed consent and other cognitively
           challenges needed to participate in this study (at the discretion of the study nurse)

        -  Known allergies to local anesthetic (Ropivacaine) used in UGFNB

        -  Use of anticoagulants or platelet inhibitors. Acetylsalicylic acid and dipyridamole is
           allowed. If a recent (last 2 hours) INR( international normalized ratio) is below <1.5
           the patient can be included.

        -  Pregnant

        -  Age <18 years

        -  Severe head injury which leads to significant loss of consciousness (GCS <12)

        -  >10 mg or more morphine administrated pre-hospital

        -  Skin lesions/infection at presumed block site

        -  Patients admitted with other suspected or verified fractures, except small fractures in
           hands and foots.

      Verbal and written informed consent The study nurses will inform the patients by oral and
      written information and inclusion and intervention of the patient will start after written
      consent.
    
  