
    
      Elderly patients make up between 26% and 51% of patients who are admitted to ICUs. The
      proportion of individuals in North America aged > 65 is projected to increase to 20% of the
      population by 2026. As population demographics change, and as new technologies,
      pharmaceuticals, and interventions prolong lives, the proportion of elderly patients admitted
      to ICUs and surviving ICU stay will continue to increase. Studies that have examined only ICU
      or hospital survival as an outcome have had variable results. Few studies have demonstrated
      that elderly ICU patients experience higher mortality rates, while others have demonstrated
      that age alone, when adjusted for other factors, is not an important prognostic indicator
      among elderly patients admitted to the intensive care units (ICU). However, age is still used
      as an important criteria for admission to ICUs. Most studies reviewed have looked at patients
      sixty-five to ninety years old. To our knowledge only two studies to date have addressed this
      issue among patients older than 90 to an ICU, both were retrospective.

      With increasing age there is a parallel increase in health care costs. The use of expensive
      technology and procedures in the very elderly is fast becoming a major concern. Data on
      resource allocation and treatment intensity in the (90+) subgroup is sparse.

      Beyond mortality and cost, health-related quality of life (HRQOL) is a fundamentally
      important end point of medical care. Few studies have addressed outcomes in terms of HRQOL
      and functional status of elderly following discharge the from critical care unit. These
      studies were limited by small number of subjects enrolled, retrospective design, and lack of
      validated tool to assess HRQOL.

      We plan to prospectively collect data to look at determinants of treatment intensity,
      outcome, and resource allocation in elderly patients ages 65 and above admitted to the ICU
      with care taken to including as many patients in the age interval above 90 years of age. We
      will also assess HRQOL and functional status in very elderly patients who survive admission
      and are discharged from the hospital.
    
  