
    
      Protocol Summary

      Purpose:

      The project will investigate whether a suspected lung protective ventilator therapy in
      connection with surgery for cancer of the prostate (prostate) have a relevant beneficial
      effects on lung function, renal function and circulation associated with keyhole surgery
      performed with surgical robot.

      Trial method:

      The trial is a randomized study (randomized controlled trials), which are drawn between
      normal and a suspected lung protective ventilator treatment in connection with the surgical
      removal of the prostate due to Cancers. Before the operation, collected urine and blood
      samples and that a study of lung function and circulation as a starting point. During the
      operation, and in the following two days collected urine and blood samples. Prepare
      Furthermore, new studies of lung function and circulation. Blood tests and lung function
      studied also in outpatient control about 1 week after surgery.

      The two groups of patients (for respectively normal respiratory therapy and suspected lung
      protective) compared subsequent terms. Impact on lung function, renal function and
      circulation as well as the number and severity of any complications compared to assess
      whether the suspected lung protective ventilator therapy is safe and provides adequate
      beneficial effect to introduce as standard in the future.

      Tissue sampling used in the form of blood tests or urine tests MHP research biobank in the
      experiment. This tissue will be used for analyzes in the specific project and the tissue will
      be destroyed after current guidelines for project completion.

      Side effects and risks:

      There are at every blood sampling a small risk of infection and bleeding. Using standard
      sterile technique. Blood volume removed by blood tests is max of 250 ml in total. Removing
      this amount of blood does not entail health risks in patients. There may be discomfort around
      the injection site, the needle drop is wrong in the arm, but using standard sterile technique
      and dropped down by experienced personnel. Blood samples for the experiment performed during
      routine blood sampling equipment as specified in the department's instructions.

      For lung studies will in some cases could be detected a certain constriction of the small
      branches of the airways (bronchi). To determine whether this is a condition may require
      treatment given ally a spray to suck, which aims to expand the branches in order to improve
      lung function. This medication can cause slight transient dizziness and palpitations.

      Disadvantages:

      The additional lung examinations in the study will attempt established in connection with the
      patient's usual attendance and stay at the hospital to avoid extra visits. There must be
      calculated some extra time spent for outpatient visits in connection with participation in
      the trial. There is no economic disadvantages associated with the trial for the patient.

      Economic conditions:

      There is no economic disadvantages associated with the trial for the patient. Funding for the
      project will be done through a joint financing by the Urology Department D, Department of
      Anesthesiology and University Clinic for Kidney disease and high blood pressure, Hospital
      West and Aarhus University. Research funds will be sought from public and private funds.

      Publication of trial results:

      The results, both positive and negative findings, will be made published in internationally
      recognized scientific journal anonymously with no personally identifiable data.

      Research Ethics statement:

      The project reported to the Ethical Science Council at the Central Denmark Region. Database
      for the project must be approved by the Data Protection Agency by Region of Central. The
      project is started only after the approval of these two bodies. The project will comply with
      applicable GCP rules.

      Recruitment of participants:

      First contacting the patient about the project via the operator, Urology Department, at the
      information interview on operation. If the patient wants to get further information about the
      project handed out written information and project manager contacted.

      The written information consists of: Participant Information, consent form, "Information for
      subjects" and "Your Rights as a test subject in a biomedical research." The patient is
      informed both in writing and orally on the right and the opportunity to bring legal counsel
      to informed consent.

      The project manager or his representative hold subsequent information interview about 7 days
      before surgery. This will last approximately 30 minutes. Information being conducted in
      consultation room at the clinic, where there is no other activity in the allocated room
      during the interview.

      The anesthesia controller or his deputy hold right now usual anesthesia monitoring and
      ensuring written consent.

      At the oral information, patients will be informed that there is a request to participate in
      a biomedical research. Patients are informed acc. the guidelines in "Guidelines for review,
      etc. of a biomedical research for the ethics committee system "from the Central Scientific
      Ethical Committee. Information is provided for the experiment, as listed in Annex 1
      "Information for volunteers." The subjects, who wish to participate are advised that, if they
      wish, can get consideration before submitting their written consent to participate in
      research is voluntary, and that they will always be able to draw a committed participation
      back .

      The subjects were informed that they will receive information on the results achieved by
      research reporting on the project if they are interested in this.

      Written informed consent given to the project manager or the anesthetic consultant or his
      deputy in the project in connection with the information interview, journal recording and
      anesthesia monitoring. The subjects signed concent- and proxy statement, which is kept by the
      Data Protection Agency guidelines. A copy provided to the subject.
    
  