
    
      To allow for chronic hemodialysis (HD), patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) require
      permanent vascular access in the form of either arteriovenous graft (AVG) or arteriovenous
      fistula (AVF). The latter option is the preferred form of vascular access given the lower
      rate of thrombosis, fewer interventions required, longer survival for vascular access and
      lower rate of infection as compared to AVG (1). Despite this, earlier reports have suggested
      that the initial failure rate of AVF approximates to 25% (2). A permanent vascular access is
      considered adequate when it has sufficient size (i.e. greater than 0.6 cm) for easy
      cannulation and a flow rate of approximately 600 mL/min for dialysis (1, 3). However,
      postoperative AVF blood flow may be compromised by arterial vasospasm and sympathetic
      activity from surgical manipulations (4, 5). Inadequate flow rate in the postoperative period
      can result in early thrombus formation at the fistula and, if left untreated, can lead to
      permanent loss of vascular access(6). Over the years, researchers have identified a number of
      patient and surgical factors that may influence the success and long-term survival of AVF,
      and recent evidence suggests that the choice of anesthetic techniques may play a significant
      role (7).

      Vascular access surgery is usually conducted under either a) general anesthesia (GA), b)
      local anesthetics (LA) infiltrations with sedations, or c) regional anesthesia in the form of
      brachial plexus block (BPB). GA, while providing both anesthesia and analgesia, can present a
      challenge for maintaining intraoperative hemodynamic stability as patients with ESRD often
      have other significant comorbidities. LA infiltrations, though offering simplicity, does not
      provide motor blockade and patient movement can be a surgical challenge. LA requires multiple
      injections during the case. BPB thus presents as an attractive option as it provides both
      dense and prolonged sensory and motor blockade while avoiding the cardiopulmonary stress
      imposed by GA. Additionally, the sympathectomy associated with BPB has been shown to improve
      postoperative AVF blood flow through decreasing peripheral vascular resistance and increasing
      vasodilation and blood flow velocity (8-11). Similarly, stellate ganglion block (SGB), which
      offers sympathetic blockade without analgesic effect, has also been shown to augment
      postoperative AVF blood flow and average peak flow velocity and shorten maturation time when
      combined with LA infiltrations (5, 12).

      Though it has been shown that regional anesthesia can affect a number of physiological
      parameters following AVF formation, it is not yet clear how fistula survival can be affected
      by the modification of these parameters. The investigators conducted a literature search in
      July 2013 using MEDLINE database. Two key words, one from List A and one from List B, were
      joined with the term "and" in all possible combinations for the literature search. Key words
      from List A included "arteriovenous fistula", "AVF", "vascular access", "dialysis", and
      "dialysis access". List B included "regional anesthesia", "brachial plexus block," "BPB",
      "brachial plexus", "stellate ganglion", "SGB", "sympathectomy", "supraclavicular",
      "infraclavicular", "axillary", and "interscalene". Search results were limited to English
      articles only. Abstracts were not included in the search results. To the investigators
      knowledge, no randomized trial has been conducted to directly compare the effect of axillary
      block (AB) against LA infiltration with or without SGB on AVF success in patients with ESRD.
      This will be the primary objective of the investigators study. To do so, the investigators
      intend to conduct a prospective randomized controlled trial at a tertiary vascular surgical
      center in Hamilton.
    
  