
    
      Over 250,000 veterans with war-related PTSD were treated in the VA system in the VA system
      last year. Although the VA set up over 140 specialized PTSD programs and 206 Vet Centers to
      treat these veterans, a survey of practice patterns suggests that most VA PTSD treatment is
      not consistent with published treatment guidelines. This is mainly due to the very rare use
      of exposure therapy which is surprising considering that there is more empirical support for
      exposure therapy than for any other PTSD treatment. The failure to utilize evidence-based
      treatment may explain why studies have generally failed to support the efficacy of VA PTSD
      treatment. Group Based Exposure Therapy (GBET) is consistent with PTSD treatment guidelines
      and includes a large amount of exposure therapy. An open trial of 102 war veterans suggests
      that GBET produces clinically significant and lasting PTSD symptom reductions, as measured by
      the Clinician Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS), with a large effect size of 1.20 (generalized
      d). Clinically significant symptoms reductions, defined as a reduction in total CAPS score of
      10 or more points, were found in 81 percent of patients. These symptom reductions were
      maintained on 6-month post-treatment assessments for most patients. Self-report measures of
      depression, anger, suicidal ideation and PTSD were also significantly reduced when
      pre-treatment measures were compared to post-treatment scores. This magnitude of symptom
      change has rarely been reported with VA war-related PTSD patients and there was a low dropout
      rate (>3%). Caution should be used in interpreting these unusual findings due to the treating
      clinicians conducting study assessments. Unconscious bias or a desire by patients to please
      their therapists may have affected outcomes. GBET is a 16-week program during which patients
      attend group therapy twice a week for three hours of group per day and are required to make
      two war trauma presentations to their group. These are recorded and the patients are required
      to listen to these recordings a minimum of 10 times. There are generally 10 patients per
      group and through the combination of making their own presentations, listening to recordings
      of these presentations, and hearing the presentations of the other nine group members, there
      are over 60 hours of exposure. Patients learn about PTSD symptoms, sleep hygiene, specific
      stress/anger management techniques, and ways to cognitively restructure trauma-related
      thinking. Although these findings are encouraging critical questions remain about the
      generalizability of GBET. The three primary questions are: 1) would similar outcomes be found
      with the more rigorous test of a randomized controlled trial, 2) can new psychotherapists
      produce similar outcomes, and 3) can similar outcomes be found at other sites. The proposed
      study would take the next step by conducting the first controlled trial in which 88 veterans
      with war-related PTSD will be randomly assigned to either GBET or Treatment as Usual control
      condition (44 per condition). GBET treatment would be provided by four psychotherapists
      without prior GBET experience. Independent Assessors blind to treatment condition would
      assess patients prior to treatment, at post-treatment, 6-months post-treatment and one year
      post-treatment using CAPS and other standardized measures. If GBET is supported, multi-site
      study will be proposed to investigate the third primary question.

      Potential Impact on Veteran Health Care: GBET was developed within a specialized PTSD
      program, by VA clinicians working with war veterans and has been a primary mode of treatment
      within this program for over three years. Most VA PTSD programs have staffing similar to the
      one the developed GBET and many have more staff. GBET is manualized and could be adopted
      easily by other VA PTSD programs and Vet Centers. The proposed study would serve as a
      feasibility study for a multi-site study. If a multi-site study found that GBET produced
      superior treatment outcomes to those currently in use, it could have a direct impact on the
      lives of a large number of veterans by leading to better PTSD treatment within the VA.
    
  