
    
      We propose to evaluate a family-based intervention designed to prevent obesity by increasing
      fruit and vegetable (F&V) intake, decreasing fat intake and increasing physical activity. The
      target group for the intervention is low-income Mexican-American mothers of preschool aged
      children. The intervention uses family-based behavioral counseling (FBC) sessions with a
      community health advisor (CHA) to promote changing the types of foods that mothers prepare
      and consume, and increasing the time that mothers spend being active with their children. In
      previous research, we have used this approach to improve Mexican-American school aged
      children's nutritional status. The mothers of these children were extremely motivated to
      improve their children's diets, and in doing so, improved their own health behaviors and
      reduced their BMI's. Accordingly, in the proposed research, we will conduct a randomized
      controlled trial with a sample of 250 Mexican-American mothers-child dyads to evaluate a
      family based intervention designed to prevent obesity in low income Mexican-American women.
      As families enroll in the study, they will be randomly assigned to either the FBC sessions or
      an active placebo control condition. Data will be collected immediately prior to
      participation in the intervention, within one-month of completing the intervention and at six
      months and one year follow-up. Mother's body mass index (BMI) will serve as the primary
      outcome variable. Multiple 24-hour dietary recalls, a modified household food inventory and
      physical activity monitoring will be used as secondary indices of program efficacy. The
      following hypotheses will be examined in this experiment.

      Primary Hypothesis Women who receive the FBC sessions will have significantly lower BMI one
      year after randomization into the intervention compared to women whose families receive an
      active placebo control.

      Secondary Hypotheses

      Women who receive the FBC sessions will have significantly lower fat intakes and higher fruit
      and vegetable intakes, as measured by 24 hour recalls, one year after randomization into the
      intervention compared to women whose families receive an active placebo control.

      Women who receive the FBC sessions will have significantly fewer high fat foods and
      significantly more fruits and vegetables in their homes, as measured by targeted household
      food inventories, one year after randomization into the intervention compared to women whose
      families receive an active placebo control.

      Women who receive the FBC sessions will be significantly more active one year after
      randomization into the intervention, as measured by activity monitoring, compared to women
      whose families receive an active placebo control.
    
  