
    
      Rationale: Fluid loading is an important intervention in patients with severe sepsis and
      septic shock in order to prevent development of multi organ failure and mortality. The
      Surviving Sepsis Guidelines recommend during the first 6 hours of resuscitation a central
      venous pressure (CVP) based fluid loading approach, targeting to 12-15 mmHg in mechanically
      ventilated patients. CVP however has proven to be a poor indicator for preload and preload
      dependency, while dynamic parameters as stroke volume variation (SVV) derived from the
      transpulmonary thermodilution technique (TPTD) are superior. Together with the ability to
      measure the extravascular lung water (EVLW), the TPTD technique may guide fluid management
      more accurately and may prevent deleterious fluid overloading.

      Objective: The risk of fluid overloading in mechanically ventilated patients with septic
      shock is less when fluid administration is based on a fluid loading protocol using SVV
      together with EVLW measurements than applying the Surviving Sepsis Guidelines targeting CVP
      to 12-15 mmHg, in at least the first 6 hours of resuscitation, translating in more ventilator
      free days (VFDs) Study design: This is a prospective, randomized, non-blinded, single-center,
      controlled clinical trial comparing two different fluid resuscitation strategies in patients
      with septic shock. Patients will be randomized for fluid management based on the Surviving
      Sepsis Guidelines (SSG) or based transpulmonary thermodilution (TPTD) derived SVV and EVLW in
      at least the first 6 hours of resuscitation.

      Study population: All patients of ≥18 years admitted to the ICU because of septic shock
      together with the need for mechanical ventilation are eligible for randomization
      Intervention: During at least the first 6 hours of resuscitation, the standard group (SSG
      guided therapy) follows a fluid resuscitation protocol based on the Surviving Sepsis Campaign
      recommendations. Initial trigger for fluid loading when circulatory insufficiency is present
      will be the CVP (target ≥12 mmHg). The intervention group (TPTD guided therapy) follows a
      fluid resuscitation protocol based on SVV and EVLW. Initial trigger for fluid loading when
      circulatory insufficiency is present will be SVV. The study protocol will be applied up to a
      maximum of 72 hours.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: VFDs on day 28. Benefit and risks associated with
      participation: Since inclusion criteria include a TPTD (5F fiber optic, femoral artery)
      catheter, the inconvenience as compared to standard treatment is minimal. Current routine
      hospital policy involves TPTD catheter insertion in most of the patients meeting the
      inclusion criteria specified above.
    
  