
    
      An episiotomy is an incision of the perineum to facilitate childbirth by natural means. This
      gesture is performed in 68% of primiparous women and 31% of multiparous women, according to
      Audipog data of 2003, with a downward trend since the 80's. The episiotomy reduces the risk
      of occurrence of anterior perineal tears, but has no preventive effect on 3rd and 4th grade
      perineal tears, according to the Anglo-Saxon classification. The French national college of
      obstetricians and gynecologists (CNGOF) recommends thus a restrictive use of episiotomy.
      Perineal pain are more frequent and intense if the incision of the perineum is important. In
      particular, simple vaginal or perineal tears are less painful than episiotomies in the first
      seven days postpartum, whereas at six weeks postpartum, there is no significant difference
      anymore.The patients are the most symptomatic in the immediate postnatal period, but the pain
      may persist up to 2 weeks after delivery in 20 to 25% of cases. These pains are often
      undervalued and may interfere with the mother-child bond in the absence of an effective
      treatment. Perineal pain are usually treated with painkillers, in particular non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs given orally or rectally and paracetamol.

      The scar infiltration is one of the components of a multimodal postoperative analgesia
      strategy. It consists in the simultaneous use of several drugs or analgesic techniques,
      acting on different pain components in order to improve the overall efficiency. This also
      reduces the consumption of analgesics having multiple side effects, such as opioids. Local
      anesthetics act at several levels. First, they block the transmission of pain messages at the
      nocireceptors level and have an analgesic effect on the nearby surgery site. The immediate
      post-operative pain is thus diminished. Furthermore, by blocking the pain message at the
      peripheric level, local anesthetics might have an effect on the formation of central
      hyperalgesia, responsible for longer-term pain. The local anesthetics also have local and
      systemic anti-inflammatory properties, that may have an effect on postoperative pain and on
      the establishment of hyperalgesic phenomena.

      The most used local anesthetics at present are bupivacaine, ropivacaine and levobupivacaine.
      Ropivacaine has a lesser vasodilatory effect than bupivacaine, resulting in longer
      persistence at the injection point and a blood resorption that is more spread. The systemic
      toxicity threshold is also higher. Levobupivacaine is the enantiomer of bupivacaine. It has
      vascular effects, and an intermediate systemic toxicity threshold intermediate between
      bupivacaine and ropivacaine. Lidocaine has a limited duration of action. Its use is
      interesting in complement infiltrations when a rapid onset of action is desired.

      Many scar infiltration indications are documented in the literature, such as inguinal
      hernias, hemorrhoids cures, thyroidectomy, orthopedic surgery, breast surgery, and cesarean
      section.Various studies evaluated the effectiveness of different local anesthetics in
      episiotomies and perineal tears.

      So far, there is no data in the literature regarding the effect of levobupivacaine in
      episiotomies associated pain. The objective of this study is to evaluate the effect of local
      injections of levobupivacaine on episiotomies associated pain.
    
  