
    
      Aphasia is a debilitating disorder, typically resulting from damage to the left hemisphere,
      that can impair a range of communication abilities, including language production and
      comprehension, reading, and writing. Approximately 180,000 new cases of aphasia are
      identified per year, and approximately 1 million or 1 in 250 are living with aphasia in the
      United States (NIH-NIDCD, 2015). Treatments are limited and provide modest benefits at best.
      The current emphasis in aphasia rehabilitation is to formulate intensive speech and language
      therapies and augment therapeutic benefits by providing brain stimulation concurrent with
      therapies. Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is one of the most widely used such
      technique. While tDCS has had relative success in chronic aphasia (>6 months after stroke),
      it has not been efficacious during subacute stages (<3 months after stroke). But enhancing
      language recovery early after stroke is desirable because of its potential impact on
      long-term language outcomes and quality-of-life.

      The current study will investigate the efficacy of high-definition tACS (HD-tACS) to help
      restore neural oscillatory activity in subacute aphasia. TACS differs from tDCS in that
      sinusoidal, alternating currents are delivered rather than constant currents. TACS can
      manipulate the ongoing oscillatory neuronal activity and potentially increase functional
      synchronization (or connectivity) between targeted areas. This feature of tACS is quite
      attractive, given the new body of evidence suggesting that language impairments stem from
      diminished functional connectivity and disruptions in the language network due to stroke. The
      selection of tACS frequencies in this study is guided by our preliminary work examining
      pathological neural oscillations found near stroke-lesioned areas (or perilesional) in
      aphasia. By exogenously tuning the perilesional oscillations with tACS, the investigators
      hope to up-regulate communication across these areas and other connected areas to improve
      language outcome. If successful, tACS will be a powerful and novel treatment approach with
      reverberating positive impact on long-term recovery.

      The study will employ HD-tACS in a within-subject and sham-controlled design, using two
      frequencies (alpha/10 Hz and low-gamma/40 Hz) combined with language tasks and
      electroencephalography (EEG) to evaluate subsequent behavioral and neurophysiological
      changes. Investigators plan to recruit 50 participants: 25 stroke survivors with aphasia
      within 2-3 months after stroke, and 25 healthy controls.

      Participants will complete language testing that covers a broad range of language functions,
      medical history, and MRI. Eligible participants will undergo active tACS at 10 Hz or 40 Hz,
      or sham-tACS. All participants will receive all three stimulation types during separate
      visits. The tACS administrator and participants will be blinded to the stimulation type. The
      order of stimulation type will be counterbalanced across participants. Washout period between
      visits will be at least 48 hours to minimize potential carryover effects. EEG will be
      acquired before and after tACS during periods of rest (resting-state) and during language
      tasks. Participants will complete a questionnaire at the end of stimulation visits to assess
      potential side effects of tACS. Total time enrolled in the study is expected to be 2-3 weeks,
      which may be longer depending on participant's availability.
    
  