
    
      Project Summary: The goal of this project is to develop (Phase I) and test (Phase II) a new
      Transfer Decision aid that will better prepare nursing home (NH) residents and their families
      to participate in decisions to transfer the resident to an acute care facility or remain in
      the NH for treatment.

      Objectives: The specific aim of this study is to evaluate the decision aid, "Go to the
      Hospital or Stay Here?" in terms of acceptability to residents and families and its effect on
      decision making and transfer decisions by residents and families.

      Study Design: A mixed methods design was used to address the study aims. In Phase I (not
      submitted to ClinicalTrials.gov), interviews of a diverse sample of NH residents, their
      family members, primary care providers, nurses and social workers in the NH were conducted
      and the results were used to create a Transfer Decision aid to be pilot tested in Phase II
      for its effect on decision making and transfer decisions.

      Phase II involves a pretest, intervention for the half randomly selected to receive it, 14
      day posttest and 90 day follow-up.

      Study Population: Staff of 15 participating South Florida nursing homes (NHs) were asked to
      recommend residents and family members of residents who could participate in the study.
      Residents were tested for ability to provide consent using the Mini-Cog prior to enrollment.

      General Analytic Strategy: Multiple linear regression (MLR) will be used to analyze the
      variance when predicting the primary and secondary outcome variables, preparation for
      decision making, decisional conflict, knowledge and number of transfers (McNeil, Newman &
      Kellee, 1996; Pedhazur & Schmelking, 1991). For qualitative data, Phase II interviews are
      transcribed and the transcriptions reviewed for accuracy. Responses were de-identified
      (names, gender and ethnic identity information removed). A framework for descriptive
      (labeling and categorizing), interpretive (based on underlying meaning) and pattern
      (thematic) codes was developed. Intercoder reliability was calculated.
    
  