
    
      STUDY DESIGN

      Stepped-wedge open-label, non-randomized, cluster intervention.

      This study will be performed in clusters (hamlet (isolated group of household, village, or
      group of village). The intervention will be conducted in two types of clusters, both
      corresponding to locations where an excess of case was detected.

      Group 1: Sustained high incidence clusters, characterized by a yearly cumulative incidence
      >84 cases/1000/year

      Villages in group 1 will be attributed an intervention a given year based on the cumulative
      incidence over the previous 12 months (METF stratification January, including the last 2
      transmission seasons). The order of intervention will be decided based on logistic
      constraints and highest incidence.

      Group 2: Focal transmission clusters, corresponding to locations where an epidemic alert has
      been signalled and confirmed (see definition of thresholds).

      Villages in group 2 will be attributed an intervention based on P. falciparum incidence in
      the previous 4 weeks. In near-0 transmission area, an intervention will be conducted in each
      likely source location of transmission of a locally acquired case. In the other areas
      (METF1+METF2), the intervention will be triggered when the incidence is above the pre-defined
      epidemic threshold.

      In each cluster, all inhabitants will be invited to undergo an URDT test to identify their
      infection status, and will receive the appropriate treatment according to their
      characteristics. Information on village inhabitants absent during the MSAT activities will be
      obtained from village population lists provided by the village headman and from household
      member declarations. During the URDT screening, all individuals will receive a unique
      identifying number that will be used to record demographic data in the MSAT paper logbook and
      to label URDT and reference sample.

      Before and after MSAT intervention, incidence of clinical malaria episodes will be recorded
      at the MP (1 or several) serving the cluster receiving the intervention. No individual data
      will be collected to link clinical case participation, infection status and incidence of
      clinical episodes.

      Participants from group 1 clusters will be invited to participate in a prevalence survey
      during MSAT and 12 months after, in order to evaluate the impact of the MSAT campaign on the
      asymptomatic carriage prevalence. This will require collection of a 200µL sample during the
      MSAT campaign and a second round of URDT screening with the collection of a 200µL sample, 12
      months after MSAT.

      STUDY PARTICIPANTS

      Populations of villages with high P. falciparum incidence located in Eastern Kayin State,
      Myanmar.
    
  