
    
      PURPOSE To demonstrate the relationship between Respiratory Muscle Blood Flow and Work of
      Breathing using Near Infrared Spectroscopy utilizing Indocyanine Green Dye NIRS-ICG.

      HYPOTHESIS AND OBJECTIVES

      HYPOTHESIS #1: In subjects with normal respiratory muscle function (healthy volunteers) RMBF
      as measured by the NIRS-ICG technique will vary directly with work of breathing (WOB) as
      measured by changes in transpulmonary pressure gradients and as measured by Esophageal and
      Surface EMG.

      Objective #1: To measure and demonstrate the relationship between RMBF and WOB/EMG in healthy
      volunteers simulating abnormal pulmonary resistance.

      Objective #2: To measure and demonstrate the relationship between RMBF and WOB in healthy
      volunteers simulating abnormal pulmonary compliance.

      HYPOTHESIS #2: In subjects with abnormal respiratory muscle function (weaning from mechanical
      ventilation after exacerbations of COPD or ARDS) RMBF as measured by the NIRS-ICG technique
      will vary with work of breathing as measured by changes in transpulmonary pressure gradients
      and as measured by Esophageal and Surface EMG.

      Objective #3: To measure and demonstrate the relationship between RMBF and WOB in clinical
      subjects with abnormal pulmonary resistance (weaning from mechanical ventilation after COPD
      exacerbation).

      Objective #4: To measure and demonstrate the relationship between RMBF and WOB in clinical
      subjects with abnormal pulmonary compliance (weaning from mechanical ventilation after ARDS).

      HYPOTHESIS #3: We speculate, based on previous authors, that the blood flow rates in
      respiratory muscles for a given WOB will be different in clinical populations that in healthy
      volunteers. We hypothesize that the slope of the linear regression analysis relating BFI to
      WOB (both transpulmonary pressure gradients and EMG) will be "steeper" in clinical
      populations, suggesting that one reason for respiratory failure and weaning difficulties in
      these populations may be inefficient respiratory muscle oxygen utilization.

      Objective #5: To demonstrate that the RMBF-WOB relationships in clinical populations will be
      different from that measured in healthy volunteers.

      JUSTIFICATION To date, the measurement of regional blood flow and oxygen utilization has
      proven difficult. Nowhere is this more true than in the measurement of the regional blood
      flow and oxygen utilization of the respiratory muscles. Much of what we know about
      Respiratory Muscle Blood Flow (RMBF) stems from animal investigations or human research
      requiring highly invasive methods. The development of a minimally invasive technique for the
      measurement of RMBF has the potential to add significantly to our knowledge of respiratory
      energetics in research and clinical settings.

      Near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) can be used to measure the absorption of electromagnetic
      energy in the near infrared range (650 to 1000 nm) by in vivo chromophores. When assessing
      regional tissue oxygenation, NIRS assesses the amount of emitted energy absorbed in the range
      associated with hemoglobin (760 nm) and with deoxyhemoglobin (800 nm). The ratio of these
      amounts of absorbed light can be used to generate an index of tissue
      oxygenation/deoxygenation. Indocyanine green dye is a synthetic chromophore that absorbs
      energy in the infrared spectrum (805 nm). Guenette et al. measured the accumulation of ICG in
      respiratory muscles using NIRS while the concentration of ICG in the arterial blood was
      measured using photodensitometry. This technique has the advantage of being able to quantify
      absolute muscle blood flow with simultaneous measures of cardiac output, thereby allowing the
      calculation of absolute regional blood flows and absolute rates of regional oxygen uptake.
      The practicality of this technique in healthy volunteers is complicated by with the need for
      blood withdrawals and re-infusions as well as arterial cannulation and the measurement of
      cardiac output.

      To avoid the logistical difficulties of arterial cannulation and central venous cannulation
      (required for the determination of cardiac output), a relative Blood Flow Index (BFI) has
      been proposed. The BFI method is a minimally invasive alternative and was first developed for
      rapid and repeated bedside estimation of cerebral blood flow. The BFI is derived from a
      transcutaneously measured NIRS ICG signal and does not require arterial cannulation or the
      measurement of cardiac output. BFI is a relative measure of blood flow as absolute flow
      cannot be determined unless arterial ICG concentration is measured.

      Previous analyses have compared BFI and absolute muscle blood flow determined using NIRS and
      ICG and demonstrated strong agreement between BFI and NIRS derived absolute muscle blood
      flow. To date, no study has looked at the relationship between NIRS-ICG derived BFI values
      and respiratory workload as measured by esophageal and surface EMG (EEMG-SEMG) in subjects
      with abnormal compliance or resistance or in clinical populations.

      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (chronic bronchitis and emphysema), is a pathologic
      condition characterized by lung parenchyma destruction and abnormal airway narrowing that
      leads to a limitation of air. In clinical practice, COPD is defined by its characteristically
      low airflow and abnormal pulmonary system resistance during lung function tests. In contrast
      to asthma, this limitation is poorly reversible and progresses over time. COPD is the 4th
      leading cause of death amongst Canadians. Severe exacerbations of COPD may require mechanical
      ventilation and intensive care unit admission.

      Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) is a severe lung disease caused by both direct and
      indirect inflammatory injury. It is characterized by inflammation of the lung parenchyma
      leading to impaired gas exchange and abnormal respiratory system compliance. Hypoxemia and
      the release of systemically active cytokines frequently result in multiple organ failure and
      death. ARDS typically requires mechanical ventilation and admission to an intensive care
      unit.

      Patients with COPD or ARDS that require mechanical ventilation are at high risk of death
      either from their disease or from complications during critical illness. Those that survive
      the acute phase of their illness often require prolonged mechanical ventilation and often
      have difficulty weaning from ventilator support. While lung parenchymal abnormalities and
      deconditioning are significant components of this "weaning failure", respiratory muscle
      strength, and potentially respiratory muscle blood flow, may play a role.

      RESEARCH METHOD We will conduct a series of four studies to demonstrate the effectiveness of
      the Near Infrared Spectroscopy Indocyanine Green Dye (NIRS-ICG) technique for the
      non-invasive measurement of Respiratory Muscle Blood Flow (RMBF). The first two studies will
      occur in healthy volunteers and the second two studies will occur in clinical populations
      (mechanically ventilated patients recovering from exacerbations of COPD or recovering from
      ARDS). The first two studies will occur in our respiratory physiology laboratory (the Health
      and Integrative Physiology Laboratory at the University of British Columbia) and the second
      two will occur in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at VGH.
    
  