
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of intraventricular topotecan in young
           patients with neoplastic meningitis secondary to leukemia, lymphoma, or solid tumors.

        -  Determine the toxic effects and dose-limiting toxicity of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine whether the MTD of this drug is also the pharmacokinetic optimal dose, defined
           by the topotecan lactone concentration in the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF), in these
           patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the antitumor activity of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of this drug in the CSF of these patients.

        -  Correlate observed effects of post-treatment central review imaging (if feasible) with
           response to this drug in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a non-randomized, dose-escalation, multicenter study.

        -  Induction therapy (weeks 1-4): Patients receive topotecan intraventricularly* over 5
           minutes on days 1-5 in weeks 1 and 3. Patients then proceed to consolidation therapy in
           week 5.

      NOTE: *Patients who are willing, receive 1 intralumbar (instead of intraventricular) dose of
      topotecan on day 1 of week 3 only.

        -  Consolidation therapy (weeks 5-10): Patients receive topotecan intraventricularly on
           days 1-5 in weeks 5 and 8. Patients then proceed to maintenance therapy in week 11.

        -  Maintenance therapy (weeks 11-54): Patients receive topotecan intraventricularly on days
           1-5 in weeks 11, 15, 19, 23, 27, 31, 35, 39, 43, 47, and 51.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of intraventricular topotecan until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at
      which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Once the MTD is determined, the cohort is expanded to 25 patients and the MTD is declared the
      pharmacokinetic optimal dose provided 23 of 25 patients treated at the MTD achieve the target
      pharmacokinetic parameter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 28-49 patients will be accrued for this study within 9-24
      months.
    
  