
    
      Low back pain is the one of the most common reasons for all physician visits in the USA and a
      leading cause of disability. However, conventional/pharmacological treatments for chronic low
      back pain (cLBP) have achieved limited success. Imagery is a commonly used therapeutic method
      for many disorders, such as chronic pain and stroke. Yet, the underlying mechanism remains
      unclear. Studies suggest that in addition to directly perceiving one's environment,
      individuals spend considerable time recalling and/or imagining experiences. A large body of
      literature suggests that common brain areas are activated during direct and vicarious
      (observational) experiences. Acupuncture is an invasive treatment that involves needle
      insertion and manipulation. Literature suggests that deqi (sensations evoked by acupuncture
      needle manipulation, such as soreness, aching, and dull pain) are crucial for treatment
      effects. In a recent study, the investigators examined video-guided acupuncture imagery
      treatment ("VGAIT"), during which participants watch a video of acupuncture previously
      administered on their own body while imagining it being concurrently applied. They found that
      this treatment can produce deqi sensations and increase pain thresholds in healthy subjects.
      In this study, the investigators will further investigate the modulation effects of VGAIT on
      patients with chronic pain.

      This study will recruit up to 80 male and female participants, ages 18-60, with a diagnosis
      of chronic low back pain (having low back pain for more than 6 months), until 60 participants
      have finished the study. These participants will be randomly assigned to receive VGAIT or
      sham VGAIT, with 30 in each group.

      We first performed a pilot study in which subjects (up to 25) only received real treatment to
      ensure that the intervention has a treatment effect. In addition, we will also compare the
      results from the pilot study with previous acupuncture studies from our lab to further
      validate the effect of VGAIT. If a treatment effect is evident in this pilot cohort, we will
      begin randomization.

      This study consists of 8 sessions over approximately 6 weeks. These sessions include 2
      assessment sessions (Session 1 and 8) and 6 treatment sessions (Sessions 2-7). The treatment
      sessions will consist of verum VGAIT or sham VGAIT. Verum VGAIT will involve the use of
      acupuncture points commonly used for chronic low back pain. Sham VGAIT will involve the use
      of non-acupoints.

      All study procedures will take place in the department of Psychiatry or the Clinical Research
      Center at the Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging (Charlestown Navy Yard Campus of
      Massachusetts General Hospital).
    
  