
    
      Once the eligibility is confirmed, approximately 1-3 weeks after the screening/baseline
      visit, the subject will receive the first infusion. Subsequent treatments will occur every
      other week in the subject's home, administered by a nurse.

      On each of these visits, the subject will receive one autologous HB-adMSC infusion of 200
      million (2 x 10^8 cells) total cells. Every infusion visit will include the following
      procedures:

        1. Interval H&P and concomitant medications update utilizing the secure VirTrial platform.

        2. QOL and Disability (SCIM self eval) surveys will be completed by the subject with the
           assistance of the primary caregiver.

        3. Vital signs monitoring will be initiated (Heart Rate, BP, Resp., Temp., SpO2),

        4. A peripheral IV line will be inserted,

        5. A blood sample for clinical labs (CBC with Platelets, CMP, PT, PTT, TNFa, IL6, CRP) will
           be drawn monthly during the infusion period.

        6. A "time out" verification of patient/consent/procedure/cell product will be performed,

        7. The HB-adMSC infusion will be given by through the peripheral IV, infused over 1 hour at
           a rate of 250ml/hr (83gtts/minute) by a registered nurse.

        8. Assessment for Infusion Related AE/SAEs

        9. The subject will be monitored for a minimum of 2 hours

      In-Person Visits The subject will return to the Clinical Trial Network CTN site for In-Person
      visits to occur at Screening, Baseline and Week twelve (12), twenty-six (26) and at Week
      fifty-two (52). Week 52 visit will serve as the End of Study visit. The end of study (EOS)
      visit will include an MRI of the c-spine as well as all of the study procedures for Follow-up
      Visits without Infusion. A written summary of the results of the treatment, including adverse
      events will be submitted to the FDA after completion of the last follow-up visit.

      Visits without infusion will include:

        1. Interval H&P and concomitant medications update.

        2. QOL and Disability (SCIM self eval) surveys will be completed by the subject with the
           assistance of the primary caregiver.

        3. Vital signs monitoring will be initiated (Heart Rate, BP, Resp., Temp., SpO2),

        4. A Physical and Neuro Exam (Asia Impairment Scale) will be completed

        5. A blood sample for clinical labs (CBC with Platelets, CMP, PT, PTT, TNFa, IL6, CRP) will
           be drawn.

        6. Video documentation of patient condition.

        7. Assessment for infusion related AEs/SAEs

        8. Weight
    
  