
    
      Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy are one of the leading causes of maternal morbidity and
      mortality worldwide. The majority of clinical research has focused on pregnancy-related
      hypertension that develops in the antenatal period, while studies of the incidence, risk
      factors, and prevention of postpartum hypertension are limited. In particular, there is a
      paucity of data about the clinical entity known as de novo postpartum hypertension, in which
      women who are normotensive throughout pregnancy and delivery subsequently go on to develop
      high blood pressure in the immediate to late postpartum period. Of those with postpartum
      preeclampsia, 33-69% were normotensive antepartum.

      Early identification and treatment of antepartum preeclampsia has been shown to decrease some
      severe maternal outcomes. Conversely, women with de novo postpartum hypertensive disorders
      remain among the highest risk for severe maternal morbidity due to decreased surveillance and
      lack of data regarding preventive therapies and interventions. Evidence from multiple
      randomized controlled trials have demonstrated a benefit in the use of oral loop-diuretics in
      decreasing postpartum systolic blood pressure, promoting faster normalization of blood
      pressure, and decreasing the need for antihypertensive therapy in women with an antenatal
      diagnosis of preeclampsia. Biological plausibility suggests that loop-diuretic therapy may
      similarly mitigate the normal physiologic mechanism that has been implicated in the
      pathogenesis of hypertensive complications after delivery in women at risk for de novo
      postpartum hypertension.

      This study is a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial of 82 high-risk women to
      assess whether treatment with oral Lasix (furosemide) after delivery reduces blood pressure
      at the time of discharge. Women at high risk for de novo postpartum hypertension will be
      randomized to a five-day course of either 20 mg oral Lasix (furosemide) or placebo once daily
      initiated after delivery. Women will be monitored through their routine 2-week and 6-week
      postpartum visits, during which times hypertensive complications and adverse effects of
      therapy will be assessed.
    
  