
    
      Delirium is an acute syndrome with fluctuation in mental status with altered cognition and
      consciousness. It is a common occurrence (17% to 38%) in critically ill children with serious
      short-term consequences. Its pathophysiology is complex and incompletely understood.
      Dopaminergic, serotoninergic, glutaminergic, and cholinergic pathways in the cerebral cortex,
      striatum, substantia nigra, and thalamus have been implicated. Imbalance in the synthesis,
      release, and inactivation of neurotransmitters can result in altered cognitive function,
      behavior, and mood. The Society of Critical Care Medicine set the adult practice guidelines
      including widespread delirium screening as well as treatment to decrease duration of delirium
      and ameliorate its long-term effects (12). The cornerstone of pharmacologic therapy for
      delirium in adults is antipsychotics, both first and second-generation (13-20).

      The current foundation of treatment for pediatric delirium is identifying and addressing the
      underlying etiology. Iatrogenic factors should be minimized, such as avoiding benzodiazepines
      and restraints, optimizing pain control, minimizing sedation, and treating withdrawal. The
      ICU environment should also be optimized to create a quiet, well-lit space with clustered
      care to allow for uninterrupted sleep. When non-pharmacologic treatment measures prove
      insufficient to manage the symptoms of delirium, we believe the second-generation
      antipsychotic (SGA) quetiapine may have a role in the treatment of delirium. However, there
      are currently no FDA-approved medications to treat delirium in this population.

      The European Society of Paediatric and Neonatal Intensive Care (ESPNIC) has recently
      recommended that all children in the ICU be monitored for delirium but provided no guidance
      on recommended treatments (21), likely due to the lack of evidence of proven delirium
      treatment in children. An adult systematic review and meta-analysis by Kishi et al concluded
      that antipsychotics are superior to placebo in decreasing severity of delirium and time to
      response with there was no significant difference in the side effects between the two groups.
      Additionally, SGAs are associated with a shorter time to response and lower side effect
      profile than haloperidol (a first-generation antipsychotic).

      A growing body of pediatric literature suggests that delirium is a serious and under
      recognized problem in critically ill children as well, however little research has been
      focused on treatment . A recent retrospective series looking at the use of quetiapine in
      suggested that quetiapine use for delirium treatment is a safe option in this population.

      With proven efficacy in adults with delirium, an established track record in children for
      indications other than delirium, a favorable safety profile, and a wide therapeutic window,
      quetiapine is a logical choice for the next phase of research into pediatric delirium
      treatment. In this study are looking prospectively at the effectiveness of quetiapine as a
      treatment for pediatric delirium.
    
  