
    
      The study is a prospective, multi-center, assessor-blinded, randomized controlled trial and
      will be conducted in 9 medical ICUs at 7 tertiary hospitals in Southern China. Mechanically
      ventilated septic patient admitted into ICU will be screened for eligibility into the study.
      When medically stable, patients randomize into the intervention group will receive a
      multi-component PT. The PT program is designed to counteract ICUAW, delirium, DD and acute GI
      injury, and consists of 5 consecutive sessions including positioning, extremities muscle
      strength training, respiratory muscle strength training, neuromuscular electrical stimulation
      (NMES) and gut rehabilitation. Each PT session will last for 30 minutes and be provided once
      daily, 5 days per week, and tailored for each individual subject. PT intervention will
      continue throughout patient's ICU stay or the primary endpoint is reached. The primary
      outcome will be the ICU 28-day all-cause mortality, and the secondary outcome measures, e.g.,
      incidences or duration of ICUAW, delirium, DD and acute GI injury, mechanical ventilation
      outcomes (ventilator dependence, ventilator-free days), adverse events, restoration to
      independent functional status and long-term survival, will be assessed at preset time points
      of interviews during periods of treatment and 1-year follow-up after discharge from hospital.
      The total in-hospital and re-hospitalization costs in the intervention group will be also
      analyzed and compared to control group to assess the cost-effectiveness of the rehabilitation
      program.To our knowledge, this study is the first randomized controlled trial examining the
      efficacy and safety of a multi-component PT program in critically ill sepsis patients on
      ventilator. Given that rehabilitation is not a routine therapy across most ICUs in China, If
      this PT program is found to be of mortality benefit, it will provide an alternative
      non-pharmaceutical approach to deal with these lethal ICU-related complications and reduce
      the subsequent death. It will also provide useful information for clinical decision and local
      medical policies making, as well as identifying sepsis patient population who might best
      benefit from early rehabilitation program.
    
  