
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the complete pathologic response rate at second-look surgery in
      patients with optimally resected stage III ovarian epithelial or primary peritoneal cancer
      treated with adjuvant paclitaxel, carboplatin, and IM-862. II. Determine the safety profile
      of this regimen in this patient population. III. Determine the incidence of infectious and
      hematologic complications in patients treated with this regimen. IV. Determine the
      progression-free survival of patients with no disease or minimal disease burden after initial
      therapy, when treated with IM-862 consolidation therapy. V. Correlate angiogenesis markers
      and immunologic parameters with response in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to participating center. Patients are randomized to one of three IM-862 doses.
      Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Treatment with IM-862 begins within 10 days of chemotherapy initiation
      and continues until clinical evidence of disease progression or until 3 days before
      second-look surgery. Arm I: Patients receive a low-dose of IM-862 and 2 placebo doses
      intranasally daily. Arm II: Patients receive a medium-dose of IM-862 and 2 placebo doses as
      in arm I. Arm III: Patients receive higher-dose IM-862 intranasally three times daily.
      Patients undergo second-look surgery within 4-8 weeks after completion of the last course of
      chemotherapy. Patients with a complete pathologic response or only microscopically detectable
      residual disease receive consolidation therapy with IM-862, according to their original
      treatment arm. Consolidation therapy begins within 3-14 days after second-look surgery and
      continues for 24 weeks in the absence of disease progression. Patients are followed at 6 and
      12 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 180 patients (60 per arm) will be accrued for this study within
      1 year.
    
  