
    
      We performed an observational, retrospective single-center study in a teaching hospital of
      Paris area (Ambroise Paré Hospital in Boulogne-Billancourt). The hospital information system
      that is routinely completed by healthcare staff for the financing of hospital activity
      (Programme de Médicalisation des Systèmes d'Information - PMSI) was used to identify eligible
      patients, i.e. those who had been hospitalized in acute geriatrics ward between January 1 and
      December 31, 2018 with a diagnosis or a suspicion of bacterial infection. Information about
      bacterial infection was then checked in the medical record of the patient. Infections of
      interest were pulmonary, urinary, digestive, biliary, cutaneous, cardiac, and central nervous
      system infections, as well as bacteremia.

      In case of multiple stays over the study period, only the last one was included in the
      analysis.

      In total, over this 12-month period, we analyzed the stays of patients affected by 126 father
      codes (entitled "family" of pathology) which were sometimes broken down into child codes
      (pathologies corresponding to these groups).

      The database had been declared to the French Authority for Data Protection (Commission
      Nationale de l'Informatique et des Libertés - CNIL) via the Assistance Publique - Hôpitaux de
      Paris (AP-HP) (whose registration number is the 2216836).

      Data were collected retrospectively by a single investigator, from the patient's medical
      record on Agfa® Orbis software. The same software made it possible to consult the totality of
      the biology, the images as well as the treatments administered throughout the stay.

      In this study, eosinopenia is defined by an eosinophil count under 100 eosinophils/mm3 based
      on our previous studies.

      Considering D0 as the date of the start of diagnosis by a clinician in the hospital, the
      other four dates were between D1 and D7.

      The patients were separated into two groups: a group of patients who died during
      hospitalization and a group of patients released alive from their stay. If the patients were
      still hospitalized 30 days after their admission, they were classified in the group of
      "living" patients since they had not died on D30.
    
  