
    
      The term axial spondyloarthritis (axSpA) describes a group of chronic inflammatory diseases
      that characterized with spinal involvement. AxSpA is one of the most common rheumatic
      diseases and chronic pain and morning stiffness are the main complaints of these patients.
      Central sensitization (CS) is defined as increased response to normal or sub-threshold
      stimuli of central nervous system and its close relationship with many rheumatological
      diseases has been demonstrated in several studies. However, data associated with central
      sensitization in axSpA patients is very limited. The quantitative sensory testing (QST) is
      commonly used for detection hyperalgesia and allodynia those are accepted main findings in
      sensitized patients. The most commonly used QST types include pressure pain threshold (PPT),
      temporal summation (TS) and conditioned pain modulation (CPM).Pressure pain threshold
      measurement is frequently used to show local / generalized sensitivity increase in patients
      who develop pain sensitization. For this purpose, the pain response of superficial or deep
      tissue can be evaluated through mechanical device called algometer. The algometer probe was
      placed vertically in the each selected point and pressure was increased until the participant
      reporting pressure became painful. The first pressure value at which pain is felt is
      considered the PPT of that point. TS is defined as a progressive increase in pain response
      with repetitive painful stimuli. This condition is also known as wind-up phenomenon and play
      a role to development CS. CPM, known as one of the main mechanisms of endogenous analgesia,
      is based on the principle that pain perception can be reduced with painful stimulus applied
      to different areas according to the "pain inhibits pain" model. In the CPM testing, it is
      aimed to investigate the modulator effect of two different painful stimuli on each other. The
      diagnosis of CS can be made with QST or with Central Sensitization Inventory (CSI). The aim
      of this study is to evaluate the frequency of central sensitization (CS) in patients with
      axial spondyloarthritis (AxSpA) by means of clinical scales and quantitative sensory testing
      (QST), to examine related comorbidities and the parameters associated with the development of
      sensitization in these patients. The patients with AxSpa and healthy controls will be
      included in this study. QST which consists of pressure pain threshold (PPT), temporal
      summation (TS) and conditioned pain modulation (CPM) will be applied to the patient and
      control groups. Disease activity (BASDAI), functional status (ASQoL, ILBPDI), sleep quality
      (PSQI), pain (VAS pain), depression (BDI) and fatigue (FSS) will be assessed. Fibromyalgia
      (FIRST) and other comorbidities will be investigated. Patients will be divided as the ones
      with and without CS according to the central sensitization inventory (CSI) and the results
      will be compared. After data collection, analysis will be performed with the appropriate
      statistical method
    
  