
    
      Pregnant women, recruited from antenatal clinics, with pre-pregnancy BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2, age >18
      years and singleton pregnancy were enrolled within 12th week at the Obstetric Unit of
      Policlinico Hospital of Modena.

      Exclusion criteria were as follows: twin pregnancies, chronic diseases (i.e., diabetes
      mellitus, chronic hypertension, untreated thyroid diseases) and dietary supplements or herbal
      products known to affect body weight, other medical conditions that might affect body weight.

      At the first visit, an accurate obstetric history, family history, and personal history was
      collected for the assessment of exclusion criteria. The blood pressure, height and weight
      were measured, and the BMI is calculated.

      Eligible women were given nutritional advices about lifestyle and physical activity, in
      agreement with the Italian Guidelines for a healthy diet during pregnancy. The diet given
      comprised 1500 kcal/day and consisted of 3 main meals and 3 snacks (breakfast, snack, lunch,
      snack, dinner, and evening snack) that corresponds to the baseline metabolism of a pregnant
      woman. In view of the physical activity program, the dietitian added an amount of 200
      kcal/day for obese or 300 kcal/day for overweight women.

      The exercise intervention was focused on increasing walking and developing a more active
      lifestyle (i.e., walking rather than driving for short distances). The recommended exercise
      prescription for pregnant women was generally consistent with recommendations for the general
      adult population. All participants were advised to participate in 30 min of moderate
      intensity activity at least 3 days a week.

      Each subject taking part at the study received a 75-g 2-h Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT)
      at 16-18 and/or 24-28 weeks. The diagnosis of gestational diabetes mellitus was made for any
      glucose value exceeding the normal cut-off, as reported by the Guidelines. If OGTT is
      pathological, women are referred to other health care specialists for further clinical
      evaluation and/or specific treatment.

      Women were scheduled to have a specific follow-up visits for adherence to the program at
      16th, 20th, 28th and 36th week also evaluating the fat mass, fat-free mass and total body
      water through the use of the bioimpedance analyzer.

      Furthermore, at baseline and at 36-38 week, blood plasma samples were collected in order to
      investigate: plasma pro- and anti-inflammatory markers related to obesity and to visceral
      adipose tissue (interferon-γ, interleukin-1α, interleukin-1β, interleukin-2, interleukin-4,
      interleukin-6, interleukin-8, interleukin-10, interleukin-12p70, and tumor necrosis
      factor-α).

      Data regarding pregnancy and delivery were collected from clinical diaries.
    
  