
    
      Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is a prevalent curative treatment approach for
      a large variety of diseases affecting hematopoietic systems. More than 50.000 HSCT are
      implemented all over the world annually. Despite having complex aspect, allogeneic-HSCT also
      serves as an important chance of survival and cure for patients with hematological
      malignancies. Allogeneic-HSCT recipients have at least 2-year survival rate, yet long term
      complications such as chronic health conditions, life-threatening diseases, musculoskeletal
      and cardiopulmonary disorders may occur in recipients following HSCT due to general state of
      immunosuppression and medications. Besides pulmonary complications existed in 30-50% of HSCT
      recipients, pulmonary infiltrates especially after allogeneic HSCT is an ongoing challenge
      for recipients. All toxic treatments received to cure hematological malignancies including
      HSCT and various complications seen after HSCT may induce muscle weakness, decreased
      submaximal exercise capacity and oxygen consumption via impaired skeletal muscle oxygenation
      in most allogeneic-HSCT long-term survivors. Therefore, European Society for Blood and Marrow
      Transplantation Group recommends that allied health-care professionals should take part in
      team for a successful dynamic process of allogeneic-HSCT.

      Limited number of studies reported impairments in exercise capacity, physical activity and
      quality of life in allogeneic-HSCT recipients. However it is not known that to what extent
      dyspnea, exercise capacity, physical activity and quality of life impair in allogeneic
      recipients who were over 100 days status post transplantation versus age-gender matched
      healthy individuals so far. Therefore aspiration of current study was comparison of dyspnea,
      submaximal exercise capacity, physical activity level and quality of life in allogeneic-HSCT
      recipients with healthy individuals.
    
  