
    
      Octreotide is widely available and has a relatively low cost (about $17/day in our hospital).
      In the United States, it has been used widely in outpatient and inpatient settings for over
      16 years, mostly for various endocrinopathies and gastrointestinal variceal bleeds but also
      for a number of other pathologies. It is considered by clinicians to be an overall
      well-tolerated medication, with fewer significant side-effects compared to systemic steroids
      and scopolamine. If octreotide is proven to be an effective mucoregulator, it may become an
      essential tool used in the intensive care units throughout the world.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate effectiveness of including parenteral octreotide
      (12-25 mcg/hour for 72 hours) in addition to the other standard of care treatments deemed
      necessary by the ICU attending physician in managing bronchorrhea in mechanically ventilated
      patients. It is hypothesized that octreotide decreases excessive bronchial secretions and
      shortens time to extubation.

      This study is an open-label, randomized controlled trial. Patients will be randomized into
      two groups of 15, "Routine Care" group, which will serve as the control group, and
      "Octreotide" group. The amount of bronchial secretions is routinely measured in all
      mechanically ventilated patients. Once the Primary Team identifies a patient as a candidate
      for the study (based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria) and an informed consent has
      been obtained, the baseline volume of bronchial secretions per 12-hour period will be
      recorded and a security envelope containing group assignment will be opened by the ICU
      attending. Both groups will continue to receive treatments that have already been initiated
      to manage bronchial secretions. In addition, "Octreotide" group will receive parenteral
      octreotide, while "Routine Care" group will receive care as deemed necessary by the Primary
      Team. The rate of bronchial secretions will be measured and recorded daily; the changes,
      relative to the baseline measurements, will be compared between the groups. These
      interventions will be continued for 72 hours or until extubation or withdrawal from the
      study, whichever occurs earlier. Subsequently, the standard of care management, as determined
      by the Primary Team, will be resumed.

      Primary outcome: Change in the rate of bronchial secretion, as compared to the baseline.
    
  