
    
      Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) is the most widely performed procedure for
      patients with unresectable HCC. Although TACE can induce tumor necrosis, tumor recurrence and
      metastasis is not uncommon and likely due to stimulation of angiogenesis immediately after
      TACE. Plasma VEGF levels are significantly elevated following TACE procedures, usually
      peaking 24 to 48 hours after treatment.

      Sorafenib, a multikinase inhibitor, has been shown to increase survival in patients with
      advanced HCC, presumably due to its predominant and strong antiangiogenic activities thereby
      preventing tumor growth. However, despite its targeted approach, sorafenib is not without
      toxicities; consequently most patients are unable to remain on full dose throughout the
      course of their treatment.

      Because of sorafenib's antiangiogenic properties, it has been suggested that sorafenib could
      be used in combination with TACE to counteract the post-TACE angiogenic release and therefore
      prevent or minimize the risk of tumor recurrence. The possible synergy between TACE and
      sorafenib has been tested in numerous clinical studies. Although the safety profile has been
      clearly established, the efficacy of this combination therapy has yet to be demonstrated.
      Several combination methods have been tested, i.e., continuously where sorafenib is
      administered before the first TACE and then continuously throughout the planned TACE
      treatments, or sequentially where sorafenib is administered after the completion of TACE
      (usually 4 days after). Here, the investigators postulate that the sequence of the
      combination could have a significant impact on patient outcomes. Specifically, the
      investigators hypothesize that the continuous method is superior to that of the sequential
      protocol because the presence of sorafenib before the first TACE will preempt the peak of
      angiogenesis from TACE. To that end, the investigators propose to measure VEGF levels
      serially in order to detect differences between the two methods.
    
  