
    
      Phlebologists will include in the study patients who have consulted and need compression
      therapy using a compression hosiery. Patients are recommended compression hosiery that meet
      RAL-GZ 387, Oeko-Tex Standart 100. At the same time, the design of this study does not
      provide for restrictions on the acquisition by patients of other type compression hosiery.

      Inclusion of patients in the study is carried out only after obtaining written informed
      consent from them for data registration and subsequent telephone questionnaires. Demographic,
      anamnestic, sociological data, such as educational level, labor characteristics (heavy
      physical labor, prolonged orthostasis, prolonged sitting position) recorde in the patient's
      individual card. Women provide information on the number of births, menopause, use of hormone
      replacement therapy at the time of the study. A diagnosis performed for each lower limb
      according to only the clinical part of the CEAP classification without other details. The
      phlebologist individually for each patient determines the mode of wearing compression
      hosiery. In addition to compression therapy, it is possible to prescribe any other type of
      drug and / or surgical treatment. In the subsequent analysis, data on the lower limb with
      more severe manifestations of venous insufficiency are used.

      Table 1. Main characteristics of the patients included in the study Class С Age, years Sex
      Мail/Femail University education Yes / No Prolonged orthostasis Yes / No Hard physical labor
      Yes / No Prolonged sitting position Yes / No Family history of Chronic Vein Disease Yes / No
      A history of Venous Thromboembolism Yes / No Smoking Yes / No History of childbirth (among
      women) Number 0-…. Hormonal contraception / hormone replacement therapy (among women) Yes /
      No

      1 month and 1 year after the consultation patients will interrogate about the implementation
      of the doctor's recommendations regarding compression therapy (Tabl. 2) Table 2. Questions
      included in the telephone survey You have been prescribed compression hosiery. Have you
      bought it?

        -  Did not buy

        -  Bought immediately after a visit to the doctor

        -  Not immediately bought (after how many days) Which product did you buy?

        -  Knee socks

        -  Stockings

        -  One-leg stocking with zipper at the waist (monostocking)

        -  Tights Do you follow the recommended doctor's regimen for wearing compression hosiery? -
           ---

        -  Yes

        -  No

      If you did not comply with the compression hosiery pattern, then why?

        -  Too difficult to put on / take off

        -  Uncomfortable to wear

        -  Hot to wear

        -  Itching when used

        -  Ugly

        -  Does not help

        -  It gets worse when I start wearing

        -  I can not wash the product every day

        -  Other (with explanation) Did you wear compression hosiery before being included in the
           study?

        -  Yes

        -  No What kind of compression hosiery had you wear before you entered the study?

        -  Knee socks

        -  Stockings

        -  One-leg stocking with zipper at the waist (monostocking)

        -  Tights Compression class

        -  1

        -  2

        -  3

      How are you satisfied with the effect of the using compression hosiery? Score in points from
      0 to 10, where 10 is the maximum level of satisfaction

      How are you satisfied with the comfort of the using compression hosiery? Score in points from
      0 to 10, where 10 is the maximum level of satisfaction

      How are you satisfied with the quality of the using compression hosiery? Score in points from
      0 to 10, where 10 is the maximum level of satisfaction
    
  