
    
      This is a phase I, open-label,two parts,dose escalation/expansion clinical study.The
      safety,tolerance,PK and preliminary efficacy of two-drug combination and three-drug
      combination were evaluated respectively in the patients with advanced solid tumors that have
      no any targeted agents as the standard therapies.

      In the first study part, subjects receiving a single dose of SHR7390 (Run-in) are observed in
      7-10 days, then accepted two drug combination therapy, SHR7390 is administered once daily
      orally for 28 days for a treatment cycle. At the same time, SHR-1210 was given intravenously
      per 2 weeks at the fixed dose of 200mg.

      In the second study part, subjects accepted three drug combination therapy, SHR7390 is
      administered orally for 21 days and discontinued for 7 days in a 28-day treatment
      cycle,SHR3162 was administered orally twice a day for 28 days at a fixed dose of 100 mg. At
      the same time, SHR-1210 was given intravenously per 2 weeks at the fixed dose of 200mg.

      Dose limiting toxicities (DLT) in the first study part will be assessed during the Run-in and
      first cycle of treatment. the dose escalation is designed by Accelerated Titration Designs
      during initial accelerated phase. when the significant toxicity or DLT is observed in the
      Run-in and first cycle of treatment,the accelerated titration trial terminates and subsequent
      dose escalations are become a conventional design of 3+3 patients. If one adverse event （AE）
      meets dose limiting toxicity (DLT) criteria at a given dose, 3 additional patients will be
      enrolled in this dose cohort. If 2 DLTs are determined at a given dose level, the previous
      dose will be designated as the MTD.

      Based on preliminary determination of RP2D and sufficient safety data in the first part of
      the study, the second part of three-drug combination will be carried out. the preset dose of
      SHR7390 includes RP2D initially determined in the first part of the study and its previous
      low dose level (for example, RP2D is 0.5 mg/d, while the former low dose is 0.25 mg/d). Dose
      escalation is a conventional design of 3+3 patients.

      Additional patients will be enrolled for pharmacokinetic (PK) evaluations at different dose
      levels based on preliminary safety and tolerability.Each dose level can expand at least 12
      subjects , of which 9-12 subjects are PK subjects. Multiple blood samples at designated time
      points will be collected for PK evaluations (more than 12 subjects are determined by SMC).

      The safety, tolerability and AEs will be closely monitored throughout the study duration. The
      preliminary effectiveness and clinical benefits of two-drug combination and three-drug
      combination will be evaluated.
    
  