
    
      Although considered a rare type of cancer with an incidence under 6 cases for 100 000
      persons, the thyroid carcinoma is the most frequent endocrine tumor. The incidence of this
      malignant disease has exponentially increased in the last decade, so that many specially
      centers in the world have focused on a better strategy of diagnosis, of treatment and of
      monitoring. By applying a suitable multimodal treatment, the prognosis of this disease is
      excellent, offering the patients a survival rate of over 90% at 10 years. During the
      monitoring of the disease, the patients are periodically supposed to withdraw the hormone
      treatment; because of this hormone imbalance, there will be important changes of the
      metabolism, especially the lipid one. This is the reason why we are preoccupied to increase
      the quality of life of the patients addicted to a chronic thyroid hormone therapy. The aim of
      this study is to demonstrate the way in which the lipid profile is influenced and to quantify
      the cardiovascular risk for the patients radically treated of thyroid cancer, by total
      thyroidectomy, metabolic irradiation and undergoing a chronic thyroid hormone treatment.
      Nowadays, Romania is one of the countries in which these patients are supposed to be kept in
      a iatrogenous myxoedema, the alternative being the recombinant thyroid stimulating hormone.
      For the patients with the mentioned diagnosis, the lipid profile will be determined and will
      consist of the following: total serologic cholesterol, cholesterol fractions, triglycerides
      and C reactive protein highly sensitive (hsCRP). A score for the cardiovascular accident risk
      will be elaborated. The attempt of classifying in cardiovascular risk groups the patients
      through the present study, would facilitate the selection of the patients and their access to
      therapies and modern monitoring strategies.
    
  