
    
      This study will address a significant gap in the evidence regarding effective approaches to
      prevent depressive relapse among women with recurrent depression who maintain euthymia using
      antidepressants and who wish to conceive or who are pregnant. Relapse rates of depression
      following antidepressant discontinuation among such women has been established, and the
      efficacy of MBCT in mitigating relapse risk in pregnant women with recurrent depression
      compared to UC also has been demonstrated. But the effectiveness of MBCT has not been tested
      in a definitive trial; the question of whether MBCT can mitigate risk for depressive relapse
      among pregnant women on antidepressants, including among those who discontinue
      antidepressants proximate to or during pregnancy, also has not been addressed.

      Reproductive age women with recurrent depression and their healthcare providers need to know,
      first, if a scalable digital non-pharmacologic prevention approach is superior to UC in
      community settings, and second, whether MBCT can attenuate risk for depressive relapse among
      those who elect to discontinue maintenance antidepressant treatment proximate to or during
      pregnancy. Lastly, the capacity to identify which women are most likely to benefit from a
      non-pharmacologic or pharmacologic approach personalizes the risk benefit decision making
      process for reproductive age women on antidepressants planning to conceive or who are
      pregnant.

      Investigators will test the relative risk for depressive relapse and reduction of symptom
      burden between women randomized to digital MBCT or UC, explore the specific benefit of MBCT
      relative to antidepressant discontinuation, and determine whether a treatment selection
      algorithm can predict whether MBCT or UC will work best for a specific participant.

      The supplemental arms of this study will further investigate suicidal ideation and behavior
      in a perinatal population to better understand the prevalence, severity, longitudinal course,
      correlates and predictors of suicidal ideation and behavior among women during pregnancy and
      in the postpartum period.

      Investigators will use a mixed methods approach of both cross-sectional and longitudinal
      study designs to characterize a real-world population of pregnant and postpartum women who
      have endorsed suicidality. Investigators will also use qualitative interviews, self-report
      instruments, and medical records to explore the extent to which community healthcare
      professionals providing care to perinatal women report the knowledge base and requisite
      skills to address suicidal ideation and behavior in this population.

      MMB for Moms delivers digitally both the content and structure of in-person MBCT, and may be
      a promising intervention for pregnant women with suicidal ideation. Investigators will also
      explore the safety, feasibility, and acceptability of enrolling pregnant women with any
      reports of suicidal ideation or behavior in a proof of concept randomized controlled trial
      comparing MMB for Moms to enhanced usual care.
    
  