
    
      COVID-19 can lead to a severe respiratory illness with 5-12% requiring mechanical
      ventilation.Standard UK intensive care practice is to consider a tracheostomy after 7-10 days
      of mechanical ventilation in order to facilitate weaning, reduce duration of mechanical
      ventilation, shorten intensive care stay and reduce complications relating to prolonged
      presence of an endotracheal tube. Given the severity of respiratory illness and a mortality
      in mechanically ventilated COVID 19 patients which exceeds 50%, the benefit of tracheostomy
      in this group is uncertain.

      There are also unique considerations regarding health care professional (HCP) safety when
      performing tracheostomy in COVID-19 patients due to the potential of aerosol generation and
      transmission of the infection. ENT UK and other organisations have issued guidance regarding
      surgical tracheostomy in terms of timing, environment, technique and level of personal
      protective equipment (PPE). The ability of hospital departments to follow this guidance and
      the effectiveness of these measures is unknown.

      This UK national cohort study aims to assess the effects of tracheostomy in mechanically
      ventilated COVID-19 patients in terms of the duration of mechanical ventilation, length of
      ICU and hospital stay and mortality. These data will be related to COVID-19 patients who are
      mechanically ventilated but do not undergo tracheostomy, as captured by the UK Intensive Care
      National Audit and Research Centre (ICNARC).

      In parallel we will collect data on the tracheostomy procedure itself and compare these to
      national guidance on tracheostomy in patients diagnosed with COVID-19, and on COVID-19
      infections in the surgical and medical teams involved in the tracheostomy procedure.

      This proposal builds upon the ongoing COVIDTrach project that has captured data on 550
      COVID-19 tracheostomies from 78 NHS hospitals throughout the UK so far. COVIDTrach has
      successfully brought together surgical, intensive care and anaesthetic specialists to capture
      early timepoints following tracheostomy. Moving forward, we will work with speech and
      language therapists and physiotherapists to capture later stages in the patient pathway. This
      will provide a unique and comprehensive assessment of the role of tracheostomy in COVID-19
      patients. It will lay the foundation for further much needed multidisciplinary research into
      the role of tracheostomy in respiratory disease beyond the COVID-19 pandemic.
    
  