
    
      The only interventions imposed on subjects as a result of this study are (1.) pre-procedural
      randomization to laser lithotripsy with either 0.2J or 0.8J energy setting, and (2.) the use
      of patient information in describing results. All the other activities are part of the
      routine clinical practice in the department. Participation in the study will not alter the
      patients' preoperative, or postoperative care. During surgery, patients' stones will be
      treated in accordance with the routine clinical practice of fragmenting stones into small
      pieces (<2 mm). All patients enrolled will undergo routine post-operative follow up including
      clinic appointments and imaging evaluation. Any complications will be recorded, reported, and
      treated appropriately. A fixed frequency will be used (15Hz). Thus, the study contains two
      arms: 0.2J&15Hz, and 0.8J&15Hz. Patients will be randomized into the two groups by the ratio
      of 1:1. A total of 1 clinic visit (i.e., the stone surgery, approximately 5-6 hours,
      depending on the duration of the surgery) is needed for this study.

      The study procedures are:

        1. A study team member who is affiliated with the patient's clinical care (e.g., the
           surgeon) will initially approach the patients who are scheduled laser lithotripsy
           treatment of urinary stones. (i.e. informed that there's a research study they may be
           eligible for, and asked if they want to learn more about it).

        2. If the patient is interested in the study, a member of the research team will approach
           him/her for enrollment.

        3. Once the consent form is obtained, patients' medical background will be reviewed for
           inclusion/exclusion criteria. Patients who meet the inclusion criteria will be included
           in the study; patients who do not meet the inclusion criteria will be excluded.

        4. Patients will be randomized to either 0.2J&15Hz or 0.8J&15Hz (randomization ratio 1:1)
           group.

        5. Patients will undergo stone surgeries with the laser setting that they are randomized
           to. The patient's stone(s) will be treated in accordance with the routine clinical
           practice of fragmenting stone into small pieces (≤ 2mm). The faculty surgeon (i.e., Dr.
           Nakada) will perform all surgeries.

        6. Fragmentation time as well as other information (total surgery time, complications,
           stone information, and number of stones treated) is collected.

        7. After surgery, the patients will then continue on normal postoperative pathway.
           Postoperative complications will be collected.
    
  