
    
      Patient-specific instruments (PSI) provide surgeons with an anatomically personalized surgery
      tool. The newly developed and CE-marked X-PSI Knee System is based on long leg x-rays that
      are used to generate a pre-operative 3D model of the knee. The total knee replacement surgery
      will be planned according to this 3D model.

      The aim of this multi-center, prospective, non-controlled post-market study is to
      scientifically document the accuracy, cost-effectiveness and subsequent clinical performance
      of the X-PSI Knee System. The X-PSI pin guides are designed to facilitate a more simplified,
      efficient and customized TKA procedure compared to conventional, non-guided instrumentation.

      To evaluate the accuracy of the X-PSI Knee System, early postoperative (4-6 weeks) imaging
      data will be analysed with regards to the mechanical alignment (hip-knee-ankle angle) of the
      leg and matched to preoperative planning imaging data. The X-PSI Knee System cohort will then
      be compared with current literature (70% of cases within ±3 degrees) where patients were
      conventionally operated with non-guided surgery. No control group will be studied.

      The cost-effectiveness of the X-PSI Knee System will be evaluated with an efficiency matrix
      to record OR set-up time, surgery time and post-processing time.

      Clinical outcome data of the patients will be evaluated 4-6 weeks and 1 year post-surgery
      with the help of patient questionnaires (VAS pain scale, EQ-5D and Oxford Knee Score), a
      physical exam and the assessment of radiographs.

      The study population will be compromised of males and females requiring total knee
      arthroplasty and satisfy the inclusion/exclusion criteria. The study will last one (1) year
      from the time of surgery. The collected data aim to improve the treatment and quality of life
      of patients suffering from degenerative joint diseases. In addition, shorter surgery times
      possibly result in reduced risk of infection, decreased time of anaesthesia and better
      cost-effectiveness.
    
  