
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Determine objective response rate (ORR) of durvalumab (D) and D + tremelimumab (T) after
      radiation therapy (RT) in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients with progression
      on prior PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety of D and D + T in advanced HCC patients with progression on prior
      PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor.

      II. Determine the efficacy of D and D + T in advanced HCC patients with progression on prior
      PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Profile peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) immune cells and plasma samples before
      RT, after RT, and during D or D + T immunotherapy.

      II. Explore relationship between plasma biomarkers and PBMC immune profiles, the proportion
      of participants with adverse events (AEs), (safety endpoint), and clinical outcomes (ORR),
      progression-free survival (PFS), duration of response (DOR), overall survival (OS).

      III. Profile immune cells in archival pre-treatment tumor tissue for all patients and
      on-/post-treatment tumor samples and/or non-tumor liver tissue samples when available, and
      explore for relationship with safety/tolerability and clinical outcomes.

      IV. Determine incidence of tumor PD-L1 expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC) in
      pre-treatment archival tumor samples in all patients, and in on-/post-treatment tumor samples
      if repeat tumor sampling is obtained for clinical indications.

      V. Explore relationship between tumor PD-L1 status and clinical outcomes. VI. Explore
      relationship between viral hepatitis status, viral load, safety/tolerability, and clinical
      outcomes.

      VII. Measure tumor marker alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) response to immunotherapy plus RT and
      explore for relationship with clinical outcomes.

      VIII. Explore relationship between site of RT (liver, bone, other soft tissue), number of RT
      sites (1 or > 1), safety/tolerability, clinical outcomes, and changes in immune cell profiles
      on treatment.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo standard of care hypofractionated RT over 5 fractions once daily (QD)
      for 5 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 3-10 days
      after completion of RT, patients receive durvalumab intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients undergo standard of care hypofractionated RT over 5 fractions QD for 5 days
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 3-10 days after
      completion of RT, patients receive tremelimumab IV over 1 hour and durvalumab IV over 1 hour
      on day 1. Treatment with durvalumab repeats every 28 days for up to 2 years in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who complete the first dose of
      tremelimumab and demonstrate clinical benefit based upon radiographic tumor regression and/or
      other clinical response without progression for at least 6 cycles or 6 months on treatment,
      whichever is shorter, and subsequently have evidence of progressive disease during the
      durvalumab monotherapy portion may receive a repeat dose of tremelimumab at the next
      scheduled cycle of treatment with durvalumab per physician discretion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months.
    
  