
    
      The study will contemplate the description of the clinical characteristics of the patients to
      intervene (sex, age, locality and Manual Classification of Skills system in children with CP
      - MACS), and the main results consider the quality upper extremity skills test and the
      questionnaire of Abilhand-kids. Among the secondary outcomes, the presence of adverse effects
      and adherence to the intervention will be considered, through the record of attendance at the
      sessions.In relation to standard operating procedures, no statistical calculation of the
      sample size will be performed as the entire available population will be covered. All
      children with spastic unilateral Cerebral Palsy between 4 and 10 years of the year 2018 will
      be selected at Instituto Teletón in the city of Concepción, Chile. The list of those who have
      recently been infiltrated with botulinum toxin type A in the upper limb and those who have an
      indication for admission to treatment will be reviewed. A list will be made with the selected
      users, assigning the child a number for random selection to a specific study group. The list
      will be sent to the Subdirección de Investigación - Dirección Médica Nacional of Teletón
      Chile to maintain the masking.

      Participants will be randomly assigned using specialized software to the study group (Armeo)
      and the control group (conventional therapy) to ensure that each participant has an equal
      probability of being assigned to either of the two groups. After finishing the Armeo spring
      group treatment and conventional Occupational Therapy, a post-intervention evaluation will be
      performed at 3 months and follow-up at 6 months.The data collection will be carried out
      later, through specific sources: clinical history, interview, evaluation guideline, clinical
      observation and attendance record. To guarantee the registration procedure, it will be
      determined that at the end of each evaluation period (initial evaluation, post intervention
      and follow-up) the evaluator will immediately transfer the information to the database, and
      it will be verified that it matches the evaluated user through the clinical history number
      assigned.

      The processing and statistical analysis of the data will be coded in an Excel spreadsheet and
      will be processed using statistical software SPSS v17.0. A normality test will be performed
      to verify the distribution of the data. According to this result, the corresponding position
      and dispersion measures will be obtained. To contrast the values of the intragroup variables
      at the different evaluation times, repeated measures tests will be used and, to evaluate the
      differences between the study groups, T test or Kruskal Wallis tests will be used,
      considering a level of significance of 5%. As safety considerations for participants, it is
      that the treatment will be suspended in the event of the presence of adverse events, for
      example, skin lesions, pain and fatigue.
    
  