
    
      1. Study title: Diagnostic Performance of a Ring-type Wearable Device Using Deep Learning
           Analysis of Photoplethysmographic Signals for Detecting Atrial Fibrillation Among
           Ambulatory Patients.

        2. Study type: Investigator initiated study.

        3. Study design: Prospective observational cohort registry design.

        4. Sponsor: Sky Labs, Inc., Republic of Korea.

        5. The aim of the study: To evaluate diagnostic performance of a ring-type wearable device
           for detecting atrial fibrillation among ambulatory patients.

        6. Study period: From the date of IRB approval to 31th Dec. 2023.

        7. The size of study population: 100 participants

        8. The eligibility criteria:

      (1) Those with persistent atrial fibrillation (2) Those who admitted the institution for
      elective direct-current cardioversion or catheter ablation (3) Those who are successfully
      converted to sinus rhythm (4) Those aged 19 years or more

      9. The exclusion criteria:

        1. Those with other forms of cardiac arrhythmias

        2. Those aged less than 19 years

        3. Those who are not eligible to perform electrical cardioversion or catheter ablation

        4. Those who are not converted to sinus rhythm after the intervention

      10. Procedures of the study

        1. A participant is under the routine procedures of direct- current cardioversion or
           catheter ablation.

        2. On admission, a participant is given with detailed information of the study.

        3. After the informed consent, the only additional procedure due to the study is recording
           photoplethysmographic signal by wearing a ring-type device. The participant is
           instructed how to use the ring device.

        4. Recorded signals are evaluated without encompassing persornal information.

        5. The participant is required to wear the ring device and Holter monitoring device, and
           record his or her photoplethysmographic signals with ambulatory electrocardiography
           during the day. The ring is designed to automatically record user's
           photoplethysmographic signals and wirelessly transmit the data to user's smartphone.
           Detailed timings of wearing on/off the ring device and the Holter device are informed by
           a designated research crew.

        6. The participant visits outpatient clinic as scheduled accordingly. At the clinic, the
           participant returns the ring device, Holter monitoring device, and the recorded data to
           the designated researcher crew.

        7. Throughout the study, there is no intervention to the participants. The only additional
           step due to the participation of the study is that wearing the ring device and Holter
           monitoring device during their daily lives until the next outpatient clinic.

      11. Financial benefits to the participants: None.
    
  