
    
      Management of type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) in adolescents is very difficult and innovative
      approaches are needed to help them achieve better glycemic control and behavioral outcomes.
      Continuous glucose sensors (CGS) have been refined progressively and provide acceptably
      accurate, nearly continuous estimates of glucose levels and trends. This increased quality
      and quantity of glucose data could be an excellent adjunct to conventional self-monitoring of
      blood glucose, permitting more informed diabetes decision-making. CGS could yield medical,
      educational and psychological benefits for adolescents with T1DM, but those with extremely
      variable self-management habits and suboptimal glycemic control may not realize these
      benefits readily. We hypothesize that a targeted, family-focused behavioral intervention
      could optimize benefit from adding CGS to T1DM therapy for youths with glycosylated
      hemoglobin (HbA1c) > 7.5%. A multi-site sample of 150 adolescents with T1DM and HbA1C of 7.5%
      to 10.0% will be randomized to either Standard Care for T1DM (SC), or to augmentation of SC
      with 9 months' use of a CGS device (CGS) or use of a CGS device supplemented with a targeted
      behavior therapy intervention (CGS+BT). Multiple measures of glycemic control, glycemic
      variability and health care use will be obtained during the study and there will be periodic
      assessments of demographic factors, diabetes self-management, family relations and
      psychological adjustment. Three specific aims will be addressed: 1. Evaluate whether CGS+BT
      yields more improvement in glycemic outcomes than CGS or SC; 2. Evaluate whether CGS+BT
      yields more improvement in behavioral outcomes than CGS or SC; and 3. Identify behavioral
      variables that mediate and moderate glycemic benefit from use of the CGS device. The study
      will also compare the cost effectiveness of CGS and CGS+BT relative to SC and evaluate the
      predictive utility of various indices of glycemic variability in youths. We hypothesize that,
      compared with SC and CGS, CGS+BT will yield significantly better biomedical outcomes (HbA1C;
      severe hypoglycemia; glycemic variability; proportion of glucose readings in the normal
      range) and behavioral outcomes (treatment adherence; parent adolescent teamwork;
      diabetes-related family conflict; quality of life; fear of hypoglycemia; and treatment
      satisfaction). After the 9 month randomized trial, all youths will be allowed to use the CGS
      device during an additional 3-month continuation phase. Statistical analyses will be based on
      individual growth modeling techniques. The application capitalizes on the Principal
      Investigator's prior and ongoing funded research on family management of T1DM, including
      trials of family-focused behavioral interventions, intensive therapy regimens, and clinical
      evaluations of continuous glucose sensors. The proposed study will determine whether a
      targeted behavioral intervention improves CGS benefits among adolescents with previously
      inadequate glycemic control. These results could demonstrate that adolescents with previously
      suboptimal diabetic control could realize multiple benefits from CGS use if they are provided
      with a specialized behavioral intervention.
    
  