
    
      This is a prospective open-label pilot study of a new surgical approach never before
      performed on humans. Subjects of this study are patients with congenital nystagmus and no
      other treatment options. Using standard surgical techniques we will determine if simple
      tenotomy with reattachment will reduce their nystagmus. An oculographic reduction of the
      nystagmus is measured by the Nystagmus Acuity Function (NAF), considered a primary outcome.
      Phase II of the study includes binocular visual acuity as a second primary outcome. A 20%
      improvement in NAF will be considered a clinically significant reduction in nystagmus and a
      10 letter or greater improvement in binocular vision will be considered a clinically
      significant improvement in visual acuity. Secondary oculographic outcomes include breadth or
      creation of null zones, slow phase velocity during foveation, and nystagmus intensity. Other
      secondary outcomes will include visual functions, assessed pre- and post-operatively using
      standard measures of binocular visual acuity (Phase I) and the National Eye Institute-Visual
      Function Questionnaire (NEI-VFQ) in patients 18 years or older. Extraocular muscle
      proprioception and afferent innervation in control of ocular motor behavior will also be
      examined as secondary outcomes. The study will initially be limited to 5 adults 18 years of
      age and older (Phase I). However, recognizing that there are many visual differences between
      younger and older patients, the study will then be expanded to include children after the
      initial pilot study (Phase II). The NEI DSMC, ICRRC, and IRB will assess adverse events after
      Phase I, and if in their judgment there are no serious safety concerns surrounding the
      procedure, Phase II will be initiated. The initiation of Phase II begins with enrollment of 5
      adults and after review of 1 week post-surgical safety data, 5 patients under the age of 18
      will be enrolled. Patients who have a clinical and oculographic diagnosis of congenital
      nystagmus as determined by a screening exam at NEI and have not had previous extraocular
      muscle surgery and have no other nystagmus treatment options (a gaze null or convergence
      damping) are eligible. They must be able to undergo a complete ophthalmic and ocular-motor
      evaluation and be cooperative for standard eye movement recordings. After informed consent
      and assent, eligible patients will undergo a complete ophthalmic and ocular motor
      examination. They will have their eye movements recorded using a standard oculographic
      recording technique and protocol. In Phase II these recordings will take place three
      preoperative visits at least 2 weeks apart and no more than 4 months prior to surgery. Using
      routine operative techniques for extraocular muscle surgery, the patient will have all four
      horizontal recti tenotomized and reattached at their original insertions. In addition to
      routine post-operative care, complete ocular examinations and eye movement recordings will be
      repeated at 1 week, 6 weeks, 6 months, and12 months after surgery. The patient's subjective
      visual responses (e.g., visual acuity and binocular function) will be compared before and
      after surgery. Objective changes in the eye movement recordings and binocular visual acuity
      post-operatively will be quantified and compared to preoperative values.
    
  