
    
      This is a Phase I, multi-center, clinical study of XF-73 to evaluate the local (nasal) safety
      and tolerability of a modified, thinner, lower viscosity formulation of intranasal XF-73 in
      healthy male and female subjects. In addition, the potential for systemic absorption of XF-73
      in the modified, thinner, lower viscosity and the previously investigated thicker, higher
      viscosity formulations and their decolonization efficacy in comparison to placebo will be
      evaluated. Both parts of the study will be double-blinded, and Part 2 will also be
      placebo-controlled. Study subjects will be healthy volunteers, male or female, aged 18 - 45
      years. The study will be conducted in two distinct parts. In Part 1 of the study 8 healthy
      male and female subjects, aged 18 to 45 years, will be in two groups of four per formulation
      will have a study duration of up to 36 days. All subjects will receive intranasal
      applications of 5,15-bis-[4-(3-Trimethylammonio-propyloxy)-phenyl]-porphyrin dichloride
      (XF-73). In Part 2 only, subjects will also need to be confirmed as persistent nasal SA
      carriers (n = 48). (Persistent SA carriage is defined by 3 separate, SA positive cultures
      from nasal swabs: the first taken at Pre-Screening no more than 12 weeks (84 days).
      Administration will last five days, being three times a day on Day 1, then twice a day
      thereafter. Primary objective is to establish the safety and tolerability of two
      concentrations of a modified thinner, lower viscosity nasal formulation of XF-73 and to
      compare them to a previously investigated, thicker, higher viscosity formulation. Secondary
      objectives are to establish whether there is any potential systemic exposure following
      administration of the two nasal formulations of XF-73 and to evaluate the anti-staphylococcal
      efficacy of two concentrations of a lower and one of a thicker, higher viscosity nasal
      formulation of XF-73.
    
  