
    
      TITLE : " Effect of coronal extent of obturation in relation to marginal bone on the healing
      of endodontic - periodontal lesions without communication: a randomized controlled trial."

      INTRODUCTION: Coronal leakage is considered significant factor for failure of endodontic
      treatment . To provide endodontic care of highest quality attention should be given to
      coronal restoration after successful completion of root canal treatment. In an array of
      retrospective studies significant numbers of cases were reported of apical periodontitis in
      teeth with unsatisfactory coronal seal as compared to the ones with clinically or
      radiographically acceptable coronal restoration. Post treatment restorative status and
      quality & extent of root filling along with preoperative periapical lesion were found to have
      strong effect on outcome of endodontic treatment.

      Gutta-percha and sealer alone used routinely as root canal obturating material are found to
      be ineffective to guard against microleakage. Even clinically acceptable root filling allow
      penetration of bacteria and their products in as less as three days and contribute to
      eventual treatment failure. This breach of seal in coronal segment of obturated root canal
      may significantly jeopardize endodontic treatment outcome particularly in molars because of
      presence of accessory canals in the floor of the pulp chamber.

      Placing an additional protective barrier in the coronal portion of the root canal has been
      recommended to minimize microleakage and facilitate healing of apical periodontitis.
      Intraorifice barrier apart from enhancing probability of success of endodontic treatment may
      also augment periodontal therapy as intra pulpal infection is known to contribute in
      worsening of periodontal health by promoting marginal bone loss and pocket formation.

      Many materials have been tried as intraorifice barrier like cavit, IRM, amalgam, GIC,
      composite resin, dentin bonding agents, MTA. Some studies have reported no difference amongst
      materials while other found better performance of MTA over composite/GIC ; GIC over
      Polycarboxylate cement/Flowable composite and resilon alone without intraorifice barrier and
      composite over MTA/Cavit12 and Cavit/IRM.Recent studies have advocated use of adhesive
      restorative material like GIC to provide adequate seal against bacterial micro leakage. Lee
      et al demonstrated better sealing ability of MTA over both composite and GIC in an in vitro
      dye infiltration experiment. Glass ionomer may provide better seal against penetration of
      bacteria to the periapex because of its adhesive nature and ability to bond to the sclerotic
      dentin found on the pulpal floor better than composite resin.

      However concerns are raised while applying these results in clinical setting because of
      varied methodology employed in these studies. Also in a review article Gillen et al pointed
      out that coronal restoration may be overemphasised based on the results of the in vitro
      studies. So It remain to be seen whether the success of intraorifice barrier in preventing
      microleakage is translated from in vitro studies in to the clinical setting which by far is
      more challenging, variable and difficult to interpret.

      Few animal studies have compared the efficacy of coronal plug in preventing periapical
      inflammation. Animal studies in dog have reported minimal or no periapical inflammation in
      teeth with MTA intraorifice barrier than the ones without intraorifice barrier. Stassen et al
      in an retrospective study evaluated the effect of intraorifice barrier in relation to
      marginal bone level and found more cases of apical periodontitis in tooth where root filling
      extended coronal to marginal bone level called positive than the ones where the root filling
      ended apical to marginal bone level called negative on the healing of apical periodontitis.
      While depth of intraorifice barrier has been investigated earlier. Level of intraorifice
      barrier and its effect on propagation of marginal periodontitis and healing of apical
      periodontitis remain unexplored.

      So far no prospective clinical trial has investigated the effect of intraorifice barrier on
      the healing of marginal and apical periodontitis after successful root canal treatment. In
      absence of a clinical study substantial amount of doubt still persists whether intraorifice
      barrier can emerge as an effective mean to prevent microleakage in furcation and root canals
      of a multirooted tooth which because of its anatomical aberrations poses stiff challenge for
      clinicians.

      Therefore aim of this randomised controlled trial is to determine effect of the coronal
      extent of obturation in relation to marginal bone on the marginal breakdown and periapical
      healing and to determine effect of intracanal glass ionomer restoration as intraorifice
      barrier on treatment outcome of apical periodontitis.

      AIMS AND OBJECTIVES

        1. To determine effect of the coronal extent of obturation in relation to marginal bone on
           the marginal breakdown and periapical healing.

        2. To determine effect of intracanal glass ionomer restoration as intraorifice barrier on
           treatment outcome of apical periodontitis.

      MATERIALS AND METHODOLOGY

      This study is conducted in the department of conservative dentistry and endodontics, post
      graduate institute of dental sciences, Rohtak. Study subjects were obtained from the pool of
      OPD patients in the Department of conservative dentistry and endodontics, PGIDS, Rohtak.

      METHODOLOGY Prior to treatment a thorough clinical and radiological examination was carried
      out.

      A thorough history was taken from each patient. Prior informed consent was taken after
      explaining the procedure, risks and benefits.

      Clinical procedure:

      A total of 60 patients (n=20 in each group) were included in the study.

      Sample size determination:

      Sample of 16 patients each was calculated based on the difference in periapical inflammation
      with and without intraorifice barrier(39% and 89% respectively) in an animal study conducted
      by Yamauchi et al.

      Considering the attrition rate of 25% sample of 20 patients each were recruited in the study.

      Mature mandibular permanent molar with diagnosis of apical periodontitis (as confirmed
      clinically & by periapical radiograph) were chosen for the study.

      All periapical radiographs were exposed by using constant kVP, mA and exposure time (70 KVP,
      8 mA, 0.8 sec.) After initial periodontal therapy, administration of local anesthesia, rubber
      dam isolation of the involved tooth was done.

      Caries excavation was done and access cavity was prepared using carbide burs in high speed
      handpiece with copious irrigation.

      Debridement of the pulp chamber was done and all canal orifices were identified.

      Negotiation of canals was done. Working length was determined using root ZX apex locator and
      were verified radiographically.

      After creating glide path with #15 k-file, Revo-S (Micro Mega, Besancon, France) instruments
      were used in sequence as suggested by manufacturer recommendation with a rotational speed of
      350 rpm in gentle in-out motion. The torque was adjusted to 2.5 Ncm, and a crown-down
      approach was selected. Once, the instrument had negotiated to the end of the canal and had
      rotated freely, it was removed.

      Irrigation was carried out using 5 mL of a 5.25% NaOCl solution between files. After
      preparation, the root canals were irrigated with 5 mL 17% EDTA for 3 minutes to remove smear
      layer, followed by 5 mL 5.25% NaOCl. The final irrigation was done with 5 mL distilled water.

      The root canals was dried using paper points and filled with laterally condensed gutta-percha
      (Meta Biomed Co Ltd, Korea) and Roth R-801 sealer (Roth International Drug Co., Chicago, Ill)
      mixed according to manufacturers' instructions.

      Gutta-percha was cut with a heated instrument and vertically condensed right at the orifice
      opening of the canals.

      The teeth were randomly divided into 3 experimental groups of 20 teeth each as follows :

        1. Group I: intraorifice barrier of glass-ionomer cement (Ketac™ Molar, 3M ESPE) placed 3mm
           in the canal from root canal orifice.

        2. Group II: base of 2mm of glass-ionomer cement (Ketac™ Molar, 3M ESPE) placed on the
           floor of the pulp chamber.

        3. Group III: control group with neither intraorifice barrier placed nor base applied.

      Method of randomization Using an equal proportion randomization allocation ratio, one of the
      investigators created envelopes containing concealed assignment codes that was assigned
      sequentially to eligible patients. It was ensured that neither the investigator nor the
      patient were aware of the treatment protocol at the time of patient allocation.

      Glass Ionomer Cement (Ketac™ Molar, 3M ESPE) was mixed according to manufacturer's
      instructions.

      In group I: The gutta-percha was removed 3mm from the coronal portion of the canal with hot
      plugger. Excess root canal sealer was removed with sterilized alcohol-wet cotton pellets.
      Glass Ionomer Cement was applied inside canal and condensed as well as 2mm thick uniform base
      on the floor of the pulp chamber.

      In group II 2mm thick base of Glass Ionomer Cement was applied uniformly on the floor of the
      pulp chamber with plastic instrument.

      Final composite restoration was placed in all groups according to the manufacturer's
      instruction.

      Periodontal therapy in the form of scaling and root planning was done on the day endodontic
      treatment completed.

      FOLLOW UP Follow up and clinical and radiographic examination is carried out at 3, 6, 9 & 12
      month period.
    
  