
    
      Study design and purpose:

      Design: Randomised study blinded to observer on primary endpoint (tumor volume).
      Intention-to-treat, ie patients who cross over from conservative to GKRS group during the
      study period are assigned to their original group. Patients who refrain from radiosurgery
      despite randomisation are assigned to radiosurgery group.

      Purpose: compare the treatment of small and medium-sized VS treated with a standardised dose
      of 12 Gy to the tumor periphery with expectative treatment.

      Primary endpoint:

      Growth measured as volume ratio V4years/Vbaseline and 1/volume doubling time, evaluated by T1
      contrast MRI volumetry at one, two, three and four years.

      Secondary endpoints:

      Hearing acuity according to Gardner Robertson scale at four years (safety endpoint).

      Conversion to other treatment during study period Adverse effects

      Subjective complaints assessed by questionnaires:

      Penn Vestibular Schwannoma QOL Scale EQ-50 Scale

      Investigations:

      Prior to inclusion: MRI less than 6 months showing VS.

      After inclusion and at 1,2 3,4 years, all at study site:

      MRI of inner ear (acoustic neuroma protocol) Balance platform Nystagmometry Audiometry

      Effect registration:

      Main variable:

      Tumor volume, measured on a T1 contrast MRI scan with 2mm slice interval/thickness. For
      study, the measurement is to be done by a blinded observer.

      Economy. Costs associated with study are financed by research donations from Helse-Vest and
      The National Center for Vestibular Schwannomas.

      Radiology: Image based tumor volumes As the primary endpoint is relative tumor size, an
      accurate measure of tumor volume and changes thereof, is mandatory. This will be obtained
      using a state-of-the-art magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) system suited for acquiring high
      resolution (1mm3), three dimensional (3D) anatomical images. A 1.5T imaging system which
      meets the required field homogeneity will be used for imaging. The image contrast will be T1
      weighted with gadolinium based contrast agent, yet a T2 weighted image volume will also be
      included (preferably also acquired in 3D). An identical imaging protocol will be acquired at
      each time point (prior to randomization, on site follow up, 4-year annual follow up), and
      image slices will be positioned according to anatomical landmarks in each patients to
      minimize variability across time. All 3D acquisitions will be performed with sagittal slicing
      to minimize artifacts, but will also be reformatted into coronal and axial views (1mm slice
      thickness, no gap between slices) on the scanner system.

      The subsequent imaging processing, i.e. the estimation of tumor volume and longitudinal
      changes thereof, will be performed using available software at time of analysis.

      Study schedule

      Clinical examination, MRI, Questionnaires, Audiometry, Vestibular tests are done at baseline
      and then annually for 4 years. Patients randomised for radiosurgery are treated within 3
      months after baseline.
    
  