
    
      Background:

      Breast cancer is common among women. After surgical interventions like mastectomies, women
      with breast cancer may suffer physical, emotional and psychosocial complications. Evidence
      suggests that comprehensive physiotherapy program, including patient education, manual
      techniques, therapeutic exercises and compression bandaging, is effective in managing the
      above complications. Scarring was frequently overlooked in past studies. Besides cosmetic
      issues, a post mastectomy scar may cause adverse physical, functional, and psychological
      outcomes. The effects of mechanical stimulation on mastectomy scars have not been well
      investigated yet.

      Objectives:

      To investigate the efficacy of mechanical stimulation in:

      (i) alleviating scar appearance - pigmentation, vascularity, pliability and thickness, (ii)
      reducing shoulder morbidities, (iii) improving arm functions, and (iv) enhancing quality of
      life, in women with breast cancer after mastectomy.

      Setting:

      Out-patient physiotherapy breast care clinic at the Hong Kong Queen Elizabeth Hospital

      Participants:

      One hundred and eight women with breast cancer after mastectomy in recent 6 weeks will be
      recruited.

      Methodology:

      An assessor-blind, randomized controlled trial will be conducted. 108 women with breast
      cancer after mastectomy will be recruited from the breast care clinic of the Queen Elizabeth
      Hospital. They will be randomly allocated by block randomization method into either the
      mechanical stimulation group (n= 54) or conventional treatment group (n=54).

      Both study groups will receive an educational session before commencement of the program.
      Twelve sessions of 40-minute remedial exercises, 5-minute warm up and 5-minute cool down
      exercises will be provided within a 6-week period (i.e., two sessions per week) to all
      subjects. For the mechanical stimulation group, a ten-minute mechanical stimulation program
      will be provided. For the conventional treatment group, no mechanical stimulation will be
      given.

      Primary outcomes include scar evaluations by the Vancouver Scar Scale and spectrophotometry.
      Secondary outcomes are composite measurements of shoulder morbidities, including numeric pain
      rating scale (NPS), shoulder range of movement and hand grip strength; arm function as
      evaluated by the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH-HKPWH) questionnaire; and
      quality of life as measured by the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Breast
      Cancer (FACT-B). Outcome assessments at baseline, immediately after the 6-week program, and
      3-month follow-up periods will be conducted by blinded assessors at the breast care clinic.

      Data Analysis:

      The results will be analyzed using two-way repeated measures analysis of variance with
      Statistical Package for Social Sciences version 21.0. Alpha level will be set at 0.05.

      Potential Clinical Significance of Study:

      Improvement of physiotherapy in scar management might potentially improve scar appearance -
      pigmentation, vascularity, pliability and thickness, decrease shoulder morbidities, improve
      upper limb functions, and enhance quality of life for women with breast cancer after
      mastectomy. If the mechanical stimulation protocol is proven to be effective, it will bring
      about significant advances in physiotherapy practice in post-mastectomy care in an
      evidence-based manner.
    
  