
    
      Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a genetic, neuromuscular disorder caused by progressive
      degeneration of motor neurons in the spinal cord, which results from the loss of survival
      motor neuron (SMN) protein. The disorder is characterized by weakness and wasting of the
      voluntary muscles and is a leading cause of hereditary infant death. Sodium phenylbutyrate-a
      drug used to treat urea cycle disorders-may increase the amount of SMN protein in the body
      and consequently may decrease the severity of SMA. However, this has not yet been proven.

      In this multicenter trial, physicians will evaluate multiple dosage levels of sodium
      phenylbutyrate to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), or the highest dose that can be
      safely given to children with SMA type I. The initial dosage tested will be 500 mg/kg/day.
      Depending upon tolerability, subsequent groups may receive dosages of 675, 900, or 1200
      mg/kg/day. Blood levels of SMN mRNA and protein will also be measured to determine whether
      sodium phenylbutyrate can increase the amount of these two biomarkers in the blood. Up to 24
      children will be enrolled in the study, and will be on sodium phenylbutyrate for 12 weeks.
      The MTD will be determined based on safety data from Day 0 through the Day 29 visit.
      Participants will continue to be monitored for safety and SMN mRNA and protein levels through
      the 12 week study drug administration period.

      Potential participants will be screened by having their complete medical and treatment
      histories recorded, as well as undergoing a physical examination, laboratory tests, and an
      electrocardiogram (EKG). Parents of eligible participants will receive a supply of sodium
      phenylbutyrate and instructions on how to administer the drug. Participants will return to
      the clinic on days 8, 22, 29, and at weeks 8 and 12 of the study to update their medical and
      treatment histories, have a physical exam, and have blood and urine collected for laboratory
      testing. A follow-up clinic visit will occur approximately 14 days after the last dose of
      sodium phenylbutyrate is given. During this visit participants will update their complete
      medical and treatment histories and have a physical examination. Duration of the study is
      about 14 weeks.

      Information from this study, which is part of the NINDS Pilot Therapeutics Network (NPTUNE),
      may be used for future studies to determine if sodium phenylbutyrate is effective for
      treating SMA, and if the drug has an effect on SMA symptoms.
    
  