
    
      Main objective / secondary:

      It appears that so far the weight of the influenza disease, the limits of clinical diagnosis
      and validity of rapid diagnostic methods to emergencies are well studied and validated.
      However the potential organizational and economic benefit in emergency care services remains
      little known and rarely evaluated.

      The significant improvement in diagnostic response time he has a real beneficial impact for
      the patient? For the organization of the emergency? Investigators propose to study the impact
      of the implementation of rapid diagnostic solution by molecular biology of influenza directly
      available in an adult emergency department, from a cohort of patients consulting in
      connection a flu-like illness. Investigators wish in particular to highlight the
      organizational and economic impact.

      Methodology :

      DESIGN:

      Study single-center, prospective, descriptive, observational, type "before / after".

      Unable to reasonably perform a prospective randomized study due to the constraints for
      patients and for the service and means that it would be necessary to deploy in this case (CRA
      ... PHRC), Methodology :

      DESIGN:

      Study single-center, prospective, descriptive, observational, type "before / after".

      Unable to reasonably perform a prospective randomized study due to the constraints for
      patients and for the service and means that it would be necessary to deploy in this case (CRA
      ... PHRC), we are moving more towards a comparison study before / after between February and
      April.

      Time study Total study duration: 3 months Inclusion period: 3 months (February 2016- April
      2016)

      Acquisition of data:

      Data Observing Notebook (CRF or "Case Report Form") are disclosed in the notes accompanying
      this document and will be collected aur an Excel spreadsheet Statistical analysis ( For each
      subject will be awarded an identifier (original name and surname - year of birth) and the
      data will be entered on a computer file which will be sent to the statistician in charge of
      analyzing the GHPSJ site. There will be no exchange of personal data for this study is single
      center on the site GHPSJ.

      Development of the study:

      The patient presents to the Emergency Home Service for a "flu syndrome". During the first
      phase ( "before"), the assumption will be that usually achieved.

      During the second phase ( "after"), a flu test is routinely performed within the home
      emergency department by the doctor who supports the patient.

      In both cases, the doctor continues to support according to information it has and according
      to good practice and service protocols.

      A case report form (CRF or Case Report Form) is completed for each patient included in the
      study. This report forms includes a questionnaire that collects anonymous demographic
      information (patient age and sex) and clinical data. The CRF also includes the results of the
      rapid test for influenza. These notebooks anonymous comments are seized by the Home Emergency
      Service on a type of database "Access" (which will then be completed by the results of the
      rapid test. If positive, strain characterization will be clarified.

      Number of patients recruited (justification) and duration of participation for each patient:

      Not applicable as observational study are moving more towards a comparison study before /
      after between February and April.

      Time study Total study duration: 3 months Inclusion period: 3 months (February 2016- April
      2016)
    
  