
    
      More than 12 million elderly people are hospitalized each year in the United Status,
      frequently resulting in functional decline. Family care of hospitalized elders is important
      given the increasing numbers of hospitalized elders, needs for elder care in the home after
      hospital discharge, and responsibilities of family caregivers for providing this care.
      Involving family caregivers in the hospital care of their loved one may result in positive
      outcomes for both the elderly patients and their family caregivers. However, there is a
      paucity of empirical studies that have been conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of
      interventions to enhance family participation in caring for hospitalized elders. In the
      proposed study, we will build upon our prior work that has demonstrated the positive effects
      of theoretically-driven interventions with families of hospitalized patients and older adults
      at home. Among the unique contributions of this study include: (a) a randomized controlled
      design, (b) testing of a theoretically-driven, reproducible intervention that can be easily
      translated into clinical practice and widely disseminated; (c) the testing of an explanatory
      model to explain the effects of the intervention, (d) a prospective cost-effectiveness
      analysis; and (e) an intervention that begins early in the hospital stay, and (f) measurement
      of both short- and more long-term outcomes, up to 2 months following hospital discharge.

      The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of a theoretically-driven,
      reproducible intervention (CARE: Creating Avenues for Relative Empowerment) on the process
      and outcomes of hospitalized elders and their family caregivers. The secondary aims are to:
      (a) explore what factors moderate the effects of the intervention program (e.g., social
      economic status and family preferences for care participation); and (b) determine the
      cost-effectiveness of the CARE program. A two-group experiment will be used with 280 family
      caregivers of hospitalized elders. Measures of both process and outcome variables will be
      included, such as family caregiver beliefs, anxiety, worry, depression, role outcomes, as
      well as elderly patients outcomes during hospitalization and after hospital discharge.
      Findings from a recent pilot study with 49 family caregiver-elders dyads support undertaking
      this full-scale clinical trial in that family caregivers who received the CARE program,
      versus those who received a comparison program, had more positive coping and role outcomes
      and their hospitalized elderly relatives had positive outcomes during and after
      hospitalization.
    
  