
    
      According to VICAN5 report, near 50% of survivorship breast cancer (BC) patients suffered
      impairment of their QoL 2 and 5 years after BC diagnosis compared to overall population. In
      France, adjuvant radiotherapy (RT) is performed to 88.5% of BC patients. Severe toxicities
      after adjuvant RT such as radio-induced fibrosis (RIF) in BC patients can have a negative
      impact on quality of life and a marked effect on subsequent psychological outcomes.

      However, current practice standards commonly prescribe RT irrespective of the individual
      radiosensitivity risk. This study propose to identify BC at high RIF risk and to prevent
      severe RIF occurrence in this selected BC population by the use of anti-fibrotic agent
      (pravastatin).

      How to identify the risk of individual radiosensitivity? Since 1995 a rapid (72 h)
      radiosensitivity assay based on flow cytometric assessment of radiation-induced CD8
      T-lymphocyte apoptosis (RILA) has been developed. A lot of laboratory observed a significant
      relationship between RILA and toxicities occurrence, in particular in a prospective
      multicenter French study (NCT00893035, Azria et al, EBioMedicine 2015). Data from this study
      have validated the use of the NovaGray RILA Breast® test in clinical routine and enabled its
      CE-mark obtention in 2016.

      How to prevent severe RIF occurrence? Few phase II clinical trials have assessed
      anti-fibrotic properties of some drugs in a preventive setting (pentoxyfilline/vitamine E,
      ambroxol, ACE inhibitors, amifostine) and showed controversial results regarding efficacy
      and/ or tolerance. To date, no large phase III clinical trial confirmed these therapeutic
      strategies in the prevention of severe breast RIF occurrence.

      Since 2000, Rho/ROCK pathway inhibition habe been showed, in particular by Pravastatin, was
      able to prevent and cure severe RIF in different preclinical RIF models. Based on those
      results, a phase II clinical trial PRAVACUR (NCT01268202) has been conducted,assessing
      efficacy of 12-months daily pravastatin delivered in patients with established RIF after head
      and neck radiotherapy. The use of Pravastatin significantly reduced RIF grade in 51% of
      patients (clinical assessment at 12-months) without any rebound effect after pravastatin
      completion (Bourgier IJROBP 2019).

      This hypothesis is therefore that pravastatin given in a preventive approach will
      significantly decrease severe breast fibrosis occurrence in a highly selected breast cancer
      population treated by adjuvant breast RT and considered at high risk of RIF (tailored by the
      NovaGray RILA Breast® test).
    
  