
    
      Currently there is no "best covering" or a standard "approved care" for treating partial
      thickness burns. Several options are available; however, they all have shortcomings. The
      application of topical antimicrobial dressings is time consuming and the regular dressing
      changes often associated with pain. Homograft or cadaver skin is often unavailable or in
      great shortage for skin transplants. Biobrane速, a biosynthetic wound dressing constructed of
      a silicone film with a nylon fabric partially imbedded into the film, has been available and
      used at our institute for many years as a skin substitute. It has been shown to reduce pain
      and the number of necessary dressing changes, and significantly reduced healing time (1). Its
      main side effects, although rare, are the occasional occurrence of infections and allergic
      reactions to the material.

      Recently, a new product, AWBAT, has been developed for the coverage of partial thickness
      burns. AWBAT is similar to Biobrane速 in terms of silicone membrane thickness, the structure
      of nylon fabric that gives the dermal substitute its strength, and the use of collagen
      peptides on the inner side of the membrane. These peptides are used for the purpose of
      reacting with the fibrin in the wound in order to achieve good initial adherence and to
      accelerate re-epithelialization. The key novelties of AWBAT are the different pore size and
      modality of collagen peptide attachments. These two key modifications aim at a reduction of
      the above mentioned adverse reactions.

      The purpose of this study is to compare AWBAT to Biobrane速 for covering partial
      thickness-burn injuries. We wish to determine if AWBAT, used in treating partial-thickness
      burns, would provide better healing, pain control, control of infection, shorter length of
      hospital stay, and improved scarring and long term recovery when compared to Biobrane速.
    
  