
    
      EBA2, the technological evolution of Endovis BA, is now available. The device was developed
      in conformity with Regulations 93/42/CE and 2007/47/CE, it has the CE trademark and it is
      registered in the Italian National Registry of Medical Devices. EBA2 has the unique features
      described below:

        -  it is undersized compared to other nails in commerce, both proximal and distal, to
           further facilitate the insertion into the bone. The undersizing is aimed to reduce the
           stiffness of the stem. In particular, the biological nail-bone interaction will be
           improved as a consequence of lower shear stresses on the frontal plane;

        -  it is made entirely of titanium. The choice of such a material is aimed to create a
           flexible means of synthesis that minimizes the differences with the healthy bone
           mechanical properties and reduces complications in the process of fracture healing;

        -  it is a dual-lag screw system that provides appropriate guidance to the sliding of the
           fractured extremities and an improved stability. It is effective to limit torsional
           instability of the femoral head, both during the intervention, by the action of
           tightening of the screw itself, and during the healing period due to improved bearing
           capacity towards multidirectional loads;

        -  the associated surgical instruments are simple; the low number of pieces and their ease
           of use made the success even of the previous version.

      The aim of the present observational study is to collect data that confirm for EBA2, the
      technological evolution of Endovis BA, the performance and tolerability proved in the
      previous trial. In addition, given the increasing importance that good quality of life
      represents in elderly, objective of this observational study is to verify the general
      satisfaction of the patient with lateral proximal femoral fractures treated with EBA2.

      In order to evaluate subject's walking ability after the surgical insertion of EBA2, only
      subjects who could walk independently before of the fracture will be included in this
      observational study.
    
  