
    
      Neoadjuvant (primary) chemotherapy is being used more frequently in locally advanced breast
      cancer in an effort to reduce the size of the primary tumor prior to surgery and to eliminate
      micrometastatic disease.Through previous studies, it has been shown that patients who receive
      neoadjuvant therapy demonstrate prolonged disease-free survival when compared to those who
      did not have a pCR at the time of surgery.

      It is proven that docetaxel is the single most active drug in metastatic breast cancer
      treatment and therefore has sparked interest in its use in the neoadjuvant setting. There
      have been studies conducted using docetaxel either alone or in combination in this setting
      and in one particular study showed that patients treated with docetaxel after an
      anthracycline -containing regimen achieved at 34% pCR compared to only 16% with the
      anthracycline-containing regimen alone. This drugs low incidence of neutropenia when
      administered on a weekly schedule, plus its possible synergistic effects with carboplatin and
      capecitabine lead to its inclusion in this neoadjuvant protocol.

      Carboplatin is an agent that has recently been integrated into the front line of breast
      cancer treatment due to its response rate and tolerability. This drug as well has warranted
      further investigation in the neoadjuvant setting and was combined with docetaxel in one trial
      for for locally advanced disease which showed a preliminary pCR of the breast and axilla of
      30% and 80% respectively. Due to its tolerability, minimal toxicities, and impressive results
      as a single agent and in combination with docetaxel made carboplatin a reasonable drug of
      choice in this study.

      The novel oral agent capecitabine is being used in this protocol because it has shown through
      study to significantly increase response rate, time to progression, and even overall survival
      when combined with docetaxel in the metastatic setting. As well, capecitabine behaves
      similarly to continuous 5-FU infusion which has shown success in several phase II neoadjuvant
      trials and essentially has led to its inclusion in this study. Capecitabine's anti-tumor
      activity, coupled with ease of administration, potential synergism with docetaxel and
      carboplatin, and non-overlapping toxicities justifies its inclusion in this investigational
      regimen.
    
  