
    
      Breast cancer is the second most common cause of cancer death in women. Black women are less
      likely than white women to develop breast cancer but, they are more likely to die of the
      disease. Some of this survival discrepancy is likely due to underuse of adjuvant therapies
      proven to increase survival. Breast cancer treatment often requires coordination among
      surgeons, pathologists, primary care physicians, medical and radiation oncologists. In NYC,
      black and Hispanic women who accessed care and underwent surgical treatment of their breast
      cancer were twice as likely as whites to experience underuse of proven-effective adjuvant
      treatment. Disturbingly, 1/3 of these underuse cases were episodes in which the surgeon
      recommended treatment, the patient did not refuse and yet, care did not ensue. Underuse in
      these circumstances was attributed to system failures rather than to provider or patient
      factors. Such system failures occurred more often among minority women and among women
      treated at hospitals serving predominantly minority patients. To target these system failures
      at 6 NYC hospitals, 4 of which served predominantly minority patients, we used a
      quasi-experimental pre-post test design to implement a tracking and feedback registry. The
      Tracking and Feedback registry closed the referral loop between surgeons and oncologists,
      increased the rate of completed oncology consultations, increased treatment rates and
      eliminated the racial disparity in underuse. Its effects were greatest at the 4 hospitals
      serving predominantly minority women, sites that had an EMR and patient navigation prior to
      and during the T&F implementation. However, the trial was not randomized, tracking and
      feedback functions were performed by study personnel and not embedded in the hospital's
      workflow and details of what the surgeons did in response to the feedback was not assessed,
      resulting in a call for more work in this area.

      In this proposed randomized controlled trial, we will implement the Tracking and Feedback
      (T&F) innovation in hospitals serving predominantly minority women. We will test the
      effectiveness of the Tracking and Feedback registry innovation to increase rates of completed
      oncology consultation, reduce underuse of needed adjuvant therapy and racial disparities in
      receipt of these treatments. We will also assess the feasibility of implementing a T&F
      Registry in these high-risk hospitals by evaluating implementation effectiveness for this
      innovation. We have recruited 10 hospitals that serve large proportions of minority women
      with breast cancer. We will randomize hospitals and will recruit 354 women with a new breast
      cancer, 177 per intervention arm. We choose these "high risk" hospitals because they serve
      predominantly minority populations, and such hospitals have higher rates of the system
      failure cause of underuse, specifically, the type of underuse targeted by our Tracking and
      Feedback Registry. We will: adapt existing laptop-based Tracking & Feedback software to
      create a protected web-based format easily accessible to all participating hospitals; tailor
      the Tracking & Feedback registry to each of the participating hospitals' appropriate
      workflows including the areas of pathology, surgery, medical and radiation oncology and tumor
      registry personnel in the process; and embed the tracking and feedback tasks within existing
      hospital structures and personnel to increase likelihood of sustainability beyond the grant.
      We will include in the web-based T&F Registry an electronic data capture system to assess
      responses and actions to the tracking information that is fed back to the surgeons. To assess
      the T&F Registry's effectiveness, we will compare rates of underuse of patients treated at
      intervention versus control hospitals. To assess implementation effectiveness at each
      hospital, we will assess process and outcomes using qualitative and quantitative methods.
      Qualitatively, we will conduct pre- & post-intervention interviews with key stakeholders to
      assess the implementation climate and stakeholders' views of the Registry's utility.
      Quantitatively, we will measure and track actions taken in response to the feedback
      information. As there is variability across hospitals, we will also assess each hospital's
      treatment rates both pre- (N=540) and post-intervention (N=354) to provide additional
      quantitative measures of implementation effectiveness.
    
  