
    
      1. Structured DR Image Database Construction and accurate annotation: retrospective (from
           January 1, 2016 to the day of ethical review) and prospective (from the day of ethical
           review to December 31, 2023) collected FFA and other multimodal image data. Several
           ophthalmologists and senior experts of fundus diseases made diagnostic evaluation on
           each image of each patient and completed the accurate grading diagnosis of the data
           Finally, a structured Dr database was established step by step. This paper uses the
           theory of computer vision to quantify the quality distortion of FFA image, guides the
           computer to configure the existing image enhancement and noise reduction algorithms
           adaptively, and completes the preprocessing of fundus image data.

        2. Construction of Dr intelligent grading diagnosis system based on fundus image: firstly,
           the fundus image is used as the fundus data training database, and according to the
           international clinical Dr grading diagnosis standard, many doctors mark the fundus image
           accurately. International clinical Dr grading criteria: grade 0, no obvious retinal
           abnormalities; grade 1, only microangioma; grade 2, more severe than microangioma, but
           less severe than severe; grade 3, four quadrants, each quadrant has more than 20 retinal
           hemorrhage, more than two quadrants have definite venous beads, more than one quadrant
           has obvious Irma, no signs of proliferative retinopathy; grade 4, neovascularization,
           vitreous hemorrhage Volume blood, pre retinal hemorrhage. On the basis of Dr grading
           intelligent diagnosis standard, convolution neural network is constructed to train and
           grade fundus images. After repeating this process many times for each image in the
           training set of fundus images, the deep learning system learns how to classify all the
           data in the training set to accurately diagnose the fundus images.

        3. Convolution neural network construction for FFA image focus area: the convolution neural
           network of deep learning is composed of millions of parameters, which is used to train
           and perform given tasks. The output generated by each linear convolution operation is
           regularized by nonlinear activation function, combined with the dimensionality reduction
           of pooling layer and full connection layer, so that the optimization process of deep
           neural network not only overcomes the gradient dispersion, but also helps to generate
           features similar to the hierarchical perception mechanism of human neural cells to
           visual signals. The FFA image is used as the fundus data training database. Based on the
           accurate labeling of the lesion area (no perfusion area, microangioma area and leakage
           area), the FFA image needs to be treated for the intelligent recognition of the lesion
           area. In the training process, the parameters of the neural network are initially set to
           random values. Then, for each image, the results given by the function are compared with
           the known results of the training set to optimize the parameters of the function. After
           repeating this process many times for each image in the training data set, the deep
           learning system learned how to classify all the data in the training set to accurately
           predict the Dr lesions on FFA images.

        4. Construction of intelligent fundus laser navigation model based on FFA image and fundus
           image registration: the Dr lesion intelligent recognition system on the above FFA image
           accurately identifies the areas that need fundus laser treatment, helps doctors
           determine the lesions that need to be treated, and based on the image matching of
           machine learning, provides the registration image of fundus image and FFA combination,
           which is set according to the location and size information of the lesion area According
           to the matching retinal diameter and the arrangement of different laser spots, the
           personalized laser treatment scheme is formulated, and the intelligent fundus laser
           treatment guidance model is constructed.
    
  