
    
      ABT-888 (Veliparib) or Poly(ADP-ribose)-polymerase (PARP) is a nuclear enzyme that recognizes
      deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage and facilitates DNA repair. Inactive PARPs 1 and 2 bind to
      damaged DNA, which leads to their auto-activation. The resulting activated PARP then
      poly(ADP-ribosyl)ates many nuclear target proteins, including those that facilitate DNA
      repair of both single-stranded or double-stranded DNA breaks. Thus, PARP inhibition will
      result in less efficient DNA repair following a DNA damage insult.

      Since cancer cells are genetically unstable, often exhibiting complex karyotypes that include
      large deletions, insertions, and unbalanced translocations of chromosomal fragment, these
      cells are more susceptible than normal tissues to cytotoxicity induced by DNA-damaging
      agents.Of these, deficiencies in mismatch repair and homologous recombination are associated
      with the largest number of malignancies, including many sporadic TNBCs. These deficiencies
      render cells more dependent on PARP for DNA repair and, hence, are more prone to cytotoxicity
      induced by PARP inhibition. In particular, tumor cells with BRCA1 or BRCA2 deficiencies are
      exquisitely sensitive to PARP inhibition, even in the absence of any other insults.
      Identification of sporadic TNBC with defects in homologous recombination and mismatch repair
      independent of germline mutation of BRCA 1 and 2 is an active area of research interest.

      PARP-enabled DNA repair may also compensate for the loss of other repair pathways. Higher
      expression of PARP in cancer cells compared to normal cells has been linked to drug
      resistance and the overall ability of cancer cells to sustain genotoxic stress.

      The combination of platinum based chemotherapy and PARP inhibition may be most effective in
      TNBC, and particularly in subsets of TNBC. This combination may also be active in tumors with
      a germline BRCA1-deficiency and/or basal phenotype, since a defect in the DNA double-strand
      break repair pathway should increase sensitivity to these agents. The addition of a PARP
      inhibitor to platinum based chemotherapy may induce a "double hit" to tumor cells lacking
      homologous recombination without causing excess toxicity to normal cells. ABT-888 may be used
      in combination with the DNA damaging agent, cisplatin, to potentiate its cytotoxic effect and
      with vinorelbine to enhance tumor response rate. Safety and preliminary efficacy of veliparib
      in combination with cisplatin and vinorelbine in patients with advanced triple negative and
      BRCA-associated breast cancer has been reported.
    
  