
    
      Background - After an acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), early and
      successful myocardial reperfusion with primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is
      the most effective strategy for reducing the infarct size and improving clinical outcome. The
      process of restoring blood flow to the ischemic myocardium, however, can induce injury per
      se, paradoxically increasing the extent of final infarction (i.e., reperfusion injury).
      Research has been focusing for years on a strategy to effectively counteract reperfusion
      injury and, thereby, reduce the final infarct size with salutary effects on clinical outcome.
      Robust experimental evidences support Glucose-Insulin-Potassium (GIK) as an effective
      cardioprotective agent being capable to metabolically protect the myocardium against ischemia
      and ischemia/reperfusion injury. These benefits are clearly related to the time that GIK is
      administered in the course of cardiac ischemia, with effectiveness increasing with early
      administration. However, clinical trials in the reperfusion era have lost the opportunity to
      translate the beneficial effects seen in the laboratory to the clinical setting, because of
      the unacceptably prolonged delay from the onset of ischemic symptoms to GIK administration. A
      properly-designed prospective trial with double-blinded randomization to placebo or GIK in
      the out-of-hospital setting would straightforwardly overcome this limitation, thereby
      providing convincing evidences in favor or disfavor of GIK treatment. Notable, GIK is an
      un-expensive compound, and upon the verification of its efficacy, GIK treatment would be
      ready for primetime clinical application with matchless cost/effectiveness profile.

      Aims

        1. to assess whether pre-hospital GIK administration in acute STEMI patients would reduce
           infarct size and ischemia/reperfusion damage using comprehensive tissue characterization
           by cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) at an early post-infarction phase.

        2. to explore the putative cardioprotective mechanisms of pre-hospital GIK administration

      Methods - The investigators will conduct a single-center randomized, placebo-controlled,
      double-blinded trial for testing the efficacy of pre-hospital GIK administration in patients
      with acutely reperfused STEMI. The pre-specified primary end-point is the reduction of
      infarct size, as quantitated by late gadolinium enhancement CMR in the early post-infarction
      phase. Major secondary end-points are: 1) reduction of ischemia/reperfusion injury
      quantitated by CMR, and 2) investigation of the putative cardioprotective mechanisms ofGIK
      treatment in subjects with acute STEMI.

      Outlook: The investigators study results, if positive, will persuade the scientific community
      to reconsider pre-hospital GIK treatment as adjunctive to primary PCI in acute STEMI patients
      and revitalize the field of metabolism-based cardioprotection. They will illustrate by which
      mechanisms cardioprotection is achieved in the clinical setting, prompting large prospective
      multicentre trials to test the efficacy of pre-hospital GIK administration on hard clinical
      end-points.
    
  