
    
      Objective: The overall purpose of this investigation is to test the efficacy of a tailored
      caregiver mediated medication management intervention designed for caregivers of community
      dwelling patients with dementia.

      Specific Aims:

      Primary Aim:

      Examine the efficacy of a tailored caregiver mediated medication management in-home and
      telephone delivered intervention designed to decrease medication taking deficiencies and
      daily hassles and improve medication adherence of caregivers of community dwelling patients
      with dementia vs. standard education/usual care group of caregivers over time.

      Hypothesis 1 Immediately post-treatment (8 weeks), there will be a decrease in medication
      taking deficiencies and daily hassles and an improvement in caregiver medication adherence in
      the treatment compared to the usual care group.

      Hypothesis 2 Immediately post-maintenance (16 weeks), there will be a sustained decrease in
      medication taking deficiencies and daily hassles and an improvement in caregiver medication
      adherence in the treatment group compared to the usual care group.

      Hypothesis 3 At 8 weeks post-maintenance (24 weeks), there will continue to be a sustained
      decrease in medication taking deficiencies and daily hassles and an improvement in caregiver
      medication adherence in the treatment group compared to the usual care group.

      Secondary Aims:

        1. Examine the efficacy of a tailored caregiver mediated medication management in-home and
           telephone delivered intervention designed to decrease medication taking deficiencies and
           daily hassles and increase medication adherence of caregivers of community dwelling
           patients with dementia vs. standard education/usual care group of caregivers on the
           distal outcome of adverse patient outcomes including unplanned doctor's visits,
           emergency room visits, and hospitalizations over time.

        2. Examine the efficacy of a tailored caregiver mediated medication management in-home and
           telephone delivered intervention designed to decrease medication taking and daily
           hassles and increase medication adherence of caregivers of community dwelling patients
           with dementia vs. standard education/usual care group of caregivers on the distal
           outcome of health related quality of life in both caregivers and community dwelling
           patients over time.

      Significance: This study is both timely and significant because of the growing number of
      patients with dementia who need supportive services of family members, as well as from the
      health care system. This study is addressing a very timely issue, the reduction of medication
      deficiencies that can lead to errors. This is a priority patient safety issue regardless of
      whether the medications are given by a professional healthcare provider or an informal family
      caregiver. Additionally, this intervention has the potential for translation into geriatric
      practices and lay community or support groups.
    
  