
    
      Background:

      Fever episodes occur in more than 50% of patients admitted to the ICU for subarachnoidal
      hemorrhage, central nervous system infection, seizure control, hemorrhagic stroke, and closed
      head injury despite antibiotic and antipyretic therapy.

      The exact mechanism of hyperthermia-induced brain injury is not known; however, various
      processes may be involved. For example, hyperthermia might increase the release of excitatory
      neurotransmitter or trigger an abundant amount of oxygen free radicals. Hyperthermia may also
      aggravate blood-brain barrier disruption, impair cytoskeletal proteolysis, and/or enhance
      inhibition of enzymatic protein kinases, which, in turn, would impair recovery of energy
      metabolism. Antipyretics are effective for conventional fever, but less useful for various
      central hyperthermia syndromes, especially those resulting from strokes, SAH, and head
      injuries. Even aggressive cooling is usually insufficient in patients with fever because it
      is unable to overcome the high metabolic rate in these patients. Likewise, physical cooling
      is counteracted by the thermoregulatory defenses being activated to maintain hyperthermia. In
      non-sedated individuals, active cooling increases metabolic stress without decreasing core
      temperature at all. To date, treatment of centrally mediated hyperthermia remains
      unsatisfying.

      Dantrolene has been available since 1975 as a specific treatment for acute malignant
      hyperthermia crises. However, dantrolene is increasingly being used for emergency treatment
      of life-threatening hyperthermia that is unresponsive to conventional treatments. For
      example, the drug has been used with some success for acute treatment of life-threatening
      hyperthermia resulting from neuroleptic malignant syndrome and hyperthermia associated with
      overdoses of various drugs. It has also been used for treatment of various other types of
      hyperthermia.

      Efficacy in these cases appears to be based on a non-specific action of the drug; but to the
      extent dantrolene is effective, its action must conform to the laws of thermodynamics.
      Dantrolene must, therefore, reduce metabolic heat production, augment systemic heat loss, or
      alter the normal distribution of heat within the body. In other words, dantrolene must
      reverse the abnormal (or ineffective) thermoregulatory control that initiates the
      hyperthermic crises.

      Item:

      We propose to test the hypothesis that dantrolene will reduce centrally mediated fever in
      patients after subarachnoidal hemorrhage. Specifically, we will test the hypothesis that
      dantrolene decreases the magnitude and duration of hyperthermia.

      The study will be restricted to neurosurgical patients with sustained fever (≥38ºC for more
      than an hour) without an identifiable infectious cause after subarachnoidal hemorrhage aged
      from 18 to 80 years. There will be no limitation of enrollment as to patients breathing
      spontaneously or being ventilator dependant.
    
  