
    
      In cancer surgery, an oncological resection involves the resection of the primary lesion but
      also of the loco-regional lymph nodes.In the large retrospective study of the Global Group of
      esophageal cancer collaboration (WECC) involving 3,572 patients having had resection of the
      main tumor (60% adenocarcinomas, 40% squamous cell carcinomas), a high total number of
      resected lymph nodes has been shown to be an independent prognostic factor of improved
      survival after esophagectomy for esophageal or gastroesophageal junction cancer. The maximum
      survival at 5 years is modulated by the T classification: it is recommended to resect 10
      lymph nodes for a "pT1" stage tumor (pathologic tumor stage 1), 20 for a "pT2" stage and at
      least 30 for a "pT3" / "T4" stage. This number is important in terms of staging, the decision
      of adjuvant treatments and prognostic. A recent European study showed that the average number
      of resected lymph nodes was 20. In addition, lymphatic drainage is variable according to the
      type and location of tumors, involving an adapted lymphadenectomy strategy to each situation.

      Also in gastric cancer, a complete resection (R0) and adequate lymphadenectomy are predictive
      factors for healing and long-term survival. Lymphadenectomy is adapted to the type, stage and
      location of the primary lesion.

      In the U.S., the National Cancer Network guidelines recommend a D2 lymphadenectomy or a
      minimum of 15 lymph nodes (Lymph Node, LN) recovered.However, most international guidelines
      consider the recovery of only 15 LNs is insufficient. A recent Korean study on more than
      25,000 patients showed that the maximum survival advantage is observed by performing a
      lymphadenectomy with a minimum of 29 LNs recovered. The experience of Western surgeons is
      much less than that of surgeons in Asia, and it seems obvious that an intraoperative guidance
      method would be a major support for the decision making in real time and thus remove the
      current variability related to the level of experience of the surgeon.

      In addition, oncology surgery includes in the vast majority of cases a resection of an
      segment of the digestive tract and requires the restoration of digestive continuity by simple
      anastomosis and/or by interposition of another intestinal segment.

      This stage of the surgical procedure is critical, since any anastomotic leakage is burdened
      with a risk of complication sometimes lethal. The surgeon's experience, which allows him to
      evaluate visually the vascularization of the tissue to be anastomosed, is therefore
      fundamental to prevent the problems.

      In esogastric surgery, anastomotic leaks are associated with increased postoperative
      morbidity, an extended stay in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), a longer overall hospital
      stay,reduced quality of life and, in the context of cancer, shortened cancer-specific
      survival.

      Several studies have identified risk factors for anastomotic leakage, such as
      chemoradiotherapy, surgical technique, smoking, diabetes, and the location of the
      anastomosis. These factors may compromise the perfusion of the replacement conduit after
      esophagectomy and gastrectomy and increase the risk of anastomotic leakage. Objective
      assessment of tissue perfusion could be an excellent tool to identify ischemia of the
      conduits and thus reduce the incidence of anastomotic leaks. A perfusion compromise of the
      proximal portion of the gastric conduit, used for the recovery of the digestive continuity
      after esophagectomy, has been identified as one of the risk factors of digestive fistula.

      It is therefore obvious that at the present time, for curative cancer resection or
      reconstruction after esogastric resection surgery, the outcome of the treatment depends
      mainly on the surgeon's experience and perception of the surgical field.

      Today, the development of specific fluorescence imaging devices enables the surgeons to
      visualize tumors and vascular and lymphatic structures. This technology is expected to
      increase the reproducibility of esogastric surgery and its results.

      The proposed study is based on the hypothesis that Fluorescence Image Guided Surgery (FIGS)
      would improve the quality and reproducibility of esophageal and stomach oncology surgery
      (lymphadenectomy and complete resection), as well as to decrease the risk of anastomotic
      complications after resective surgery of the esophagus or part or all of the stomach (study
      of the vascularization).
    
  