
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if overall survival (OS) is improved with proton beam radiation therapy (PBT)
      treatment as compared to intensity modulated photon radiation therapy (IMRT) as part of
      planned protocol treatment for patients with esophageal cancer.

      II. To determine if OS with PBT is non-inferior to IMRT as part of planned protocol treatment
      and that there will be less grade 3+ cardiopulmonary toxicity with PBT than with IMRT.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the symptom burden and impact on functioning of patients between treatment
      modalities based on Patient Reported Outcome (PRO) measures of symptoms using MD Anderson
      Symptom Inventory (MDASI) and Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System
      (PROMIS)-Fatigue.

      II. To compare the Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALY) using EuroQol five-dimensional
      questionnaire (EQ5D) as a health outcome between PBT and IMRT, if the protocol primary
      endpoint is met.

      III. To assess the pathologic response rate between PBT and IMRT. IV. To assess the
      cost-benefit economic analysis of treatment between radiation modalities.

      V. To compare the length of hospitalization after protocol surgery between PBT and IMRT.

      VI. To compare the incidence of grade 4 lymphopenia during chemoradiation between PBT and
      IMRT.

      VII. To compare lymphocyte nadir at first follow-up visit after completion of chemoradiation
      between PBT & IMRT.

      VIII. To estimate the locoregional failure, distant metastatic free survival, and
      progression-free survival of patients treated with PBT versus IMRT.

      IX. To compare incidence of both early (< 90 days from treatment start) and late (≥ 90 days
      from treatment start) cardiovascular and pulmonary events between PBT versus IMRT.

      X. To compare the Total Toxicity Burden (TTB) of IMRT versus PBT based on a composite index
      of 9 individual cardiopulmonary toxicities.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To collect biospecimens for future analyses, for example to assess cardiac and
      inflammatory biomarkers in association with treatment complications.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients undergo PBT over 28 fractions 5 days a week for 5.5 weeks. Patients also
      receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) and carboplatin IV on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36
      while undergoing PBT.

      GROUP II: Patients undergo IMRT over 28 fractions 5 days a week for 5.5 weeks. Patients also
      receive paclitaxel IV and carboplatin IV on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36 while undergoing
      IMRT.

      In both groups, within 4-8 weeks after completion of chemotherapy and radiation therapy,
      patients may undergo an esophagectomy per physician discretion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for 3 years
      and then annually thereafter.
    
  