
    
      In vitro fertilization (IVF) treatment involving ovarian stimulation, oocyte retrieval and
      embryo transfer (ET) is an effective treatment for various causes of infertility. Despite
      advances in ovarian stimulation regimens and laboratory conditions, many IVF cycles do not
      result in pregnancy, and repeated treatment cycles are required. According to the latest
      Assisted reproductive technology (ART) surveillance report in the United states, of 143,286
      procedures that progressed to the ET stage, 50.9% resulted in a pregnancy and 41.4% in a
      live-birth. Achieving higher pregnancy and live birth rates remains a leading priority of IVF
      units worldwide. Both IVF practitioners and patients keep searching for new ways to improve
      reproductive outcomes.

      IVF is a multidimensional stressor. The treatment itself constitutes the primary stressor and
      is most likely to evoke anxiety. The highest anxiety scores were experienced before embryo
      transfer and were comparable to anxiety scores obtained from surgical female patients in the
      immediate preoperative period. Hence, it is not surprising that ET is defined by many
      investigators as a crucial event for determining IVF outcome, and many patients perceive it
      as the culmination of the IVF treatment. The stress this procedure may cause can result in a
      variety of autonomous nervous system expressions, altered uterine gene expression, resulting
      in decreased uterine receptivity, or an increase in uterine contraction frequency, which may
      be inversely correlated to embryo implantation and pregnancy rates in IVF. Several studies
      found that women who did not become pregnant with IVF, reported experiencing more stress
      during treatment than those who achieved pregnancy.

      Although the exact mechanism whereby stress interferes with reproductive processes is not
      fully understood, experimental evidence increasingly indicates that lower stress levels
      result in better fertility treatment outcome.

      The use of complementary medicine or adjuvant therapies to reduce psychological stress during
      ART therapy and improve IVF outcomes is increasing. Various alternative therapies have been
      proposed to improve reproductive outcomes during IVF treatment, such as acupuncture and
      Chinese herbal medicines. However, the impact of these therapies on IVF outcomes was
      inconclusive.

      The impact of medical clowning as a stress-reducing technique for 12-15 minutes after ET was
      found to increase the pregnancy rate - 36.4% in the intervention group compared with 20.2% in
      the control group. Other interventions, specifically prior or during the IVF-ET procedure
      itself have been studied in the context of improving cycle outcome and/or reducing anxiety
      levels.

      In order to assess anxiety levels before and after interventions, most of these studies
      included the validated "State-Trait Anxiety Inventory" (STAI) questionnaire, which is a
      self-assessment questionnaire, consisting of 40 items rated on 4-point Likert scale. The
      scale consists of two sub-dimensions: the "state anxiety" has 20 items and is used to
      determine what is felt at a specific moment under certain conditions, and the "trait anxiety"
      has 20 items and is used to determine what has been felt in the last seven days. Higher
      scores are positively correlated with higher levels of anxiety. Other studies assessing
      stress related to ET procedure used salivary a-amylase (SAA). SAA measurement presents a
      non-invasive and a highly reliable indicator of sympathetic-adrenal medullary activity can be
      used as a physiologic indicator of the acute stress response.

      The impact of hypnosis during ET on the outcome of IVF was studied in 89 patients, compared
      with controls. The results suggested that the use of hypnosis during ET may significantly
      improve the IVF-ET cycle outcome in terms of increased implantation rates (IR) and clinical
      pregnancy rates (CPR).

      Harp therapy during ET of 90 IVF patients was found to significantly decrease levels of
      anxiety post transfer and having a positive effect on acute levels of stress, compared with
      controls. However, CPR was comparable between the harp group and the control group. Another
      study assessed the effectiveness of a deep relaxation massage therapy prior to frozen ET in
      56 IVF patients. In patients using the massage therapy prior to ET, statistically significant
      increases in pregnancy and live birth rates were observed when compared with the control
      group (58.9% vs 41.7%, and 32.0% vs 20.3%, respectively). The researchers hypothesized these
      improvements were most likely due to a relaxing effect on patients and reduction in stress,
      leading to a reduction in uterine contractions.

      A recent randomized controlled trial assessed the effect of music therapy in women undergoing
      IVF-ET. They examined the effect of music therapy before and after ET, on the anxiety levels
      and pregnancy rates in 89 IVF patients. The mean state anxiety scores decreased in both
      groups, however these changes did not reach statistical significance. CPR were comparable
      between the groups.

      Virtual reality (VR) is a therapeutic approach which has been gaining attention over the past
      two decades for both medical and psychiatric purposes. VR is an advanced technological system
      that allows users to be transported into a 'virtual world'. Users are engaged in a fully
      immersive VR experience through a combination of technologies, including a head-mounted
      display, headphones with sound/music and noise reduction, and another device for
      manipulation/navigation of the virtual environment. Multimodal stimuli contribute to a sense
      of actual presence/immersion in the virtual world, thus making the VR experience distinct
      from a passive visual or auditory stimuli. Being a safe, non-invasive and easy to use
      technique, VR therapy has been explored for numerous health applications, showing positive
      outcomes in clinical conditions such as anxiety disorders, addictions, phobias, posttraumatic
      stress disorder, eating disorders, stroke rehabilitation, and pain management. A recent
      systematic review including 11 VR studies and 467 patients, concluded that VR's immersive,
      entertaining effects are useful for redirecting the patient's attention away from painful
      treatment experiences and reducing anxiety, discomfort, or unpleasantness. Other studies also
      showed a significant decrease in pain perception and state anxiety scores when treated with
      VR, as indicated by anxiety questionnaires, pulse rate reduction, and electroencephalogram
      (EEG) changes when treated with VR as compared with controls, all supporting the therapeutic
      potential of VR for anxiety management and stress reduction.

      A study presented at the 2018 anesthesia congress in Europe (Unpublished data) compared the
      effect of two different VR sessions (distraction and hypnosis) before sedation, on the
      anxiety level and the following cycle outcomes in 100 IVF patients. The preliminary results
      of the study showed a reduction in the anxiety scores in both groups, however the differences
      between the groups did not reach statistical significance.

      The aim of this study is to examine the effects of VR technology on the most stressful event
      during IVF-the transfer of embryos into the uterus. The investigators will use the STAI
      questionnaire to assess levels of anxiety experienced during the ET procedure, in
      participants exposed to VR session before the ET, compared with participants who are not
      exposed.

      The investigators hypothesize that the use of this unique technology before the procedure may
      reduce stress levels and consequently improve implantation and pregnancy rates.

      According to a recent literature review, there are no published studies examining the effect
      of VR prior to ET on IVF outcomes.
    
  