
    
      After participants are screened for inclusion, serum samples will be collected for the
      analysis of C-reactive protein (CRP; mg/L), rheumatoid factor (RF; UI/mL) and
      anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPAs; UI/mL) in a reference laboratory. A complete
      periodontal chart will be carried out at six sites per tooth excluding third molars by a
      single experienced clinician using a calibrated probe (Hu-Friedy Mfg. Co.). Subgingival
      plaque samples will be collected by means of paper points inserted to the bottom of the
      pocket and processed immediately for culture analysis and detection of Porphyromonas
      gingivalis. RA patients will be examined by an experienced rheumatologist to determine their
      Disease Activity Score (DAS-28). All examinations will be taken at baseline and repeated 3
      months after intervention.

      Non-surgical periodontal therapy (NSPT) will be administered on the following 5 days of
      inclusion. A single 1-hour session of full-mouth debridement with an ultrasonic device will
      be carried out in each participant under local anesthesia by an experienced clinician. After
      NSPT is completed, each patient will receive oral hygiene instructions and oral care pack
      including toothbrush and toothpaste (toothbrush Vitis Encias Medium; Toothpaste Vitis Encias;
      Dentaid, Colombia).

      Demographic ,clinical history as well as medication data for all participants will be
      collected. Periodontal parameters of PD (mm), PAL (mm) and BOP (%) will be recorded at each
      visit. The stage and grade of periodontitis will be established according to the new
      classification of periodontal diseases (Papapanou et al. 2018). The clinician who records
      data will not be blinded to the condition of the patients.

      Sample size was calculated to detect a 50 % change in CRP with a power of >80% (alpha 0,05)
      which resulted in 15 per group (Cosgarea et al. 2018). Considering possible dropouts, 20
      participants will be included per group. Randomization will not be performed since the
      purpose was to compare the effects of NSPT in patients with and without RA. The clinical
      investigator who records periodontal parameters will be calibrated for repeated measurements
      before patient inclusion (Kappa value was ≥0.80 for PAL and PD). Continuous variables will be
      presented as the mean and 95% confidence interval (CI) or median [interquartile range] when
      appropriate. Change in biochemical markers (CRP, RF, ACPAs) and periodontal parameters (PAL,
      PD, BOP, microbial counts) will be expressed as the delta (∆) from baseline to 3 months after
      intervention. Differences in means will be determined by the student t test for paired and
      unpaired samples or non-parametric tests when appropriate. Categorical variables will be
      presented as frequencies (%) and analyzed in contingency tables and X2. Logistic regression
      analysis for categorical variables and linear models will be used to test for associations
      and the odds ratio with 95%CI will be calculated. The primary analysis will be performed as
      intention to treat and then compared to per-protocol analysis results. The level of
      statistical significance will be set at 5% (P≤0,05).
    
  