
    
      It is known that the presence of orthodontic brackets predisposes for a change in both the
      quantity and quality of the biofilm, due to the challenge of brushing adequately. The sites
      are difficult to access with a toothbrush and periodontal curette, worsening inflammation. In
      addition, gingival hyperplasia is frequently associated with poor hygiene. The hypothesis to
      be tested in this study is whether photodynamic therapy (PDT) could favor the decontamination
      of these areas, as the photosensitizer and light are capable of reaching areas that these
      instruments have difficulty accessing. In other words, the objective of this study is to
      evaluate the impact of PDT as an adjuvant treatment to scaling, considering clinical
      immunoregulatory and microbiological parameters in patients with gingivitis with the
      predisposing factor of the use of a fixed orthodontic appliance. A randomized, controlled,
      double-blind clinical study will include 34 patients, both genders, having used the fixed
      appliance for more than 12 months, with gingivitis present. Patients will be divided into two
      groups: Control group (n = 17) - Scaling and Root Planing (SRP) + PDT placebo and
      Experimental group (n = 17) - SRP + PDT. In G2 methylene blue 0.005%, λ = 660nm, 9J (joule)
      per inflamed site, irradiance = 3.5W / cm, radiant exposure = 318J / cm2 . In G1 the scaling
      will be performed with the aid of curettes and ultrasound. All participants will receive oral
      hygiene guidance (OHG) prior to SRP. The clinical periodontal data to be analyzed: plaque
      index (PI), gingival index (GI) and probing depth (PD) and clinical level of insertion (CLI)
      by means of a periodontal probe. Crevicular fluid (from 8 pre-determined sites) and
      non-stimulated saliva for analysis of the IL-6, IL-1β, IL-8, TNF-α and IL-10 cytokines will
      be collected using the ELISA method. In addition, the Universal bacteria count (16S rRNA
      gene) will also be performed by qPCR using the same secretions. All analysis will be realized
      using the baseline (T0), 7 (T1) and 21 (T2) days after treatment. Oral health-related quality
      of life (OHRQoL) will be assessed using the OHIP-14 questionnaire at times T0 and T2. If
      sample distribution is normal, the Student T-test will be used to compare the measurement of
      continuous and dependent variables. If it is not normal, the Mann-Whitney test will be used.
      The data will be presented in terms of ± PD and the value of p will be defined as 0.05.
    
  