
    
      Constipation is an ever-growing problem and one of the most common gastrointestinal symptoms,
      affecting 10-15% of adults in the USA and 8.2% of the general population in China.
      Slow-transit constipation, representing 15~30% constipated patients, is characterized by a
      loss in the colonic motor activity. Factors such as increasing age, female sex, physical
      inactivity, endocrine, metabolism, neurological factors, drug use, and depression are
      associated with constipation. While most patients with constipation are mild and treated
      easily by a behavioral and medical way, a minority of patients suffering from long-term
      intractable symptoms and poor quality of life and showing no response to any medical
      interventions are ultimately recommended for surgery.

      Since the effectiveness of colectomy for constipation was first reported by Lane a century
      ago, surgical treatment for constipation has been greatly developed[6], including ileorectal
      anastomosis (IRA), cecorectal anastomosis(CRA), colonic exclusion, antegrade enemas (the
      Malone procedure), modified Duhamel surgery, and permanent ileostomy. Currently, the main
      surgical procedures for STC are IRA and CRA, which have been widely confirmed to increase
      bowel-movement frequency in a huge number of patients. However, the reported outcomes of
      colectomy are controversial and conflicting.In these studies, lack of prospectively defined
      follow-up intervals is a general problem. Moreover, long-term outcomes of surgery for STC are
      rarely reported. Furthermore, negatively persistent symptoms including abdominal pain,
      bloating, intractable diarrhea, malnutrition, constipation recurrence, fecal incontinence,
      and intestinal obstruction are not uncommon following surgery, adversely affecting defecation
      function and quality of life following these procedures.

      This study aims to investigate the effectiveness of total or subtotal colectomy, with respect
      to short- and long-term defecation function and overall quality of life during 5-year regular
      follow-up.
    
  