
    
      The study will be conducted under an IRB approval, in accordance with FDA regulations and
      Human Subject Protection regulations. Female patients will undergo standard of care therapy
      to include exploratory laparotomy and cytoreduction (debulking) surgery followed by
      chemotherapy. Only patients with histological confirmation of FIGO Stage III/IV epithelial
      adenocarcinoma of ovarian, tubal or peritoneal origin will be screened and enrolled into the
      study. At cytoreduction surgery a portion of the surgically resected tumor is preserved for
      vaccine production. The surgically resected tumor as well as normal cells obtained from
      peripheral blood shall be used for extraction of RNA and DNA sequencing of the tumor and
      normal transcriptomes, as well as normal exome sequencing, in the Genomic Core Facility at
      UConn Health. Patient's blood cells shall also be HLA typed.

      When the patient has recovered from surgery, standard of care chemotherapy is given.
      Following completion of standard chemotherapy (6-8 cycles) and Investigator's confirmation of
      clinical remission, patients will be consented as subjects for the experimental investigative
      portion of the study.

      The overall purpose of this research study is to produce and test the safety of a new
      experimental vaccine called OncoImmunome in people with Stage III/IV Ovarian Cancer. An
      "experimental vaccine" is a vaccine that is being tested and is not approved for sale in the
      United States by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The study has been divided into
      two parts: 1)Tumor Tissue and Blood Sample Collection and 2) Vaccine and Follow-up.

      Study participants will consent to the following:

        1. Tumor Tissue and Blood Sample Collection: The purpose of this part of the study is to
           collect participants' blood and tumor tissue and test it for genetic mutations. These
           test results will be used to manufacture a study vaccine that is unique to the
           participant and to their ovarian cancer.

        2. Vaccine and Follow-up: The purpose of this part of the study is to test the safety of
           the experimental drug (vaccine) called OncoImmunome, which has been produced
           specifically for each participant.

      Subject participation in this research study will last up to 5 years. The vaccine will be
      produced over a 6 month period, and for six months subjects will receive the study vaccine (1
      study vaccine dose per month or 6 study vaccine doses total). However, the researchers will
      continue to collect all subjects information for up 5 years from the time they provided their
      tumor sample and blood for the research.
    
  