
    
      Mitral regurgitation (MR) is one of the most frequent valve lesions, both in North America
      and in Europe, and its prevalence is increasing owing to the aging of the population. There
      are 2 main categories of MR: Organic Mitral Regurgitation (OMR) and Ischemic Mitral
      Regurgitation. Organic or primary MR is caused by an anatomic alteration of the valvular or
      subvalvular mitral apparatus and refers to rheumatic MR and degenerative MR that includes
      mitral leaflet prolapse and flail leaflet. In the past 20 years, degenerative MR has become,
      by far, the most frequent cause of severe MR leading to surgery in the western world.
      However, the best current treatment for OMR remains uncertain and controversial. This is, in
      large part, due to the lack of prospective data on the determinants of OMR progression and
      outcome. Furthermore, we have obtained preliminary data showing that OMR is a dynamic lesion.
      Hence, the echocardiographic evaluation of MR at rest, as generally performed during routine
      clinical exam, does not necessarily reflect the status of MR during patient's daily
      activities and thereby does not adequately assess the risk of rapid progression and poor
      outcome in these patients.

      The general objective of this study is thus: to identify the independent predictors of
      disease progression and outcome in patients with asymptomatic chronic OMR and to develop and
      validate novel imaging and circulating biomarkers to improve risk stratification and
      therapeutic decision-making process in patients with chronic asymptomatic primary OMR.

      The specific aims of the study are: (1) To obtain and analyze: a) the dynamic changes in MR
      severity, pulmonary arterial pressure, and LV function during exercise; b) the maximum
      exercise capacity; c) the metabolic profile; d) the plasma natriuretic peptides, e) the
      degree and localization of myocardial fibrosis measured by cardiac magnetic resonance Imaging
      (MRI); f) the blood markers of myocardial extracellular matrix (ECM) turnover; g) the
      progression of MR severity and LV dysfunction during follow-up; and h) the occurrence of
      adverse clinical outcomes (i.e. symptoms, LV dysfunction, atrial fibrillation (Holter ECG),
      pulmonary hypertension, heart failure, cardiovascular death) during follow-up in a series of
      440 patients with at least moderate OMR and no symptoms at baseline. (2) To analyze the valve
      tissue samples explanted from the patients who will undergo mitral valve repair with
      quadrangular resection during follow-up in order to document the presence of lipids,
      inflammation, and expression of metalloproteinases (MMPs). (3) To obtain and analyze the
      postoperative changes in LV geometry and function, pulmonary arterial pressure, symptoms, and
      exercise capacity in the subset of patients who will undergo mitral valve surgery during
      follow-up. (4) To evaluate the usefulness of the exercise induced changes in MR severity,
      pulmonary arterial pressure, and LV function (i.e. contractile reserve), and of the blood
      levels of natriuretic peptides and ECM biomarkers for the prediction of rapid progression to
      LV dysfunction and adverse events. (5) To examine the relationship between the metabolic
      abnormalities linked to visceral obesity and the progression and outcome of OMR. (6) To
      determine, among the baseline clinical, echocardiographic, MRI, metabolic, and biomarkers
      variables, those which are independently associated with the progression of MR severity and
      LV dysfunction, and the occurrence of adverse clinical outcomes in patients with OMR.
    
  