
    
      The trial is an unblinded open label single center study designed to identify trends in Peak
      Inspiratory Flow (PIF) rates and Rescue Albuterol Inhaler usage (Inhalations) that associate
      with disease deterioration as defined by worsening of symptoms and reduced lung function in
      patients with COPD.

      The study will consist of a run-in period of approximately 2 weeks, a treatment period of 6
      months and a follow-up period of 1 week. Twenty (20) patients with COPD requiring
      intermittent short acting beta agonist (SABA) rescue inhaler usage, but not requiring
      frequent SABA nebulizer rescue usage, will be enrolled.

      After signing informed consent, patients will undergo a screening evaluation. During the
      run-in period, patients will continue on their COPD maintenance treatments, while
      discontinuing all previously prescribed periodic use rescue medications. Upon completion of
      screening, all patients will be dispensed a ProAir Digihaler to be used exclusively as their
      rescue medication throughout the duration of the study. During the run-in period all rescue
      inhaler usage will be electronically monitored and patient data from the Digihaler Dashboard
      will be downloaded every other business day basis (Monday, Wednesday and Friday).

      At the completion of at least 2 weeks of run-in (with a minimum of at least 8 rescue inhaler
      usages) and with documentation of stable clinical status throughout run-in, the patient will
      return for baseline testing; including vital signs, health related quality of life and
      Anthonisen Exacerbation questionnaires, pre and post bronchodilator spirometry and 6-minute
      walk testing (see table/flow chart). Average Peak Inspiratory Flow (Baseline PIF) and average
      Number of Rescue Inhalations per day (Baseline Inhalations) will be determined from the
      Digihaler Dashboard Data downloads during run-in.

      In the event that the patient does not meet number of rescue inhaler usages or does not have
      a stable clinical status during run-in, an additional 2 weeks of run-in may be obtained. If
      at the end of the extended run-in period so that Baseline PIF and Baseline Inhalations cannot
      be determined or the patient continues to be clinically unstable, the patient will be
      discontinued from the study. If the patient has an upper respiratory tract infection or COPD
      exacerbation during run-in, they will also be discontinued from the study. Patients may be
      re-screened one time at a later date, when stable.

      Once run-in and baseline testing are complete, all patients will continue on their
      maintenance COPD medications and use the ProAir Digihaler rescue SABA exclusively for the
      next 6 months. Patients will be provided with paper forms of the CAT, BCSS and Anthonisen
      Exacerbation criteria, to be completed at home on a weekly basis and mailed to the research
      center upon completion).

      Throughout the treatment period, all rescue inhaler usage will be electronically transmitted
      to, monitored at and downloaded from the Digihaler Dashboard by the research center on every
      other business day basis (Monday, Wednesday and Friday). At the completion of each Digihaler
      Dashboard Data Download, comparisons of Daily PIF (average PIF of all rescue inhalations in a
      day) and Daily Inhalations (number of rescue inhalations in a day) to Baseline PIF and
      Baseline Inhalations will be made.

      All patients with Daily Inhalations exceeding Baseline Inhalations by ≥4 Inhalations per day
      and/or with a Daily PIF ≤80% of Baseline PIF for 2 consecutive days will be DEFINED as "at
      risk". For each "at risk" event, the patient will be contacted, their health status reviewed,
      and CAT and Anthonisen Exacerbation questionnaires will be administered. Based on symptoms,
      patients may also be advised to seek additional medical care.

      All patients will be contacted on a monthly basis, irrespective of "risk" findings and seen
      in person every 3 months. All medication usage (including ProAir Digihaler medication usage),
      changes in medical care, healthcare contacts and usage, and any adverse events will be
      recorded. All office records for the intervening time period will be reviewed and Information
      for any non-office healthcare contacts and usage will be requested to provide detailed
      clinical information for comparison to Digihaler usage records.

      At months 3 and 6 on treatment, all subjects will return to the research center, where vital
      signs, Anthonisen Exacerbation and CAT questionnaires, and post bronchodilator spirometry
      will be assessed. All medication usage (including ProAir Digihaler medication usage), changes
      in medical care, healthcare contacts and usage, and any adverse events will be recorded. All
      office records for the intervening time period will be reviewed and Information for any
      non-office healthcare contacts and usage will be requested to provide detailed clinical
      information for comparison to Digihaler usage records. Three (3) new ProAir Digihalers will
      be dispensed at month 3.

      Throughout the treatment period, all rescue inhaler usage will be electronically monitored
      and downloaded from the Digihaler Dashboard by the research center on an every other business
      day basis (Monday, Wednesday and Friday). At the completion of each Digihaler Dashboard Data
      Download, comparisons of Daily PIF (average PIF of all rescue inhalations in a day) and Daily
      Inhalations (number of rescue inhalations in a day) to Baseline PIF and Baseline Inhalations
      will be made.

      All patients with Daily Inhalations exceeding Baseline Inhalations by ≥4 Inhalations per day
      and/or with a Daily PIF ≤80% of Baseline PIF for 2 consecutive days will be DEFINED as "at
      risk". For each "at risk" event, the patient will be contacted, their health status reviewed,
      and CAT and Anthonisen Exacerbation questionnaires will be administered. Based on symptoms,
      patients may also be advised to seek additional medical care.

      At the conclusion of the 6-month treatment period the patients will return to the research
      center for a final visit, returning all study medication not previously returned. The patient
      will be advised to resume usage of their prior rescue inhaler medication at that time. A
      telephone call will be made to the patient 1 week after their final in-person visit, to
      assess vital status and any adverse events that may have occurred subsequent to discontinuing
      the ProAir Digihaler.
    
  