
    
      Rationale: Previous research has demonstrated that rituximab has efficacy against chronic
      lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL). Rituximab is a monoclonal
      antibody used to treat different types of lymphomas. Monoclonal antibodies are a type of
      immunotherapy used against some types of cancer. They are produced in a laboratory and
      designed to target as well as bind with cells that carry specific proteins. Rituximab
      attaches to a protein called CD20 that is found almost exclusively on the surface of B-cells.
      Once rituximab attaches to the protein, the immune system activates to kill the malignant
      B-cells. Researchers are investigating what other therapies to combine with rituximab to
      reduce side effects and improve patient outcomes. The current study combines etanercept with
      rituximab. Etanercept is an anti-inflammatory agent being tested as a therapy for cancer.
      Researchers want to assess the theory that etanercept may reduce the toxicity associated with
      rituximab in patients and increase efficacy while providing its own treatment benefit to
      patients.

      Purpose: This study is evaluating the safety and efficacy of combination etanercept and
      rituximab in patients with CLL and SLL. The biological response of tumor cells and the immune
      system to this drug combination will also be measured in patients before, during, and after
      therapy administration.

      Treatment: Patients in this study will receive etanercept and rituximab. Etanercept is given
      through injections into the skin and rituximab through intravenous infusions. During the
      first week of the study, etanercept alone will be given to patients two times. During the
      second week, patients will continue receiving etanercept twice weekly and begin receiving
      rituximab three times weekly. This schedule of etanercept twice weekly and rituximab three
      times weekly will be repeated four times. Several tests and exams will be given throughout
      the study to closely monitor patients. Treatments will be discontinued due to disease growth
      or unacceptable side effects.
    
  