
    
      Rationale :

      Loop ileostomy is defined by bringing a loop of small bowel out onto the surface of the skin
      to allow diversion of the fecal stream. It is a common procedure that is conjointly done with
      colorectal surgeries with the objective to protect intestinal anastomosis at high risk of
      leaking. Loop ileostomy closure is then performed in the months following the initial surgery
      when the anastomosis has healed. Often thought of as a simple procedure, it is still
      associated with a significant postoperative morbidity rate consisting mostly of postoperative
      ileus. In the CHU de Québec-Université Laval, patients are hospitalized for a median of five
      days until their bowels open up while no active care is given. This represents 645 days of
      hospitalization each year for Hôpital Saint-François d'Assise (HSFA), Hôtel-Dieu de Québec
      (HDQ) and Centre Hospitalier de l'Université Laval (CHUL). Hence, there is a clear need to
      determine if the investigator can improve the outcomes following ileostomy closure by
      applying a standardized enhanced recovery pathway specific to ileostomy closure to the point
      where the surgery can be performed in a twenty-three hours hospitalization setting.

      Objective :

      The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and feasibility of ileostomy closure
      performed in a 23 hours hospitalization setting, using a multi-center, open-label, randomized
      controlled trial comparing patients being hospitalized overnight (discharged on the day after
      surgery) to patients being hospitalized as per the current conventional care after ileostomy
      closure with both groups following a standardized enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS)
      pathway specific to ileostomy closure. Primary outcome will be total length of hospital stay
      in days and secondary outcomes, measured at 30 days, will include readmission rate,
      postoperative complication rate minor and severe, postoperative ileus rate, postoperative
      surgical site infection rate and mortality rate.

      Hypothesis :

      The investigator believes patients randomized to the group 23-hour stay will have reduced
      total length of hospital stay compared to patients randomized to the group conventional
      hospitalization after ileostomy closure.

      Methods :

      Healthy adults (ASA I and II) undergoing elective ileostomy closure who consented to take
      part in the study will be enrolled in a standardized enhanced recovery pathway specific to
      ileostomy closure. Once surgery is completed, they will be randomized to either 23-hour stay
      or conventional hospitalization. Data on postoperative outcomes will be gathered
      prospectively until 30 days after surgery and will include total length of hospital stay in
      days, readmissions, postoperative complications, more precisely postoperative ileus and
      surgical site infections, as well as mortality.

      Clinical significance :

      If safety and feasibility of a fast discharge of patients is demonstrated by this study, it
      would then mean that patients could be discharged from hospital less than 24 hours after a
      loop ileostomy closure. It could potentially lower the consequences of a long hospital stay
      for patients, such as risks of nosocomial infections, thromboembolic events, and hospital
      acquired autonomy loss.
    
  