
    
      Paclitaxel is a key chemotherapeutic agent used in the management of common cancers, such as
      breast cancer. Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) due to paclitaxel is a
      common dose-limiting toxicity with no effective prevention or treatment. Limb cryocompression
      is currently being developed as a method to reduce CIPN. Another common toxicity of
      paclitaxel is chemotherapy induced alopecia (CIA), for which scalp-cooling is currently an
      approved therapy to reduce the incidence of this adverse effect. As scalp cooling use in
      day-to-day clinical practice increases, future studies involving hypothermia to treat
      neuropathy must factor this into the treatment algorithm, lest patients be denied or are
      required to trade-off one treatment for the other. However, there is concern of causing core
      hypothermia and/or general intolerance to concomitant therapy. Both scalp-cooling and
      cryocompression individually have not shown to cause this, but simultaneous use has not been
      studied previously. Clinical safety studies, in healthy subjects and cancer patients would
      need to be conducted first, before larger efficacy studies are performed. We propose that we
      can deliver scalp-cooling and limb cryocompression with a single treatment modality to
      prevent two toxicities of paclitaxel - CIA and CIPN. This study will consist of two parts: A)
      Healthy subjects: To assess safety and tolerability of scalp and limb cryocompression, as
      well as to determine the optimal temperature and pressure to be used, that will contribute to
      the cryocompression protocol. The occurrence of core hypothermia or intolerance will be
      closely monitored B) Cancer patients: Once the optimal cryocompression protocol is
      established in healthy patients, a group of cancer patients will undergo concomitant limb
      cryocompression and scalp cooling over multiple cycles of chemotherapy to establish safety
      and tolerability of repeated therapy. Early clinical efficacy signal data will also be
      collected, to prepare for the subsequent larger randomized efficacy study.
    
  