
    
      RESEARCH QUESTIONS

      This study will ask important questions about CTS that builds on previous research in the
      field. The research questions are:

        -  How is precision pinch grip force affected by CTS throughout the activity of picking up
           and replacing an object, for a range of CTS severities, especially in more severe CTS?

        -  How is precision pinch grip force affected in patients with CTS when picking up objects
           of different weights?

        -  How is precision pinch grip force affected in patients with CTS when the frictional
           properties of the skin-device interface are altered?

        -  How does precision pinch grip force in CTS alter after a sudden increase in downward
           load force?

        -  How do these parameters change after surgical treatment of CTS?

      CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS AND STUDY JUSTIFICATION Answers to the above questions will inform
      understanding of both precision pinch grip force control, and CTS.

      Patients with CTS drop things, and the investigators feel that impaired hand function in CTS
      is related to poor grip control.

      Previous authors have recognised that pinch grip force is affected by in CTS (Hsu et al.
      2013). The investigators intend to extend this work by showing how other aspects of force
      control are altered in CTS throughout the action of picking an object up, and how they
      correlate with CTS severity. This will allow us to use different readings taken during a
      pinch grip test to assess CTS severity. This will also reveal how heavy objects may have a
      greater adverse affect on grip control in CTS patients.

      If successful, pinch grip testing could form a table-top test for CTS and nerve injury
      evaluation and may allow better patient selection for surgery.

      The investigators will also account for skin hydration, as sweating is impaired in CTS, and
      rarely accounted for in previous work. (This has since been abandoned mid-study). When
      examining how friction impacts on precision pinch force in CTS, investigators may inform
      understanding of how investigators could design occupational aids for those with median nerve
      problems.

      Investigating how patients with CTS compensate when an object they are holding suddenly
      changes weight, will help us understand reflexes that are co-ordinated by the hand, and may
      help us in working towards rehabilitating patients after nerve injury affecting the upper
      limb.

      We currently do not have good evidence about which patients should have surgery in CTS or
      whether surgery restores the hand function that was lost when patients were suffering with
      CTS. Investigating what happens to the above after surgery, may show us the best time to
      operate on these patients, which patients we should prioritise and whether surgery actually
      improves pinch force control post-operatively.

      DEVELOPMENT OF RESEARCH PROPOSAL This research proposal has been formulated with experience
      from senior hand surgeons and multidisciplinary team professionals at a regional hand surgery
      centre with an active research base (The Birmingham Hand Centre, University Hospitals
      Birmingham, UK). Consultation has been carried out with the attached University of
      Birmingham's Department of School of Psychology. A lead collaborator is the department's
      Professor of Human Movement.

      RECRUITMENT Patients with CTS will routinely be referred to the investigators' centre for
      assessment and treatment of CTS. They would normally be referred to the centre by their GP,
      receive an appointment letter and attend the hospital. They would then be evaluated
      clinically and with nerve conduction tests. This may be by a hand surgery consultant or
      member of the hand team. Patients may then receive a date for surgery and would be followed
      up if necessary. The Principle Investigator and one Local Collaborator are both consultant
      hand surgeons who would receive referrals and see these patients in clinic.

      Recruitment will occur at one of the following points;

        1. At the point at which patients are referred to the Principle Investigator, patients will
           be offered the chance to participate in their appointment letter which will contain the
           Participant Information Sheet. This will be further assessed upon presentation to
           clinic.

        2. Some patients are listed for surgery without being seen in the investigators' research
           clinic, but are suitable for inclusion and are therefore "missed". The investigators
           intend to recruit these patients already listed for operations for carpal tunnel
           syndrome on the day of surgery. The Chief Investigator will approach these patients on
           the day of their operation to seek their permission to carry out pinch-grip testing
           before surgery. Patients would receive the Patient Information Sheet from the Chief
           Investigator, and would be consented for study inclusion and tested within the
           Ambulatory Care Unit of the hospital whilst waiting for their operation. There would be
           no alteration to their normal care and certainly no delay to their operation.

      Recruitment will not affect normal NHS (National Health Service) care in any way. Very
      limited data (if any) can be collected until the point at which the patient attends for their
      normal NHS (National Health Service) appointment. If they choose not to take part, they can
      attend their normal NHS (National Health Service) appointment without the need to undergo
      grip testing. No therapeutic promises are made by the Participant Information Sheet.

      Recruitment of "control" participants; Healthy, age-gender matched controls will be invited
      from the staff and student body from the University of Birmingham to take part in the pinch
      grip testing exercise alone to act as a control group.

      The investigators will request responses from university members aged 18-80. Potential
      participants will be invited to take part by email circulated to staff and students.
      Interested participants who respond by email will receive the full Participant Information
      Sheet for Controls. This will specify that the only information collected will comprise their
      age, gender, hand dominance and the grip test data (GP Contact details will be stored
      anonymously in the case that incidental findings are discovered and warrant action).

      They will be invited to attend the University Hospital Birmingham where grip strength tests
      are performed to undergo testing according to the same protocol outlined for the patient
      group. This is the point at which consent will be taken by the Chief Investigator or an
      appropriate member of the research team.

      The sample size will be determined by the power analysis run at the beginning of the study,
      but is expected to comprise 50 patients.

      This recruitment process was noted mid-study to be failing to recruit age-matched controls.
      As an alternative, patients were matched with their own, contralateral hand if it was free of
      symptoms of CTS.

      No formal power analysis took place, as the minimally important clinical difference was not
      known.

      INCLUSION/ EXCLUSION CRITERIA

      Inclusion criteria:

      Patients with symptomatic, idiopathic CTS (as affirmed by clinical examination and NCS)
      presenting to clinic Aged between 18 and 80 years In contrast to other studies the
      investigators would include patients with; Previous upper limb injuries Previous upper limb
      surgery or CTS intervention (e.g. steroid injections) Diabetes mellitus Any other upper limb
      nerve neuropathies or upper limb neurology Upper limb musculoskeletal degenerative disease
      (osteoarthritis) Thyroid disease, (Zhang et al. 2011). This will create a pragmatic study
      design, generalisable to a wider population in clinical practice.

      Exclusion Criteria:

      Central neurological or psychiatric disease Visual impairment or any other impairment that
      would interfere with the patient's ability to perform the study tests Pregnant patients.
      (Criteria based on prior research (Zhang et al. 2011)).

      CONSENT The consent form is that suggested by the Medical Reseach Council (MRC) Health
      Research Authority and the Participant Information Sheet follows their guidelines. Both will
      be distributed in appointment letters sent to patients. Informed consent to participate will
      be confirmed during the original clinic appointment. Members of the hand team consent
      patients for operations almost daily, and should be fully familiar with assessment of
      capacity and understanding the ethical principles underpinning informed consent. Consent will
      be obtained by the Chief Investigator (CI). The study will not include the assessment of
      children or vulnerable adults

      RISKS, BURDENS AND BENEFITS Patients will be informed of all risks and benefits anticipated
      using the Participant Information Sheet. The investigators cannot guarantee any treatment
      benefits and do not yet know what the results will show. However, patients will be helping us
      understand an important problem affecting many other similar patients. These patients may
      benefit from this research in the future. With their consent, a lay summary will be
      circulated to the patients and controls after the completion of the study to inform them of
      the results of the work. They will be consented for this and informed of this in the
      participation sheets. Their preferred contact details will be stored separately in the index
      spreadsheet on the trust computer system and will not be linked with clinical data.

      The intent is to carry out pinch grip force testing on CTS patients. This will add to the
      time patients are asked to stay in clinic by about 30 minutes. They will be fully informed
      and asked whether they wish to participate, prior to being invited to take part in precision
      pinch grip testing. This will not affect their access to assessment or treatment of their
      CTS.

      The intent is to test precision pinch grip testing with a custom built device being developed
      by the University of Birmingham. This device is based on those already used by Zhang and Hsu
      et al, and is not anticipated to pose any risk of harm to the patient. The investigators do
      not know of any side effects that there may be from the grip test. Patients may find their
      hand to be a little tired after the test; however this should not last long and should not be
      severe. The investigators think the risk of injury posed to patients by the grip device is
      very small. The investigating team will have trialed the device on healthy volunteering
      members of the research team prior to use in the study.

      The investigators do not think that there will be any risks; including but not limited to
      psychological or physical harm, posed by the study that fall outside the risks inherent in
      normal clinical care.

      Confidentiality breech is extremely unlikely, as all information will be stored on NHS
      (National Health Service) trust computers, however the investigators acknowledge this risk.
      Only clinicians involved in patient care or researchers from within the study team will have
      access to patients' clinical details. Patients will be consented to allow non-clinical
      members of the research team (university staff) access to essential information for the
      study; however this information will be kept to an absolute minimum. For example, if a
      researcher performs the "pinch-grip" test, it is fair to assume that researcher will become
      aware that the patient has a diagnosis of CTS. Patients will have been consented for this.

      The burden of patients being requested to attend three subsequent follow-up appointments is
      acknowledged, however the above benefits patients may feel in contributing to this study will
      encourage them to attend.

      The study sponsor (UHB) will be updated throughout, with special emphasis placed on drawing
      attention to any risks or burdens that emerge after the start of the study.

      The above risks are all conveyed in the Participant Information Sheet.

      CONFIDENTIALITY Confidentiality Principles Principle 1: The purposes of obtaining patient
      information are outlined above. Principle 2 and 3: Person-identifiable data will not be
      collected. Participants will be identified by UHB Patient Number.

      Principle 4: Access to person-identifiable data will be limited to members of the treating
      clinical team only. If non-clinical collaborators perform the precision pinch-grip test in
      clinic, they will not have access to patient-identifiable clinical details, during the test
      or afterwards during analysis.

      Principle 5 and 6: All clinical team members are aware of their commitment to confidentiality
      and the law.

      The investigators do not anticipate that these principles will need to be breached in order
      to prevent serious patient harm. If however, this situation arises, it will be discussed
      between the Chief and Principle Investigators, the relevant authorities will be contacted for
      advice and action taken whilst taking all steps to safely inform affected patients as early
      as possible.

      CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Principle or Chief Investigators will be involved in clinical
      evaluation of CTS patients at their appointment. Special care will be taken to ensure
      patients are aware that study participation does not affect their normal care in any way.
      Care will be taken to avoid any form of coercion. The Principle or Chief Investigators may
      also perform surgical treatment on appropriate patients, however this is separate to the
      study and should not affect care in any way. Effort will be made to ensure patients are not
      coerced into returning for follow-up grip testing after their operation. Patients may wish to
      attend extra follow-up appointments. At the end of the study, patients are discharged back to
      the care of their GP, to be referred back if any concerns arise (as is normal practice).
      Participants will be aware that they will not know the results of their grip tests, but the
      intent will be to publish a full paper within twelve months.

      HUMAN TISSUE Non- applicable

      OTHER ETHICAL ISSUES The intent is to carry out pinch grip force testing on CTS patients.
      This will add to the time patients are asked to stay in clinic. They will be fully informed
      and asked whether they wish to participate, prior to being invited to take part in precision
      pinch grip testing. This will not affect their access to assessment or treatment of their
      CTS.

      The intent is to test precision pinch grip testing with a custom built device being developed
      by the University of Birmingham. This device is based on those already used by Zhang and Hsu
      et al, and is not anticipated to pose any risk of harm to the patient.

      OTHER LEGAL ISSUES As the device is being custom-built by the University of Birmingham,
      intellectual property rights are being addressed by the department developing the device,
      with a view to drawing up a confidentiality agreement, although this is not a pre-requisite
      to commencing the trial.

      OTHER MANAGEMENT ISSUES This intention is to set-up an National Health Service (NHS) clinic
      of back-to-back CTS patients, who will have a clinical assessment, followed by nerve
      conduction studies, followed by pinch grip assessment. This will require logistic planning,
      however this will be co-ordinated internally through UHB and will make the process clear to
      patients when they are recruited to the study via the Participant Information Sheet.
    
  