
    
      Breastfeeding has been demonstrated to offer numerous physical and emotional health benefits
      to infant and mother and is the recommended approach to infant feeding by all levels of
      health authorities. Canadian statistics reveal 89% of mothers initiate breastfeeding at birth
      but only 51% continue to do so when an infant has reached four months of age. Research has
      indicated that engaging informed, supportive peers and supportive communities may be
      effective methods to help mothers who wish to continue to breastfeed overcome common
      challenges.

      This study seeks to explore the benefits and challenges in a Canadian peer support program.
      The study will assist the BFB to improve their programs and contribute to the growing body of
      research exploring breastfeeding interventions.This is an exploratory, qualitative evaluation
      study of the Breastfeeding Buddies (BFB) program.

      BFB Program Description:

      The Breastfeeding Buddies Program was initiated by breastfeeding mothers in the community and
      has been supporting breastfeeding families in Waterloo Region since 2003. Recognizing the
      value of mother-to-mother breastfeeding support, the aim of the Breastfeeding Buddies Program
      is to help increase the number of moms achieving success in breastfeeding through feeling
      connected and supported in their community. An informed decision making model is used and
      diversity is valued when supporting families. This peer based breastfeeding support is a
      partnership between the Kitchener Downtown Community Health Centre and Region of Waterloo
      Public Health and is available to all women in Waterloo Region.

      Breastfeeding Buddies are matched with breastfeeding moms who have had similar experiences or
      may speak the same language and provide ongoing telephone support and share community
      resources. BFB's also regularly attend established community sites (e.g. Breastfeeding cafes
      at Early Years Centres) to provide support to moms on a drop-in basis. Initial contacts
      between BFBs and mothers are established prenatally when possible through the program
      coordinator, but may occur at any time in their breastfeeding experience. The program also
      offers a free 2 hour prenatal breastfeeding class called "Me? Breastfeed?" that is taught by
      BFBs. This practical workshop offers women and their partner's information on the first 7
      days after birth, help with overcoming common challenges and community resources.

      All Breastfeeding Buddy volunteers have successfully breastfed for at least 6 months (though
      many have breastfed for over one year), and are passionate about breastfeeding. They receive
      20 hours of expert training with a nurse/lactation consultant and participate in monthly
      meetings to learn new skills.

      The purpose of the evaluation study is to understand the perspectives and experiences of
      Breastfeeding Buddies (BFB) participants and volunteers.

      The evaluation will explore the process of implementation of the BFB education and support
      programs and assess the program impacts from the perspective of participants and volunteers.
      The methods in this study are qualitative because the BFB program has never collected
      qualitative data from program participants and volunteers. In the past, evaluation of the
      program has been limited to pre and post surveys. This qualitative study includes two
      components:

        1. Interviews 6-8 weeks after the participants due dates with consenting mothers who
           participated in the Me Breastfeed workshop - 10-12 mothers who were matched with a Buddy
           (optional for all workshop participants) will be interviewed and 10-12 mothers who did
           not seek a match (but did participate in the workshop) will be interviewed to explore
           what they learned, what was helpful and how the program can be improved.

        2. One focus group with 10-15 Breastfeeding Buddies volunteers to explore the experiences
           and perspectives of the BFB volunteers.
    
  