
    
      Esophageal cancer is a deadly disease, with only slow advances in therapy over several
      decades, despite a rapid increase in incidence. Esophageal cancer is estimated to be the
      seventh most common malignancy worldwide, with incidence rates reaching epidemic proportions
      in select regions in Asia and Africa. In the United States, it is estimated that 12,300 new
      cases were diagnosed in 2000, however, the incidence of adenocarcinoma of the esophagus is
      currently rising faster than that of any other human malignant tumor in this country. Despite
      advances in surgical technique, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and early detection, only 12% of
      patients diagnosed with esophageal cancer will survive more than five years, a cure rate more
      dismal than that seen with cancers of the breast, prostate, colon, and even lung. Survival
      following treatment for esophageal cancer is stage dependent. This study is directed towards
      augmenting host anti-tumor immunity by using gene transfer to activate dendritic cells (DC;
      cells of our immune system that play a central role in initiating immune responses) in tumors
      of patients with esophageal cancer. Based on extensive pre-clinical data, two proposed
      clinical trial protocols will evaluate the concept that transient modification of the genetic
      repertoire of esophageal tumors to express CD40 Ligand (CD40L; a potent activator of DC) will
      induce the accumulation of activated DC within the tumor, and the in vivo interaction of DC
      with the tumor cells/tumor antigens will induce tumor-specific immunity. To assess this
      concept, an adenovirus (Ad) vector (AdcuCD40L) will be used to transfer and transiently
      express the human CD40L cDNA in esophageal carcinoma by direct injection into the tumor.
      Phase I represents a dose escalation study to determine the maximum tolerated dose of the
      vector and will include 12 individuals with unresectable, stage III or IV esophageal cancer.
      Phase II is a randomized, double-blinded assessment of biologic efficacy and will include 24
      individuals with resectable, stage I-III disease who will be undergoing potentially curative
      resection. Together, both protocols are designed to assess two hypotheses. First, that it is
      safe to administer the AdcuCD40L vector to individuals with esophageal cancer. Second, that
      intratumoral administration of the AdCUCD40L vector will induce both the accumulation, in the
      tumor and in regional lymph nodes, of activated DC, and CD8+ T cells (and other inflammatory
      cells), including T cells exhibiting tumor-specific responses, as well as systemic antitumor
      immunity.
    
  