
    
      ENGAGES CANADA is a parallel study to the ENGAGES study which has been published in JAMA,
      DOI:10.1001/jama.2019.5161. Due to the difference in practice models and types of anesthesia
      principles, ENGAGES CANADA is an important study. Delirium is a relatively common
      postoperative complication in the geriatric population, affecting 20% to 70% of surgical
      patients over the age of 60. Delirium manifests as confusion, inattention and the inability
      to think logically, and may affect the patient's postoperative healing and rehabilitation. It
      is associated with persistent cognitive decline, longer hospital stay, increased incidence of
      injurious falls, and increased mortality. Patients undergoing major cardiac surgery are at a
      significant risk of postoperative delirium. To date, there is no proven method to prevent
      postoperative delirium in this patient population and often delirious events remain
      unrecognized. Randomized controlled studies in diverse surgical patient populations suggest
      that intraoperative electroencephalography (EEG) guidance during general anesthesia may
      decrease postoperative delirium and adverse postoperative outcomes. Patients who experience
      postoperative delirium report persistently decreased quality of life and it is a risk factor
      for incident psychiatric disorders and psychotropic medication use. One potential key
      mechanism in the relationship between delirium and incident psychiatric illness may be the
      experience of dissociation (disturbed awareness, impaired memory, or altered perceptions) in
      the perioperative period in those who are delirious. The co-occurrence of psychiatric illness
      and delirium can put older adults at greater risk of negative long terms effect such as
      functional decline. This study will compare the effectiveness of two anesthetic protocols in
      reducing postoperative delirium and postoperative health-related quality of life in a high
      risk population.We expect that EEG-guided anesthetic management of patients during their
      operative procedure will result in improved health-related outcomes, specifically decreased
      incidence of postoperative delirium and improved postoperative mental and physical health
      outcomes.
    
  