
    
      Objective:

      Both attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and addictive behaviors have been
      persistently related to impaired reward-related processes in the ventral striatum as
      evidenced by functional magnetic resonance imaging studies (fMRI). These impairments
      characterized by decreased BOLD activation are thought to be linked to dopamine pathways
      including decreased D2 receptor function. Omega-3 highly unsaturated fatty acids (HUFAs) are
      critical for cell-signaling among other complex functions throughout the central nervous
      system. Animal models have demonstrated that depriving animals of the omega-3 DHA in utero
      significantly decreases the density of ventral striatal D2- like receptors and furthermore
      depletes dopamine in the nucleus acumens by 40-60%. The behavioral profile of animals
      subjected to dietary induced deficiencies of omega-3 reflect decreased goal-directed behavior
      and increased goal-irrelevant activity, hyperactivity, increased anxiety and reduced behavior
      flexibility. Abnormally low levels of omega-3 HUFAs have been persistently reported in the
      erythrocytes of both children and adults with ADHD while supplementation with omega-3 HUFAs
      was found in a meta-analysis of 10 clinical trials to improve symptoms of ADHD. However, to
      date no one has tested the potential mediating effects of omega-3 supplementation in
      reward-related processes in adults with ADHD using neuroimaging techniques. There is hence a
      need to research the potential treatment effects of omega-3 on assessments of brain function.
      Therefore, the primary objective of this study is to test the effects of omega-3 intervention
      (compared to a placebo) in increasing ventral striatal activation during the monetary
      incentive delay (MID) task. Secondary objectives include collecting neuroimaging data and
      standardized questionnaires measuring, mood, quality of life and symptoms of ADHD.

      Study Population:

      150 adults, other-wise healthy, aged 18-55 with ADHD.

      Design:

      The active group will be stratified according to age and sex to either an active intervention
      group receiving (1) 3000 mg of omega-3 HUFA smoothie or a placebo group (2) 3000 mg of
      smoothie macadamia nut oil for 16 weeks. After enrollment and baseline testing, active
      participants will be randomized to either the treatment or placebo group and instructed to
      begin consumption of assigned emulsions. Randomized participants will be assessed at
      baseline, 1 month, 8 weeks, and 16 weeks.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome assessments will measure ventral-striatum activation during the MID task.
      Secondary objectives include: structural MRI, symptoms of ADHD using the Conner s Adult ADHD
      Rating Scales; negative affective symptoms; endocannabinoid levels and weight change.
    
  