
    
      Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) of lower extremities is a venous reflux disorder caused by
      abnormal coagulation of deep vein blood. The main adverse consequences of DVT are pulmonary
      embolism (PE) and post-thrombotic syndrome, which can significantly affect the quality of
      life of patients and even lead to death. Anticoagulation is the basic treatment of DVT, which
      can inhibit the spread of thrombus, facilitate thrombus autolysis and recanalization of the
      lumen, and reduce the incidence and mortality of PE. For patients with contraindications or
      complications of anticoagulation therapy, the implantation of inferior vena cava filter may
      be considered. At the same time, patients with the following conditions may be considered for
      the implantation of inferior vena cava filter: PE is still present in the case of adequate
      anticoagulant therapy, floating thrombus in the iliac, femoral or inferior vena cava,
      thrombectomy is planned for acute DVT, and abdominal, pelvic or lower extremity surgery with
      high risk factors for PE and acute DVT. The current standard treatment regimen for venous
      thromboembolism (VTE) anticoagulation is low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) combined with or
      followed by vitamin K antagonist warfarin. It has been proved that low molecular weight
      heparin has good safety and effectiveness in the prevention and initial treatment of VTE,
      especially for VTE prevention and treatment in cancer patients and pregnant patients. As a
      standard oral anticoagulant, warfarin has definite anticoagulant effect and is cheap.
      However, low molecular weight heparin needs subcutaneous injection, which can cause adverse
      reactions such as pain, itching, subcutaneous hemorrhage and nodules at the injection site,
      and some complications such as heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT). Warfarin
      anticoagulation therapy requires long-term laboratory monitoring of international
      standardized ratio (INR) and timely adjustment of warfarin dosage according to INR, which
      will result in difficult follow-up management, poor compliance, uncertainty of warfarin
      treatment effect, and even serious bleeding complications. According to relevant studies, the
      incidence of warfarin-related major bleeding is about 1%-2%, and the recurrence or
      aggravation of thrombus is also high. Rivaroxaban can simplify treatment, and is safe. It's
      also not easy to interact with food or drugs. Previous studies have shown that rivaroxaban is
      effective in preventing deep venous thrombosis after orthopaedic surgery. Rivaroxaban has
      also been shown to be safe and effective in anticoagulation therapy for patients with deep
      venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, and repeated coagulation monitoring is not
      required. However, Rivaroxaban lacks sufficient clinical data for perioperative adjuvant
      anticoagulation therapy of filter implantation. Therefore, this study should be carried out
      to provide the basis for DVT treatment guidelines and explore the clinical indications of
      rivaroxaban.
    
  