
    
      BACKGROUND:

      LTOT given 15 h/day or more improves the survival time in patients with chronic daytime
      hypoxemia due to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) based on two randomized trials;
      the 'Continuous or Nocturnal Oxygen Therapy' Trial (NOTT) published in 1980 [1] and the
      Medical Research Council (MRC) trial published in 1981.[2] International guidelines recommend
      that LTOT is prescribed continuously (24 h/day), which is based on an observational,
      unadjusted comparison of the treatment arms of the MRC and NOTT studies only. [3] However,
      LTOT 24 h/day may place an unnecessary burden on patients in terms of increased dependence,
      isolation, side effects and restricted activity.[3, 4] Data from the National Swedish
      Registry for Respiratory Failure (Swedevox) indicate no survival benefit from LTOT 24 vs 15
      h/day (Figure 1). No randomized trial has evaluated the additional benefit of longer daily
      duration of LTOT above 15 h/day.[4] Studies on the effect of LTOT are also lacking for
      diseases other than COPD, such as pulmonary fibrosis, yet LTOT is given in these conditions
      according to the same criteria as in COPD in clinical practice.[4]

      IMPORTANCE:

      This will be the first R-RCT in respiratory medicine and the largest trial of LTOT to date.
      If LTOT 24 h/day is found to be superior to 15 h/day, this will confirm the importance of
      oxygen therapy in chronic respiratory failure and the importance of implementing services to
      optimize the daily duration of LTOT. If LTOT 24 h/day is non-superior to 15 h/day, this
      supports that patients safely can be free of supplemental oxygen for up to nine hours per
      day. This trial will also be the first to evaluate effects of LTOT on symptoms and HRQOL,
      effects in patients with moderate hypoxemia and in diseases other than COPD. This study will
      have direct impact on research and clinical management.

      AIM:

      Long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT) 24 h/day is recommended to prolong survival time in severe
      hypoxemia but may be burdensome and evidence of its additional benefit compared with LTOT 15
      h/day is lacking. The purpose is to determine whether LTOT prescribed continuously 24 h/day
      improves the rate of all-cause hospitalization or death at 1 year compared with LTOT 15
      h/day. The aim is improved evidence-based treatment in chronic hypoxemia.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary: To determine whether oxygen prescribed 24 h/day compared with 15 h/day in patients
      starting LTOT improves the rate of all-cause mortality or death at 1 year. Secondary
      objectives: test improvement in overall and cause-specific mortality (respiratory and
      cardiovascular deaths); overall and cause-specific hospitalization rate; incident
      cardiovascular disease; breathlessness; fatigue; self-reported physical activity;
      health-related quality of life; cognition; measured oxygen adherence; and patient preference
      to continue treatment.

      ANALYSIS:

      Primary analysis: In all randomized patients according to the intention-to-treat and per
      protocol principles. Secondary analyses: In patients with severe resting hypoxemia (PaO2 <
      7.4 kPa breathing air); moderate resting hypoxemia (PaO2 7.4 to 8.0 kPa breathing air); COPD
      verified by spirometry (FEV1/FVC < 0.7 after bronchodilation); and in patients with other
      conditions than COPD.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      Multicenter, single-blinded (analyst), effectiveness, phase IV, register-based, randomized
      controlled trial (R-RCT). Patients starting LTOT are randomized between oxygen prescribed 24
      h/day or 15 h/day using the Swedevox registry. Clinical follow-up and concurrent treatments
      are according to routine clinical practice. Oxygen utilization is measured using oxygen flow
      sensors on the equipment according to the level of funding. The main endpoints of mortality,
      hospitalizations, and incident disease are assessed using Swedish registry data, with
      expected complete follow-up. Patient-reported outcomes are assessed using a postal
      questionnaire at 3 months. The study is managed by the Uppsala Clinical Research Centre (UCR)

      Investigational products, dosage and mode of administration: Patients are randomized between
      two daily durations of oxygen used in current clinical practice: LTOT 24 h/day (intervention)
      or 15 h/day (control). The LTOT is provided according to standard clinical practice using
      oxygen concentrator, cylinders or liquid oxygen and administered mainly through nasal prongs.
      The oxygen dose (l/min) is titrated aiming at a PaO2 on oxygen > 8 kPa in accordance with
      current routine practice and management guidelines.

      Duration of treatment: Throughout LTOT. Primary endpoint is at 1 year after randomization.

      STATISTICAL METHODS:

      Statistical methods: The primary analysis is according to the intention to treat (ITT)
      principle and the per protocol (PP) principle. Secondary analyses are according to the PP
      principle. The primary endpoint of the composite event of death or 1st hospitalization is
      analyzed with Cox´s proportional hazards model. Hospitalizations are analyzed using Fine Gray
      regression accounting for death as competing event. Other secondary endpoints are analyzed
      using two-sided Student's t-tests for continuous variables (including HRQOL, breathlessness,
      cognition, fatigue, activity, and health care usage) and chi-2 test for categorical variables
      (causes of death, cognition, treatment preference). Correlational analyses, including of
      factors predictive of the primary and secondary outcomes will be conducted using linear
      regression (continuous outcomes), logistic regression (categorical outcomes), and Cox and
      Fine-Gray regression models (time to event outcomes).
    
  