
    
      Crohn's disease is a chronic inflammatory disorder that frequently involves the colon and
      small bowel. Patients commonly experience abdominal pain, diarrhea, and malaise which result
      in decreased quality of life and an increased risk of chronic disability and unemployment.

      Currently available therapeutic options for the maintenance of remission in Crohn's disease
      are inadequate. Patients' quality of life is often severely diminished. A clear need exists
      for well-tolerated drugs that can reliably reduce the risk of a disease relapse.

      In recent years considerable attention has been focused on dietary marine fish oils as a
      means of treating several chronic inflammatory disorders including Crohn's disease. Fish oils
      have been found to reduce the inflammation and the severity of lesions in animal models of
      inflammatory bowel disease.

      Commercially available fish oils are supplied as fatty acid triglycerides or ethyl esters and
      are often associated with unpleasant side effects such as nausea, flatulence, diarrhea and
      belching. These adverse effects limit administration of high doses of these preparations.
      Several studies have demonstrated the superior absorption across intestinal membranes of free
      fatty acids in comparison with triglycerides and ethyl esters. Epanova™ is being developed as
      a well-tolerated means of delivering a high concentration of marine fish oils as free fatty
      acids. Additionally, the gelatin coating of the capsules consists of a permeable polymer that
      results in a delayed release of the active compounds thus reducing the frequency of adverse
      events.

      The objectives of this clinical trial are as follows:

      Primary Objective:

        -  To assess the ability of Epanova™ to maintain symptomatic remission in subjects with
           Crohn's Disease who are responding to steroid induction therapy

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To assess the safety and tolerability of Epanova™

        -  To assess the ability of Epanova™ to maintain the quality of life in subjects with
           Crohn's Disease who are responding to steroid induction therapy

        -  To assess the efficacy of Epanova™ by Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI),
           Investigator and Subject Global Ratings, employment status and use of Crohn's Disease
           related medical visits in subjects with Crohn's Disease who are responding to steroid
           induction therapy
    
  