
    
      Physical activity is recognised as a trigger for individuals with asthma, however regular
      physical activity is considered to be important in the overall management of the condition.
      There is clear evidence that demonstrates if individuals with asthma engage with regular
      physical activity they will improve their physical fitness and breathing control, whilst at
      the same time experiencing reductions in asthma severity, symptoms, and medication use. In
      addition undertaking regular exercise reduces the risk of developing other diseases such as
      heart disease or type 2 diabetes. Despite the clear health benefits of engaging in regular
      physical activity there is evidence that some people with asthma avoid physical activity due
      to shortness of breath, worsening asthma symptoms during physical activity or fear of
      experiencing such symptoms.

      Physical activity in cold dry environments exacerbates symptoms for many individuals with
      asthma resulting in greater avoidance of physical activity during the winter months. The
      increased risk of asthma from exercising in cold environments has led to Asthma UK advising
      susceptible individuals to avoid exercise outside in cold environments
      (http://www.asthma.org.uk/advice-exercise). This places obvious constraints and limitations
      on individuals with asthma for whom the aim of optimum treatment is to allow them to follow a
      "normal" lifestyle. Indeed, exposure to cold air on exertion is relevant to a significant
      proportion of individuals with asthma who engage with outdoor physical activity as part of
      their daily routine; e.g. cycle-commuting to work, outdoor construction workers.

      A mask that is able to warm and humidify the air during exercise may provide a solution for
      asthmatic individuals susceptible to cold dry environments. There are a limited number of
      small studies that provide tentative evidence suggesting masks which warm and humidify air
      can protect against reductions in lung function during and following physical activity.
      However, it is unknown whether the use of these masks provides protection against the
      mechanisms that drive asthmatic symptoms. It is also unclear whether using the masks over a
      prolonged period of time significantly reduces asthma severity, inhaler use, or presence of
      symptoms.

      The overall aim of this study is to determine if face masks that can warm and humidify air
      can improve overall asthma control and markers of airway health during exercise in cold dry
      environments. We will investigate the potential protective benefits of the face masks against
      exercise induced asthma during 1) a "one-off" bout of exercise in a cold dry environment and
      2) over the course of a four week period, exercising three times per week in a cold dry
      environme
    
  