
    
      Stanford University has developed a new PET tracer, [18F]FP-R01-MG-F2, that selectively binds
      to integrin avb6, a cell surface receptor that is overexpressed in idiopathic pulmonary
      fibrosis (IPF). Increased avb6 receptors on IPF lung tissue has been well documented, while
      its expression remains relatively non-existent in the healthy adult lung.

      The PET tracer's application will be expanded in primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) and
      COVID-19 pneumonia. The integrin avb6 is also up-regulated in the biliary epithelial cells,
      which drive the progression of biliary tree strictures and liver fibrosis through activation
      of TGF-b, as shown in IPF. Similarly, COVID-19 pneumonia is caused by the SARS-CoV-2 and
      leads to acute lung injury and integrin avb6 up-regulation.

      The selected PET tracer [18F]FP-R01-MG-F2 has shown promise in identifying integrin avb6 in
      both preclinical and clinical studies at Stanford University. The investigators have
      demonstrated low [18F]FP-R01-MG-F2 radiopharmaceutical uptake in the heart and lung region of
      healthy volunteers, which was an expected biodistribution (the normal tissue uptake of the
      radiopharmaceutical within the body) based on immunohistochemical staining of healthy lung
      tissue, which demonstrated the presence of minimal avb6 receptors in healthy lung tissue.

      OBJECTIVE:

        1. Exploring the use of the investigational radiopharmaceutical [18]FFP-R01-MG-F2 as a
           biomarker for avb6 integrin in fibrotic lung tissue.

        2. Exploring the use of the investigational radiopharmaceutical [18]FFP-R01-MG-F2 to access
           inflammation and fibrosis in the bile duct and liver.

        3. Exploring the use of the investigational radiopharmaceutical [18]FFP-R01-MG-F2 to assess
           lung injury in COVID-19 pneumonia.

      The performance of [18F]FP-R01-MG-F2 PET/CT will be assessed in a cohort of up to 13-15 IPF
      patients, 5 PSC patients, 5 COVID19 pneumonia patients, and 5 age-matched healthy controls.
      Feasibility will be measured by drawing regions of interest (ROI) around the lung/ liver of
      participants with IPF, COVID19, or PSC, respectively, and the lungs of healthy adult
      volunteers and comparing the calculated standardized uptake value maximum(s) (SUV max).

      The tracer's biodistribution, safety, and tolerability will also be studied.

      Recruitment of IPF subjects and healthy volunteers has been completed, although recruitment
      for other aspects of this clinical trial is ongoing.
    
  