
    
      Nephrolithiasis is common within the general population. Although the majority of patients
      with a symptomatic stone event will not require surgical intervention, the rate of recurrence
      is high. Therefore, reducing this rate of recurrence is important.

      Traditionally, this has been achieved with a combination of serum and urine metabolic
      evaluation followed by targeted medication and dietary interventions. Specifically, it is
      recommended that a single 24-hour urine collection for analysis of urine electrolytes be
      performed. A 24-hour urine collection is bladder urine, which is pooled urine from both
      kidneys. The urine is then analyzed for the relative and absolute concentrations of
      electrolytes and small molecules known to be associated with stone formation. These include
      creatinine, calcium, citrate, oxalate, potassium, magnesium, phosphate, uric acid, and urate.

      When an abnormality is detected on a 24-hour urine collection the assumption is that this is
      due to a global metabolic defect present in both kidneys. However, this may not be the case.
      It is possible there could be a relative imbalance with both kidneys having a defect, but to
      different degrees (or different defects in one or multiple electrolytes). It is also possible
      that one kidney has a dominant defect, but the contralateral kidney is normal, and therefore
      the 24-hour urine collection would only represent the dominant kidney with the defect.
      Finally, it is possible that the converse is true. One kidney has no defect, but the
      contralateral kidney has a minor defect. In this example, the 24-hour urine collection would
      appear normal as the dominant normal kidney masks the minor defect. This concept of
      differential kidney electrolyte handling was previously described in children. Therefore,
      understanding individual kidney metabolic profiles is important.

      The purpose of the investigators' study will be to (1) characterize the urine electrolyte
      profile of each individual renal unit; (2) identify participants who have differences between
      their renal unit urine electrolyte profiles, and their renal units and bladder urine
      electrolyte profiles; and (3) correlate differences in renal unit urine electrolyte profiles
      with clinical manifestations of kidney stones, such as stone formation or growth. By
      characterizing individual renal unit urine electrolyte profiles, the investigators' may be
      able to isolate a phenotype of stone formers who would not otherwise be identified with
      traditional 24-hour urine collection. The investigators' can then target this phenotype in
      future investigations with dietary and medication interventions to hopefully prevent future
      stone events.
    
  