
    
      Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is the single most common reason for regulatory actions
      concerning drugs, including failure to gain approval for marketing, removal from the market
      place, and restriction of prescribing indications. DILI is also a significant cause of
      morbidity and mortality in many patient populations. To stimulate and facilitate research
      into DILI, the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) has
      recently established the Drug-Induced Liver Injury Network (DILIN). One of the initial
      projects to be conducted by the network is to retrospectively establish a nationwide registry
      of patients who have suffered severe idiosyncratic liver injury associated with any drugs
      (ILIAD) and HDS agents, and to collect, immortalize and store serum, DNA, and lymphocytes
      from these patients (hereafter referred to as the "ILIAD protocol"). This ILIAD protocol will
      serve as a resource for subsequent mechanistic investigations of the basis for susceptibility
      to severe idiosyncratic DILI.

      The network will initially identify people who have developed DILI onset beyond 6 months of
      enrollment due to all drugs or HDS/CAM cases that did not meet the entrance criteria for the
      Prospective study.

      The specific aims are as follows:

        1. Establish and maintain a clinical database of these people that contains relevant
           clinical data.

        2. Establish a bank of biological specimens (serum, DNA, and immortalized lymphocytes)
           prepared from cases and control in the clinical database.

        3. Maintain a registry including yearly updated contact information of the subjects
           enrolled in the clinical database so that it is possible to recontact these individuals
           at a later date to offer participation in studies which are not part of the current
           proposal.
    
  