
    
      The dynamic interaction between surgery and anesthesia is closely monitored by the
      anesthesiologist using various monitoring instruments in the operating room. However, it
      requires the recording and collecting the data for further analysis to answer the question
      that what is the exact effects of the surgical procedure to human body. In particular, the
      measurement performance of transient bradycardia calculated from electrocardiography and the
      monitoring indices such as Surgical Plethysmography Index, Analgesia Nociception Index should
      be compared side-by-side using data from the same subject.

      In this prospective observational study, the investigators will enroll 40 patients undergoing
      elective laparoscopic surgery. Anesthetic management and surgery will be performed as usual
      clinical practice.

      The investigators will record the digital data exported from monitoring instruments,
      including cardiovascular system information (electrocardiography, photo-plethysmography ,
      blood pressure and any additional monitoring items clinically required), neurological system
      information (Bispectral index, Entropy, Surgical Plethysmography Index ) and the respiratory
      gas monitoring (gas analyzer, respiratory waveform). All above data are provided by standard
      patient monitor (CARESCAPE Monitor B850, GE Healthcare). Analgesia Nociception Index are
      provides by Analgesia Nociception Index monitoring instruments (Mdoloris(TM) Medical
      Systems).

      The detailed surgical steps will be noted with precise time stamps to pinpoint the surgical
      effects afterwards. Registered events including anesthetic induction, intubation,
      disinfection, each skin incision, peritoneum perforation, laparoscopic trocar insertion,
      dissection, ligation and excision of cystic duct and vessel, electrocauterization, and
      extraction of specimen. The recording is ended before the end of monitoring in the operating
      room. All physiological data and demographic data will be stored in digital media after being
      de-linked from personal identification.

      Data analysis and Statistics will be particularly performed to explore the temporal effect
      and relationship. Methods including modeling, windowing and non-parametric spectral
      estimation will be used.
    
  