
    
      Holoprosencephaly (HPE) covers a nearly continuous spectrum of midline abnormalities ranging
      from unmistakable cyclopia with absence of forebrain separation to mild microforms, such a
      single central incisor.

      The objective of these studies is to identify genetic factors (coding and non-coding) that
      contribute to the pathogenesis of holoprosencephaly (HPE) or related brain malformations. Our
      approach involves common genetic strategies including mutational analysis of candidate genes.
      All individuals with overt or subtle clinical findings consistent with the HPE spectrum are
      eligible to participate. Mutational analysis of our entire coded collection of HPE probands
      (approximately 600 cases) in selected genes is the principal research method used to
      determine that a given candidate gene is commonly mutated in HPE. This approach pertains to
      an individual gene(s) or genetic element(s) as well as to targeted capture panels that study
      gene sets of hundreds of developmental genes whose involvement in brain development is
      supported by the basic research literature. We are also asking to include the option of
      investigating the entire set of genetic factors present in the DNA or RNA of patients who
      have HPE through a proposed change in the consent documents. Whenever a sequence variant is
      identified, that is not present in a commercially available control set of samples, attempts
      are made to test the functional significance of this change on the protein itself, or its
      expression. Sequence changes with a strong probability of being medically significant will be
      verified in a CLIA-approved lab (e.g. Muneke lab, for selected genes, or commercial lab) at
      our expense, before any results are given to the family through genetic counseling. Parental
      DNA (and rarely that of siblings) is usually obtained at the same time that a proband is
      enrolled. Typically, these samples are studied only to perform limited family studies once a
      sequence variant of potential medical significance has already been determined. Participation
      by direct blood relatives is encouraged since virtually all bone fide mutations are either
      family-specific or de novo. Such family information is critical for the research
      determination of genetic risk factors and accurate genetic counseling.

      The majority of subjects enrolled in this study will continue under the care of their local
      physician or genetic counselor with limited contact with the NIH investigators. Only rarely
      will families be seen at the NIH CC. These visits will involve face-to-face genetic
      counseling of medically significant results, following verification in a CLIA approved lab.
      This is not a treatment protocol. Our empiric ability to generate medically significant
      research results is limited by the extensive genetic and other etiologic heterogeneity.
      Therefore, for most participants this research is not a diagnostic study.

      We have modified our procedures to test all new probands for mutations in the four HPE genes
      (SHH, ZIC2, SIX3 and TGIF). As new genetic elements that confer a risk for HPE are
      identified, we intend to add additional tests to this panel. Our lab is now certified to
      receive and test new samples according to CLIA guidelines. However, all previously collected
      samples will not be considered suitable for diagnostic purposes; hence, a second sample will
      need to be requested in these cases for CLIA confirmation.
    
  