
    
      This study involves participating in a 90-day integrated, prescriptive, trackable wellness
      intervention, which includes five wellness elements: exercise, mindfulness, sleep, social
      connectedness, and nutrition.

      The intervention is divided into three phases (each spanning 30-days): Phase 1 - 'Boot Camp',
      Phase 2 - Solidify, and Phase 3 - Sustain. Program requirements include: Implementing 5
      wellness interventions daily for the first 30-days, at least 5 days for the next 30-days, and
      at least 3 days for the final 30-days, documenting daily online adherence, completing daily
      wellness exercises to improve mental wellness, and completing online program forms prior to
      beginning the program, at 30-days, and again at 90-days.

      Once eligibility is confirmed via the initial orientation/screening call, study personnel
      will mail each participant a WILD 5 Wellness Workbook within one day of emailing participants
      their unique identification codes plus their start dates. Participants will be instructed to
      document adherence regarding their daily wellness practices and their daily wellness
      exercises online via Qualtrics, an online survey software. Participants can document their
      daily adherence using their computer and/or their smartphone as Qualtrics offers a mobile
      version of the Participant Tracking Form. A copy of the Participant Tracking Form will also
      be available in the WILD 5 Workbook so participants that prefer keeping a daily paper log can
      do so, and they can then transfer their program adherence information to the online
      Participant Tracking Form throughout the program. The workbook will contain the participant's
      personal identification code; no personal identification will appear in the workbook in order
      to protect participant confidentiality.

      One day prior to a participant's start date, which will be set during the
      orientation/screening call, participants will receive an automated email from an online
      automated email service (MailChimp), with a reminder about their start date, and
      encouragement to contact study personnel with any questions or concerns.

      Participants will also receive daily motivational emails from an online automated email
      service (MailChimp), which will provide general information about one of the five wellness
      elements and/or one of the wellness exercises, as well as encouragement to track their
      participation on a daily basis, and encouragement to contact study personnel via email with
      any questions and/or concerns.
    
  