
    
      This proposal investigates a portable ankle robot (AMBLE) to be used during over-ground
      mobility training to reduce foot drop and improve walking function in hemiparetic (half-body,
      partially paralyzed stroke patients with foot drop (inability to properly lift and clear the
      foot during walking. About 30% of stroke survivors are left with permanent ankle weakness
      that impairs their mobility and increases fall-risk. Currently, stroke survivors with foot
      drop live with a cane or other assistive device, and often ankle-foot braces (AFOs) for
      safety. These assistive devices do not reverse or reduce the underlying neurological foot
      drop problem. Recognizing the crucial role of ankle function in walking and balance, and
      recognizing that the distal part of the lower extremity often suffers the greatest damage
      after a human stroke, the investigators have come up with a portable ankle robot as a tool
      for therapists to help shape recovery of walking.

      The AMBLE, and its underlying control system, uses information about how patients are walking
      from one step to another to assist and shape foot lifting so as to help re- train walking
      recovery by a process that neuroscientists call motor learning. It is the combination of the
      partially paralyzed stroke survivor's movement efforts with timely assistance "only as
      needed" by the robot that investigators and others show is the key to movement recovery after
      stroke. Thus, the ankle robot is not a crutch, but a learning and measuring device that
      incrementally "gets out of the way" of the learner to facilitate human robot learning such
      that the human takes over more of the volitional learning.

      The research team at University of Maryland has demonstrated in 4 prior studies using seated
      and treadmill based robot assisted training using a bulky laboratory robot programmed with a
      motor learning formula that can improve ankle motor control in both the early and chronic
      phases of stroke, and this can improve over-ground unassisted walking. A significant
      proportion of stroke survivors showed session by session recovery of volitional (not assisted
      by the robot) ankle lifting during walking across 6 weeks of three 30- 45 minute sessions of
      robot training while walking on a treadmill, even years after their stroke. In fact, it has
      been found that two weeks of 3 sessions per week ankle robotics training was the time profile
      for most motor learning recovery to reduce foot drop. This information has informed the
      design of the study described below.

      Previous research was done using a bulky, heavy (~8 lbs), and expensive laboratory robot that
      only allowed seated or treadmill based training because it was tethered by wires. This
      greatly limits how it can be used by physical therapists, and is not appropriately configured
      for ease of use by physical therapists in practice. NextStep Robotics invented and built the
      ankle robots motor learning programs with a lot of input from physical therapists and other
      rehabilitation clinicians into a portable lightweight robot that can be used over-ground
      anywhere with blue tooth controls that also tell the therapist precisely how well the stroke
      survivors is learning, step by step. It is this new portable ankle robot that is configured
      for use in practice that investigators seek to test in studies with physical therapists using
      it fully integrated into their usual outpatient stroke mobility recovery training at
      University of Maryland Orthopedics and Rehabilitation Institute.

      This U44 Award from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is
      not a typical single phase randomized clinical study, but consists of Phase I that completes
      commercial design of the robot the first year, followed by Phase II randomized clinical trial
      across years 2-4 of a finalized commercial version of the ankle robot.

      Phase II (following completion of commercial design in Phase I) is a randomized (group
      assignment by chance), blinded (outcome testing done by technicians unaware of patient group
      assignment), two arm (2 groups) study that investigates the hypothesis that in subacute (6
      weeks to 6 months) stroke subjects with foot drop, AMBLE integrated physical therapy (PTR)
      consisting of 18 training sessions over nine weeks is more effective than usual physical
      therapy (PT) to improve foot drop outcomes measured by movement analyses of walking, and by
      standardized clinical assessments of walking including specific foot drop outcomes as
      assessed by a certified PT clinician (blinded to treatment assignment), cross checked by
      blinded review of 2 other clinicians of films of the standardized mobility assessments to
      provide a consensus impartial judgement. Notably, this Phase II study focuses on sub-acute
      stroke recovery (6 weeks to 6 months) because it represents a therapeutic window into which
      conventional outpatient physical therapy is typically front-loaded to optimize outcomes. This
      phase of stroke rehabilitation is selected to test the AMBLE in real world settings when
      outpatient physical therapy typically occurs, using a treatment frequency and duration (18
      physical therapy sessions across 9 weeks) that is representative of practice in Maryland and
      most of the United States. If wearing the AMBLE robot during physical therapy in this
      time-frame reduces foot drop and improves longer term outcomes measured 3 months after all
      robotics therapy has ended, then the investigators will apply for FDA approval for the first
      robotics device to actively treat foot drop after stroke.
    
  