
    
      A recent Cochrane Collaboration Intervention Review has addressed the effects of altered
      fractionation size on women with early breast cancer who have undergone breast conservation
      surgery. Analysis of two prospective randomized trials that included 2644 women, selected
      based on tumor size less than five cm, negative pathological margin of excision and negative
      lymph nodes. No difference in clinical outcome was detected. The conclusion of the review is
      that the use of unconventional fractionation regimens (greater than 2 Gy per fraction) does
      not affect breast appearance or toxicity, and does not seem to affect local recurrence or
      five years survival rates.

      After breast surgery and an adequate axillary dissection (i.e., at least 8 nodes retrieved in
      the axillary dissection specimen from level I and II) it is possible to identify patients
      with 1 - 5 positive nodes who require radiotherapy to both the indexed breast/chest wall and
      the draining nodal stations that the surgeon did not include in the traditional level I - II
      axillary dissection, i.e., level III and supraclavicular stations. We are proposing to test a
      new technique that extends prone set up to also include these lymph node regions. Limiting
      treatment to the supraclavicular fossa and level III axilla in patients with an adequately
      dissected axilla is supported by several published studies. Regional nodal recurrences are
      rare (occurring in 1 - 5%) in patients with early stage invasive breast cancer who have
      undergone breast conserving therapy. Several institutions choose to treat only the level III
      axilla and supraclavicular nodal stations in patients who have undergone surgical treatment
      of level I/II axilla. This technique was documented recently by Liengsawangwong, who utilized
      CT-delineated nodal stations to improve target coverage of SCV (Supra-Clavicular) and level
      III axillary nodes in patients who had undergone axillary level I/II dissection and were
      found to have positive lymph nodes.
    
  