
    
      This is a phase I/II study that will evaluate the safety and toxicity of this combinatorial
      approach. Eligible patients >18 years of age with histologically proven metastatic NSCLC,
      melanoma, RCC, or HNSCC who have failed PD-1 / PD-L1 checkpoint blockade therapy will be
      enrolled. Patients must have a candidate treatment lesion (subcutaneous, nodal, or visceral)
      accessible and safe for radiotherapy and serial intralesional injections as specified by the
      protocol. They must also have at least one target lesion (distinct from treatment lesion and
      outside of treatment lesion radiation field) evaluable for response by RECIST.

      This study will consist of a phase I dose escalation using a standard 3+3 design to determine
      safety and MTD of intralesional IL-2 which will be dose escalated in conjunction with
      standard fixed doses of RT and Pembrolizumab. At the MTD there will be a phase II dose
      expansion which will incorporate a simon-two stage design to assess efficacy and safety.

      Patients will receive pembrolizumab and intralesional IL-2 in combination with
      hypofractionated radiotherapy.

        -  Radiotherapy will be delivered to the treatment lesion during the second cycle of
           therapy using an 8 Gy x 3 fractions palliative regimen. Fractions may be delivered on
           consecutive or every other day but must be completed during week 1-2 of cycle 2 and will
           not be repeated in future cycles.

        -  Pembrolizumab will be delivered at 200 mg in three week cycles per standard protocol.

        -  A total of four interleukin-2 treatments will be delivered into the treatment lesion by
           intralesional injection biweekly (at least 48 hours apart) starting 24-96 hours after
           the completion of radiotherapy and to be completed during the second on-trial cycle of
           Pembrolizumab. Intralesional injections will be performed by direct visualization and/or
           palpation of the lesion or under ultrasound or CT guidance as indicated.

      Patients will be assessed by a physician once during the first week of radiotherapy, during
      each intralesional IL-2 injection, and with every cycle of pembrolizumab during the first
      three cycles. Thereafter patients will be assessed every 30 days during the study period and
      will continue until disease progression. All patients on active treatment will be discussed
      at weekly conferences of the trial investigators. Routine laboratory evaluation will occur
      pre-treatment and every 30 days. For response assessment patient will have imaging
      pre-treatment and after every three cycles of Pembrolizumab. For collateral studies patients
      will undergo mandatory treatment lesion biopsies and blood draws pre-treatment and during the
      needle placement for the final IL-2 treatment.

      Preliminary efficacy as determined by abscopal response rate, ORR, DCR and PFS will be
      assessed every 3 cycles. The patient will remain on protocol treatment until progression as
      determined by irRECIST, treatment is no longer tolerated, or the patient has completed 12
      months of treatment. Patients on active treatment at 12 months may continue to receive
      pembrolizumab but will revert to standard of care (SOC) management and be labeled in "follow
      up". At this time only PFS and long-term toxicity data will be collected every 3 months.

      The primary endpoint is to determine if this regimen converts patients with resistance to PD
      1/PD-L1 checkpoint blockade into responders as determined by abscopal response rate (defined
      as response rate at lesions not treated with RT + IL-2) using irRECIST as well as ORR, DCR,
      and PFS using RECIST 1.1. The secondary endpoint is tolerability, safety, and toxicity using
      CTCAE v4.03. Correlative studies include immunophenotyping serial tumor biopsies and blood
      samples.
    
  