
    
      COPELIA is a phase II, randomised, three-arm open-label trial which will recruit 129 women
      aged 16 years or older, with advanced endometrial cancer who require further treatment after
      their initial chemotherapy treatment. Potential participants will be recruited from the
      hospital setting.

      Participants will be allocated to one of the following three trial arms on a 1:1:1 basis
      using centralised internet randomisation, stratified for prognostic factors:

      Arm 1: (Control Arm): Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 administered on days 1, 8 and 15 of a 28-day cycle
      for up to 6 cycles.

      Arm 2: Cediranib 20 mg once daily for 28 days given with weekly paclitaxel 80 mg/m2
      administered on days 1, 8 and 15 of a 28-day cycle for up to 6 cycles. Participants with
      stable disease, partial response or complete response at 6 months as determined by RECIST
      v1.1 will be eligible to continue treatment with single agent cediranib once daily until
      disease progression.

      Arm 3: Cediranib 20 mg once daily with olaparib 300 mg twice daily, continuously on a 28 day
      cycle for up to 6 cycles. Participants with stable disease, partial response or complete
      response at 6 months as determined by RECIST v1.1 will be eligible to continue treatment with
      both olaparib and cediranib until disease progression.

      Randomisation will be balanced for histological subtype and the number of chemotherapy
      regimens for metastatic disease.

      Recruitment to the trial is expected to take 30 months. The total duration of the trial is
      expected to be 55 months. Participants will receive initial trial treatments for up to six
      months as long as they remain progression free. As mentioned above, participants in the
      experimental arms may continue treatment with cediranib/olaparib beyond the six months, and
      beyond the end of the trial, if they remain progression free. The trial will end once all
      participants have met at least one of the criteria: completed 12 months' follow-up (including
      treatment), withdrawn from follow-up, been lost to follow-up, experienced disease
      progression, or died. Participants consent for their medical notes to be reviewed at later
      dates if required to obtain data such as overall survival.

      The trial has a multi-arm-multi-stage (MAMS) design. The appropriate sample size was
      calculated for this MAMS design, which allows one (or both) ineffective experimental arms to
      be dropped following a planned interim analysis after 60 participants have been assessed at
      three months.
    
  