
    
      The long term goal of the investigators work is to implement real world CPR training
      strategies that match training locales with at-risk populations, maximize resuscitation skill
      retention, and promote willingness to act. To accomplish this, the investigators will empower
      stakeholders at UPHS and local area hospitals to develop local implementation approaches,
      using either volunteers or nursing staff as training proctors. These stakeholders will be
      studied as a research subset. The training proctors will train family members or friends of
      patients at risk for cardiac arrest using either a video-only method or video
      self-instruction (VSI) kit, and empower them with the lifesaving skill of CPR. The
      investigators will use the American Heart Association's CPR Anytime VSI kit which comes equip
      with a DVD and inflatable manikin. For the group receiving the video-only method, the
      investigators will remove the inflatable manikin and train the subjects with the DVD. The
      investigators will randomize family members of high risk for CA to either the video-only or
      VSI kit method of training. The training proctors will be instructed to switch training
      methods every 6 months. The investigators will follow up with the study subjects and conduct
      CPR skills tests from 6 to 12 months from time of training to assess whether the subjects
      retained their skills or if they had an opportunity to use the skills that they learned. The
      investigators will also gather information on how the subjects would like to be encouraged to
      practice their skills. The investigators will send a reminder notification every two months
      following training, to encourage the subjects to refresh their training skills. At the
      follow-up skills test at 6 to 12 months, we will administer a survey to assess whether the
      prompting encouraged the subjects to practice their skills.
    
  