
    
      The project will be undertaken in 3 counties of Kenya (Nairobi, Kisumu and Homa Bay) that
      have high HIV prevalence. 5 sites (2 government and 3 non-governmental) have been purposively
      selected for the demonstration because they serve high risk populations, have existing HIV
      prevention services and have adequate cohort of HIV negative clients who are potential
      candidates for PrEP. The sites include LVCT Health's Nairobi CBD and Tivoli sites, SWOP City
      clinic, Homa Bay County Referral Hospital and Korogocho Health Centre. The demonstration
      project will use a prospective cohort design employing mixed-methods. A cohort of 2100 PrEP
      users (female sex workers aged 18 and above, men who have sex with men aged 18 and above,
      young women at high HIV risk aged 15 -29) will be followed over 12 months to assess
      biological and behavioral outcomes through laboratory and survey assessments. This will be
      complemented by review of routine service delivery statistics (to assess PrEP uptake), cost
      data, and qualitative data to be obtained from in-depth interviews and focus groups with
      health providers, PrEP users, and peer educators/community health workers at multiple points
      in time.This project will be implemented in a 'real life' or 'real world' setting where there
      will be no control or comparison arms. However, pregnant women at enrolment and female
      participants who become pregnant during project implementation, who choose to continue on
      PrEP will be enrolled in a sub-group and followed through 12 months post-partum.

      Activities to be undertaken prior and during project implementation:

        -  HIV prevention packages, provider training, quality management and service delivery
           guidelines and standard operating guidelines will be developed.

        -  PrEP eligibility and screening tools for target populations will be piloted and
           validated prior to project implementation. For young women, a test of understanding will
           be additionally administered to screen for eligibility.

        -  Community sensitization and demand creation activities will be conducted prior to and
           during implementation. Existing peer educators for FSW and MSM from each site will reach
           out to these populations through hot spots. For young women at high HIV risk, outreach
           activities will be done by peer educators and community health volunteers (CHVs) through
           1) community-based organizations which work with young women (such as youth groups,
           organised social gatherings [chamas], [government administrative meetings such as chief
           barazas] 2) political leaders such as women representatives 3) existing services
           reaching sexually active young women such as family planning, maternal-child health
           (MCH) 4) community radio and 5) anywhere that young women gather such as water points.

        -  To ensure adherence to good participatory practice guidelines (GPP) that outline
           community engagement in clinical and research activities, a national community advisory
           board (CAB) and community advisory committees (CAC) at each project site will be formed.
           The CAB and CACs will participate in the development and execution of demand creation
           activities, development of community education materials, peer education and
           mobilization, strategy development, project design, implementation and advocacy.

      Project procedures:

      At the screening visit, eligible and willing participants will be provided with full
      information about PrEP, results of efficacy trials, known side effects and potential adverse
      events, and daily dosing schedule. They will receive counselling on adherence to PrEP
      including discussions between PrEP users and service providers on developing new routines and
      cues as a way to facilitate good adherence. They will also receive detailed information about
      the project, including the number and sequence of project visits, procedures at each visit,
      use of MEMS Caps, and the option to discontinue PrEP use during the course of the project.
      They will also be counselled on available combination prevention strategies such as condom
      use and provided with free condoms. Participants will also be informed that PrEP will only be
      available for 12 months.

      Willing participants will sign an informed consent form, and complete a survey questionnaire
      to provide baseline information on their demographics, sexual risk behaviours, risk
      perceptions, medical history, alcohol and drug use, contraceptive use, fertility intentions,
      and use of other combination HIV prevention services. They will receive HIV testing and
      counselling (HTC), tests for Hepatitis B surface antigen, STI syndromic screening and
      management as well as testing for gonorrhoea, blood draw for creatinine level and pregnancy
      test where applicable. Individuals who test HIV positive are ineligible for the project and
      will be referred to care and treatment according to standard practice. Pregnant women and
      women who become pregnant during the project implementation will be enrolled in a pregnancy
      sub group, upon their consent. Those who decline participation will receive referrals to
      prenatal care.

      Participants will return to the project site after 14 days (2 weeks), for an enrolment visit
      where they will receive a one month PrEP prescription, a HIV re-test and counselling on
      adherence, side effects, and available supportive interventions. Participants will be asked
      to return after 2 weeks for assessment of adherence and side effects. They will then return
      to the site for the first follow up visit (1 month after enrollment visit) where they will
      receive the following services: counselling on HIV risk behaviours, adherence, side
      effects/experience with PrEP, HTC, pregnancy test (for women), creatinine level test, STI
      syndromic screening and management, gonorrhoea test, drug level testing, and PrEP
      prescription for one month (with refills from pharmacy at months 2 and 3). Every 10th
      participant will complete a quantitative survey at exit.

      Participants will then return to the site for a quarterly visit at months 4, 7, and 10 after
      enrolment. The services provided during these visit will be similar to those at the first
      follow up visit. Participants who display high adherence will be provided with a 3 months'
      supply of PrEP. Those who need close monitoring will be provided with a one month's supply
      and will return for pharmacy refills monthly.

      Participants will finally return for an exit visit, 12 months after enrolment. They will
      receive services similar to those at enrolment. They will also complete an exit survey, and
      discuss post project PrEP access with the health provider.

      Individuals who want to discontinue PrEP use will be allowed to do so, and asked to consent
      for in depth interview to discuss their experience and decision to stop. Those who display
      poor adherence will be discontinued from PrEP. Those who sero-convert will be referred to
      care and treatment services as per standard practice.

      Key strategies for retention will include 1) follow up of participants by peer educators and
      community health volunteers, 2) using text messages for appointment reminders and adherence
      support 3) enrolling participants in support groups, and 4) adherence buddies.

      Indepth interviews with PrEP users and health providers, focus group discussions with peer
      educators, CHWs, and support group members will be conducted at Months 1, 6 and 12. The
      actual cost of implementing HIV combination prevention that includes PrEP will be collected
      throughout the project implementation period.

      Ethical considerations observed in the implementation of this project include protocol
      approval by KEMRI ethics research committee, informed consent for participants,
      confidentiality of participants and their data and ensuring safety of participants.
    
  