
    
      V-TRACTS plans to assess up to 110 post-9/11 Veterans. This clinical demonstration project
      may be conducted primarily (1) using a VA telehealth or online delivery system to meet the
      needs of remote Veterans or those who are unable to attend sessions on campus, as well as to
      maximize access to care during COVID-19 and thereafter or (2) in person at VA, when possible
      and preferable to the Veteran. The investigators will use a multidimensional but condensed
      version of the comprehensive TRACTS Core B (VABHS IRB #2354) evaluation. This condensed and
      efficient assessment will be used to develop a standard quantitative analytic to characterize
      each Veteran's risk for poor functional outcome and to determine his/her rehabilitation
      needs. For the intervention, the investigators propose to offer various telehealth assessment
      and treatment options to each Veteran assessed or to refer on to VA clinical service, as
      appropriate. There are three research-based treatments and an additional brief cognitive
      assessment included in this protocol that may be offered at the feedback appointment. First,
      is a Brief Assessment of Thinking, which is a neuropsychological/cognitive assessment that
      will be conducted to gather information about functioning in the areas of memory, attention,
      and thinking, if appropriate. Second, is STEP-Home-Brief, which is an innovative, integrated,
      transdiagnostic rehabilitation workshop that targets each individual Veteran's area(s) of
      weakness identified by the assessment, if appropriate. STEP-Home-Brief provides a
      patient-centered, transdiagnostic treatment approach and can be delivered via telehealth or
      in-person. STEP-Home-Brief also provides an introduction to a destigmatized "mental health"
      intervention that has been demonstrated to act as a gateway to further VA treatment
      engagement. Third, is an At-Home Exercise program, if appropriate, which will provide
      Veterans with an at-home, 5-week program targeting cardiovascular health and endurance.
      Fourth, the investigators may offer referrals to the experimental 12-week STEP-Home workshop
      (VABHS IRB #3210). Fifth, the investigators may offer referrals to clinical programs, as
      appropriate. These referrals include but are not limited to Polytrauma, Center for Returning
      Veterans, Whole Health, PTSD, Mental Health, Vocational Rehabilitation, and Neurology. The
      decision as to which type of treatment would best meet the needs of individual Veterans will
      be informed by a consensus of the V-TRACTS clinical team. It will be the Veteran's choice
      whether he/she wants to participate in any one or more of the cognitive assessment or
      rehabilitation options. These options are available sequentially or concurrently.
    
  