
    
      This study is a prospective, randomized (1:1), controlled multisite study of MBSR in 180
      veterans with PTSD. The investigators will compare the clinical outcomes of MBSR to a
      credible group therapy control condition called Present Centered Group Therapy (PCGT). The
      investigators will to evaluate the efficacy of MBSR in the treatment of PTSD, as defined by
      the Clinician Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS), a gold standard measure that is clinically
      relevant to PTSD. The CAPS will be rated by a trained assessor who is blind to the whether or
      not the participant receives the MBSR or PCGT intervention. Secondarily, the investigators
      will evaluate the effects of MBSR on mindfulness, depression, PTSD symptom clusters, rates of
      response and evaluate the safety and tolerability of MBRS. The investigators will also
      explore the subjects' acceptance of and satisfaction with MBSR, whether or not the subjects'
      treatment preference influences outcome; the stress-immunological-biomarkers as they relate
      to treatment outcome; and the durability of therapeutic effects of MBSR in the treatment of
      PTSD.

      Study Design Overview: Male and female subjects from Active Duty, Reserves, National Guard
      and/or Veterans with a diagnosis of PTSD will be prospectively randomized 1:1 to receive
      either MBSR Group therapy or Present Centered Therapy (PCGT) Group (control) for 8 weeks. A
      cluster of at least 12 participants will be randomized individually to either MBRS or PCGT
      group therapies, which results in at least 6 participants in each intervention group. A total
      of 30 groups (15 MBSR Groups and 15 PCGT Groups) are anticipated across three clinical
      research sites involving at least three different MBSR and three different PCGT
      instructors/therapists. Outcome assessments (single-blind CAPS and self-report measures) will
      be obtained at baseline, week 3, week 6, and week 9 (primary endpoint). These assessments
      will be repeated post-acute treatment at week 16 as an exploratory measure of short-term
      durability effects.
    
  