
    
      Conduct a multisite feasibility trial for the iAmHealthy intervention with two randomized
      controlled recruitment options (consecutive recruitment and traditional recruitment). We will
      examine retention, dose, and blinding that will inform the development of a larger,
      treatment-outcome fully powered randomized controlled trial (RCT) of the iAmHealthy
      behavioral intervention in the ISPCTN.

      The study team will perform the iAmHealthy trial will be performed in four ISPCTN
      site-awardee states. Specifically, the study team will perform the iAmHealthy trial in one
      clinic per state.

      Randomization of recruitment options occurs at the clinic level. Each clinic, in a randomly
      ordered sequence, will implement two methods of recruitment. Recruitment of Participants, for
      more detail on the two methods of recruitment.

      Randomization of participants into intervention arms will occur at the individual level.

      Newsletter-only Intervention Arm

      Child/caregiver pairs in the newsletter-only intervention arm will receive:

        -  usual care at their clinic for all issues, including overweight and obesity;

        -  a monthly newsletter that focuses on general child health. The child/caregiver pairs
           will receive six newsletters (one per month) during the six month intervention period.

      iAmHealthy Behavioral Intervention Arm

      Child/caregiver pairs in the iAmHealthy behavioral intervention arm will receive:

        -  usual care at their clinic for all issues, including overweight and obesity;

        -  a monthly newsletter that focuses on general child health. The child/caregiver pairs
           will receive six newsletters (one per month) during the six month intervention period
           (same newsletter provided to the newsletter-only intervention participants);

        -  weekly group sessions for the first three months, followed by monthly group sessions
           during the next three months, for a total of 15 group sessions. The trial's iAmHealthy
           behavioral intervention psychologist or social worker (one team per clinic) will deliver
           these group sessions via an electronic tablet that the trial sponsor will supply;

        -  11 hours of individual "homework" sessions with the iAmHealthy behavioral intervention
           dietician.

      The iAmHealthy behavioral intervention psychologists/social worker will individualize group
      sessions and the iAmHealthy behavioral intervention dietician will adapt individual sessions
      by focusing on local cultural, religious, and ethnic factors relevant to the recommended
      changes in eating and activity habits. The iAmHealthy behavioral intervention includes 26
      contact hours (15 hours of group sessions and 11 hours of individual sessions).

      This feasibility trial will provide information toward the implementation of a fully powered,
      multisite, randomized behavior intervention trial that will compare the effectiveness of the
      iAmHealthy behavioral intervention to a newsletter-only intervention for the treatment of
      obesity among rural and underserved children and their primary caregivers.
    
  