
    
      When initiating this study there were many ARV medications and combination regimens available
      to treat HIV-infected people. However, the number of ARV medications that had been studied in
      HIV-infected pregnant women for the prevention of mother-to-child transmission was limited.
      Although HIV-infected pregnant women who began taking ARV medications late in their
      pregnancies required effective therapy to reduce the risk of transmitting HIV to their
      children, there were no published data available that compared the effects of non-nucleoside
      reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTI) and integrase inhibitors (which are two classes of
      ARV medications) in pregnant women. The purpose of this study was to compare the safety,
      tolerability, and virologic responses to two different medication regimens, each of which
      included an NNRTI or integrase inhibitor, in pregnant HIV-infected women who began ARV
      therapy late in their pregnancies (i.e., had gestational age between 20 and 36 weeks).

      This study was originally opened under IMPAACT P1081, protocol version 2.0 (version 1.0 never
      opened to accrual) as a three arm study. However, IMPAACT P1081 was closed due to slow
      accrual, at which point NICHD took over the study, streamlined it to two arms, and reopened
      it as NICHD P1081 under protocol Version 3.0. Women who enrolled under IMPAACT P1081 (N=20)
      and were randomized to one of the two continuing arms (efavirenz- or raltegravir-based ART;
      N=14) were included in NICHD P1081, while IMPAACT P1081 women randomized to the dropped arm
      (lopinavir/ritonavir-based ART; N=6) were not eligible for inclusion in NICHD P1081.

      In this study HIV-infected pregnant women were randomly assigned to one of two arms. Women in
      Arm A received lamivudine 150 mg/zidovudine 300 mg twice a day and efavirenz 600 mg each
      night. Women in Arm B received lamivudine 150 mg/zidovudine 300 mg twice a day and
      raltegravir 400 mg twice a day. All women were scheduled to receive their assigned
      medications from study entry through delivery. Antepartum study visits were scheduled at
      entry and Weeks 1, 2, and 4; and thereafter, every two weeks until labor and delivery. Study
      visits included a medical history review, physical examination, questionnaires, blood
      collection, and a vaginal swab procedure.

      While women were in labor, they were scheduled to continue to receive their study
      medications. Some women may have received additional or alternate medications according to
      local standard of care/guidelines. Women had a physical examination and blood collection at
      the delivery visit. After delivery, some women continued to receive ARV medications according
      to the local guidelines, and could have received study ARV for up to eight weeks postpartum
      while they transitioned to the ARV regimen indicated per their local standard of care. Women
      were scheduled to attend study visits following delivery at Weeks 2, 6, 16, and 24, which
      included a medical history review, physical examination, and blood collection. Select visits
      were scheduled to include a vaginal swab procedure. Some women had vaginal specimens stored
      for future research.

      Infants delivered on study were scheduled to receive ARV medications as prescribed by the
      babies' doctors per local standard of care/guidelines. Study visits for infants were
      scheduled at birth, and at Weeks 2, 6, 16, and 24. Each study visit included a medical
      history review, physical examination, and blood collection. Select visits included oral and
      nasopharyngeal swab collection.Some infants had oral and/or nasopharyngeal specimens stored
      for future research.
    
  