
    
      Today, 80% of antimicrobial prescribing takes place in the community by general practitioners
      (GPs). Ireland is one of only three countries in Europe where the level of outpatient
      antimicrobial prescribing is increasing. Within this context, the inappropriate and
      overprescription of antimicrobials by GPs is a recognized factor contributing to the spread
      of AMR. The Guidelines for Antimicrobial Prescribing in Primary Care in Ireland provide
      advice on the selection of antimicrobial drugs for common infections and recommend the use of
      specific antimicrobials, with reserved drugs for more serious infections. However, despite
      the widespread availability of these guidelines, recent research has identified that less
      than 40% of outpatient prescriptions for urinary tract infections (UTIs) are made out
      according to first-line recommendations.

      Urinary tract infections are predominantly caused by a bacteria; Escherichia coli, and are
      generally treated empirically, prior to the results of antimicrobial susceptibility testing.
      Antimicrobial resistance is now a critical factor in the treatment of UTIs, the second most
      common bacterial infection in primary care.

      Social marketing is the conceptual framework that guided the development of this
      intervention. Formative (qualitative) research explored the culture of antimicrobial
      prescribing from both the GP's and the patient's perspective. Through a series of interviews
      with GPs (n = 15) and focus groups with patients (n = 35), the predictors of a GP's decision
      to prescribe an antimicrobial and the patient's expectation to receive an antimicrobial were
      explored.

      The aim of SIMPle was to design, implement and evaluate the effectiveness of a complex
      intervention on GP antimicrobial prescribing and adult (18 years of age and over) patients'
      antimicrobial consumption when presenting with a suspected UTI. The primary outcome was to
      increase the number of first-line antimicrobial prescriptions, as recommended in the
      Guidelines for Antimicrobial Prescribing in Primary Care in Ireland (2011), for suspected
      UTIs in primary care by 10% in adult patients.

      Methods The cluster for this intervention is the practice, and all GPs within each practice
      will be invited to participate. The baseline population for recruitment of patients will be
      formed by all practices in the West of Ireland who submit urine samples to the Galway
      University Hospitals (GUH) laboratory. The most popular patient management software system
      was chosen, because the SIMPle study builds on remote data extraction, the provision of audit
      and feedback reports and computer prompts integrated within the GP's patient management
      software system. This study will be undertaken in four phases: Phase 1, baseline data
      collection; Phase 2, GP intervention; Phase 3, patient intervention and Phase 4, endpoint
      data collection. Computerized remote data extraction is facilitated by the Irish Primary Care
      Research Network (iPCRN) and patient data are identified through the appropriate coding of
      suspected UTI consultations in the patient management software system. To promote and
      encourage consultation coding, which is currently not routine practice, the intervention will
      be preceded by a coding workshop at the beginning of Phase 1. All practices will be required
      to register with the iPCRN during or before the coding workshop. Practices will be monitored
      for two months after the delivery of the workshop to establish uptake of coding, whilst also
      facilitating a baseline data collection period (Phase 1). Phase 2 will begin with an
      interactive workshop (intervention arms A and B), which will introduce the intervention
      components specific to each arm. Phase 3 will see the roll-out of the patient education in
      all of the practices. The antimicrobial prescribing within each practice will be monitored
      for six months during Phases 2 and 3 through audit and feedback reports. Evaluation of the
      impact of the intervention will be carried out in Phase 4.

      All patients are eligible if aged 18 years and over and presenting with symptoms of an UTI,
      as determined by the GP through the consultation coding.

      Previous research has established that 56% of UTI patients receive an antimicrobial, with
      only 38% of prescription made out for the recommended first-line treatment.

      Sample size calculations are based on an absolute 10% increase in first-line prescriptions
      according to guidelines (primary outcome). Additional assumptions for sample size
      calculations include power of 80% and α of 5%, Practice attrition is dependent on the
      completeness of consultation coding, which will be monitored and corrected during Phase 1.
    
  