
    
      Objectives: The primary purpose of this pilot study is to evaluate the feasibility and
      acceptability of a reciprocal peer support pain self-management intervention (CONNECT) for
      women Veterans with chronic musculoskeletal pain. The primary hypothesis states that the
      post-treatment and long-term follow-up retention rates will not be less than 80% which is the
      lowest rate obtained in a behavioral pain trial and comparable to peer support interventions.
      Several secondary feasibility and acceptability hypotheses are proposed and include: a) rates
      of successful dyad connection will be greater than or equal to 80%, b) nightly assessment
      completion rates will meet or exceed the previously established 85% completion rate, c)
      reported rates of skill practice will meet or exceed 65% consistent with other behavioral
      pain trials, d) mean intervention satisfaction and credibility ratings will meet or exceed
      80% d) 80% or more of participants will report favorable ratings of their peer. A responder
      analysis will also be completed to determine the percentage of participants who report
      clinically meaningful reductions in pain intensity and pain interference (as measured by the
      Brief Pain Inventory- Short Form) and depressive symptoms (as defined by a reduction of 5 or
      more points on the Patient Health Questionnaire-8). Additional qualitative objectives will
      solicit participant opinions of candidate control conditions for a future trial.

      Research Design: A non-randomized pilot design will be employed. All eligible and interested
      participants will participate in a week-long behavioral run-in period. Those who successfully
      navigate it will receive CONNECT. Repeated assessments of key outcome domains will occur at
      baseline, and at 10 and 22 weeks after intervention start.

      Methodology: Participants will be 45 women Veterans with chronic musculoskeletal pain
      receiving care at the VA Connecticut Healthcare System and VA Central Western Massachusetts.
      Interested and eligible Veterans will be verbally consented before participating in a brief
      telephone based qualitative interview and a 1-week behavioral run-in period designed to mimic
      demands of the intervention/study. Women who successfully navigate the run-in (estimate n=30)
      will participate in a telephone orientation with their peer and proceed through the 8-week
      CONNECT intervention. Together, pairs will learn one new pain coping skill each week,
      participate in a graduated walking program (using a study provided pedometer), and set
      meaningful activity goals. They will provide reinforcement and support for these activities
      via text messages and 1 weekly (15 minute call). Study staff will provide periodic feedback
      on their progress.
    
  