
    
      Early stage breast cancer is typically treated with surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy,
      and/or endocrine therapy. Following treatment, 25-60% of breast cancer survivors have
      reported chronic pain, which can be difficult to manage. Duloxetine is a serotonin
      norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor that is FDA approved for treatment of depression, anxiety,
      fibromyalgia, diabetic neuropathic pain, knee arthritis, and low back pain.

      Data from a randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial of duloxetine demonstrated that it
      is effective in management of both aromatase inhibitor-associated musculoskeletal pain and
      chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain. In this mechanistic study, we investigated the change
      in pain sensitivity with treatment in order to evaluate both why duloxetine is effective for
      management of pain for some patients, as well as predictors of who is likely to benefit from
      duloxetine. The original protocol was designed as a randomized, placebo-controlled cross-over
      trial, with planned enrollment of a total of 84 women with early stage breast cancer who have
      chronic pain following treatment, as well as 48 women who are pain free. However because of
      challenges with logistics of the protocol and pain testing, the trial was redesigned after
      only 7 patients with pain were enrolled. The new design was a single arm trial, and all
      patients with pain were treated with duloxetine (no placebo); there was still a non-treatment
      comparator arm of patients without pain. Patients were enrolled first at the University of
      Michigan and then the University of Utah. A total of 39 patients with pain and 43 controls
      without pain were enrolled before the trial closed to enrollment. All subjects underwent
      assessment of pain sensitivity and completed questionnaires. Subjects with pain were treated
      with duloxetine for a total of 7 weeks, with pain sensitivity assessments before treatment
      and after 4 weeks of full-dose treatment. The data from the control patients (who did not
      receive any study medication) are being compared to those from the patients with pain to
      understand more about the differences between patients who do and do not experience
      treatment-related pain, and to interpret the post-intervention patient-reported and pain
      assessment results.
    
  