
    
      Primary Objective:

      1. To evaluate the safety and feasibility of long term boost vaccinations of a lethally
      irradiated, allogeneic pancreatic tumor cell vaccine transfected with the GM-CSF gene given
      alone or in combination with either a single intravenous dose or daily metronomic oral doses
      of cyclophosphamide for the treatment of patients with surgically resected adenocarcinoma of
      the head, neck, or uncinate process of the pancreas.

      Secondary Objective:

        1. To assess the effect of boost vaccinations and long-term treatment of immune modulating
           doses of cyclophosphamide on the number, repertoire and avidity of peripheral
           mesothelin-specific CD8+ T cells.

        2. To estimate disease-free and overall survival of surgically resected pancreatic
           adenocarcinoma patients treated with vaccine boosts with or without low dose
           cyclophosphamide.

      Eligible subjects will receive by intradermal administration the pancreatic tumor vaccine
      consisting of two irradiated, allogeneic pancreatic tumor cell lines transfected with the
      granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) gene with or without low dose
      cyclophosphamide. Study participants will be recruited from our prior three arm neoadjuvant
      vaccination with or without low dose cyclophosphamide trial and vaccine naive patients. The
      vaccination boosts will be offered as a continuation of care.

      Patients from the J0810 study will remain on the same arm as the J0810 study where they have
      received the parental vaccine. The first vaccine boost will be given no sooner than six
      months after the last prime vaccination. The vaccine will be administered for all arms once
      every six months after the previous vaccine until five years have passed and then once every
      12 months until 10 years have passed, the subject no longer meets the eligibility criteria,
      no longer wishes to participate in the study, or the vaccine supply is exhausted. Arm A
      participants will receive the pancreatic cancer vaccine alone. Arm B participants will be
      vaccinated and receive a single low-dose of cyclophosphamide (200 mg/m2) intravenously one
      day prior to vaccination. Participants in Arm C will receive cyclophosphamide 50 mg once a
      day starting from 28 days prior to day 1 of vaccination till 28 days post vaccination.

      Vaccine naive patients will first receive three prime vaccines each one month apart and each
      in combination with a single low-dose of cyclophosphamide (200 mg/m2)intravenously one day
      prior to vaccination. Then they will receive the boost vaccines as the participant in Arm B
      from the J0810 study.
    
  