
    
      This study is a multi-center, randomized, controlled open-label study designed to evaluate
      the safety and effectiveness of Affinity fresh amniotic membrane plus standard of care
      therapy (SOC) versus SOC in the treatment of diabetic foot ulcers.

      The standard of care therapy in this study is offloading of the DFU, appropriate sharp or
      surgical debridement, and aggressive infection management. A number of offloading systems are
      commercially available. The choice of offloading will be at the discretion of the Principal
      Investigator but should be total contact casting, fixed ankle walker boot, or equivalent
      device to the fixed ankle walker boot.

      The study will have two phases: Screening and Treatment.

      The Screening Phase (1 -14 days) is designed to determine whether subjects are eligible to
      proceed to the Treatment Phase of the study and consists of a series of screening assessments
      designed to determine eligibility. At the first Screening Phase Visit, the Investigator will
      select the study (target) ulcer. Each subject will have only one DFU selected as the study
      (target) ulcer. In the situation in which a subject has more than one DFU at the S1 visit,
      the Investigator will select the largest DFU that meets the eligibility criteria of the
      protocol as the study (target) ulcer. Subjects whose target ulcer has been treated with SOC
      for 2 weeks are eligible to enter the treatment phase immediately once all of the inclusion
      and exclusion criteria are met. If the ulcer has not received SOC, the subject should be
      placed into SOC and enrolled in the study after 14 days of offloading.

      The Treatment Phase (12 weeks) begins with a series of assessments designed to confirm the
      subjects' continued eligibility. Investigators will debride the ulcer, if required. Subjects
      whose ulcers continue to meet eligibility criteria will then be randomized to 1 of 2 groups:
      (1) standard of care plus weekly application of fHSAM for up to 4 weeks and thereafter per
      treatment guidelines (2) standard of care. During the Treatment Phase, subjects will be
      evaluated on a weekly basis. Efficacy evaluations each week will include Investigator
      assessment of ulcer healing and measurements of ulcer size using digital photos. Safety
      evaluations during the Treatment Phase will consist of adverse event assessments at each
      visit. Subject will be seen weekly (± 3 days) until the ulcer is healed or study exit if the
      study ulcer area has not been reduced by at least 40% within 6 weeks, or 1 week after last
      application treatment week 12.
    
  