
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To improve overall survival in patients with relapse of NHL or CLL/SLL/PLL within 180 days
      after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Rate of response (complete response [CR], partial response [PR], or stable disease [SD])
      and time to progression.

      II. Grade III-IV toxicity.

      III. Incidences of grades II-IV acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and limited or
      extensive chronic GVHD.

      IV. Compare efficacy and safety between the first, second and third cohorts.

      V. Laboratory research studies for efficacy and toxicity: blood samples will be stored at
      baseline, day 7, and day 28 of cycle 1 and day 28 of cycle 3 to investigate:

        1. changes in plasma cytokines and peripheral blood lymphocytes in correlation to treatment
           with lenalidomide;

        2. pharmacokinetics of rituximab;

        3. donor and host polymorphisms of the FCgamma RIIIa receptor and their impact on disease
           response and relapse.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients who have relapsed/progressed within 180 days post-transplant (Cohort 1),
      beyond day 180 post-transplant (Cohort 2), or within 6 months but were not started within 3
      months of relapse, receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 (patients
      with CLL/SLL/PLL) or days 1-21 (patients with NHL). Patients in Cohorts 1 and 2 also receive
      rituximab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of course 1 and then every two months
      for courses 3, 5, 7, 9, and 11.

      ARM II: Patients who have relapsed/progressed at any time point post-transplant and who have
      contraindications, prior severe hypersensitivity reaction to rituximab infusion, to receive
      rituximab or have CD20 negative disease (Cohort 3) receive lenalidomide as in Arm I.

      Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 and 60 days and then
      every 3 months for up to 18 months.
    
  