
    
      This is an open-label, non-randomized phase II trial of durvalumab in combination with
      platinum-based doublet chemotherapy. Patients with stage IV NSCLC with HIV (cohort 1) or
      HBV/HCV (cohort 2) infection will be eligible. Patients will receive standard chemotherapy
      plus durvalumab (1500 mg Q3W) every three weeks for 4 cycles, followed by maintenance
      treatment with durvalumab (1500 mg Q4W; with or without pemetrexed for non-squamous NSCLC per
      the discretion of the investigator).

      Patient will be enrolled into the trial using an optimal two-stage phase II trial design. If
      0 of the 7 achieved a response, no further patients will be enrolled in that cohort. If 1 or
      more of the first 7 patients has a response, accrual would continue until a total of 18
      patients have been enrolled in that cohort. Objective response will be evaluated using the
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. Safety and tolerability will be
      evaluated by assessing the incidence of treatment-related grade 3 or higher AEs.
      Treatment-related grade 3 or higher AEs will be defined as any grade 3 or higher AEs that
      occur during the first 42 days of treatment and are related to the study treatment. AEs will
      be evaluated using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0.

      Subjects will receive 4 cycles of combination treatment: durvalumab (1500 mg every 3 weeks)
      in combination with platinum-based doublet chemotherapy. The platinum-based doublet
      chemotherapies (carboplatin plus paclitaxel/nab-paclitaxel vs. pemetrexed plus
      carboplatin/cisplatin) are dependent on the tumor histology of the subject (squamous vs.
      non-squamous). Only subjects who achieve stable disease or better radiological response after
      4 cycles of induction treatment will be eligible to continue study treatment in maintenance.
      The choice to treat non-squamous subjects with pemetrexed maintenance after the 4 induction
      cycles will be determined by the investigator.
    
  