
    
      This is a prospective registry study to evaluate the diagnostic utility of 18F-DCFPyL DWB
      PET/MRI to stage patients with high risk prostate cancer who will subsequently under go
      radical prostatectomy.

      Eligible subjects will undergo a 18F-DCFPyL DWB PET/MRI at the University of British Columbia
      (UBC) - Vancouver, Djavad Mowafaghian Centre for Brain Health where the UBC PET/MRI is
      located. Each subject will receive a 18F-DCFPyL PET/MRI DWB scan at the UBC centre, as part
      of this research study. Each study subject will receive a bolus intravenous dose of
      18F-DCFPyL. The subject will be placed on the PET/MRI scanner for a dynamic whole body PET
      scan. Then after a brief break off the scanner, they will return to the scanner for the
      standard whole body PET/MRI scan.

      The PET/MRI scan will take approximately 3.5 hours of patient time above and beyond the time
      needed for standard of care.

      Medical History Questionnaire: Demographic and medical history data will be collected either
      in person before the PET scan appointment or by mail or phone, whichever is the most
      convenient to the subject.

      Follow-up assessments: All subjects will be contacted by phone the day after the injection of
      18F-DCFPyL. The subjects will be asked if they experienced any undesirable effects during the
      12 hours after the administration of 18F-DCFPyL. The local site attending nuclear medicine
      physician will then make an assessment as to whether these effects are likely related to
      18F-DCFPyL administration.

      All subjects will be followed for 5 years following the 18F-DCFPyLPET/CT exam to assess the
      presence of recurrence. The evaluation will include a chart review of available imaging,
      laboratory tests, and treatment. The data required can be obtained from a review of the
      patient's paper and electronic charts, supplemented by telephone contact as needed to
      complete the information.
    
  