
    
      RCTs and non-randomized controlled studies comparing preoperative selective alpha-blockade
      (SAB) with nonselective alpha-blockade (NAB) in pheochromocytoma surgery in adults were
      eligible for inclusion.

      All identified articles will be screened by title and abstract. Two independent reviewers
      will review potentially relevant articles in detail. Dissent will be resolved by consensus
      and the recommendation of a third observer as required. Data from the included studies will
      be extracted independently by the two researchers. The Meta-analysis Of Observational Studies
      in Epidemiology (MOOSE) guidelines will be used for reporting.

      Quality of Assessment The Risk Of Bias In Non-randomized Studies - of Interventions
      (ROBINS-I) tool will be used to assess the quality of included non-randomized studies. The
      risk of bias of randomized studies will be assessed using the criteria described in the
      Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions .The quality of each study will be
      assessed by two of the authors. In the event of uncertainties regarding the levels of the
      studies' quality, a third reviewer will be consulted.

      Analysis will be performed using RevMan (Version 5.3, freeware from the Cochrane
      Collaboration). Odds ratios and their associated 95% confidence intervals will be pooled for
      dichotomous outcomes using the Mantel-Haenszel random-effects method. Continuous outcomes
      will be pooled as weighted mean difference (WMD) with 95 per cent confidence interval using
      the inverse-variance random-effects method. WMD and OR will be presented on the graphs as
      squares, and pooled WMD and OR will be presented as diamond.

      P ≤ 0.05 will be considered a statistically significant difference for hypothesis and P <
      0.10 for heterogeneity testing, respectively.

      Heterogeneity between the studies will be estimated by statistical tests I2 and Cochran's Q
      tests.
    
  