
    
      Clinical Significance: Trazodone is an often-used medication in clinical sleep medicine.
      However, there is a dearth of information on side-effects with doses typically used for
      sleep. In addition, a significant proportion of the VA population have obstructive sleep
      apnea for which the primary treatment is positive airway therapy. However, many patients have
      difficulty adhering to this treatment long-term. Increased adherence to this modality has
      been shown to improve risk for cardiovascular and neurologic co-morbidity associated with
      obstructive sleep apnea. This project explores both the tolerability and safety of common
      doses of trazodone used in clinical sleep practice as well explores potential effects on
      positive airway pressure therapy adherence.

      Objectives: This project seeks to determine the tolerability and multi-domain effect on sleep
      and mood of a 14 day course of trazodone at either 50 mg or 100 mg or placebo.

      Research Plan: This is a three-group, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial with
      prospective data collection of VA outpatient sleep clinic patients with obstructive sleep
      apnea with who are non-adherent or newly started on auto-titrating positive airway pressure
      therapy. Evaluation focuses on medication tolerability as measured by number of days before
      study drug discontinuation by the participant, the Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for
      Medication, the side-effect profile at the two doses (50mg and 100mg) compared to placebo as
      well as longitudinal collection of adherence data and standardized questionnaires on
      sleepiness, insomnia, depression, anxiety, and self-efficacy. The investigators also plan to
      longitudinally monitor coefficient of variation of breath-to-breath tidal volume, a measure
      of respiratory mechanics which may be affected by trazodone use. Study participants will have
      2 visits at baseline and 2 weeks after randomization.

      Methodology: This study will be conduced in the Louis Stokes Cleveland Medical Center - Wade
      Park Sleep Clinic, a tertiary institutional referral facility. Participants must be adults
      with obstructive sleep apnea prescribed auto-titrating positive airway therapy who are either
      newly initiated or do not fulfill standard criteria for adherence and do not have allergy to
      trazodone; current use of trazodone, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, or sedative hypnotics;
      alcohol or drug abuse; severe psychiatric disease; epilepsy; significant cardiac disease;
      liver disease; pregnancy; hypotension; or predisposition to priapism. Study staff will
      interview the potential participant and do a review of the medical record for exclusion
      criteria before consent is obtained. The investigators expect to recruit 45 participants into
      the study with a 20% attrition rate before completion. Hypothesis about the tolerability of
      trazodone and effect on positive airway therapy adherence was prespecified.
    
  