
    
      Individuals with HCV and HIV coinfection are especially hard to treat, and as a result,
      account for a high rate of deaths each year. Because HCV and HIV share transmission routes,
      HCV/HIV coinfection is common. Liver disease has emerged as a significant cause of death in
      individuals coinfected with HCV and HIV. Currently, the mechanisms by which HCV and HIV
      interact in HCV/HIV-coinfected individuals, including how these infections affect immune
      responses, are poorly understood. Research suggests that vaccination may prevent other
      comorbidities associated with HCV/HIV coinfection; however, responses to new vaccine antigens
      have been shown to be impaired in HCV or HIV-infected individuals. The purpose of this study
      is to identify the innate and adaptive immune defects present in HCV-infected, HIV-infected,
      and HCV/HIV-coinfected individuals. This study will evaluate whether these innate and
      adaptive immune defects predict responses to HBV neoantigen in the form of both a
      diphtheria/tetanus toxoid immunization (Decavac)and a hepatitis A-hepatitis B immunization
      (Twinrix).

      This study will last approximately 24 weeks. Participants will be stratified to one of three
      arms, based on their HCV and HIV status:

        -  Arm A will enroll HCV-infected individuals who are HIV-uninfected

        -  Arm B will enroll HIV-infected individuals who are HCV-uninfected

        -  Arm C will enroll HCV/HIV-coinfected individuals

      Arms B and C will open for enrollment before Arm A. Opening of enrollment for Arm A will be
      determined by the accrual progress of Arms B and C as evaluated by the ACTG Scientific Agenda
      Steering committee.

      All participants will receive Decavac vaccination on Day 0, and a Twinrix vaccination on Days
      0, 7, and 21. Study visits will occur around Days 0, 7, and 21, and at Weeks 6, 8, 12, and
      24; all visits will include medical and medication history, blood collection, and a physical
      exam. Medication to treat HCV or HIV will not be provided by the study.
    
  