
    
      The study is a randomised, multicentre, placebo-controlled, 2-arm, parallel group, phase III,
      intervention study. Following randomisation at visit 1, subjects will receive 20 weeks of
      treatment with niacin or placebo.

      The research question is: niacin therapy effective in lowering elevated Lipoprotein (Lp)(a)
      levels in comparison to placebo?

      Sample size calculation is based on the t test of equal means with unequal group size (ratio:
      treatment group / control group = 2:1). The significance level is α=0.05 and the power 90%.
      Assuming a drop-out rate of 20%, sample size is 100 in the niacin group and 50 in the placebo
      group.

      The active ingredient in the modified (prolonged, extended) release tablets is nicotinic
      acid, a B-complex vitamin. Modified release tablets containing 500 mg nicotinic acid, once
      daily for oral use, will be used.te of 20%, sample size is 100 in the niacin group and 50 in
      the placebo group.

      Subjects will be recruited consecutively in the participating lipid clinics.

      Subjects will be assessed at week -4 (run-in / wash-out), 0a+b (screening phase), 1, 5, 9,
      13, and 20. Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize continuous and categorical
      variables. Mean change of Lp(a) levels will be compared between treatment and placebo group.
      Subjects will be grouped according to treatment randomised (intention-to-treat, ITT
      population). For missing data, the last observation will be carried forward (LOCF).
      Comparisons between groups will be performed using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with
      treatment as a factor, adjusting for baseline Lp(a) levels and other potential confounders.

      Subgroup analyses will be performed according to Lp(a) phenotype, Lp(a) baseline level ( >
      30-60 mg/dl, > 60 mg/dl), and concurrent statin therapy (yes / no).

      Risks:

      Flushing is the most common side effect of niacin. Other side effects include
      gastrointestinal disorders (common) (diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, or
      dyspepsia) and cardiac disorders (uncommon) (tachycardia, palpitations). A reversible
      elevation of liver enzymes has been reported, as well as a decreased glucose tolerance,
      reductions in platelet counts, increases in prothrombin time, elevations in uric acid levels,
      and reductions in phosphorous levels (uncommon or rarely). Hypersensitivity reactions have
      been reported very rarely.

      Single reports on rhabdomyolysis in patients on combined therapy with niacin and HMG-CoA
      reductase inhibitors (statins) have been reported. Careful monitoring for any signs and
      symptoms of myopathy such as muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness is therefore required in
      the case of combination therapy.

      Benefit:

      Niacin has been shown to improve the lipid profile in patients with reductions in total
      cholesterol, LDL cholesterol and triglycerides and increases in HDL cholesterol. Niacin may
      also reduce elevated Lp(a) levels and may thus lower cardiovascular events in the long term.

      The following variables will be assessed prior randomisation: socio-demographic factors,
      physical examinations, medical history, concurrent medication, health-related quality of
      life, costs prior study entry, and lipid as well as other laboratory parameters. Lipid
      parameters include Lp(a), total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, and
      triglycerides.

      At follow-up, the respective laboratory analyses and physical examinations will be assessed
      at each visit. Subjects will be investigated with regard to safety and tolerability.
      Health-related quality of life and costs will be assessed at week 9 and 20.
    
  