
    
      Globally, cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death. Hypertension is the commonest
      risk factor underlying cardiovascular disease, and, uncontrolled, is a risk for myocardial
      infarction, heart failure, stroke and renal disease. Hypertension is common, affecting over 1
      billion people worldwide. In modern practice, failure to treat hypertension is regarded as
      poor medicine, and potentially indefensible.Hypertension remains a global health problem and
      one that is usually identified and treated in the primary health care setting. However, in
      South Africa, which is a resource-limited environment, it can burden an already strained
      primary health care system. The prevalence of hypertension in the adult population of South
      Africa is approximately 30%. With urbanisation, an ageing population, amongst other
      developing trends, this number is projected to increase significantly in the future.The
      perioperative period therefore presents a unique opportunity for clinicians to identify,
      educate and appropriately initiate or escalate management of these patients, thereby
      alleviating the burden on the primary health care system.

      A short-term quality improvement intervention has the potential to improve quality of care in
      cardiovascular disease, in a low- to middle-income country like South Africa. This can be
      done by educating health care providers and implementing a guideline which will lead to
      improved, standardised and sustained quality of care for patients with hypertension. This
      will lead to a reduction in blood pressure, and further improve long-term morbidity and
      mortality of patients, and ultimately reduce the burden on an already strained health care
      system. Such guidelines could be modified to address other public health care challenges.

      Within the African context, South Africans are recognised as being at a significant risk of
      cardiovascular disease, with the population having the highest prevalence of smoking,
      dyslipidemia, elevated fasting glucose and abdominal obesity, features of metabolic syndrome.

      Metabolic syndrome found in hypertensive patients increases their risk of morbidity and
      mortality. This, in addition to the added physiological stress of surgery, may dramatically
      increase cardiovascular risk and complications in this cohort.

      Prescribed medications for chronic conditions such as hypertension require a consistent level
      of patient compliance to the treatment regime. Compliance has been defined as "the extent to
      which a person's behaviour (in terms of taking medications, following diets or executing
      lifestyle changes) coincides with medical or health advice". Non-compliance can result in
      significant implications for not only the patient's health outcomes, but a considerable
      wastage of resources in an already limited setting. The World Health Organisation has
      highlighted the considerable economic and health benefits associated with improving
      compliance with treatments for conditions such as diabetes, hyperlipidaemia and hypertension.
      Similar to other non-communicable diseases, the ultimate goal of managing hypertension is
      achieve target control and prevent complications.The secondary aim of the HASS-2 study is to
      quantify the rates of compliance to antihypertensive medication following discharge from the
      patient's respective hospitals.
    
  