
    
      Macular edema (ME) is the most common structural complication and cause of visual impairment
      and legal blindness in uveitis patients. Traditional approaches to the treatment of uveitic
      ME have included the use of regional corticosteroid therapy, delivered periocularly,
      including posterior sub-Tenon's and orbital floor injections, or via the intravitreal route.
      While corticosteroid injections may reduce ME and improve vision, the effect is often
      variable with a limited duration. Persistent macular edema is a common occurrence and often
      requires repeated intravitreal injections of corticosteroids, which expose eyes to a
      significant risk of increased intraocular pressure ocular and cataract development. The often
      refractory nature of uveitic ME and its impact on visual function underscores the need to
      identify effective alternative medical therapeutic options. Recent pilot studies have shown
      intravitreal methotrexate (MTX) and intravitreal ranibizumab (Lucentis®, Genentech Inc., San
      Francisco, CA) to be promising treatments for uveitic ME, and intravitreal dexamethasone
      implant (Ozurdex®, Allergan, Irvine, CA) has recently been approved by the U.S. FDA for
      uveitic ME in patients with non-infectious uveitis. In addition to being effective,
      intravitreal MTX and ranibizumab potentially may have less ocular side effects than
      corticosteroids, particularly less IOP elevation. However, the relative efficacy of these
      treatments is unknown. The Macular Edema Ranibizumab v. Intravitreal anti-inflammatory
      Therapy (MERIT) Trial will compare the relative efficacy and safety of intravitreal
      methotrexate, ranibizumab, and dexamethasone implant. MERIT is a parallel design (1:1:1),
      randomized comparative effectiveness trial with an anniversary close-out at the 6 month
      clinic visit. The primary outcome is percent change in central subfield thickness from the
      baseline OCT measurement to the 12 week visit.
    
  