
    
      A human coronavirus (HCoV-19) has caused the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak
      worldwide. Common symptoms of COVID-19 include fever, cough, and shortness of breath. The
      majority of cases result in mild symptoms, but some can progress into pneumonia and
      multi-organ failure. According to the severity it is divided into mild, normal, severe and
      critically ill, which is associated with ICU admission and mortality. At present, the
      standard treatment of COVD-19 patients is oxygen therapy, mechanical ventilation, and
      medications to maintain blood pressure. As of today, no specific antiviral therapy is
      available for patients with COVID-19. Immune activation in some patients, and the appearance
      of cytokine storm syndrome (CSS) is one of the important causes of severe damage to lungs and
      other organs, which may lead to death. There is an urgent need to develop new interventions
      to suppress the excessive immune response in a timely manner during the course of disease,
      protect alveolar function, and reduce lung and systemic organ damage.

      Zofin is an acellular, minimally manipulated product, derived from human amniotic fluid
      (HAF). This product contains over 300 growth factors, cytokines, and chemokines as well as
      other extracellular vesicles/nanoparticles derived from amniotic stem and epithelial cells.
      The product contains a mean concentration of 5.24x10^11 particles/mL with a mean mode size of
      125.2nm. Surface marker analysis confirmed the presence of exosome associated proteins CD63,
      CD81, and CD9 in addition to high expression of CD133. The completed sequencing revealed 102
      commonly expressed miRNA (with a 100-copy expression minimum). Bioinformatics analysis linked
      63 miRNAs to 1216 RNA targets. Major players in the proinflammatory cytokine cascade found to
      be targeted by miRNA were discovered in Organicell's product include TNF, IL-6, and IL-8.
      Additionally, a broader array of pro-inflammatory cytokines is also targeted by the
      collection of miRNA such as FGF2, IFNB1, IGF1, IL36a, IL37, TGF-B2, VEGFA, CCL8, and CXCL12.
      It has been suggested in published research that inhibition or suppression of this
      pro-inflammatory cytokine cascade may reduce the severity of symptoms associated with
      elevated immune response. Furthermore, the miRNA was found to target 148 genes associated
      with immune response.

      The property of Zofin demonstrates the therapeutic potential as a suppressor of cytokine
      activation for the reduction of COVID-19 infection severity. This study aims to investigate
      safety and potential efficacy of HAF derived acellular product in subjects suffering form
      COVID-19 infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS).
    
  