
    
      Takeda Global Research & Development Center, Inc. is developing the compound TAK-442 as a
      candidate for the secondary prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients with acute
      coronary syndromes. TAK-442 is an oral inhibitor of activated factor X within the blood
      coagulation cascade.

      Due to its critical role in propagating the coagulation cascade, activated factor X is now
      considered to be a therapeutic aim in the development of anticoagulant drugs. Therefore
      activated factor X inhibitors, are among the agents under investigation as treatments for the
      spectrum of thromboembolic diseases involving either the arterial or the venous system.

      Short term anticoagulation is often used for the prevention of venous thromboembolism.
      Patients undergoing major orthopedic surgery are at particularly high risk of venous
      thromboembolism after surgery. Consequently, such patients are routinely given anticoagulant
      medication after surgery. Although parenteral (injectable) drugs, such as enoxaparin or
      fondaparinux, can be used for this indication, the need for subcutaneous injection is
      problematic once patients are discharged from hospital. With the push for shorter hospital
      stays, this issue is of increasing concern. Therefore, there is a need for new oral
      anticoagulants. Although warfarin can be used for out of hospital prophylaxis, the need for
      coagulation monitoring and dose adjustments complicates its use. The new oral anticoagulants
      have the potential to overcome this problem because they can be given in fixed doses without
      the need for coagulation monitoring.

      The purpose of the current study is to evaluate the antithrombotic effect of TAK-442 in
      patients undergoing elective total knee replacement surgery. This study will be the first
      TAK-442 trial in patients.

      Individuals who want to participate in this study will be required to provide written
      informed consent. Study participation is anticipated to be approximately 2.25 months.
      Multiple procedures will occur at each visit which may include fasting, blood collection,
      urine collection, physical examinations, electrocardiograms and bilateral venogram. Outside
      of the study center, participants randomized to enoxaparin will be required to administer
      study medication subcutaneously with a syringe.
    
  