
    
      Type 1 diabetes is commonly treated with the administration of insulin, either by multiple
      insulin injections or by a continuous supply of insulin through a wearable pump. Insulin
      therapy allows long-term survival in individuals with type 1 diabetes; however, it does not
      guarantee constant normal blood sugar control. Because of this, long-term type 1 diabetic
      survivors often develop vascular complications, such as diabetic retinopathy, an eye disease
      that can cause poor vision and blindness, and diabetic nephropathy, a kidney disease that can
      lead to kidney failure. Some individuals with type 1 diabetes develop hypoglycemia
      unawareness, a life-threatening condition that is not easily treatable with medication and is
      characterized by reduced or absent warning signals for hypoglycemia. For such individuals,
      pancreas or pancreatic islet transplantation are possible treatment options. Unfortunately,
      insulin independence among islet transplant recipients tends to decline over time. New
      strategies aimed at promoting engraftment of transplanted islets are needed to improve the
      clinical outcomes associated with this procedure. The purpose of this study is to determine
      the safety and efficacy of islet transplantation, when combined with an immunosuppressive
      medication regimen containing rituximab. This regimen is intended to treat type 1 diabetes in
      individuals experiencing hypoglycemia unawareness and severe hypoglycemic episodes. This
      study will also seek to improve the understanding of determinants of success and failure of
      islet transplants for type 1 diabetes.

      Eligible participants will be randomly assigned to this study or the Phase 3 islet
      transplantation study (DAIT CIT-07). Participants in this study will receive up to three
      separate islet transplants and a regimen of immunosuppressive medications consisting of
      antithymocyte globulin (ATG), sirolimus, and rituximab. They will begin receiving ATG,
      sirolimus, and rituximab 2 days prior to the first islet transplant. ATG will continue to be
      given until Day 2 post-transplant, and sirolimus will be given for the duration of the study.
      They will receive additional rituximab on Days 5 and 12 post-transplant.

      Transplantations will involve an inpatient hospital stay and infusion of islets into the
      portal vein. Participants who do not achieve or maintain insulin independence by Day 75
      post-transplant will be considered for a second islet transplant. Participants who remain
      dependent on insulin for longer than 1 month after the second transplant and who show partial
      graft function will be considered for a third islet transplant. Daclizumab or basiliximab
      will be used in place of ATG for the second and third transplants, if they are necessary.
      Participants who do not meet the criteria for a subsequent transplant and do not have a
      functioning graft will enter a reduced follow-up period.

      There will be approximately 15 study visits following each transplant. A physical exam,
      review of adverse events, and blood collection will occur at most visits. A chest x-ray,
      abdominal ultrasound, electrocardiogram, quality of life questionnaires, urine collection,
      and glomerular filtrating rate (GFR) testing will occur at some visits. Participants will
      also test their own blood glucose levels at least four times per day throughout the study. A
      12-month follow-up period will take place after the participant's last transplant.
    
  