
    
      Fluid administration during and after surgery is an essential part of postoperative care to
      maintain the patients' fluid and biochemical balance. Abdominal surgical procedures are
      associated with dehydration from preoperative fasting , bowel preparation, and intra- and
      postoperative fluid and electrolyte loss(1). So, perioperative fluid management has been a
      topic of much debate over years and has intensified especially over the past several years.
      The controversies include the type of fluid, the timing of administration and the volume
      administrated. Following much discussions and ongoing controversy on colloids versus
      crystalloids(2-5) and the ideal composition of the various intravenous solutions(6-8),the
      main focus more recently has been on the volume of fluids.

      Fluid therapy strategies have been developed and implemented in clinical practice over
      several decades. The data suggest that aggressive or liberal intraoperative fluid
      resuscitation is harmful during open abdominal operation, whereas a restrictive fluid
      protocol has better outcomes, including fewer postoperative complications and a shorter
      discharge time. (9-11).

      However , a restrictive fluid regimen has several limitations (12). Overly restricted or
      inadequate fluid administration may lead to insufficient intravascular volume, tissue
      hypoperfusion, cellular oxygenation impairment and potential organ dysfunction(13), prolonged
      recovery of bowel function, and impair tissue oxygenation, which might ultimately impair
      wound healing including healing of anastomosis.(14, 15) Recently, The Pleth variability index
      (PVI) derived from respiratory variations in peripheral perfusion index (PI) has been
      suggested to be an effective dynamic indicator of fluid responsiveness. Different from other
      invasive dynamic indices, PVI provides clinicians with a numerical value obtained
      noninvasively. (16-18) PVI is calculated as [(PImax - PImin)/PImax] X 100, where PImax and
      PImin represent the maximal and the minimal value, respectively, of the plethysmographic
      perfusion index (PI) over one respiratory cycle (16, 19). PI is the ratio between pulsatile
      and no pulsatile infrared light absorption from the pulse oximeter, and it is physiologically
      equivalent to the amplitude of the plethysmographic waveform (20). A PVI value of >13% before
      volume expansion discriminated between fluid responders and non-responders with 81%
      sensitivity and 100% specificity.

      An extremely important feature of fluid therapy is ability to modulate inflammatory response
      in all its aspects with impact on a rate of neutrophil activation and modulation of cytokine
      and adhesive molecules expression. Isotonic sodium chloride solution and Ringer's lactate
      solution were shown to have pro-inflammatory properties while so called low volume therapy.
      Saline solution seems to be the most pro-inflammatory infusion fluid exerting negative impact
      on both macro- and microcirculation (21). Infusions of high volume of sodium chloride result
      in elevated serum chloride levels leading to acid-base imbalance and increase of free
      hydrogen ions (22).

      Some available literature data show potential impact of Ringer's lactate therapy on induction
      of inflammatory response (23) but other reports do not support such phenomenon (24). Acetates
      similarly to lactates act as buffers and are easily broken down to bicarbonates. The
      difference between them is that lactates are metabolized mainly in the liver while acetates
      are metabolized in all body cells. The latter is especially beneficial in liver
      insufficiency, lactic acidosis and microcirculation insufficiency leading to organ
      hypoperfusion.
    
  