
    
      (Population, intervention, comparison, outcomes )PICO QUESTION Is there any difference in the
      amount of rotational relapse of the anterior lower teeth after leveling and alignment between
      Er;Cr:YSGG laser-aided circumferential supracrestal fiberotomy compared with conventional
      circumferential supracrestal fiberotomy after the removal of the arch wire one month once
      healed?

      Population: Orthodontic patients with lower incisors rotation between 30ยบ-50ยบ degrees

      Intervention:Er:Cr;YSGG Laser-aided CSF (Waterlase, Biolase, Irvine,California, USA)
      Comparison: Conventional CSF

      Outcomes Primary Outcome: rotation relapse degree after one month removed teeth from the arch
      wire Secondary Outcome: probing depth and clinical crown height (gingival margin
      position)baseline, after leveling and alignment stage one month removed lower incisors from
      the arch wire.

      AIMS

      GENERAL AIM

      To establish the effect of Er,Cr: YSGG laser -aided circumferential supracrestal fiberotomy
      compared to a conventional circumferential supracrestal fiberotomy group on the prevention of
      rotational relapse in lower incisors, during the first month after the teeth are removed from
      the arch.

      SPECIFIC AIMS

        -  Determine the degree of rotation of the lower incisors in the two groups of the
           pretreatment study, at the end of the alignment and leveling stage and the month after
           performing the intervention.

        -  Determine the probing depth and the position of the gingival margin of the lower
           incisors in the two groups of the pretreatment study, at the end of the alignment and
           leveling stage and the month after performing the intervention.

        -  Determine the perception of pain in patients of the two study groups at baseline, 24, 48
           and 72 hours.

        -  Compare rotational relapse, probing depth, gingival margin position in each study group
           during the follow-up time.

        -  Compare rotational relapse, probing depth and gingival margin position between study
           groups during follow-up time.

      METHODS

      OVERVIEW OF DESIGN Study design: Randomized clinical trial

      Randomized clinical trial in 60 lower incisors with moderate initial rotation (30-50
      degrees). The eligible patients are going to be randomly allocated into two groups, each
      group with 30 teeth.

      One group is going to be treated with Er,Cr:YSGG laser - aided circumferential supracrestal
      fiberotomy and the other group with conventional circumferential supracrestal fiberotomy.

      Blinding: it is not possible to blind patients and clinical staff, but the investigators are
      going to blind the operator who will perform the measurements and the data analysis
      (single-blinded)

      The protocol for both procedures will be the same except for the intervention.

      Alginate impressions and cast models at the beginning of the study will be taken and initial
      rotation of mandibular incisors will be measured based on a Xerox copy of the lower cast
      (Canon Xerox Machine, imageRUNNER (IR) 5050 Ota, Tokyo, Japan) while the occlusal table faced
      down on the screen, a Xerox copy of it will be made. The Xerox copies will be scanned (Canon
      CanoScan 9000F Mark II, Ota, Tokyo, Japan) and saved as a image file format JPEG (Joint
      Photographic Experts Group) files. The files will be imported to the software to drawn an
      imaginary arch passing through the outermost surface of the anterior and posterior teeth.

      To measure the initial rotation, the JPEG images will be opened in a Digimizer image analysis
      software (Version 4.3 Orange, California)The angle between the incisor edge and the line
      tangent to the imaginary arch will be measured as initial rotation.

      Measures of lower incisors will be taken by previously-calibrated operators as well as
      periodontal measurements at baseline, after leveling and alignment and one month after
      separating the teeth from the arch wire.

      Pain measurement evaluations will be determined by the visual analogue scale (VAS) at
      baseline, 24,48 y 72 hrs.

      DESIGN FOR SAMPLING

      Study Population:

      -Orthodontic patients from the orthodontic department clinics of the UniCieo

      Sampling:

      No probabilistic: convenience sample Consecutive sample of consenting patients

      PLANS FOR RECRUITMENT

      Patients of the Clinic University (UniCieo) that meet the selection criteria and accept to
      participate.

      MEASUREMENTS

      MAIN PREDICTOR VARIABLE

      -Relapse lower incisors (Er;Cr YSGG laser-aided CSF)

      POTENTIAL CONFOUNDING

      Age

      Sex

      OUTCOME VARIABLES

      Dental stone cast scanned Outcomes (T3-T4):

      -Quantity of lower anterior teeth rotation relapse tendency measured 1 month after arch wire
      removed

      Periodontal Outcomes:

      Quantity of probing depth and gingival margin position (coronal height) measured 1 month
      after arch wire removed

      Pain Outcomes:

      Visual analogue scale (0-10) measures after clinical intervention

      STATISTICAL ISSUES

      APPROACH TO STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      The data analysis will be processed in the statistics program Statistical Package for the
      Social Sciences (SPSS) software (version 21, Chicago, IL).Evaluation of normality of data
      will be valued with the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. One-way ANOVA will be used to determine any
      significant differences Significance level is going to be set at P< 0.05
    
  