
    
      Perinatal depression (experienced by at least 14-20% of pregnant and postpartum women) is
      recognized as the most common complication of childbirth and as having extremely serious
      consequences, including significant suffering for pregnant women/new mothers and their
      families, and adverse impacts on infant development. Unfortunately, there are many barriers
      that make it difficult for women with perinatal depression to access clinic-based mental
      health treatments, and participation is low. Treatment uptake is limited by psychological
      barriers (stigma, feelings of failure, and embarrassment); knowledge barriers (poor
      understanding about impact of perinatal depression on infant health, uncertainty about where
      to get treatment); infrastructure barriers (fear of negative judgment from care providers,
      avoidance of prescription medications while breastfeeding); physical barriers in rural
      settings (too few care providers, unacceptable logistical demands on time, transportation,
      and childcare); and provider-level barriers (inadequate skills, fear of liability, dearth of
      treatment options, and inadequate reimbursement). To address this need, investigators
      obtained funding (National Institutes of Health (NIH) R01MH084931) to develop and test the
      MomMoodBooster program (MMB), an innovative Web-based program for treating postpartum
      depression (PPD). Based on cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and incorporating multimedia
      modeling and engaging activities, MMB is designed to enable women to identify patterns in
      their thoughts and behaviors and to develop a personal action plan to make helpful changes.
      MMB also has an administrative website designed for use by both project managers and
      supportive phone coaches to monitor the overall progress of participants. In our SBIR Phase I
      grant (R43MH109191), the investigators began a redesign of MMB so that it could be used more
      effectively as a product for delivering PPD treatment by practical healthcare delivery
      organizations. Specifically, the investigators enhanced the underlying database architecture
      (and the related administration website interface) to make it easier for multiple
      organizations in multiple settings to use MMB. In our proposed SBIR (Small Business
      Innovation Research) Phase II, the investigators propose to complete the process of making a
      commercial-ready product (MMB 2.0) that fits the workflow and staffing of healthcare
      organizations. Specifically, the investigators propose to finish the enhancement of the
      database architecture and its administrative site, to expand MMB to include prenatal as well
      as postpartum depressed women, and to deliver MMB using a new responsive design technology so
      that women will be able to use it interchangeably with any internet-accessible computer
      device (desktop, laptop, tablet, smartphone). Finally, the investigators plan to use a 2-arm
      randomized controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy of MMB 2.0 compared to treatment as
      usual in a large healthcare setting.
    
  