
    
      Patients with advanced or metastatic gastric cancer have a poor prognosis. The optimal
      treatment of gastric cancer with liver metastases without other distant metastases remains a
      matter for debate and there are few prospective clinical trials to explore this area. The aim
      of this prospective phase II study is to evaluate the optimal treatment of gastric cancer
      with liver metastases.

      In preclinical xenograft models, capecitabine was highly active against several tumors,
      including breast, colorectal, gastric, and cervical tumors, and against both 5-FU-sensitive
      and 5-FU-resistant tumors. Intermittent capecitabine (1250 mg/m2 daily dose for 14 days,
      followed by a 7-day rest period) was shown to be active as a single agent in previously
      untreated AGC patients, with a response rate of 28.2% in 39 patients. The combination of
      capecitabine with other drugs, such as cisplatin, oxaliplatin, epirubicin, and docetaxel, had
      an objective response rate of 40-68% as first-line treatment in patients with AGC.

      In human colon cancer xenograft model, thymidine phosphorylase is upregulated and synergy
      between paclitaxel and capecitabine has been observed. The activity of capecitabine in
      patients with breast cancer refractory to paclitaxel and anthracyclines suggests that the
      combination of capecitabine and paclitaxel may be effective in treating patients with
      advanced breast cancer. Doses recommended are capecitabine 1650 mg/m2 per day orally for 14
      days and paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 i.v. every 3 weeks.

      In a phase II trial with 45 patients involved, 2 patients showed complete response and 20
      showed partial response making the overall response rate 48.9% (95%CI:30.3-63.5%). There was
      no neutropaenic fever or treatment-related deaths. That study demonstrated that paclitaxel
      and capecitabine combination chemotherapy was active and highly tolerable.

      The rationale of this study was to find out if outcome could be improved after neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy with paclitaxel and capecitabine with or without local treatment for patients
      without other distant metastasis than liver metastasis.
    
  