
    
      Cancer disproportionately affects older adults, and the number of older adults with cancer is
      expected to grow as the population ages. Older adults with advanced cancer often possess a
      distinct set of medical and psycho-social issues that makes caring for the geriatric oncology
      population challenging for oncologists. Currently, a critical knowledge gap exists regarding
      how best to deliver comprehensive cancer care targeting the unique geriatric and palliative
      care needs of these individuals. The investigators propose to develop a geriatric oncology
      collaborative care intervention to improve supportive care outcomes for older adults with
      advanced gastrointestinal (GI) and genitourinary (GU) cancer. GI and GU cancers are among the
      leading causes of cancer death in the geriatric cancer population, and patients with advanced
      GI and GU cancers experience a high symptom burden. The intervention will entail visits with
      an oncology advanced practice nurse trained to address patients' unique needs, who will meet
      regularly with a supervising team of geriatric, palliative care, social work, and pharmacy
      clinicians for feedback and iterative reevaluation of the care plan. Using nurses who are
      already integrated into the oncology setting represents a scalable model that addresses the
      workforce shortage of geriatric and palliative care clinicians. The investigators used
      conceptual models for collaborative care and geriatric interventions to develop an initial
      intervention framework, and prior research to develop a preliminary intervention manual. In
      Aim 1, the investigators will refine and finalize both the intervention and the intervention
      manual based on qualitative data from patients, caregivers, and clinicians to ensure the
      intervention targets the unique needs of older adults with advanced cancer. In Aim 2, the
      investigators will modify the intervention and study methods with an open pilot study (n=10).
      In Aim 3, the investigators will conduct a pilot randomized trial (n=75) to assess the
      feasibility and preliminary efficacy of the geriatric oncology collaborative care
      intervention for improving patients' QOL, symptom burden, and functional outcomes.
    
  