
    
      Evidence demonstrates that chronic stress doubles the risk of myocardial infarction and
      contributes to proinflammatory processes implicated in coronary artery disease and stroke.
      Veterans who have experienced combat are at greater risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD)
      compared to noncombat Veterans and non-Veterans. However, previous research has focused
      primarily on male Veterans. Yet statistics reveal a startling number (81-92%) of women
      Veterans report at least one traumatic event sometime in their lives and women Veterans
      experience significant rates of prior life adversity such as sexual assault, physical
      violence, and combat exposure. Compelling evidence demonstrates a strong relationship between
      the breadth of prior life adversity, proinflammatory cytokines and stress-related
      inflammatory disease, such as CVD. Assisting women Veterans to reduce stress and develop
      coping strategies may improve psychological well-being and reduce CVD risk. Mindfulness Based
      Stress Reduction (MBSR) involves intensive training in mindfulness, which promotes positive
      adaptation to life stress. MBSR has been found to reduce symptoms of depression and improve
      quality of life in Veterans experiencing Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Practitioners
      of MBSR gain increased awareness and insight into the relationship among their thoughts,
      emotions, and somatic reactivity which can facilitate change in conditioned patterns of
      emotional reaction. However, only minimal research and no randomized control trials (RCTs)
      have examined MBSR as an intervention for reducing CVD risk in women Veterans. Furthermore,
      previous studies have neither examined CVD risk objectively using a well-established CVD risk
      score nor measured endothelial dysfunction. Endothelial dysfunction is acknowledged to
      precede atherosclerosis and is a strong predictor of CVD. Furthermore, studies demonstrate
      that lifestyle changes, such exercise and yoga, can reverse endothelial dysfunction. However,
      no studies were found that considered endothelial function in relation to MBSR. Moreover,
      potential protective and risk factors, such as prior life adversity, social support, health
      behaviors, acculturation, and diurnal cortisol, posited to moderate the effect of
      psychological well-being and inflammation on MBSR have not been examined.

      Women Veterans between the ages of 18 and 70 years who have at least one CVD risk factors (as
      defined by Framingham CVD Risk Scale) will be randomized into either an 8-week MBSR program
      or health education control program. The following specific aims will be addressed: (1)
      Determine the extent to which training in MBSR (1) improves psychological well-being, (2)
      decreases inflammatory burden, and (3) reduces cardiovascular risk in women Veterans; and (2)
      Evaluate protective and risk factors posited to moderate the effect of MBSR on psychological
      well being, inflammatory burden and cardiovascular risk in women Veterans. Age, body mass
      index (BMI), menstrual status, medications, and socioeconomic status (SES) will be evaluated
      as covariates. The proposed research is innovative in that MBSR has not been evaluated in
      women Veterans at risk for CVD. The investigators expect that MBSR will improve psychological
      well-being and reduce CVD risk with improvements sustained for at least 6 months. Given that
      CVD is a major cause of mortality, this research may have broader implications for reducing
      CVD in the general population.

      Recruitment completed.
    
  