
    
      Background On the one hand, patients suffering from peripheral artery occlusive disease may
      have a significant decrease in their walking ability. When there is insufficient supply of
      oxygen to the muscles, especially the calf muscles, structural changes of skeletal muscle
      fibers appear. On the other hand, these patients might also have an insufficient supply with
      Vitamin D as it is often the case in the general population. A deficiency of Vitamin D also
      causes structural changes in the skeletal muscles and causes muscle weakness.

      Hypothesis Vitamin D - intake can improve the walking ability of patients with peripheral
      artery occlusive disease and eventually Vitamin D - deficiency.

      Aim of the study To evaluate the influence of Vitamin D - intake on walking ability of
      patients with peripheral artery occlusive disease, which would be a simple, safe and
      non-invasive measure with a positive effect on quality of life and indirectly on
      cardiovascular health in general (better mobility).

      Primary endpoint:

      Measurement of walking ability with treadmill test at the beginning and after a 3
      month-treatment with Vitamin D, in combination with a home-based training.

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  Measurement of calf muscle perfusion as an indirect parameter for walking ability,
           measurement at the beginning, after three months and after a 6 month follow up.

        -  Quality of life questionnaires (SF 36 and walking impairment questionnaire), visual
           analogue scale.

      Study design:

      Prospective, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, investigator-initiated pilot study
      with a study duration of 3 months and a 3 month - follow up.

      Study course:

      6 study visits are planned.

        -  Visit 0: screening visit, lab (Calcium, Vitamin D3), questionnaires

        -  Visit 1: treadmill test, measurement of calf muscle perfusion, intake of first monthly
           dose of Cholecalciferol 45'000 units (or placebo)

        -  Visit 2 (after 1 month): vital parameters, second dose of 45'000 units of
           Cholecalciferol (or placebo)

        -  Visit 3 (after 2 months): vital parameters, third dose of 45'000 units of
           Cholecalciferol (or placebo)

        -  Visit 4 (after 3 months): treadmill test, measurement of calf muscle perfusion , lab
           (Calcium, Vitamin D3), questionnaires

        -  Visit 5 (after 6 months): treadmill test, measurement of calf muscle perfusion , lab
           (Calcium, Vitamin D3), questionnaires
    
  