
    
      Aplastic anemia (AA) is an autoimmune hematologic stem cell disease mediated by activated
      T-lymphocytes that leads to bone marrow dysfunction. In the presence of an empty marrow,
      pancytopenia, and transfusion dependence, the severity of the disease is based on neutrophil
      (PMN) count: nonsevere AA (nSAA; PMN > 0.5 × 109/L), severe AA (SAA;PMN 0.2- 0.5 × 109/L),
      and very severe AA (vSAA; PMN< 0.2 × 109/L). Patients with nSAA can be offered supportive
      care, anabolic steroids, and/or low-dose steroids or cyclosporine (CsA).Patients with SAA and
      vSAA can be offered immunosuppressive treatment involving injections of Anti-thymocyte
      globulin (ATG) in combination with cyclosporine (CsA). However, some nSAA patients remains
      dependent to transfusion, the treatment response with ATG for SAA is at best between
      50-60%,30%-40% patients relapse following an initial response to treatment, they also do not
      have a HLA-matched donor for bone marrow transplantation. These patients have a high risk of
      dying without additional treatment. Since the prognosis of these refractory and relapsed AA
      patients remains poor, there is a need for more safe and effective therapy that can improve
      response rates and remission duration in refractory and relapsed AA.

      Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are part of the bone marrow stem cells repertoire. The main
      role of MSCs is to support hematopoiesis. Recently, significant interactions between MSCs and
      cells from the immune system have been demonstrated:MSCs were found to downregulate T and B
      lymphocytes, natural killer cells (NK) and antigen presenting cells through various
      mechanisms, including cell-to-cell interaction and soluble factor production. MSCs can fully
      suppress T cell function which involves some degree of MSC activation or 'licensing' thought
      to involve interferon (IFN)-γ in conjunction with IL-1α, IL-1β or tumour necrosis factor-a.
      Non-specific suppression of T cell proliferation is mediated by soluble factors such as
      transforming growth factor (TGF)-β, kynurenine, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), nitric oxide, haem
      oxygenase products and insulin-like growth factor binding protein. Since the haematopoietic
      support and immunomodulatory effects, bone marrow-derived human MSCs transplantation maybe a
      safe novel therapeutic approach for patients with refractory and relapsed AA.
    
  