
    
      Background:

      Patients with resectable solid primary cancers and even limited number of metastases are
      potentially curable. However, most patients develop recurrences despite surgery. Circulating
      and disseminated tumor cell (CTC/DTC) and circulating cell-free (cf) DNA isolation from the
      blood, urine and bone marrow will increase understanding of cancer spread and advance
      knowledge to develop individualized therapies.

      Hypothesis and Rationale:

      CTCs/DTCs and cfDNA isolated from the blood, urine and bone marrow during cancer surgeries
      undergo pheno- and/or genotype changes. CTCs/DTCs have potential for dissemination and tumor
      growth in vivo. Investigating the biology of liquid biomarkers in the blood, urine and bone
      marrow will significantly increase understanding of cancer biology.

      Specific Aims:

      CTCs/DTCs and cfDNA isolated from cancer patients will be characterized for genetic
      alterations and expression of key signaling/proliferation biomarkers and grow in vivo in nude
      mice.

      Study Design:

      100 patients undergoing solid cancer surgeries will be recruited for perioperative
      CTC/DTC/cfDNA isolation from the blood, urine and bone marrow with innovative techniques. In
      addition, 10 patients undergoing similar surgeries for benign disease will also be included
      as controls. CTCs/DTCs, cfDNA and cancer tissue pheno- and/or genotype analysis will be
      performed with different innovative techniques. Furthermore, CTCs/DTCs will be enriched,
      cultured and characterized. Tumor growth potential will be studied in nude mice.

      Relevance:

      This translational cancer trial addresses fundamental aspects of cancer disease being the
      cause of death in 1 out of 4 persons in the US. Innovative CTCs/DTCs characterization can
      shed light on the tumor biology, and identify therapy targets. Results of this study can be
      fundamentally important to understanding cancer spread and development of personalized
      therapies.
    
  