
    
      Despite data from clinical trials showing an increased risk of breast cancer and lack of
      overall benefit for primary prevention with hormone therapy (HT), there is still significant
      usage of HT by clinicians and women for treatment of moderate-to-severe systemic menopausal
      symptoms. Due to the possible increased risks with these preparations, current clinical
      recommendations advocate utilizing the lowest dose for the shortest possible duration, but
      average duration is often for 2-4 years. However, the effects of commonly used low-dose HT
      regimens on breast density and breast cancer risk are unknown. Recent data from intervention
      trials support the long standing hypothesis that hormonal effects on breast cancer risk are
      mediated through breast density. The Kronos Early Estrogen Prevention Study (KEEPS) is an
      ongoing, already- funded randomized clinical trial with a primary goal of examining the
      effects of 4 years of low- dose transdermal versus oral estrogen combined with cyclic
      micronized progesterone on progression of subclinical atherosclerosis in recently menopausal
      women. The proposed ancillary study will efficiently examine the effects of randomized
      low-dose HT on key breast cancer surrogate endpoints: mammographic density and rates of
      abnormal mammograms. In the parent KEEPS study, a total of 720 women were randomized to oral
      conjugated equine estrogens (0.45 mg/d), transdermal 17-beta estradiol (50 mcg/d), or
      placebo, with cyclic micronized progesterone (200 mg for 12 days) for active hormonal therapy
      groups. All participants were required to have mammography prior to study entry as well as
      yearly during follow-up; blood samples also were collected at these time points.
      Randomization was completed in 2008. In this ancillary study, we aimed to collect mammograms
      from eligible women consenting to be part of the ancillary study(n=517) from baseline, year 1
      and year 3 will be obtained and processed centrally to calculate mammographic density. The
      investigators will determine if these two low-dose HT regimens are associated with change in
      mammographic density. The investigators will also examine if baseline mammographic density or
      circulating biomarkers including estradiol, estrone, and estrone sulfate, modify or mediate
      changes in breast density with HT. In addition, the effects of hormonal regimens on the rates
      of abnormal mammogram and biopsy will be determined. By determining the effects of low-dose
      combined HT on the breast, the proposed study will add timely and important information about
      the estimated balance of risks and benefits associated with low-dose HT and will help guide
      future research.
    
  