
    
      Research to date has not fully addressed the role of stress in behavior change. Stress is
      implicated in many negative health outcomes, including poor sleep, depressive mood, and
      health problems related to chronic low-grade inflammation, such as hypertension, diabetes,
      and obesity. These negative health outcomes can lead an individual to form intentions to
      change health behavior. However, while stress-related negative health outcomes may motivate
      the attempt to change behavior, the simple intention or very attempt to change behavior may
      induce stress. Thus, a vicious cycle is started in which stress contributes to health
      conditions that necessitate and motivate behavior change attempts, while simultaneously
      immobilizing one from successfully implementing behavior change.

      The multiple pathways through which stress can influence health behaviors may become
      especially apparent in middle-aged and older adults. Not only does poor health increase the
      urgency for behavior change and thus present a perceived threat, but the lack of resources,
      such as knowledge of how to implement change, and presence of barriers, such as limited time
      due to stressful jobs, fear of negative effects, potential to fail, or uncertainty of
      beneficial outcomes, all contribute to making behavior change a daunting and stressful
      endeavor. Conversely, many behavior change techniques can be conceptualized as stress
      management techniques. These techniques can operate by reducing threat perception and/or
      increasing access to resources, often via provision of informational support.

      The proposed study thus seeks to reduce stress in order to facilitate implementation of
      physical activity change. This will be accomplished by providing health behavior-relevant
      informational support to sedentary middle-aged and older adults. Specifically, the study's
      aims are:

        -  To determine whether providing individually tailored and comprehensive informational
           support can increase the number of daily steps in middle-aged and older adults in a
           12-week physical activity intervention setting.

        -  To assess how initial stress, initial stress perceived due to the intention to implement
           behavior change, and changes in perceived stress throughout the intervention affect
           physical activity change.

        -  To elucidate downstream effects of the intervention in terms of mental health (i.e.,
           depressive symptoms, chronic stress) and physical health outcomes (i.e., inflammatory
           status) In line with the Roybal Center Aim 1, the current study explicitly targets a
           population of sedentary middle-aged and older adults who unsuccessfully attempted to
           increase physical activity. Pressure to change behavior will in many cases stem from
           health decrements. Furthermore, participants will be recruited from the Waltham
           community, which will allow targeted advertisement to ensure a diverse sample in terms
           of socioeconomic background as well as ethnicity. Lastly, only participants who cannot
           walk for stretches of several minutes without pain will be excluded, allowing
           individuals in early stages of disability to participate. Using a stress framework to
           develop the current intervention and assessing psychological, social, and biological
           correlates will contribute to Roybal Center Aim 2, as the findings will advance theory
           and empirical findings on behavior change processes and mechanism. Lastly, the current
           study addresses Roybal Center Aim 3, as knowledge gained from the current study will
           facilitate larger-scale physical activity interventions expected to improve health and
           quality of life of older adults.
    
  