
    
      Women from every Kentucky county participate in the Kentucky Ovarian Cancer Screening
      Program. Screening sites include: Maysville, Prestonsburg, Greenup, Elizabethtown, Somerset,
      Paducah and Lexington. Offsite participants account for 14% of the screening population with
      86% being screened in Lexington. The long-term survival (20 year) of women with
      screen-detected ovarian cancers is twice that of unscreened women (65% vs 32%). Separation of
      cases into Type 1 and Type 2 ovarian cancer shows that screening improves the survival of
      both Type 1 and Type 2 ovarian cancers. Type 1 ovarian carcinomas for the screened and
      unscreened populations were defined based on these WHO criteria: mucinous carcinomas all
      grade, clear cell carcinomas all grades, endometrioid carcinomas grades 1 & 2, serous
      carcinomas grades 1 & 2, and malignant Brenner's tumors all grades. Type 2 ovarian carcinomas
      for the screened and unscreened populations were defined based on these criteria:
      undifferentiated carcinomas, endometrioid carcinomas grade 3, serous carcinomas grade 3, and
      carcinosarcomas.

      While long-term 20-year survival of women with Type 1 ovarian cancers detected by screening
      was significantly better than for unscreened women (81% v 46%, respectively), the survival
      benefit was even more pronounced for Type 2 ovarian cancers detected by screening of Kentucky
      women compared to unscreened Kentucky women (55.7% vs. 0.3%, respectively) or unscreened
      women at UK Hospital (12%). Screen-detected cases of Type 2 invasive ovarian cancers had
      better survival than unscreened cases when those detected had early- or late-stage disease.
      However, better survival was achieved when Type 2 ovarian cancers were detected at an early
      (72%) compared to late-stage (46%). Our data support the effectiveness of the screening
      protocol at the University of Kentucky, and subsequent treatment in accordance with National
      Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines.

      The significance of these findings is that our approach has resulted in the detection of both
      early-stage Type 1 and Type 2 ovarian cancers and these cases have had improved survival when
      compared to that of unscreened cases, indicating that the screen-detected cases are
      associated with a potential survival advantage even for aggressive ovarian carcinomas.

      The primary objective of this study is to prospectively evaluate the false positive (FP)
      percentage generated by the ovarian screening algorithm and determine whether serial
      transvaginal ultrasonography can lower the FP percentage as demonstrated in the retrospective
      analysis. The aim of serial ultrasonography is to decrease FP percentage to 0.32% (positive
      predictive value of 24%) without adversely impacting the results for true positives and false
      negatives. on a "per woman screened basis" since this corresponds to a minimally acceptable
      positive predictive value of 24% or higher. This assumes an average of three screening years
      for each new woman entering the program.
    
  