
    
      Randomized double blind placebo-controlled clinical trial. Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)
      is a frequent endocrinopathy, affecting more than 10% of women of reproductive age. It is
      associated with a higher prevalence of obesity and insulin resistance, with a higher risk for
      diabetes, dyslipidemia and hypertension. Topiramate is a drug used in the treatment of
      epilepsy and migraine prophylaxis since the 1990s and several studies show an association
      with weight loss. This medicine is administered in combination with phentermine in other
      countries, with variable weight loss. Despite evidence of the benefit of topiramate for
      weight loss, there is still no record of studies evaluating this drug in patients with PCOS
      for the treatment of obesity. The objective of this project is to evaluate the results of
      treatment with topiramate in terms of weight reduction, reduction of serum androgens and
      changes in body composition, in patients with PCOS and obese, associated with a low-calorie
      diet, over a period of six months. Eighty patients with PCOS (18 to 40 years old) seen at the
      HCPA Endocrinology Service outpatient clinic who are overweight with a BMI> or = 27 kg / m2
      associated with at least one comorbidity or obesity (BMI 30-40) will be included. Patients
      will be randomized to 2 groups: Topiramate and Placebo and the 2 groups will receive a
      low-calorie diet.

      Anthropometric, clinical, hormonal, nutritional and body composition assessment will be
      performed before, during and after treatments. It is expected to determine whether the
      addition of topiramate to dietary treatment can improve metabolic, hormonal and weight loss
      outcomes in women with PCOS.

      Research Objective: General objective: To evaluate the results of treatment with topiramate
      in patients with PCOS and obese, associated with a low-calorie diet, in six months of
      treatment.

      Specific objectives: To evaluate the response to the proposed treatment in terms of weight
      reduction and body mass index (BMI), reduction of serum androgens, changes in body
      composition, in addition to assessing minor psychiatric disorders possibly associated through
      the Self-Reporting screening questionnaire. Questionnaire (SRQ-20).

      Assessment of Risks and Benefits: The risks of the project are mainly related to the use of
      the drug topiramate. This drug has an extensive list of adverse effects, in addition to the
      side effect on appetite and weight, the most common are paresthesias, drowsiness, lethargy,
      attention disorder, mood disorders, depression, taste changes and psychomotor disorders.
      However, studies show that the majority of adverse reactions were mild to moderate in
      severity. Other risks inherent to the study are the absence of previous studies in the target
      population and discomfort in relation to the number of visits, additional tests and blood
      samples for an extended period of 6 months. The benefits of the study are related to the
      acquisition of knowledge and the likely positive results may benefit future patients.
    
  