
    
      Individuals ≥ 18 years old with isolated distal 1/3 humerus and/or proximal 1/3 ulna and/or
      proximal 1/3 radius fractures and/or elbow dislocations (open fractures with or without nerve
      injury may be included) and presented to Peter Lougheed Centre (PLC), Foothills Medical
      Center (FMC), or South Health Campus (SHC).

      Participants were required to take Ketotifen 5mg by mouth twice a day for 6 weeks or placebo
      twice a day by mouth for 6 weeks. Neither the participant nor the physician knew if the
      participant was taking Ketotifen or placebo. Sometimes this type of injury requires surgery.
      This study invited both patients that do and do not require surgery to participate.

      We took a sample of blood to measure tryptase (normally found in the body). We predicted
      people with high levels of tryptase were more likely to develop stiffening in the joint.

      Participants were asked to return for follow up visits 2, 6, 12, 24, and 52 weeks after
      surgery or date of initial injury if surgery was not required. These visits were part of
      normal care for this type of injury.

      At the visit participants were asked to do the following, some of which was not part of
      normal care.

      At each visit: Range of motion of the elbow was assessed, DASH score was completed- form
      helping the research group understand the level of disability from this injury, X-rays until
      the fracture was considered healed (this was normal treatment), SF12 - questionnaire about
      how the patient was feeling and coping with their injury, Additional information was
      collected about how the injury was healing and weight was measured.

      The participant was required to have physiotherapy which is normal treatment for this injury.

      The participant was contacted by telephone at week 1, 3, 4 and 5 while taking the study
      medication. During these times:

      The participant was asked about:

        -  any problems with the study medication

        -  any new conditions or concerns that have developed

      The participant was reminded:

        -  of next visit

        -  to continue to take study drug as instructed

      During these telephone contacts, if any problems were detected that could not be rectified or
      figured out during the telephone interview, then participant was asked to attend the Cast
      Clinic to see their doctor in person.
    
  