
    
      1. Study Patients:

           Patients are all recruited from the Third Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi Medical
           University, Nanning, Guangxi, China. All the patients provide written informed consent
           before enrollment. All eligible patients received a pretreatment evaluation including
           complete history and physical examination, endoscopic biopsy, routine laboratory tests
           for hematologic, renal and hepatic function as well as a dental and nutritional
           evaluation prior to treatment. Radiological investigations consisted of computed
           tomography (CT) scan or magnetic MRI of the nasopharynx, chest radiography, ultrasound
           of the upper abdomen and bone scintigraphy. Pathologic confirmation of nasopharyngeal
           cancer (NPC) was performed and re-classified according to the world health organization
           (WHO) subtypes.

        2. Study design:

           A total of 120 NPC patients are randomly and equally divided into two groups: Nedaplatin
           alone concurrent radiotherapy, Celecoxib plus nedaplatin concurrent radiotherapy. The
           tumor response will be evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) after 4 weeks. The
           tumor responses including Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR) , Stable Disease
           (SD) and Progressive Disease (PD) is defined according to Response Evaluation Criteria
           in Solid Tumors (RECIST), version 1.0. The show term or long term toxicity will be
           evaluated according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCICTC),
           version 3.0. All the NPC patients are requested to be followed up with an expected
           average of every 3 months after the therapy.The other clinical outcomes including the
           first evidence of cancer progression or death from any cause, the occurrence of distant
           metastasis, and the relapse of a local or nodal tumor will be evaluated as well. The
           follow-up will be up to 2018.

        3. Statistical Analysis:

      Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS 13.0) is used to analyze the effect of
      celecoxib on the nedaplatin concurrent radiotherapy. Cox's regression model and Kaplan-Meier
      method is used to conduct survival analysis. Clinical outcomes including the tumor responses,
      1-year/3-year/5-year overall survival (OS), progression free survival (PFS), distant
      metastasis failure-free survival (DMFS) and locoregional failure-free survival (LFFS) will be
      analyzed. The multivariate Cox's regression model is used to adjust the confounders,
      including age and body mass index. P value less than 0.05 will be considered to be
      statistically significant.
    
  