
    
      Catheter ablation is a valuable option to control recurrent Ventricular Tachycardia (VT) in
      patients with structural heart disease. A recent trial proved that catheter ablation is
      superior to escalation of anti arrhythmic drugs (AADs) in prevention of VT recurrence and
      death (Sapp et al. N Engl J Med 2016; 375:111-121). However, even with ablation,
      approximately 20-50% of patients will have an episode of VT within one year. This is probably
      explained in part by the substrate (myocardial scar from cardiomyopathy) persists after VT
      ablation and that ablation lesions heal and evolve over days, weeks and even months. Most
      patients (if not all) of patients who undergo ablation are on AADs and usually have failed at
      least one of them. Furthermore, most AADs, and Vaughan Williams class III AADs in particular
      (the most frequently used to treat VT) carry significant and life-threatening side effects
      from pulmonary, hepatic and hematologic toxicities up to significant ventricular arrhythmias
      and death. Since these patients have already failed AADs, and the significant adverse profile
      of AADs, there is no evidence that the benefits of continuation of these drugs will surpass
      the risks after ablation. Therefore the investigators decided to ask the question:

      Among patients with structural heart disease who undergo VT ablation, does continuation of
      class III AADs for 3 months, increases VT-free survival compared to discontinuation of
      antiarrhythmic drug therapy?

      Based on expert consensus about clinical equipoise in regards of AAD continuation after VT
      ablation, the investigators decided to select patients with lowest risk of VT recurrence
      after ablation as our study population. The investigators aim to include in our study only
      those patients who have an Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillator (ICD), who have NO
      inducible VT at the end of the ablation procedure and also who have NO inducible VT prior to
      discharge on a procedure called non-invasive programmed stimulation (NIPS). It has been shown
      that patients with inducible VT at the end of ablation and during NIPS have significantly
      higher risk of VT recurrence compared to those in whom VT was not induced. In NIPS, one uses
      the previously Implanted ICD to pace the ventricle fast enough to try to induce VT. Both
      procedures will be performed as usual practice in patients who undergo VT ablation in the
      arrhythmia service.

      The specific aim of this pilot study is to evaluate whether the strategy of continuation of
      class III AADs following initial catheter ablation for VT, improves VT-free survival and
      reduces readmissions.
    
  