
    
      A cesarean section or delivery (C-section/CD) is the surgical removal of an infant and
      placenta through the mother's abdominal and uterine wall. This procedure is performed by an
      obstetrician and is one of the most common types of surgical methods used today. According to
      the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the rate for this method of delivery has
      risen over the past decade. However, recent research has shown that patients who receive this
      surgical procedure become more susceptible to adhesions.

      Adhesions are formations (bands) of scar tissue that occur immediately following most
      surgical procedures. Adhesions limit the mobility of tissues and organs near the incision
      site by causing them to stick together. This limited mobility can generate an increased rate
      of morbidity (occurrence of other diseases). Morbidities caused by adhesions include but are
      not limited to abdominal and/or pelvic pain, bowel obstruction (partial or complete blockage
      of the bowel), subfertility (difficulty getting pregnant) and infertility (inability to get
      pregnant).

      A study conducted by Dierdre Lyell, MD reported that the incidence of adhesion formation
      following a primary CD ranges from 46-65%. Another study (Morales et al) reported that for
      women who had undergone a CD, the incidence rate of adhesions and severe adhesions was
      greater in women who had had repeat CDs compared with women who only had a primary CD. In
      addition, this study also states that the percentage of adhesion occurrence increases in
      women with each subsequent (following) CD.

      Numerous methods have been implemented toward the preventions of adhesions. Currently,
      Seprafilm is an approved adhesion prevention method that is used in most surgical procedures.
      Seprafilm is a clear film that is composed of chemically modified sugars (some of which occur
      naturally in the human body). Unlike its counterpart Interceed, Seprafilm is unaffected by
      the presence of blood. After being placed, Seprafilm becomes a gel within 24-48 hours and
      then is slowly absorbed and excreted by the body over the course of 1-4 weeks.

      Seprafilm Adhesion Barrier is FDA approved for use in patients undergoing abdominal or pelvis
      laparotomy as an adjunct intended to reduce the incidence, extent and severity of
      post-operative adhesions between the abdominal and between the uterus and surrounding
      structures.
    
  