
    
      The goal of this protocol is to optimize new technology that enables Magnetic Resonance
      Imaging (MRI) at a static magnetic field strength of 7 Tesla (7T). Techniques will be
      developed for anatomical, functional, and spectroscopic MRI that can take advantage of this
      high field. Routine clinical MRI has been performed at 1.5T for over twenty years and over
      the past ten years MRI at 3-4T has demonstrated large increases in sensitivity and is
      beginning to find widespread application for functional imaging of the brain and clinical
      research. Since the late 1990's it has been possible to produce magnets with field strengths
      between 7-9T large enough for human use. Indeed there are presently two sites with 7T and one
      with 8T MRI that have begun to produce exciting images. These initial results confirm that
      MRI can be performed safely at these high field strengths and that the whole range of MRI
      experiments can be performed. We will take delivery of the first 7T MRI system produced by
      General Electric, the leading producer of MRI equipment, sometime in late 2002/early 2003.

      Compared to 3-4T, the 7T scanner is expected to improve sensitivity by a factor of two and
      improve contrast to noise for functional imaging and spectroscopy by a factor of two - four.
      However, realizing these goals for routine practice and whole brain coverage will require
      technical developments and integrating these developments into optimized data acquisition and
      processing strategies. Therefore, we plan to extend parallel imaging strategies, currently
      becoming available for 3T MRI, to 7T in order to realize the full gain in sensitivity and
      apply these techniques to obtain high resolution anatomical MRI, generate high temporal and
      spatial resolution perfusion images using arterial spin labeling techniques, generate
      high-temporal and spatial resolution functional images of the brain using blood oxygenation
      (BOLD) and perfusion based techniques, and test the usefulness of 7T for spectroscopic
      studies of metabolites of the brain. All of these developments will be performed on normal,
      healthy volunteers.
    
  