
    
      Swallowing is a complex task that takes place in the mouth and throat. It involves tiny
      receptors that gather sensory information about the liquid. Those receptors send a sensory
      message to the brain, where it is processed. The brain then sends back motor messages to the
      muscles in the throat regarding what kind of motor movements to do in order to swallow that
      liquid safely. The motor movements must be carefully timed and coordinated to safely swallow
      the liquid with out it going near, or into the lungs. When the liquid goes down the wrong
      tube, or into the lungs, it is called aspiration.

      Some infants that are born prematurely end up with swallowing problems when drinking from a
      bottle. This problem can lead to liquid, such as formula or breastmilk, to be aspirated. This
      is due to the infant's poor coordination of all the muscles needed to safely swallow.

      Researchers have found that changing the sensory characteristics of the liquid alters the
      motor movements of the swallow. This is because the sensory receptors respond differently to
      different types if liquids. Studies using adults with swallowing problems has shown that
      swallowing cold liquids improves some of the swallowing difficulties. Based off of these
      observations, there are currently several therapies used in Neonatal Intensive Care Units
      (NICU) nationwide which use cold stimulation to improve swallowing in prematurely born
      infants, although, there has been no research studies proving it actually works.

      The purpose of this study is to assess the effect of cold liquid on the swallow mechanism in
      preterm infants with swallowing difficulties. A video x-ray procedure, called a
      Videofluoroscopic Swallow Study (VFSS), is considered the gold standard when assessing the
      motor movements present in the throat when swallowing. The standard procedure for an infant
      VFSS involves bottle feeding room temperature liquid barium while looking at the swallow
      movements obtained from the video x-ray images. After consent is obtained, infants who are
      assumed to have swallowing difficulties will undergo a "standard" VFSS. If during the study
      they are found to have swallowing problems, the study protocol will then begin by introducing
      cold liquid barium from an identical bottle. A total of 5 swallows will be looked at and
      recorded for review at a later time. The standard procedure for that infant's VFSS will then
      continue.

      The hypothesis is that cold liquids will improve the swallowing movements in premature
      infants with swallowing difficulty. Information gathered will support the use of cold liquids
      and cold stimulation in NICUs to help benefit these infants.
    
  