
    
      The Peer Support Program was enhanced by the addition of Shepherd staff mentors and volunteer
      mentors from the community. The Peer Support Supervisor recruited volunteer peer mentors who
      are at least 10 months post injury, live within a 50 mile radius of Shepherd Center, and have
      developed a successful reintegration into community living (employed, manage a family,
      student, etc.). Volunteers completed Shepherd Center volunteer training and were paid a
      stipend of $20 per patient interaction.

      Each recruited volunteer mentor, along with Shepherd Center peer mentor employees,
      participated in the Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation peer support mentor training
      program to help ensure quality interactions with Shepherd Center patients and
      understand/practice patient confidentiality awareness. This Foundation provides training on a
      national level by breaking up the country into eight regions - each with a regional
      coordinator and training program schedule. The faculty and staff of the University of New
      Mexico developed and maintain the training and certification program, including the mentor
      management system. The certification program is a "hybrid" program - a series of on-line
      modules followed by a one-day on-site session. On-line learning is great for conveying
      information. It saves time and allows everyone to get that information at their own pace. The
      one-day training session revisits topics covered in the on-line modules: effective peer
      mentoring, ethics, communication and resources. It includes breakout groups and group
      discussions. Benefits of partnering with the Foundation, including providing access to
      certified peer mentors for patients who live outside the Atlanta area are outlined in the
      attached document (ReevePeer Partnerships.pdf).

      A special training session for Shepherd employees/volunteers involved:

        1. Part 1: 3-hour on-line course (notification has been sent to potential mentors by CDRF)

        2. Part 2: 6-hour face-to-face training meeting at Shepherd Center on March 10, 2014 These
           training sessions typically are run on a regional basis, so having the program here at
           Shepherd saved travel expenses and time for the volunteer participants. The PowerPoint
           used for the March 10 session is attached.

      Subjects in the control group received traditional peer support provided by Shepherd Center
      currently:

        1. Within 5-10 days of admission, the patient is introduced to the peer support team.

        2. Patients are seen by peer mentors on a referral basis from therapists, nurses,
           counselors, or physicians or on request from the patient or family.

        3. Patients are made aware of monthly peer support meetings, women's groups and caregiver
           support groups; participation in these groups is optional for patient and/or family.

        4. Patients have access to the SCI Peer Support FaceBook page maintained by the Shepherd
           Peer Mentors

      Subjects in the intervention group (and his/her family) received the enhanced One-on-One
      initiative:

        1. Patient was assigned one primary certified peer mentor and 2-3 supplemental mentors to
           meet individual patient/family needs (if needed). The Peer Support Supervisor matched
           certified peer mentors with each patient based on characteristics such as age, date of
           injury, level of injury, cause of injury, marital status, work status before and after
           injury, interests, leisure activities, and adaptive equipment utilization. Secondary
           mentors were used to supplement individual patient/family needs. For example, if
           guidance is needed regarding airline travel, a peer mentor who has mastered airline
           travel was consulted if the primary peer mentor did not have this experience.

        2. Each patient/family evaluated the interaction with his/her peer mentors. PCORI
           interviewers facilitated completion of this evaluation. Evaluations were reviewed within
           one week post completion to modify support provided if indicated and ensure that
           patient/family needs were met.

        3. Patients participated in male and female discussion groups, community dinner, and
           caregiver dinner sponsored by the peer team. Each meeting includes opportunities for
           discussion in group settings.These meetings are included in the patients' schedules.

        4. Peer mentors provide and organize social networking opportunities on FaceBook (Shepherd
           SCI peers page), CDRF, SCILife, SPINALpedia, facingdisabilities.com,etc.

      On the Shepherd SCI Peers Facebook page, the peer mentor supervisor posts questions posed by
      patients or community members anonymously and feedback volunteered from any of the >2000
      Facebook friends.This is especially helpful for sensitive topics that people may not want to
      be associated with initiating the question.

      Evaluation All study patients were interviewed during the 10th-15th day of their stay at
      Shepherd Center and completed the Self Efficacy scale. Patients were contacted post via
      telephone at 3, 30, 90 and 180 days post discharge. At each of these times, they were asked
      healthcare utilization and Self Efficacy questions.

      R
    
  