
    
      One of the most common postoperative complications after cardiac surgery is postoperative
      atrial fibrillation (AF). It is rarely fatal but it may cause subjective symptoms and result
      in thromboembolic complications, heart failure, renal insufficiency, and stroke which may
      prolong hospital stay.

      The risk factors of AF include advanced age, transient atrial ischemia, arterial
      hypertension, dilated atria, male sex, pulmonary hypertension, previous atrial fibrillation
      and serum electrolyte disorders . On the other hand, there is evidence that cardiopulmonary
      bypass (CPB) time, duration of aortic cross clamping and the time of surgery, also the type
      of cardioplegia and the number of constructed grafts do not influence the incidence of AF.

      There are only few studies that show the depletion of electrolytes and serum electrolyte
      concentration changes after cardiac surgery . The role of potassium in pathogenesis of
      cardiac arrhythmias is well recognized. Low serum potassium level is often found in
      association with hypomagnesemia and predisposes to atrial fibrillation. Extracellular
      magnesium is broadly implicated in neuronal control, neuromuscular transmission, and
      cardiovascular tone. It has been shown that magnesium suppresses arrhythmias after acute
      myocardial infarction, and there are studies confirming correlation between hypomagnesemia
      and postoperative atrial fibrillation . The underlying mechanism of these effects is not well
      understood but most probably involves magnesium interaction with calcium channels within
      myocytes membrane. Still the role of magnesium in the pathogenesis of AF is not clear yet.

      Also, it is not clear if magnesium supplementation is useful for these patients, or it is
      useful only in hypomagnesemia patients. Hypophosphatemia and its consequences are less
      investigated in patients after cardiac surgery. Common complications after cardiac surgery
      are cardiac and respiratory failure, and they are also among the clinical manifestations of
      hypophosphatemia. Hypophosphatemia could be the cause of prolonged artificial lung
      ventilation and myocardial dysfunction; also, it may have influence on the incidence of
      arrhythmias. Anyway, there are no data confirming the arrhythmogenic effect of changes in
      serum phosphate level.
    
  