
    
      Sarcopenia is the age-associated loss of skeletal muscle mass, muscle quality and strength,
      and is a contributive factor to frailty in older individuals. Meta-analyses suggest that
      individuals with sarcopenia appear to be at greater risk of hospitalisation (all cause),
      falls and fracture, with hip fracture following a fall being both a serious consequence of
      sarcopenia, as well as a risk factor for frailty syndrome. The short and longer term outcomes
      for patients who have a hip fracture following a fall are poor (post-operative complications,
      increased length of hospital stay, and increased mortality risk, institutionalisation and
      dependency, respectively), and these are understood to be largely due to the underlying
      vulnerability (frailty) of the people who sustain hip fractures, with poor recovery being
      compounded by the reduced muscle strength and low muscle mass common in those who are frail.

      As a consequence of research on the physiology of ageing muscles and sarcopenia, increasingly
      there is the possibility that novel agents (such as anabolic agents) could help to alleviate
      the frailty state in these patients and hence improve shorter and longer term outcomes.
      However, before novel interventions can be applied to patients with frailty and sarcopenia,
      such as those sustaining a hip fracture following a fall, an understanding of how the muscles
      of these patients are functioning at the cellular level, both in the injured and uninjured
      state is needed; which metabolic pathways are active and which are inactive, those which are
      enhanced and those which are impaired, so that treatments that are appropriate for the
      specific metabolic state of these patients can be selected. In recent years there have been
      advances in the understanding of the cellular physiology of the muscles of older people.
      However, few of the research studies carried out to date have analysed muscle collected from
      individuals who are as frail as the patients who present with hip fractures, or probed the
      metabolic changes which occur in the muscle following injury in this cohort. Findings from
      cross-sectional investigations on the healthy older person and prospective studies which try
      and mimic the muscle wasting seen in sarcopenia (using immobilisation or bed rest protocols)
      could prove useful in this endeavour. However, it is possible that results from these studies
      may not be generalizable to those who are frail (who may have other clinical problems and
      take multiple medications) and it is important that deep phenotyping of muscle from these
      patients is undertaken to address this knowledge gap.

      Across the whole study, including a cohort subset, a range of people with frailty, including
      those with cognitive impairment will be studied. Those with dementia or severe cognitive
      impairment tend to be those who are most frail and represent a high proportion of patients
      admitted with a hip fracture. If such patients are excluded, there is a risk of only
      observing muscle metabolic and histological changes seen in milder levels of frailty, which
      may not provide a comprehensive picture of sarcopenia. This is a frequent criticism and
      limitation of previous studies carried out in this field.

      Participants will be older individuals admitted to Nottingham University Hospital (UK) with a
      fractured hip sustained following a fall. In all participants, a muscle sample will be taken
      from their injured leg during the surgical repair to their hip, with the option for a muscle
      biopsy to be taken, whilst in theatre, from their uninjured leg using the Bergstrom
      technique. These samples will be analysed for intramyocellular lipid content and messenger
      ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression of 384 gene targets spanning a number of cellular
      functions. In the week following surgery, measurements of thigh muscle thickness (Ultrasound
      imaging) and hand grip strength will be made, and an optional assessment of whole body muscle
      mass using the D3-creatine method will be offered. After discharge from hospital,
      patient-related outcomes measures will be obtained from medical notes and Three months after
      surgery, a set of questionnaires will be sent to the participant or their carer to complete.
      These will assess current mobility, dependency and wellbeing.
    
  