
    
      Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is an effective treatment for many psychiatric illnesses,
      including major depressive disorder. While effective, objective markers have not been
      developed to predict clinical outcome trajectories following ECT. This is important given the
      risks and costs incurred during a full treatment course. Electroencephalography (EEG) is
      typically employed to monitor the generation and termination of ECT-induced seizures but
      leverage of markers toward prognostication remains a future goal. The investigators have
      characterized two distinct EEG patterns associated with ECT-induced generalized seizures and
      have two sleep markers that may serve as markers for predicting response to treatment.
      Central Positive Complexes (CPCs) are large ictal complexes with a scalp topology of voltage
      declining from the top of the head. CPCs are localized to cortical areas that are involved in
      the formation of sleep spindles and slow wave sleep. A pattern of low-voltage activity, known
      as post-ictal generalized electroencephalographic suppression (PGES), is frequently used to
      document termination of these seizures. Additionally, two EEG markers of sleep microstructure
      may have utility given their association with synaptic plasticity, a process presumably
      invoked over the course of ECT-induced recovery from psychiatric illness as pathologic neural
      circuitry undergoes reconfiguration. These two markers, sleep spindles and slow waves show
      altered expression patterns in patients with psychiatric disorders, and thus may be useful as
      objective markers of ECT responsiveness. None of the above EEG markers have been explored for
      an association to interval changes in disease severity over the course of ECT. This project
      will incisively probe the relationships between temporal trajectories of major depressive
      disorder severity and longitudinal measurements of ictal and postictal EEG markers. Ninety
      patients will be followed for up to 22 ECT sessions. Bedside clinical instruments will allow
      assessments of depression severity. High-density (65-electrode) EEG caps will be acquired
      before and up to 30 minutes following ECT electrical stimulation. Duration of CPCs will be
      determined using a novel automated algorithm. Duration of PGES will be evaluated using
      recently validated automated algorithms. Wireless wearable devices will address previous
      barriers to the longitudinal study of sleep microstructure in the outpatient ECT setting.
      Slow wave activity and density of sleep spindles will be evaluated at the first cycle of N3
      and N2 sleep, respectively. For a subset of patients, feasibility will be assessed for the
      potentiation of slow wave activity through closed loop acoustic stimulation.
    
  