
    
      All blocks are performed using nerve stimulation technique. For the SSFNB, the paravascular
      approach will be used to identify the femoral nerve.15 A positive location is considered when
      quadriceps contraction (patellar elevation) is elicited with a current of 0.4 mA or less, and
      30mL of ropivacaine 0.375%, with or without 4mg of dexamethasone are injected, according to
      the randomization.

      For the SSSNB the anterior approach will be chosen.16 The common peroneal or the tibial
      nerves are identified, respectively by dorsiflexion or plantar flexion of the foot, with a
      current of 0.4 mA or less. Depending on the allocated group, 20mL of ropivacaine 0.2%, with
      or without 4mg of dexamethasone are then injected. Blocks success should be assessed by the
      absence of thermal sensitivity on the anterior region of the thigh and the dorsum of the foot
      10 minutes after the block.

      The participating anaesthesiologists may use the ultrasound for visual guidance but should
      also use the nerve stimulator in order to maintain the homogeneity of the procedure.

      Patients will then have an intravenous induction to general anesthesia, being the maintenance
      assured with either Desflurane or Sevoflurane. Thirty minutes before the end of the procedure
      all patients are given paracetamol 1000mg and ketorolac 30mg. Total doses of intraoperative
      analgesics are recorded.

      Before surgery all patients will be explained how to use the PCA, which is connected after
      arrival to the post-anesthesia unit (PACU). The PCA is programmed for 1mg bolus as required
      by the patient, with a lockout period of 7 minutes. In what concerns the remaining
      post-operative analgesia, both groups are prescribed paracetamol 1000mg q8h, diclofenac 50mg
      q12h, and as rescue strategy, tramadol 100mg q6h.

      The demographic data as well as the information of the anesthetic form is recorded in an
      excel table. After surgery, at 8-12h, 24h and 48h (+/-2h) pain is evaluated using a standard
      100mm VAS. Consumption of morphine and other rescue analgesia is recorded in the same time
      periods, as well as the complications and side-effects previously determined.

      The primary outcome is pain assessed by VAS (1-100mm - continuous variable), measured ate
      8-12h, 24h and 48h. Difference in mean values for both groups will be measured. Morphine
      consumption is measured in milligrams, and the mean consumption of both groups is analysed.
      Side-effects and complications will be reported and their incidence calculated.
    
  