
    
      BACKGROUND In Parkinson's disease (PD), cognitive dysfunction is frequently reported -
      approximately 50% of PD patients experience cognitive impairment (Litvan et al., 2011). Of
      these impairments, executive dysfunction is most frequently reported early in the disease
      trajectory (Bosboom, Stoffers, & Wolters, 2004; Muslimovic, Post, Speelman, & Schmand, 2005),
      while impairments in other cognitive domains (i.e. attention, episodic memory, visuospatial
      functions) are also highly prevalent (Bosboom et al., 2004). The majority of PD patients
      ultimately develops PD dementia (PD-D; Aarsland, Andersen, Larsen, Lolk, & Kragh-Sorensen,
      2003; Hely, Reid, Adena, Halliday, & Morris, 2008). Moreover, about 10% of the PD patients
      develops PD-D every year (Aarsland & Kurz, 2010). Cognitive dysfunctions in PD have a
      significant negative influence on the quality of life (Klepac, Trkulja, Relja, & Babic,
      2008), while treatment of these dysfunctions is in its infancy.

      Cognitive training may provide a new intervention for reducing cognitive complaints and
      delaying the onset of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or PD-D. This intervention has been
      widely studied in other diseases (Cicerone et al., 2011; Olazaran et al., 2010). Moreover,
      studies have provided evidence not only for behavioral influences, but also for brain
      connectivity and activity effects of cognitive training (Chapman et al., 2015; Castellanos et
      al., 2010; Subramaniam et al., 2012; Subramaniam et al., 2014; Belleville et al., 2011;
      Rosen, Sugiura, Kramer, Whitfield-Gabrieli, & Gabrieli, 2011). This suggests a restorative
      effect of cognitive training on disrupted brain networks.

      In PD, cognitive dysfunction - mainly executive dysfunction - is associated with disruption
      of the cortico-striato-thalamo-corticale circuits by depletion of dopamine. Dysfunction of
      these circuits seems to disrupt several cognitive networks, which leads to cognitive
      dysfunction (Baggio et al., 2014). Cognitive training could counteract these disruptions by
      normalising activity and connectivity, and ultimately lead to a reduction of impairment.
      Since earlier studies in different patient populations have shown that cognitive training has
      lasting effects (Petrelli et al., 2015), normalising disruptions underlying cognitive
      impairment could prevent cognitive deterioration and therefore prevent or delay the
      development of PD-D.

      Few studies in PD have focused on cognitive training and its neural correlates. A
      meta-analysis by Leung et al. (2015) showed positive effects of cognitive training on mainly
      'frontal' cognitive functions (i.e. working memory, executive functions, processing speed).
      In addition, earlier research has described a neuroprotective effect of cognitive training on
      the development of MCI in PD (odds ratio: 3; Petrelli et al., 2015). Until now, however,
      studies have been relatively small and mainly without a controlled design - consequently,
      there is a need for large randomized controlled studies (Hindle, Petrelli, Clare, & Kalbe,
      2013; Leung et al., 2015). Moreover, neural effects of cognitive training are largely unknown
      in PD. Furthermore, it is important to study the improvement of patients on daily functioning
      after cognitive training, rather than solely focusing on cognitive tasks and neural measures.
      Finally, cognitive training has been performed mainly in hospital settings, while PD patients
      have mobility problems - a training method suitable to perform from home is therefore needed
      for this population.

      OBJECTIVES The study objective is primarily to measure the effect of an online cognitive
      training in patients with mild cognitive complaints in PD. An online training, specifically
      altered for PD patients (BrainGymmer) will be compared with an active comparator. In both
      conditions, participants will train eight weeks, three times a week during 45 minutes.

      Primary objective:

      - To measure the effect of an online cognitive training (as compared to the active
      comparator), eight weeks, three times a week, on executive functions in patients with mild
      cognitive complaints in PD.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To measure the effect of online cognitive training on daily functioning.

        -  To measure the endurance of the training effect after six months, one and two years.

        -  To assess the reduced risk of MCI and PD-D development by cognitive training.

        -  To assess the effect of cognitive training on brain network efficiency and connectivity.

        -  To assess the effect of cognitive training on brain network topology and connectivity,
           and cognition, relative to those of matched healthy control participants.

        -  To assess the difference in brain network topology and connectivity, and cognition,
           between Parkinson's disease patients with or without cognitive impairment and healthy
           control participants.
    
  