
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure the effect of G-2535 on EGF-R phosphorylation. Two EGF-R phosphorylation sites
      with functional significance are phosphotyrosine 992, which is a direct binding site for the
      PLC-gamma SH2 domain, and phosphotyrosine 1068, a binding site for the Grb2/SH2 domain. The
      expression of EGF-R and phosphorylated EGF-R will be determined in tumors as well as adjacent
      and remote normal appearing urothelium.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Measuring tissue intermediate endpoint biomarkers such as EGF-R mutations (EGFR vIII, exon
      19-21), Ki67, activated Caspase 3, Akt, P-Akt, MAP kinase, P-MAP kinase, COX-2, survivin, and
      BLCA-4 and we will also determine survivin and BLCA-4 levels in urine specimens as surrogate
      tumor markers. Biomarkers associated with the EGF-R pathway, including Akt and P-Akt will be
      studied by immunohistochemistry. Additionally, Ki67, activated Caspase 3 (as a marker of
      apoptosis), and COX-2 will serve as biological endpoint biomarkers to measure the effects of
      G-2535 on proliferation, apoptosis, and other processes and molecules relevant to bladder
      cancer. These studies will be performed on tumors as well as adjacent and remote normal
      urothelium. II. Safety will also be studied.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to invasiveness of disease (non-invasive [stage Ta, Tis, or T1] vs invasive [stage
      T2, T3, or T4]). Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      Arm I: Patients receive oral genistein twice daily for approximately 14-30 days.

      Arm II: Patients receive oral genistein as in arm I but at a higher dose. Arm III: Patients
      receive oral placebo twice daily for approximately 14-30 days.

      One day after completion of genistein or placebo, all patients undergo cystoscopic excision,
      transurethral resection of the bladder tumor, or cystectomy.

      Patients undergo blood, urine, and tissue sample collection for pharmacogenomic,
      pharmacokinetic, and biomarker laboratory studies. Blood and urine samples are collected at
      baseline, after 1 week of treatment, and at the time of surgery for pharmacokinetic and urine
      biomarker (survivin and BLCA-4) studies. Pharmacogenomic studies (epidermal growth factor
      receptor [EGFR] polymorphisms and CYP3A 4/5 genotypes) are performed at baseline using blood
      samples. Tissue biomarker (EGFR polymorphism, EGFR mutations [EGFR vIII, exon 19-21], EGFR,
      phosphorylated EGFR, Ki67, activated caspase 3, Akt, P-Akt, MAP kinase, P-MAP kinase, COX-2,
      survivin, and BLCA4) studies using tumor tissue and adjacent and remote normal urothelium are
      performed at baseline and at the completion of treatment.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60 patients (20 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 1 year.
    
  