
    
      Cardiac arrest (CA) is defined as the sudden cessation of effective cardiac pumping function
      as a result of either ventricular asystole (inactivity of the heart) or pulseless ventricular
      tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation (VT/VF). Pulseless ventricular tachycardia/ventricular
      fibrillation is an abnormal electrical activity of the ventricles of the heart. Rapid
      diagnosis and treatment are essential because first, more than a few minutes of total CA
      results in permanent damage to the brain due to lack of oxygen, and second, the success of
      resuscitative measures is related to the rapidity with which they are instituted following
      arrest. For a person in VT/VF the probability of successful defibrillation and subsequent
      survival to hospital discharge is directly and negatively related to the interval between
      onset of VT/VF and delivery of first shock.

      Comparison: By using AECDs we will evaluate if an automatic, rapid, accurate and specific
      diagnostic technology will further increase the rate of survival in patients with VT/VF by
      rapid and automatic defibrillation, independent of operator initiation, as compared to
      standard cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) with conventional defibrillators initiated by
      healthcare providers. This trial will be a randomized, controlled trial and will test if
      AECDs can improve outcome measures when compared to traditional responses.

      Conventional defibrillators are manually operated defibrillators that have to be attached to
      the patient and operated by a healthcare provider or layperson. In contrast, the purpose of
      AECDs is to automatically detect life-threatening arrhythmias and deliver external shocks
      according to a programmable prescription for hospitalized patients, who may be at transient
      risk for the development of life-threatening arrhythmias. AECDs immediately and automatically
      monitor, detect and treat cardiac arrhythmias with no human intervention. The AECD proposed
      to be utilized in this trial, PowerHeart CRM, a product of Cardiac Science, Inc, has been
      evaluated in the hospital setting to assess safety and efficacy, and has been approved by the
      FDA to be prophylactically attached to hospital patients and provide automatic defibrillation
      therapy without human intervention.

      All patients admitted to the telemetry unit will be asked to volunteer for this study. Up to
      3,000 patients will be asked to volunteer in this study during their stay in the telemetry
      unit. This study will evaluate if there is a way to improve survival in CA by comparing two
      groups

      Group 1: This group includes patients admitted to telemetry unit who will undergo standard
      measures of CPR in case cardiac arrest is suspected.

      Group 2: This group includes patients admitted to telemetry unit who will have an AECD
      attached to the chest wall and who will also undergo standard measures of CPR in case of
      cardiac arrest.
    
  