
    
      It is often difficult to achieve optimal bowel cleansing for patients having morning
      colonoscopies. One possible cause of this is the timing of the bowel preparation prior to the
      procedure. A clean bowel will allow for a clear view of its inner lining which is important
      for both accurate diagnosis and treatment. Abnormal changes may be tiny, so even the smallest
      amount of faeces could potentially disguise polyps and cancers.

      Additionally, poor bowel cleansing can lead to the procedure being cancelled and repeated on
      another occasion at a later date, adding to the burden on current resources. Poor bowel
      preparation has also been shown to be a factor in more difficult and longer procedures,
      increased patient discomfort, and a higher risk of complications.

      This is more of an issue for patients having a colonoscopy in the morning. One cause of this
      could be the timing of bowel preparation. Studies have shown that having a smaller window of
      time between finishing bowel preparation and having a colonoscopy results in a much cleaner
      bowel. The investigators are therefore considering the times patients are required to take
      their bowel preparation in order to improve the bowel cleansing outcome for a morning
      colonoscopy.

      Previous studies have indicated that a split dose (one evening dose and one early morning
      dose) improves bowel cleansing compared to all doses taken the day prior to colonoscopy.
      However, there has been no research to assess the efficacy of early morning bowel preparation
      and its acceptability to patients. This information may lead to future studies and in order
      to ensure the success of this further research it is important to understand any potential
      barriers from patients to new timing regimens.

      Therefore, such information as highest education level, employment status, age and experience
      of previous bowel preparation for colonoscopy for the patient population is captured.

      Results from previous studies looking at potential barriers have shown that such issues as
      having a simplified colonoscopy instruction sheet improved bowel preparation and lowered
      cancellation rates and that patients with a history of colonoscopy are less likely to follow
      bowel preparation instructions and therefore achieve adequate bowel cleansing.

      A total of 300 participants will be approached; 150 participants who have previously had
      bowel preparation for colonoscopy and 150 participants who have not, and are attending for a
      flexi sigmoidoscopy and therefore may have to go on to have a colonoscopy.

      These groups will be further split to half attending in the morning and half attending in the
      afternoon, thus achieving a cross section of this patient group.
    
  