
    
      Anthracycline-containing chemotherapy is well known to cause dose-dependent, progressive
      cardiac damage in particular left ventricular dysfunction evolving to heart failure. The
      development of cardiac dysfunction, even asymptomatic, leads to the exclusion of cancer
      patients from effective chemotherapy, with a possible negative impact on their oncologic
      prognosis. The use of troponins (cTn) during cancer chemotherapy with anthracyclines (AC)
      allows to identify early cardiac injury before the onset of left ventricular dysfunction,
      with high predictive value. ACE inhibitors (ACEi) and betablockers (BB) prescribed to cancer
      patients when, during the course or after the end of a chemotherapy, signs or symptoms of
      cardiac failure are detected, have been shown to be protective in monocentric studies.
      Prophylaxis with an ACEi, enalapril and a BB, bisoprolol in patients treated with
      AC-chemotherapy may allow to reduce the risk of cardiovascular injury, allowing for the
      completion of the whole scheduled antitumoral treatment.

      Sample size According to previous studies from the European Institute of Oncology IEO), an
      increase of circulating troponin levels is estimated to be 20% in the patients treated with
      anthracyclines at conventional dosage. 134 patients in each arm (Total sample size of 268
      patients) are required to detect a 50% relative risk reduction in the incidence of elevated
      troponins levels at a 2-sided alpha=0.05 and a 1-beta=0.60, taking into account a 5% drop-out
      rate. This endpoint will allow to compare the strategy based on prevention (arm 1) with the
      strategy guided by troponin (arm 2). Given the originality of the proposal and the limited
      resources, this study will be exploratory in nature, waiting for a larger and adequately
      powered clinical trial designed to observe significant differences in clinical events.

      Safety Tolerability of enalapril, valsartan and bisoprolol has been proven over several years
      and in broad populations of cardiac patients, not only with heart failure, but also at
      cardiovascular risk in the absence of signs or symptoms of HF. Specific unwanted effects in
      cancer patients are not expected, based on previous experiences. Special care should be taken
      to avoid profound hypotension induced by enalapril, valsartan and bisoprolol in these
      patients. Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) ad Suspected and Unsuspected Serious Adverse
      Reactions (SUSARs) will be collected and treated appropriately.
    
  