
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, single-blind phase IV study in which all outpatients
      scheduled for a colonoscopy will be given a different bowel cleansing strategy (conventional
      or intensified) according to a scoring system already validated in the investigator's center,
      designed with variables independently associated with poor bowel cleansing, constipation,
      abdominal/pelvic surgery, comorbidity and to be on antidepressant treatment. According to
      this system, a score equal to or less than 1.225, predicts with a high confidence (negative
      predictive value = 88%) a suitable cleansing quality with a standard preparation protocol.
      Therefore, these subjects will be advised of a conventional preparation (low fiber diet the
      day before the examination and low volume preparation consisting of 2 L of PEG with ascorbic
      acid). Subjects with a score greater than 1.225 will be randomized to receive an intensive
      bowel preparation (low fiber diet three days prior to colonoscopy and large bowel preparation
      consisting of 4 L PEG with bisacodyl) or a conventional one (low fiber diet the day before
      the examination and 2 L of PEG with ascorbic acid). The choice of low-volume preparation as a
      control is supported by the absence of significant differences in quality of cleanliness in
      patients with a score > 1.225 among patients prepared with high or low volume and that low
      volume preparation appears to improve tolerance and compliance.

      A researcher will offer to participate in the study to all outpatients with a scheduled
      colonoscopy, who meet all the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria. The
      researchers will explain the purpose of the study and will ask to sign the informed consent.
      They will give verbal and written information on the bowel preparation strategy. Thus,
      according to the allocation group, participants must comply with a large volume cleansing
      strategy or a conventional one. For patients with a low score (≤ 1.225) a conventional
      preparation will be recommended.

      Patients must complete a baseline questionnaire at the inclusion visit and another
      questionnaire at the colonoscopy visit.

      The hypothesis of the study is that in patients with a high risk of poor bowel preparation,
      the large bowel based preparation strategy is superior to the conventional bowel preparation
      in achieving an acceptable bowel cleansing assessed by a validated scale (Boston Bowel
      Preparation Score).
    
  