
    
      RAD001 is a new drug that is designed to block a protein that is important in the growth of
      cancer cells. Octreotide Depot is FDA approved for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome and
      hormonal symptoms from certain islet cell carcinomas. Octreotide Depot may also help to block
      certain proteins that are important in tumor growth.

      Before you can start treatment on the study, you will have what are called "screening tests".
      These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the study. You
      will be asked questions about your medical history and about any medications you are
      currently taking or have taken in the past. You will have a complete physical exam and your
      heart rate, temperature, breathing rate, blood pressure, height, and weight will be measured.
      You will be asked about your ability to perform every day activities. Blood (about 2
      teaspoons) will be collected for routine tests. You will have an electrocardiogram (ECG - a
      test that measures the electrical activity of the heart) and scans (either Computed
      Tomography/CT or Magnetic Resonance Imaging/MRI) to evaluate the cancer. Women who are able
      to have children must have a negative blood pregnancy test.

      If the screening evaluations show you are eligible to take part in the study, you may begin
      treatment. You will take RAD001 by mouth once a day, every day while on study. You should
      take it in a fasting state or after no more than a light, fat-free meal. You should take
      RAD001 about the same time each day. Octreotide Depot will be given as an injection into the
      muscle of either buttock once every 4 weeks while on study. This will be done at M. D.
      Anderson. Four weeks (28 days) is called one course of treatment.

      Clinic visits will occur every 2 weeks during the first 4 weeks and every 4 weeks from then
      on. At each clinic visit, you will be asked questions about your medical history and about
      any medications you are currently taking or have taken in the past. You will have a complete
      physical exam and your heart rate, temperature, breathing rate, blood pressure, height, and
      weight will be measured. You will be asked about your ability to perform every day
      activities. Blood samples (about 1 teaspoons) for routine tests will be collected every 2
      weeks for the first 8 weeks. After that, blood samples (about 2 teaspoons) will be collected
      every 4 weeks. CT or MRI scan(s) will be performed every 12 weeks.

      If a sample of your tumor tissue that was removed previously is available, it will be
      analyzed for expression of proteins that may effect tumor growth. However, if a sample is not
      available, you will not be asked to undergo a biopsy to collect this tissue. This sample may
      analyzed at any time during the study.

      If you experience severe side effects, treatment may be delayed, stopped, or you may receive
      smaller doses of RAD001 and/or Octreotide Depot. You may continue to receive up to at least
      12 courses of study treatment unless the disease gets worse, you decide not to take part any
      longer, or your doctor decides it is in your best interest to stop treatment. It may be
      possible to continue treatment beyond 12 courses if you are benefitting from this treatment.

      When you stop study treatment, you will be asked to have some tests and evaluations done.
      About 4 teaspoons of blood will be taken for routine lab tests, You will also have a physical
      exam and CT scan or MRI scan will be done to check the size and location of your disease.

      This is an investigational study. RAD001 is investigational and is not commercially
      available. The drug combination in this study is also investigational. RAD001 is manufactured
      by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation. About 60 patients will take part in this study. All
      will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  