
    
      In the context of a multicentre, pilot trial in 100 elderly (>/= 65 years) critically ill
      adults comparing two strategies to identify weaning candidates ('once daily' vs. 'at least
      twice daily' screening) in 8 ICUs across Canada, we propose to assess feasibility metrics
      that reflect our ability to consent, enroll and recruit elderly and very elderly invasively
      ventilated patients and evaluate adherence to the study protocols in preparation for
      launching a large scale screening RCT.

        1. Primary Research Question (i) Can we recruit invasively ventilated elderly (age >/= 65
           years) critically ill adults into a weaning trial comparing alternative screening
           strategies?

        2. Secondary Research Questions (ii) Can clinicians adhere to the assigned screening
           protocols in both study arms?

        3. Tertiary Research Questions

           (ii) What are the proportions of enrolled elderly and very elderly trial participants?
           (iii) Are the proportions of consents obtained and declined for trial participation
           similar between eligible elderly and very elderly trial participants? (iv) What are the
           rates and reasons for trial exclusion based between eligible elderly and very elderly
           patients? (v) What effect, in preliminary estimates, do the alternative screening
           strategies have on clinically important outcomes[e.g., time to first Spontaneous
           Breathing Trial (SBT) and first successful SBT, time to first extubation and successful
           extubation, total duration of mechanical ventilation, intensive care unit (ICU) and
           hospital length of stay, ICU and hospital mortality, use of noninvasive ventilation
           (NIV) following extubation, complications (self-extubation, tracheostomy, reintubation,
           proportion requiring prolonged mechanical ventilation) and adverse events] between
           elderly and very elderly trial participants.

        4. Quaternary Research Questions

      (i) Can we assess and quantify current practices related to sedation, analgesia an delirium
      management and mobilization before conducting 'once daily' or 'at least twice daily
      screening' assessments of weaning readiness with the goal of quantifying factors that may
      lead to performance bias in the future, planned, large scale weaning trial.

      (ii) Can we identify barriers (clinician and institutional) to recruitment into this study?
      (iii) Can we classify trial participants as requiring (i) simple, (ii) difficult or (iii)
      prolonged weaning using the 'Task Force on Weaning' definitions.

      Hypotheses

      We hypothesize that we will achieve our feasibility metrics, specifically, that:

        1. We will recruit at least 2 elderly critically ill patients, on average, per month per
           ICU.

        2. Compliance rates will be at least 80% in both study arms and contamination in the once
           daily screening arm will be < 10%.

        3. We expect that we will enroll similar proportions of elderly than very elderly trial
           participants.

        4. We anticipate that the proportion of consents obtained will be similar between eligible
           elderly and very elderly participants, the rate of declined consents will be higher in
           very elderly trial participants.

        5. We anticipate that rates of exclusion will be greater for very elderly trial
           participants due to increased prevalence of comorbid illnesses and treatment
           limitations.

        6. We expect that preliminary estimates of the impact of the alternative screening
           strategies on clinically important outcomes will be similar between elderly and very
           elderly trial participants.

        7. Practices in sedation, analgesia, delirium and mobilization will be recorded at least
           80% of the time.

        8. We will identify potentially modifiable clinician and institutional barriers to
           recruitment.

        9. Proportions of critically ill adults requiring simple, difficult or prolonged weaning in
           Canadian ICUs will be similar to those reported in the world literature.
    
  