
    
      The Durham Connects Program is an innovative, community based, universal nurse home-visiting
      program that aims to lower the population rate of child maltreatment and improve mother and
      child health and well-being. The Durham Connects Program is implemented jointly by the Durham
      County (North Carolina) Department of Public Health, the Center for Child & Family Health (a
      community non-profit), and Duke University. It is designed to be brief and inexpensive per
      family so that communities can afford its costs. Its goals are consistent with those of more
      intensive nurse home-visiting programs: 1) to connect with the mother in order to enhance
      maternal skills and self-efficacy; and 2) to connect the mother with needed community
      services such as health care, child care, mental health care, and financial and social
      support; so that 3) the mother can connect with her child.

      DC achieves population reach by engaging all families within the community, rapidly triaging
      families based on identified risk to concentrate resources to families with greater needs,
      and connecting those families with significant nurse-identified risk to matched community
      programs and services to provide long-term support and a first step into the community system
      of care. The program consists of 4-7 manualized intervention contacts, including 1) a
      hospital birthing visit when a staff member communicates the importance of community support
      for parenting and schedules an initial home visit; 2) 1-3 nurse home visits between 3-12
      weeks of infant age to provide physical assessments for infant and mother, intervention and
      education, assessment of family-specific needs, and for families with significant
      nurse-identified risk, connections to matched community resources to provide longer-term
      support; 3) 1-2 nurse contacts with community service providers to facilitate successful
      connections; and 4) a telephone follow-up one month after case closure to review consumer
      satisfaction and community connection outcomes. With family consent, letters from the program
      reporting on the visit are also provided to also connect families to maternal and infant
      healthcare providers for ongoing support.

      During home visits, the nurse engages the mother (and father, when possible) to provide brief
      educational interventions for all families (e.g., safe sleep) and utilizes a high-inference
      approach to assess family needs across 12 empirically-derived factors linked to child health
      and well-being:

      Healthcare: parent health, infant health, health care plans; Parenting/childcare: childcare
      plans, parent-infant relationship, management of infant crying; Family violence/safety:
      material supports, family violence, maltreatment history; and Parent well-being:
      depression/anxiety, substance abuse, social/emotional support.

      The nurse scores each of the 12 factors and intervenes accordingly. A score of 1 (low risk)
      receives no subsequent intervention. A score of 2 (moderate risk) receives short-term,
      nurse-delivered intervention over 1-2 sessions. For a score of 3 (high risk) the nurse
      connects the family to matched community resources tailored to address that particular risk
      (such as, treatment for postpartum depression, a DSS social worker exclusively serving Durham
      Connects families for enrollment in Medicaid or food stamps, a multi-year home visiting
      program for long-term parent support). The nurse also provides follow up to make sure that
      each connection "sticks," requiring additional contacts with the family or community agency.
      A score of 4 (imminent risk) receives emergency intervention (<1% of cases). A final contact
      four weeks after case closure ascertains community connection outcomes and whether further
      problem solving is needed to address new or existing needs.

      From July 1, 2009-December 31, 2010, all 4777 resident births from two Durham County
      hospitals (one academic tertiary care hospital and one community hospital) were randomized at
      the even-odd birth date group level, with families assigned to one of two intervention groups
      based on infant birth date: 1) even birth date families (n=2327) were randomly assigned to
      receive DC; DC staff attempted to schedule and visit all even birth date families; 2) odd
      birth date families (n=2450) were randomly assigned to receive other community services as
      usual and served as the control group. All eligible families (i.e., families living in Durham
      County giving birth at one of the two county hospitals) were included with experimental
      rigor, and without exception, but with ethical care for confidentiality. Hospital discharge
      records were utilized to confirm eligibility for all RCT families. The Duke University Health
      System Institutional Review Board approved all RCT implementation and evaluation procedures.

      Completely independent of program implementation, a random, representative subsample of 549
      families was selected to conduct an independent evaluation of DC beginning at infant age 6
      months (initial interviews completed between infant ages 6-8 months). Use of random
      subsamples for evaluation of population-level interventions allows for testing of
      intervention impact while minimizing evaluation costs (e.g., Moving to Opportunity for Fair
      Housing intervention15). Consistent with this evaluation strategy, one family was randomly
      selected by computer algorithm from public birth records for each of the 549 days of the
      18-month RCT enrollment period in order to examine program impact for families enrolled
      across the entire trial period. Families were selected from the entire population of eligible
      birth records (i.e., resident Durham County births at one of the two county birthing
      hospitals) without consideration for intervention participation or adherence. Selected
      families that declined participation were replaced with a randomly selected family with the
      same child birth date and race/ethnicity as the original family, in order to preserve any
      lack of selection bias based on these characteristics.

      Selected families were contacted and invited to participate in a descriptive research study
      about family community service use and child development. Families were blind to study goals,
      and home interviewers were blind to family DC participation status. Overall, 682 families
      were randomly selected and 549 (81%) participated (n=269 DC-eligible families; n=280 control
      families). Post-hoc comparisons of hospital discharge records and public birth records after
      all evaluation study consenting and interviews were complete identified 18 participating
      families that were subsequently declared ineligible due to hospital discharge record error
      (n=13 families with no hospital discharge record; n=3 families with child birth date
      discrepancies; and n=2 families with address discrepancies affecting Durham County
      residency), resulting in a final sample of 664 selected families and 531 participating
      families. The ineligible families (n=9 DC-eligible families; n=9 control families) were
      removed without consideration for intervention adherence or evaluation outcomes.
    
  