
    
      Eligible patients are stratified by site and randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to either CA330
      hemoperfusion plus conventional medical therapy group or conventional medical therapy group.
      The randomization is performed by researchers on the central randomization system, provided
      by the Department of Biostatistics, Southern Medical University. In this study, the center
      coded random number table is produced by stratified and sectional randomization method.
      Statistical Analysis System(SAS) 9.4 statistical software is used to generate random coding
      tables with serial numbers (001-144) according to the number of cases allocated in each
      center and the proportion of experimental group and control group (1:1). The length of
      selected sections (block) and random seed number are sealed together as confidential data .
      The random number table is provided by the statisticians of the Department of Biostatistics,
      Southern Medical University.

      The experimental group receive routine treatment of sepsis combined with cytokine adsorption
      column (CA330) perfusion, and the control group receive routine treatment of sepsis only.

      Hemoperfusion treatments are performed using a perfusion machine via centrally inserted
      standard dialysis catheters at a prescribed blood flow rate of 100-300ml/min. In the
      beginning, lower flow rate is recommended, if there is no discomfort, then gradually
      increases. Each patient received 2 hemoperfusion treatments within 24 hours with a target
      duration for each treatment of 120-180 minutes (minimum of 120 minutes). The shorter the
      interval between the two hemoperfusion is, the better. It is suggested that the second
      hemoperfusion be performed within 0-5 hours after the first one.

      Anticoagulation was recommended with low-molecular-weight heparin in arterial line of the
      circuit at the dose of 60-80 international units (IU)/kg. No additional dose is required. The
      activity of anticoagulant factor α can be monitored at 60 minutes. It is suggested that the
      activity of anticoagulant factor α should be maintained at 500-1000units/L in subjects
      without bleeding tendency and 200-400units/L in subjects with bleeding tendency. If the
      clinical condition is limited, it is not mandatory to monitor this parameter.
    
  