
    
      Disability, a dynamic, multidimensional and diverse public health problem, can be acquired
      temporarily/chronicly or later in life due to congenital, acute illness and/or injury.
      Although the primary care burden of the disabled is mostly on mothers, caregivers cannot find
      little or no support socially and they have a high risk of experiencing physical and
      psychological health problems. In the studies carried out; Disabled caregivers reported
      higher and lower quality of life than healthy individuals' relatives with physical ailments
      such as asthma, arthritis, back pain, care burden, pain, insomnia, fatigue, depression,
      anxiety, stress. It was determined that 64.3% of mentally disabled caregivers experience
      severe stress. The measure that improves family caregivers' knowledge about effective and
      safe care strategies can reduce/prevent stress-related problems and improve their quality of
      life. Roy's Adaptation model (RAM) is one of the most widely used nursing models to cope with
      various diseases and problems, which is applied to improve the quality of life and reduce
      stress in caregivers. Progressive relaxation exercise (PGE), which is an excellent step to
      cope with stress and stress, has been recognized as an effective technique used in
      controlling muscle tension. Stress (Novais et al., 2016; Wicaturatmashudi&Erman,2020;
      Özgündoğdu&Metin, 2019; Fernández Sánchez et al., 2020) and quality of life (Ghezeljeh et
      al., 2017; Bahrami-Eyvanekey et al., 2017). As a part of the holistic care of children with
      mental disabilities, the needs and problems of their primary caregivers should be taken into
      consideration and solutions should be developed. At the end of this study, the effectiveness
      of structured interventions consisting of different learning styles (face-to-face, mobile
      application, face-to-face and mobile application; education + PGE exercises) and relaxing
      exercises that alleviate the physiological and psychological burden of care were tested, and
      it was the most effective in increasing the quality of life and reducing stress of caregivers
      of mentally disabled individuals. method will be determined. The method that has been proven
      to be effective will be supported by mobile application for the widespread access of mentally
      disabled individuals to their caregivers, to reach more target groups.

      In this study, randomized controlled, 3 experimental, 1 control group, pretest-posttest
      experimental design will be used as research design. The study will be conducted with the
      caregivers of mentally disabled individuals rehabilitated in rehabilitation centers. The
      sample size was calculated as 34 individuals in each group (136 individuals) with the G-Power
      3.1.9.2 power analysis program. The data will be obtained using the personal information
      form, adult caregiver quality of life questionnaire, perceived stress scale, ways of coping
      with stress questionnaire. The data will be evaluated using SPSS statistics 20 program and
      Statistical significance will be accepted as p<.05.
    
  