
    
      The primary efficacy objective of this study is to demonstrate that the NOL Index of the
      PMD-200 monitor (Medasense Biometrics Ltd., Ramat Gan, Israel) is correlated with the
      responses to noxious stimuli and analgesic administration during the surgical procedure
      (prior and following a stimuli or titration), and the secondary efficacy objective of the
      study is to determine whether the NOL values can be correlated to other nociception
      predictors (e.g., increase in heart rate or blood pressure) following a noxious stimuli. The
      primary safety objective of this study is to assess the rate of any adverse reaction related
      to the study device. This device will not be used to make any clinical decision.

      General anesthesia is the combination of various components including lack of movement,
      hypnosis, amnesia, control of autonomic responses, and attenuation of the response to noxious
      stimulation. Some anesthetic components, such as muscle relaxation and absence of movement
      are easy to assess with a twitch monitor. Similarly, hypnotic state can be estimated using
      processed electroencephalographic signals, but the anesthetic component that remains the most
      challenging to assess is the nociceptive/antinociceptive state. Typically, intraoperative
      nociception is estimated from autonomic responses (such as change in blood pressure and heart
      rate) and clinical signs such as tearing and sweating, but these variables can be very
      unreliable in predicting pain such as in patients who take beta blockers for treatment of
      high blood pressure whose heart rate may not increase in response to pain, patients with
      significant bleeding during surgery whose blood pressure may not increase in response to
      pain, etc. Effective antinociception is an important component of balanced anesthesia and
      appears to enhance postoperative outcomes. The most obvious potential consequence of
      insufficient intraoperative antinociceptive treatment is excessive postoperative pain, but
      inadequate treatment may also promote inflammatory, hormonal, and immunologic imbalances.

      A novel measure of nociception is the nociception level (NoL) index. The NoL index ranges
      from 0 to 100 and is based on a nonlinear combination of nociception-related physiologic
      variables, specifically heart rate (HR), heart rate variability at the 0.15- to 0.4-Hz band
      power, photoplethysmograph wave amplitude (PPGA), skin conductance level, number of skin
      conductance fluctuations, and their time derivatives. The NoL index estimates the
      nociceptive/antinociceptive state from these components measures using random forest
      regression. Previous experimental work on a small number of patients showed that the NoL
      index is superior to each individual component and to a linear combination of the components.
      However, it remains unknown whether the NoL index accurately quantifies patients'
      intraoperative responses to noxious stimuli of varying intensities. The investigators
      therefore wish to evaluate the ability of the NoL index to discriminate noxious from
      nonnoxious stimuli, respond to analgesic administration, and progressively increase in
      response to increasing intensity of noxious stimulation.

      In this observational study, The investigators attempt to learn the proper use of the PMD-200
      and assess safety and efficacy of this device as mentioned above; however, no clinical
      decision will be based on the NoL index obtained.
    
  