
    
      The population is aging. Aging is often associated with worsening health, which increases the
      risk of a poor quality of life. It has been reported that practicing art and/or being
      involved in cultural programs, especially participatory-based art activities, enhances the
      quality of life of patients. No effect on health and quality of life has been reported in
      community-dwellers living independently at home. Since October 2015, the Montreal Museum of
      Fine Arts (MMFA; Quebec, Canada) has successfully initiated a series of participatory-based
      art activities called "Les Beaux Jeudis" for older community-dwellers. This art museum
      program includes several activities such as: cultural mediation workshops, supervised museum
      visit and tours as well as a combination of both activities. Here, the investigator has the
      unique opportunity to examine whether and how the MMFA art activities program influences
      health conditions and the quality of life in older community-dwellers.

      Objectives

      The objectives of the proposal are to examine: 1) The socio-demographic, health and quality
      of life characteristics of older adults before, during and after their participation in the
      MMFA art activities program "Les Beaux Jeudis" 2) Compliance to the MMFA art activities
      program 3) Self-assessment of health and quality of life feasibility using a personalized
      e-Health application, accessible online on the web platform of the Telehealth McGill
      integrated university health network.

      Methods

      The design of this study is: observational, prospective, cohort study, before and after
      participation in the MMFA art activities program "Les Beaux Jeudis". The recruited population
      will be older adults who are participants of the MMFA art activities program. Three
      participatory-based art activities are examined: 1) Cultural mediation workshop 2) Supervised
      museum visit and tour of museum 3) Cultural mediation workshop combined with supervised
      museum visit and tour of museum. Each participatory-based art activity is a weekly activity.
      The duration of the MMFA art activities program is 3 months. Five outcomes are examined:
      Socio-demographic characteristics, health condition, quality of life, compliance to the MMFA
      art activities program and the usability of a personalized e-Health application.
    
  