
    
      Sickle cell disease (SCD) is an autosomal recessive disorder and the most common genetic
      disease in the world. SCD is the most common inherited blood disorder in the United States,
      affecting 70,000 to 80,000 Americans. Secondary pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) has
      been shown to have a prevalence of 30% in patients with SCD with mortality rates of 40% at 40
      months after diagnosis in the United States. The burden of disease of SCD is highest in
      Nigeria (West Africa) where approximately 4% of the 140 million people in that country are
      homozygous for SCD, but the prevalence and outcomes of pulmonary hypertension in Africa have
      not been investigated. Many known infectious risk factors for PAH are also highly prevalent
      in Nigeria, including Human Immuno Deficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
      (HIV/AIDS), malaria, chronic hepatitis B and C, schistosomiasis and hookworm. Our first
      clinical hypothesis is that interactions between these infectious complications and sickle
      cell related hemolysis would lead to an even higher prevalence of PAH in Nigeria. Our study
      is therefore designed to determine the prevalence of PAH in Nigerian patients with SCD using
      echocardiographic measurements of the tricuspid regurgitant jet velocity. We aim to determine
      the associations and epidemiological interactions that might lead to PAH, of endemic
      infectious disease co-morbidities, especially HIV/AIDS, with SCD by screening for these
      infectious diseases in control subjects and in SCD patients with and without PAH. Our second
      translational hypothesis is that genetic polymorphisms in candidate genes that regulate
      endothelial function and adhesion contribute to the development of PAH phenotype in African
      SCD patients. Using both candidate gene and genome wide association approaches, we will
      identify and selectively characterize single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes
      important for endothelial function, vascular inflammation and cardiac function (functional
      VCAM1 SNPs and steady state soluble VCAM-1 levels, SELP, SELE, SELL, ICAM1, ITGA4, and CD36,
      TGF-Beta superfamily gene polymorphisms - specifically bone morphogenic protein receptor II,
      and CORIN, the serine protease which, cleaves the natriuretic peptide precursors secreted by
      the heart, proANP and proBNP, to the physiologically active ANP and BNP). Finally, our study
      using the SELDI-TOF-MS system and 2D differential gel electrophoresis (DIGE), will examine
      differential patterns of plasma protein expression, in particular the apolipoproteins and
      arginase I and II enzymes, as potential biomarkers or therapeutic targets in sickle cell
      patients with pulmonary hypertension. Our proposal uniquely integrates international
      clinical, epidemiologic and molecular studies to determine the burden of SCD related PAH,
      decipher the mechanism of interactions of PAH and infectious diseases and identify genetic
      and protein markers and potential therapeutic targets for PAH. Our collaboration will provide
      an opportunity for the rapid transfer of appropriate technology and knowledge relevant to the
      provision of the highest quality care to sickle cell patients in Nigeria and the world.
    
  