
    
      The use of protective mechanical ventilation has improved prognosis on patients with Acute
      Respiratory Failure. The association of neuromuscular blockade in the first 48-72h has
      additionally contributed to a higher survival rate. Such improvement may be due to the
      reduction of transpulmonary pressures caused by the patient's inspiratory effort. To achieve
      appropriate neuromuscular blockade, highes doses of both neuromuscular blocking agents and
      sedatives are required. Therefore, such a strategy usually causes muscular atrophy, including
      the diaphragm.

      Because of the augmented neural drive of such patients, exacerbated by inflammation and
      pulmonary edema, the consequent high tidal volume and transpulmonary pressure cannot be
      reduced by the newest sedatives. In fact, some of these sedatives may even deteriorate
      ventilatory dyssynchrony. Our intention is to verify a novel approach: whether is possible to
      reduce the inspiratory effort of patients without the use of systemic neuromuscular blocking
      agents.

      Our objective in this proof of concept study is to determine the feasibility the use of
      phrenic nerve blockade to decrease transpulmonary pressure and tidal volume, as well as
      quantify its effects on esophageal pressure, diaphragmatic electrical activity,
      transpulmonary pressure and ventilation distribution in patients on spontaneous breathing. It
      is expected that such intervention will reduce diaphragm electrical activity, leading to
      lower transpulmonary pressure, tidal volume and driving pressures.

      All patients will be submitted to the same intervention. Respiratory mechanics, ventilation
      distribution, diaphragm electrical activity, heart rate, mean arterial pressure and
      peripheral saturation will be collected throughout the study. Once the patient presents the
      same diaphragmatic electrical activity and transpulmonary pressure as before the phrenic
      nerve block, the study will be over.
    
  