
    
      Background:

      Shoulder arthroplasty is the fastest growing joint replacement surgery in the United States,
      and optimal postoperative pain management is critical to optimize outcomes for these
      surgeries. LB has gained popularity for its potential to provide extended postoperative pain
      relief with possibly fewer side effects. LB (Exparel, Pacira Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
      Parsippany, NJ, USA) has recently gained popularity for its potential to provide extended
      postoperative pain relief and was recently approved by the FDA for use in interscalene nerve
      blocks. Several studies have investigated its efficacy after hip and knee arthroplasty and
      demonstrated efficacy with decreased opioid consumption, early mobilization, lower hospital
      costs, and shorter length of stay for patients undergoing surgeries such as bunionectomy,
      open colectomy, umbilical hernia repair, breast augmentation, and total knee arthroplasty.
      Limited studies have evaluated the efficacy of LB for perioperative pain control in shoulder
      arthroplasty. Hence, the objective of this study is to determine whether the use of an
      LB-based multimodal analgesic regimen provides better postoperative pain control and patient
      satisfaction, greater cost effectiveness, and lower risk profile compared with standard
      bupivacaine in interscalene nerve bloc

      Study Design and Methods:

      This will be a prospective, randomized, single blinded, controlled clinical trial comparing
      patients undergoing shoulder arthroscopy and arthroplasty treated with LB versus standard
      bupivacaine with a single bolus interscalene block. The block administrator will not be
      blinded. The patient and the staff members conducting the follow up assessments, phone calls,
      and data collection will be blinded to treatment assignment. Study drug administrators
      (anesthesiologists) will not be blinded. There will be at least one unblinded study
      coordinator who will not be involved in collecting outcome data.

      Patients will be randomized in 1:1 ratio to LB or standard bupivacaine with a single bolus
      interscalene block. Patient will receive the assigned interscalene block preoperatively per
      usual procedure. The primary outcome, time to first post operative pain medication will be
      recorded either from the medical record if administered in the hospital or via telephone
      assessment if consumed outside the hospital. Study staff will contact the patient by phone
      post op day (POD) 1, 2, and 3 to assess pain levels, pain medication consumption, sleep, and
      adverse events. The total participation time for each patient will be approximately four days
      (operative day and POD 1,2,3).
    
  