
    
      Physical restraint (PR) is defined by the HAS (Haute Autorité de Santé française) as the use
      of any intervention that prevent or limit movements capability, to protect a person from an
      inappropriate or a dangerous behavior. In French intensive care units (ICUs), wrist straps
      (and sometimes ankle straps) are frequently used to prevent self-removal of medical devices
      in case of agitation, which can affect about 50% of patients. A survey conducted in 121
      French ICUs showed that in 82 % of ICUs, PR is used at least once during mechanical
      ventilation (MV) in more than 50 % of patients. In 65 % of ICUs, when PR is used, it is
      applied for more than 50 % of MV duration. In 29 % of ICUs, PR is used in more than 50 % of
      cases in awake, calm and co-operative patients. PR is started without written medical
      prescription in more than 50 % of patients in 68 % of ICUs. Only 21 % of ICUs have a written
      local procedure for PR use. In the European PRICE study (566 patients, 34 ICUs, 9 countries),
      the frequency of PR use varied from 0% to 100%.

      The benefit of PR is not clearly established and PR could also be deleterious in this
      context. First, PR may leave patients with moderate to extremely stressful memory. Second,
      there is no demonstrated relationship between the PR rates and self-removal of medical
      devices. Finally, there is a complex relationship between agitation, PR use and delirium.
      While PR is prescribed to avoid potential risks associated with agitation, it seems to favor
      delirium. Delirium is a serious event in ICU patients that is independently associated with
      adverse outcomes in patients receiving MV. Moreover, the number of days of ICU delirium is
      significantly associated with increased 1-year mortality and long-term cognitive impairment
      in survivors.

      The R2D2-ICU study will be a prospective, parallel-group, open label, multicenter (6 centers)
      randomized controlled trial. All consecutive eligible patients will be included. Patients
      will be randomly assigned (1/1 ratio) to either systematic PR use (systematic use group) or
      restrictive PR use (restrictive use group). Patients in the restrictive PR group will be
      subjected to PR only in case of severe agitation defined by a RASS ≥ +3. Physical restraint
      will consist of wrist straps. In both groups, patients will receive standardized management
      for analgesia, sedation, delirium detection, weaning and early mobilization according to
      current guidelines. Concealment will be obtained using a computer-generated randomization
      scheme of various-sized blocks stratified by center, age (< or ≥ 65 years) and coma at the
      beginning of invasive mechanical ventilation (D0)) through a centralized 24h/24h internet
      service. Investigation blinded to group assignment is not feasible. In both arms, patients'
      arousal will be evaluated twice a day until day 14 with the use of RASS. Patients with a RASS
      of -5 or -4 will be considered comatose (and will not be assessed for delirium). Patients
      with a RASS score ≥ -3 will be assessed for delirium with the use of the CAM-ICU scale twice
      a day.
    
  