
    
      Head and neck cancer (HNC) is the sixth leading incident cancer worldwide with 600,000 cases
      expected in 2012.1 The vast majority of cases are head and neck squamous cell carcinoma
      (HNSCC), comprising > 90% of histologies. Despite advances in multimodality therapy for
      HNSCC, 5-year overall survival (OS) is 40-60%, and has increased only incrementally in the
      past two decades.2 Improved prognosis is largely attributable to the emerging epidemic of
      oral human papillomavirus infection (HPV). An increasing proportion of oropharyngeal HNC is
      driven by oncogenic HPV, rather than the classic risk factors of tobacco and alcohol; HPV
      etiology is associated with improved survival after conventional treatments.3,4 Most patients
      with HNC present with locally advanced disease (stage III-IVb), and have associated anatomic
      deformity due to the primary tumor or neck adenopathy. Intensive multi-modality therapy
      including surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy is routinely required. The current standard
      of care for primary nonsurgical management of previously untreated locally advanced (PULA)
      HNSCC is concurrent cisplatin-radiotherapy (RT), as administered in the sentinel Intergroup
      trial 0126 5,6. Likewise, the standard of care in the adjuvant management of high risk
      disease is cisplatin-RT as proven in the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) 95-01 and
      European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) 22931 trials.7,8 Despite
      curative-intent surgical or non-surgical therapy, approximately half of people will relapse.
      Unlike most other epithelial malignancies, the dominant pattern of relapse and the driver of
      HNC-related mortality is locoregional recurrence.9 The vast majority of recurrences occur
      within the first two years following definitive therapy.

      Patient evaluation following completion of definitive therapy for HNC is confounded by
      anatomic deformity which began with the primary tumor and nodal metastatic disease, and is
      further compounded by treatment-related effects such as scarring, flap reconstruction, and
      edema. There currently does not exist an ideal method for surveillance. National
      Comprehensive Cancer Center Network (NCCN) guidelines call for physical examination and
      intermittent imaging as required. Clinical trial designs incorporating definitive
      chemoradiotherapy typically employ a diagnostic, contrast-enhanced CT of the neck every 3
      months for 1 year, followed by every 6 months for 1 year, followed by annual evaluations (eg.
      ECOG 1308; UPCI 07-021). Single-arm prospective studies have suggested that positron emission
      tomography (PET) with fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) is more sensitive than CT or physical
      examination alone for residual or recurrent disease, particularly when conducted with
      integrated diagnostic CT scan. In these studies, negative PET/CT scans correlated with lower
      likelihood of residual nodal pathology and improved DFS.12,13 The current practice at the
      University of Pittsburgh is to employ PET/CT surveillance, in particular following definitive
      chemoradiotherapy. However, prior investigations have not demonstrated improved salvage or
      survival outcomes with use of PET/CT surveillance, which is clearly more costly than CT
      surveillance and may carry morbidity related to increased diagnostic procedures for
      false-positive findings.

      The investigators propose a prospective, randomized phase III trial in patients undergoing
      definitive therapy for locally advanced Stage III-IVb carcinoma involving the head and neck.
      This includes primary tumors of the oral cavity, pharynx, and larynx, as well as cancer of
      the salivary glands and squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. Patients who have realized a
      clinical complete response to definitive therapy will be randomized to PET/CT vs. CT
      surveillance, to test the hypothesis that PET/CT surveillance is superior to CT surveillance
      due to earlier diagnosis of recurrence, more timely and effective salvage, and consequent
      reduction in HNC mortality. The study intervention will solely be the imaging modality
      assigned for surveillance. All study patients will otherwise be monitored strictly according
      to NCCN guidelines, including history and physical examination (and endoscopy where
      appropriate). Assigned imaging will be conducted at identical intervals. Areas suspicious for
      recurrence on the basis of history and physical examination, endoscopy or imaging will be
      biopsied. Therapeutic interventions will be determined by the treatment team, which will
      include at least one member from medical oncology, radiation oncology, and
      otolaryngology/head and neck surgery. Patients with recurrent locoregional disease will be
      offered salvage treatment as indicated by the clinical situation.
    
  