
    
      The study is an feasibility study evaluating the impact of using the AffloVest for 30 minutes
      twice daily [in addition to their standard airway clearance regimen] for 6 weeks.

      The study will endeavour to recruit 30 adult subjects (male and female) who have a known
      diagnosis of bronchiectasis and who attend the Cambridge Centre for Lung Infection (CCLI) at
      the Royal Papworth Hospital, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

      Bronchiectasis is defined as symptoms of chronic or recurrent bronchial infection with
      radiological evidence of abnormal and permanent dilation of bronchi, not from cystic
      fibrosis. Subjects will be recruited through convenience sampling and must demonstrate
      stability during a 2-week period prior to enrolment. Stability is defined as no change in
      medical treatment.

      Participants will use the AffloVest for 30 minutes twice dally [in addition to their standard
      airway clearance regimen] for 6 weeks (days 0 - 42). Clinical review and a serial testing
      will be completed at day1, day 21 and day 42 (at commencement of intervention, after 3 weeks
      intervention and after 6 weeks intervention) including high resolution computer tomography
      (HRCT) at full inspiration and full expiration; spirometry (FEV1 and FVC); and the patient
      reported outcomes Visual Analogue Scale for ease of sputum clearance (VAS), St George's
      Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) and Quality of Life -Bronchiectasis (QOL-B).

      HRCT imaging will be done at full inspiration and full expiration and scored by two
      independent expert thoracic radiologists using the validated Brody Scoring System which is
      sensitive and reproducible.

      Both will be blinded to the timepoint of the HRCT being analysed and if there is disagreement
      in scores an average will be taken.

      We hypothesize that changes in HRCT score and patient reported outcomes will be seen post
      treatment with the AffloVest, confirming it as an efficacious therapy for airway clearance in
      adults with bronchiectasis.
    
  