
    
      Diabetes mellitus (DM) is associated with a markedly increased risk of both macro- and
      microvascular disease. Excess pro-oxidants and insufficient antioxidants each contributes to
      oxidant stress in DM. Oxidant stress induces endothelial dysfunction, a major determinant of
      vascular damage. In DM, hyperglycemia and elevated free fatty acids (FFAs) induce generation
      of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by stimulating protein kinase C (PKC) and nicotinamide
      adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase (Figure 1). In addition, hyperglycemia
      activates the renin-angiotensin system, and angiotensin II (Ang II) additively stimulates PKC
      and NADPH oxidase.

      Bilirubin, long regarded as metabolic waste, is, in fact, a potent antioxidant scavenger of
      ROS. It also directly inhibits both protein kinase C and the NADPH oxidase system, augmenting
      its antioxidant activity (Figure 1). Moreover, bilirubin inhibits Ang II-mediated
      vasoconstriction and ROS generation. Experimental models suggest that hyperbilirubinemia may
      preserve diabetes-associated endothelial function and prevent vasculopathy. Furthermore,
      epidemiological studies demonstrate that higher bilirubin levels are associated with a
      reduced risk of vascular disease in DM. Bilirubin therefore emerges as a potentially critical
      molecule to protect against diabetic vascular and renal damage. However, limited
      translational research has addressed raising bilirubin levels as a preventive therapy for
      vascular disease in DM.

      Accordingly, the investigators seek to establish the feasibility of studying the change in
      endothelial function caused by induced moderate hyperbilirubinemia in type 1 diabetes. the
      investigators will take advantage of the recently described use of atazanavir to safely
      achieve moderate hyperbilirubinemia. Atazanavir is a protease inhibitor used to treat HIV
      infection that competitively inhibits hepatic 1A1 isoform of uridine diphosphoglucose
      glucuronosyltransferase (UGT1A1), limiting bilirubin clearance and inducing
      hyperbilirubinemia (Figure 2). This mimics Gilbert's syndrome, a benign unconjugated
      hyperbilirubinemia due to partial genetic deficiency of UGT1A1.

      This work has the potential to identify iatrogenic moderate hyperbilirubinemia as a strategy
      to interrupt key mechanisms of type 1 diabetes-associated macro- and microvascular disease.

      This is a physiologic study. The design is a single arm and open label. There are three study
      visits: a screening visit, a baseline visit, and a final visit. The treatment is atazanavir
      300 mg PO bid. The treatment period is 4 days. The primary study outcome is forearm vascular
      function. The principal secondary outcomes are serum antioxidant defense capacity and
      measures of oxidant stress.

      The investigators aim to study 20 subjects to completion over the 12 month funding period.
      The investigators anticipate enrolling 40 subjects before 20 complete the study.
    
  