
    
      Two groups will be identified :

      A first group with a SPPB (Short physical performance battery) score between 8 and 10 and
      walking more than 90 minutes per week. They will be asked to carry out 2 to 3 times a week a
      series of exercises concerning the main muscle groups, using bodyweight, and without specific
      equipment. An activity booklet will be given as support. In a complementary way, individual
      objectives will be established to develop endurance by fighting against hyper-sedentariness
      based on simple advice to the patient and his entourage. The volume of physical activity will
      be developed from activities of daily living. A telephone coaching will be carried out every
      4 weeks by a Adapted Physical Activity Monitor and a precise evaluation of the physical
      performances will be carried out at 3 months.

      A second group for patients with Short physical performance battery ≤ 8 or if >8 but
      excessive sedentary walking less than 90 minutes per week, including running, or having
      sarcopenia criteria.

      They will be offered bi-weekly care by a Adapted Physical Activity Monitor. Training will be
      conducted either in small group programs or at home (if unable to attend), at the frequency
      of 2 sessions per week for 10 weeks. The personalized program of muscular reinforcement will
      be of progressive intensity with and without additional load and with very simple and easily
      usable devices including at home (elastic bands, weights. . . ).

      During the dedicated geriatric consultation, the nutritional status will also be evaluated by
      a food survey and biological samples in order to measure the usual serum nutritional markers.
      The objective of the assessment is to ensure an adequate intake of macro nutrients, including
      proteins, and energy; as well as micronutrient fruits and vegetables rich in antioxidants and
      omega 3 fatty acids which also have a significant impact in terms of prevention and muscle
      function.

      Loss of autonomy : (ADL) Activities of Daily Living score will be calculated. This validated
      scale requires 3 evaluations spread over time. A score > 6 indicates an addiction.

      (Instrumental Activities of Daily Living) Lawton's IADL scale is essentially focused on the
      person's usual behaviour and essentially assesses a patient's level of dependence through the
      assessment of activities of daily living.

      Useful for assessing the patient's state of functional autonomy and deciding on appropriate
      aids (meals at home, household helper, life support, legal protection).
    
  