
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The study was part of an initiative "Interventions to Improve Asthma Management and
      Prevention at School". The Broad Agency Announcement was released in June, 1994.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The intervention was a combination of: targeted education for children with asthma, other
      children in the school, families, physicians and school personnel; concerted effort to change
      school policies working against effective self-management of asthma; community
      action/education to create awareness and support for the schools' efforts to control the
      disease. Open Airways for School, a proven educational program, was adapted for students in
      the Detroit metropolitan area as part of the intervention. This program was based on social
      cognitive theory while modeling effective asthma management behavior, involving students in
      activities where they mastered skills relevant to asthma management, and developing the
      students' sense of confidence to carry out asthma management tasks. For education of all
      students, a learning module called "Environmental Detective" was developed to complement the
      Michigan Model of comprehensive health education offered in classrooms in Michigan. The
      Environmental Detective game sensitized children without asthma to the problems of children
      with asthma. The intervention was evaluated through a controlled research design to determine
      if it had an impact on asthma morbidity, the number of days of limited activity of the child
      with asthma, and his or her academic performance.

      The project was a collaboration of the University of Michigan School of Public Health and
      School of Medicine, the Henry Ford Hospital Center of Detroit, the Washtenaw County Health
      and Human Services Department, the American Lung Association of Michigan, and the State of
      Michigan Department of Education.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  