
    
      each patient will have at least 2 class II cavities.one will be restored using the
      intervention and the other using the control.

      Digital radiographs will be taken and the images will be processed using a digital system.
      Then the teeth will be evaluated by expert in dental radiology who had no awareness of the
      results of the visual inspection. The examiner will use a radiograph viewer and a
      radiographic film magnifier to determine the presence or absence of radiolucency underlying
      the restoration. The clinical and radiographic examination will be assessed according to the
      FDI World Dental Federation clinical criteria for the evaluation of direct and indirect
      restorations The aim of this equivalent trial is to examine if the chlorhexidine containing
      adhesive is effective as the conventional adhesive in prevention of recurrent caries under
      resin composite restoration after one year follow up in high caries risk patients with class
      II cavities. Based on the previous papers by Papagiannoulis et al .,1999 and kohler et
      al.,2000, the success rate reported was about 95% (absence of caries). If there is truly no
      difference between the standard and experimental treatment, then 37 patients are required to
      be 80% sure that the limits of a two-sided 90% confidence interval will exclude a difference
      between the standard and experimental group of more than 15 %. The sample size was calculated
      by sealed envelope online.

      Data will be analyzed using IBM SPSS advanced statistics (statistical package for social
      sciences), version 21 ( SPSS Inc. Chicago , IL). Numerical data will be described as mean and
      standard deviation or median and range. Categorical data will be described as numbers and
      percentages. Comparisons between categorical variables will be performed using the chi square
      test. An equivalent limit will be tested. A P -value less than or equal 0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant. All tests will be two tailed
    
  