
    
      Study design and sample In the present study, we used a randomized, controlled design to
      assess the effect of "three good things" positive psychotherapy from August 2015 to January
      2016. Measures were administered before (T0) and immediately after (T1) the intervention.

      The study sample were nurses recruited from one three-level general hospital in Changsha,
      Hunan, China. The sample size calculation was conducted via PASS statistical software (NCSS
      LCC, East Kaysville, UT, USA) . The effect size was 0.67, power was 0.80, and margin of error
      type Ⅰ was 0.05. Accordingly, the sample size was 64. Stochastic tables' law was used for
      group division. A total of 193 nurses completed the MBI-GS, and 102 nurses who met the
      inclusion criteria were randomly selected for the study. However, only 73 completed the
      study, with 33 in the experimental group and 40 in the control group.

      Instruments A socio-demographic questionnaire, the Maslach Burnout Inventory-General Survey
      (MBI-GS), the turnover intention questionnaire, the Job Performance scale, the Job
      Satisfaction scale, the General self-efficacy Scale, the CD-RISC and the Trait Coping Style
      Scale were used to collect the data. The blood cortisol was also collected. The detail
      instruction of these scales could be found at Outcome Measures section.

      Ethical consideration This study was approval by The Institutional Review Board (IRB) of
      Xiangya Nursing School, Central South University. Participants were informed about the
      objectives and procedures of the study before they began the survey. All data were held
      confidential. Only the research team could access the data.

      Data analysis Data analysis was performed using SPSS 22.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA).
      Descriptive statistics was used to describe demographic data, burnout, turnover intention,
      job performance, job satisfaction, self-efficacy, resilience, coping style and cortisol.
      Generalized repeated-measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to demonstrate the effect
      of intervention and time-intervention interaction.
    
  