
    
      The Community Asthma Prevention Program (CAPP) at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia has
      a two-decade history of utilizing CHWs to improve asthma outcomes of children in
      Philadelphia. Building on this foundation, a network of stakeholders was established
      including, The West Philadelphia Asthma Care Collaborative (WEPACC), with representation from
      public housing, healthcare, community, and schools. As a result of assessment of local needs,
      resource mapping, and months of planning, Investigators designed an asthma care
      implementation program with the broad objective of integrating home, school, healthcare
      system, and community for school-aged asthmatic children in West Philadelphia. Investigators
      seek to accomplish this goal using CHWs to deliver sustainable patient-centered
      evidence-based interventions. The evidence-based interventions include (1) a primary
      care-based Yes We Can intervention with home visitation and (2) a comprehensive and
      rigorously evaluated school-based intervention, Open Airways for schools and School Based
      Asthma Therapy. CHWs will function as the hub of each interventions, serving either as
      primary care CHWs or school CHWs to provide a network of education, care coordination
      support, and to facilitate communication for families of children with asthma between the
      four sectors. This project seeks to integrate interventions in a comprehensive and
      sustainable manner to reduce asthma disparities in poor, minority children.

      Using a factorial design, Investigators will recruit and randomize 600 asthmatic children
      (ages 5-13 years) from up to five inner-city primary care clinics who attend one of 36 West
      Philadelphia schools to one of four study conditions: both interventions (both primary care
      and school CHWs intervention), primary care CHW or school-CHW alone, or control and follow
      for one year. As a part of this project the Investigators seek to accomplish the following
      objectives:

      Objective 1. Compare effectiveness of the primary care and school interventions to improve
      asthma control and reduce symptom days using main and simple effects from the factorial
      design.

      Objective 2. Explore moderators and mechanisms of effectiveness and sustainability of the
      interventions.

      Objective 3. Use mixed methods to explore implementation determinants and outcomes of school
      intervention that promote effectiveness, fidelity and sustainability

      Objective 4. Examine the costs, savings, and cost effectiveness associated with the
      intervention and implementation strategies to promote sustainability.
    
  