
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) from enrollment for patients with
      non-bulky stage I and II Hodgkin lymphoma.

      II. To compare the PFS of patients who are PET positive versus PET negative following 2
      cycles of doxorubicin hydrochloride, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the complete response (CR) rate of patients diagnosed with non-bulky stage I
      and II Hodgkin lymphoma following PET response-adapted chemotherapy with or without radiation
      therapy.

      II. To determine the predictive value of fludeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake using various
      semi-quantitative approaches, at baseline, after 2 cycles of AVBD and at completion of
      therapy.

      III. To determine the predictive value of volumetric changes on computed tomography (CT) vs
      2-dimensional (2-D) analyses after 2 cycles and 4 cycles and compare with PET parameters with
      and without combination analyses (PET + dedicated CT data).

      IV. To compare the predictive value of metabolic parameters/changes that are measured both
      visually and semi-quantitatively, International Harmonization Project (IHP) criteria, 2-D and
      volumetric CT changes, molecular parameters, and conventional parameters, including
      International Prognostic Score (IPS).

      V. To assess whether elevated baseline circulating markers of inflammation (including soluble
      cluster of differentiation CD30 [sCD]30, soluble CD 163 [CD163], interleukin-10 (IL10),
      chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 17 (CCL17), and chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 22 [CCL22])
      correlate with clinical response and PFS and PET scan results.

      VI. To assess whether persistent or recurrent elevated serial circulating markers of
      inflammation (including soluble CD30 [sCD30], soluble CD163 [sCD163], IL10, CCL17, or CCL22)
      correlate with relapse/progression or PET scan results.

      VII. To confirm independently useful tissue biomarkers for risk stratification in patients
      with non-bulky stage I and II Hodgkin lymphoma treated with this regimen.

      VIII. To compare mediastinal bulk on standing posterior-anterior (PA) and lateral chest x-ray
      (> 0.33 maximum chest diameter) with chest CT (mass > 10 cm).

      OUTLINE:

      ABVD CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 3-5
      minutes, bleomycin sulfate IV over 3-5 minutes, vinblastine IV over 3-5 minutes, and
      dacarbazine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2
      courses. Patients then undergo PET scan. Patients achieving complete response (CR), partial
      response (PR), or stable disease (SD) with a negative PET scan receive 2 additional courses
      of ABVD chemotherapy in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      achieving CR, PR, or SD with a positive PET scan proceed to escalated BEACOPP chemotherapy.

      ESCALATED BEACOPP* CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 3-5
      minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 60 minutes on day 1, etoposide IV over 45-60 minutes on
      days 1-3, procarbazine orally (PO) on days 1-7, prednisone PO on days 1-14, and bleomycin
      sulfate IV and vincristine IV on day 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 4-6 weeks after completion of
      BEACOPP chemotherapy, patients undergo involved-field radiotherapy (IFRT) 5 days a week for
      3½ weeks.

      NOTE: * HIV-positive patients receive standard BEACOPP instead of escalated BEACOPP.

      Patients undergo fludeoxyglucose F^18 PET/CT scan at baseline, and within 8-10 days after
      completion of chemotherapy. Patients also undergo additional PET/CT scans within 3-4 weeks
      after completion of ABVD or within 12 weeks after completion of BEACOPP and IFRT. Patients
      with a negative PET scan proceed to follow up. Patients with a positive PET scan undergo
      biopsy**. Patients with a negative biopsy proceed to follow up, and patients with a positive
      biopsy are treated at the discretion of the investigator.

      NOTE: ** Patients for whom biopsy is neither clinically appropriate nor medically feasible
      proceed to follow-up. Patients for whom biopsy is neither clinically indicated nor medically
      appropriate undergo a repeat PET/CT scan after 3 months. If PET/CT scan remains positive,
      patients undergo biopsy as above.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, every
      6 months for 2-3 years, and then annually for a maximum of 5 years.
    
  