
    
      As of January 1999, FRC FDPs are offered as alternative to other conventional therapy options
      at the Department where the study was conducted. Between June-1999 and June-2000, 58 patients
      aged between 33 and 62 years old (25 females, 33 males, mean age: 47) received 65 indirect
      posterior FRC FDPs. Before enrolment in the trial, all patients were provided with a written
      informed consent Information was given to each patient regarding the alternative treatment
      options. The inclusion criteria were as follows: all subjects were required to be at least 18
      years old, able to read and sign the informed consent document, physically and
      psychologically able to tolerate conventional restorative procedures, having no active
      periodontal or pulpal diseases, having no primary caries, not allergic to resin-based
      materials, not pregnant or nursing, having antagonist teeth opposing the FRC FDP to be
      restored, willing to return for follow-up examinations as outlined by the investigators. The
      patients who had more absent teeth than the tooth to be replaced in the rest of the dentition
      or those having diastemas were not excluded.

      All the restorations were performed by a single operator, selected considering his clinical
      experience (>10 years since graduation).

      All FDPs replaced one missing tooth and bonded to two adjacent abutment teeth were used for
      retention. No cantilever FDPs were involved.

      Treatment was performed in two sessions: 1) Teeth preparation and Impression taking and model
      analysis, 2) Try-in, cementation and polishing of the FDP.

      In the first session, after an accurate evaluation of spaces and residual dental tissues and
      the acceptance of this type of treatment by the patient, pillar teeth were prepared using
      diamond bur on high speed handpiece with mesio-occlusal, disto-occlusal, MOD, onlay or
      overlay preparations according to each clinical situation. Cavity preparation is required not
      only to remove all carious tissue, but to create a minimal space necessary to the glass
      fibers to support occlusal loads. According to "Munack" a cavity with 2x2mm occlusal surface
      and 2mm depth is able to support a 600N masticatory stress before breaking, and by increasing
      depth to 4mm we can reach 700N.

      All cavity designs are realized following these criteria:

      minimum preparation depth of 2.5mm minimum cavity width of 2mm divergent proximal boxes
      bucco-lingual width of proximal boxes at least 3.5m round internal angles. Cavity
      preparations were done under rubber dam with a diamond bur (100micron) with high-speed
      handpiece, in case of carious tissue this was removed finely. After finishing, all cavities
      were cleaned with air-water spray and gently air-dried in order to apply 37% phosphoric acid
      etchant gel on enamel and dentin. The cavities were then rinsed for 30 s with air-water spray
      and dried using suction to keep some moisture in dentin and a layer of bonding is applied
      onto the surface and light-cured. Composite material was applied in the cavities in order to
      create a block-out, that will eliminate undercuts and increase thickness of residual walls.

      Preparations were then finished and polished with fine grain burs(60 and 40 micron
      respectively). After removing rubber dam, complete arch impressions were taken with a
      polyether material followed by disinfecting the impressions for 10 min . Provisional
      restorations were placed with eugenol-free temporary cement . Dental impressions and
      photographs are sent to dental technician for FRCFPD fabrication.

      FRC FDPs were made in one dental laboratory on the full arch plaster cast. The model was
      first isolated with two coats of isolation medium. One unidirectional pre-impregnated E-glass
      fibers (Vectris- Ivoclar Vivadent, Lienchestein) was used to reinforce the veneering
      composite. Each bundle consists of about 4000 glass fibers, with a diameter of 1.7 mm,
      embedded in a PMMA/bis-GMA matrix. Before the fibers were placed on the cast, a layer of
      composite was applied into the interproximal-occlusal box of the abutment teeth. The fiber
      bundle was placed in the bed of the flowable resin using metal hand instruments.

      After photo-polymerization with a halogen polymerization unit (light output: 1200 mw/cm2),
      the framework was veneered with a resin composite An opaque resin was used in some cases to
      improve the optical properties. The veneering resin composite was built incrementally; the
      construction was polymerized for the final time with a heat-light polymerization oven.

      In the second session, after rubber dam placement and removal of provisional restorations,
      the teeth were cleaned with a prophylaxis brush and pumice. After try-in of the FRCFPD to
      check proximal contacts and marginal fit, all adhesive surfaces of the restoration were
      sandblasted, and then cleaned with ethanol and air-dried.

      The cementation surface of the FDP was treated with resin monomer of the corresponding resin
      cement using a micro brush (Heliobond Ivoclar Vivadent, liechtenstein). The resin was left
      unpolymerized, shielded from light, for at least 5 minutes to allow the resin to penetrate
      and activate the IPN-phase of the polymethacrylate polymer matrix of the FRC framework.

      The tooth surface was prepared for adhesion by applying a three step etch and rinse adhesive.
      After removal of excess resin, all restorations were cemented using a resin cement Variolink
      II . light-cured for 40s on each surface (lingual, labial, mesial, distal) (Astralis 10, SN
      018766, Ivoclar Vivadent, light output: 1200 mW/cm2). Static and dynamic occlusion was
      adjusted using fine grit diamond burs. The power output of the unit was measured with a
      radiometer ( before the placement of each restoration. After polymerization, restoration
      margins were finished. Occlusion was adjusted with fine diamond burs (60- and 40-µm grit) and
      finally, the restoration was polished with pointed silicon polishers and abrasive polishing
      brushes. Patients received individual instructions to maintain plaque control.

      One operator applied all the restorations who has experience in adhesive dentistry (>10 years
      since graduation).
    
  