
    
      Study Description:

      This protocol has 2 goals: (1) Collect data from NIMH research volunteers who already
      participated in SNFA neuroimaging studies (protocol 02-M-0321,and 14-M-0114) and examine how
      individual affective, cognitive, and behavioral responses to COVID-19 can be predicted by
      neural and clinical measures obtained prior to the pandemic. This part-1 concerns only a
      limited number of adults and represents a unique opportunity to probe critical questions
      which are difficult to query in empirical experiments or with only retrospective information
      on stress experience. (2) Collect a large dataset to examine the impact of COVID-19 stressors
      on motivation pattern (approach/avoidance behavior) in function of anxiety, cognitive and
      behavioral responses to the pandemic. This part-2 of the protocol is open to any individuals
      interested in participating. Overall, this is a time-sensitive research on the impact of
      environmental stressors generated by the COVID-19 pandemic on anxiety, motivation and
      potential neural mechanisms informed by predictors. Measures collected consist of ratings of
      stressors related to COVID-19 and more generally, anxiety, cognition, and behavior, including
      the performance of a motivation-based task (finger-pressing task). and an attention bias task
      (dot-probe task). This research will use a study website to consent, survey participants
      online, and tasks.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective is to examine the relationship of affective, cognitive and behavioral
      responses to stressors related to COVID-19 with neuroimaging and behavioral data collected
      previously, before COVID-19. This research will identify risk and resilience factors (neural
      and behavioral) among study participants regarding their responses to COVID-19 crisis. The
      secondary objective is to gather a large dataset to provide information on how sustained
      environmental stress affect motivated behavior, particularly with respect to biasing behavior
      towards avoidance, and how individual factors such as anxiety and cognitive function
      influence the impact on patterns of motivation. These data are expected to help the
      interpretation of the role of neuroimaging findings.

      Endpoints:

      The endpoints are 2-fold: anxiety and motivation pattern responses to COVID-19 stressors (1)
      in function of clinical phenotype; and (2) in function of endophenotype previously collected
      using high-resolution 7T fMRI. These endpoints will be measured twice using the same online
      platform approximately 14-20 months after the start of enrollment.

      Study Population:

      The sample size will be up to 6000 healthy volunteers and anxiety participants. Participants
      will be males and females, 18 years and older. They must be English-speaking. The study
      population will include patient and volunteer participants who have consented for an SFNA
      study in the past (protocols 01-M-0185, 02-M-0321, 03-M-0093 and 14-M-0114), or NIMH healthy
      volunteer study (17-M-0181) as well as new participants from the general population who
      respond to advertisements for the SNFA -COVID study but who have not previously been a NIMH
      study participant. The SNFA -COVID study study participants may or may not be local to the
      Metropolitan Washington DC area but since the study will be conducted entirely online, this
      is not relevant.

      Description of Sites/Facilities Enrolling Participants:

      The protocol is situated at the NIH Clinical Center with no additional supporting sites. The
      study itself will be conducted entirely online through a secure study website where consent
      and study measures will be completed and repeated as specified.

      Description of Study Intervention:

      There are no study interventions as this is a descriptive behavioral health survey study,
      including questionnaires and computer tasks.

      Study Duration:

      The estimated time from study initiation to study completion approximately three years.

      Participant Duration:

      It is expected that participants will participate in the study for up to 14-20 months with an
      option to recontact in the future.
    
  