
    
      Between the 1st of October 2009 and the 30th of September 2011 patients with DRF at two
      teaching hospitals were invited to participate in a prospective study. Patients between 15
      and 74 years, with closed physes of the distal radius and ulna were included. Exclusion
      criteria were dementia, previous fracture to the ipsilateral wrist, open fracture, other
      concomitant or existing damage or injury to the wrist, Galeazzi fracture, rheumatoid
      arthritis, alcohol or drug abuse and neurologic impairment. All patients underwent
      radiographic examination with frontal and lateral views centered on the wrist in neutral
      rotation. The radiographs were classified by the doctor on-call who had the needed
      information about the classification system available.

      Undisplaced or minimally displaced fractures (will be called minimally displaced throughout
      this article) were immobilized in a Plaster-of-Paris (PoP) slab from distal to the elbow to
      proximal to the MCP-joints with the wrist in a neutral position. Displaced fractures were
      reduced under hematoma-block local anesthesia, immobilized with PoP slab and then
      radiologically re-examined. In cases of re-displacement at post-reduction x-ray, the
      fractures were registered as primary instability and further treated according to the
      guidelines of the treating department. Both if the fracture was minimally displaced and if
      reduction was successful radiographic examination was performed after 10-14 days.

      If still acceptable at 10-14 days, the fractures were treated in PoP slab for totally 4-6
      weeks. If the fracture at follow up had displaced, it was registered as secondary instability
      and further treatment was discussed. After 3 or more months radiographs were again obtained
      to confirm union and final position of the fracture. Fractures with an acceptable position at
      10-14 days which later mal-united were registered as late instability.

      If reduction to an acceptable position was not achieved initially or was lost at the 10-14
      days control this was considered to be the end-point for this particular fracture in this
      study. Thus all fractures that entered and finished this study can either be considered to
      have been stable i.e. went to union in an acceptable position without operation, or were
      fractures that at one point or another showed that they were so unstable that an acceptable
      position could not be established or kept with conservative means.

      Acceptable position To define acceptable and non-acceptable positions we used specific
      radiographic criteria. We measured volar inclination, radial tilt, ulnar variance and any
      eventual intra-articular step-off. It is considered that elderly people tolerate more
      displacement than younger people (6,10). Some authors have made an arbitrary definition,
      considering females above 49 years and males above 59 years as osteoporotic. Therefore; we
      have divided the patients into two groups, one "younger" below and one "elderly" above these
      ages.

      For the "elderly" we accepted volar inclination up to 20°, dorsal tilt up to 10° and radial
      tilt of 10° or more. For the "younger" we accepted volar inclination up to 15°, dorsal tilt
      up to 10° and radial tilt of 15° or more. Up to 2 mm. of ulnar variance and less than 2 mm.
      of intra-articular step-off were acceptable in both groups.

      Statistics The Fischer's exact test was used to compare each pair of class. To correct for
      multiple comparisons the p-values from the Fischer's exact test was corrected with Benjamini
      Hochberg correction. IBM SPSS 20 was used for most analysis, except for the Fischer exact
      with the correction where R, version 2.15 (http://www.r-project.org), was used with package
      fmsb. A p-value <0.05 is considered statistically significant. The false-discovery-rate for
      the Benjamini-Hochberg correction was set as 0.05.
    
  