
    
      BACKGROUND

      Aortic stenosis is the most common form of valvular heart disease in the elderly and is
      associated with high morbidity and mortality once cardiac symptoms develop (1). In patients
      who are at high risk for serious complications during or after surgery, Transcatheter Aortic
      Valve Implantation (TAVI) has been shown to result in reductions in mortality and improvement
      in quality of life compared with medical therapy (2, 3).

      Due to the ageing and increasingly complex nature of patients with aortic stenosis, frailty
      and functional assessment has become a high-priority theme within patient management. Frailty
      is a term widely used to describe a multidimensional syndrome of loss of reserves (energy,
      physical ability, cognition, health) that gives rise to vulnerability. Several publications
      deal with the impact of frailty on mortality and morbidity in the elderly population.
      Functional status is evaluated by the ability to undertake Activities of Daily Living (ADL)
      and it has been demonstrated that frailty and the onset of dependence in ADL are strongly
      associated.

      4.2 PRE-CLINICAL DATA/CLINICAL DATA

      Cardiac rehabilitation is a complex intervention offered to patients with heart disease and
      includes components of health education, advice on cardiovascular risk reduction, physical
      activity and stress management. Cardiac rehabilitation and physical activity are recommended
      treatments after cardiac valve surgery and positively improves morbidity, exercise capacity
      and quality of life or emotional well-being. The National Institute for Healthcare Excellence
      and The Department of Health and wider European guidelines agree that patients who have
      received heart valve replacements will benefit from cardiac rehabilitation.

      4.3 STUDY RATIONALE AND RISK/BENEFIT ANALYSIS

      A literature search has not revealed any publications which specifically outline the impact
      of receiving a programme of cardiac rehabilitation, following TAVR and this study aims to
      address that question. The ethical dilemma of conducting research in elderly patients who
      have undergone TAVR can be associated with clinical trials in other elderly populations. The
      dilemma consists of the need to develop new and better treatment options for a particular
      group of patients whilst protecting the patient from harm. We anticipate that this study will
      allow us to understand the feasibility of undertaking this study in a group of patients who
      have agreed to participate in a research study prior to the TAVR procedure. The pilot study
      will help us to understand the logistics of providing a cardiac rehabilitation programme for
      patients and the data we generate will allow us to understand if there are any benefits
      related to functional, independence, frailty and emotional domains for this patient group.
      The outcomes from this pilot study may allow us to plan future studies with the aim of
      developing appropriate guidelines related to the provision of cardiac rehabilitation for this
      patient group.

      4.4 MANAGEMENT OF POTENTIAL STUDY RISKS

      Patients who are eligible for TAVR, as determined by the multi-disciplinary team, will be
      seen in the out-patient clinic or in-patient area by the Research Nurse Manager or delegated
      research nurse. Full informed consent will be obtained before any research intervention is
      undertaken. Functional, independence, frailty and emotional assessment will include 6 minute
      walk teat, 4m gait speed walk, hand grip strength, questionnaires and cognitive assessment.

      Patients will undergo TAVR as per routine practice and they will be discharged when safe to
      do so. The research nurse team will collect clinical data during the admission. All patients
      will attend clinic for review at 4 weeks post implant, research consent will be reaffirmed
      and the patients will be randomised to receive a cardiac rehabilitation programme or standard
      of care.

      A personalised programme of cardiac rehabilitation will be developed by expert
      physiotherapists. Patients in the cardiac rehab group will be assessed for the cardiac
      rehabilitation prior to any intervention taking place. Patients are monitored during exercise
      and full emergency equipment is available should there be an emergency.

      Patients who are in the standard of care group will have access to the TAVR nurse specialist
      as well as the designated Consultant and research nurse team to ask any advice at any time.
    
  