
    
      This is a rigorous randomized, double-blinded, cross-over study. Patients will
      self-administer either oxytocin nasal spray (40IU/ml), or sterile water spray, for 2 weeks,
      followed by 2 weeks of the spray not used initially (with a one week washout period in
      between). Subjects will have been using (for a minimum of 1 month) an
      auto-adjusting/titrating positive airway pressure (auto-CPAP device) as this is the mainstay
      of treatment for OSA and considered standard-of-care. All auto-CPAP devices are capable of
      recording frequency and duration of patient use (thus helping with compliance monitoring) and
      also recording the pressure needed to keep the airway open.

      After obtaining consent, forty subjects will undergo the following (at Day 1): (a)
      venipuncture to obtain 50 ml of blood (to be stored for use to analyze inflammatory markers
      and biomarkers of oxidative stress, (b) an overnight sleep study in the sleep-lab (with their
      auto-CPAP) to assess sleep architecture, (c) download of their compliance report from the
      auto-CPAP to assess mean PAP pressure. They will then be randomized to receive either 40 i.u
      (1 ml/10 nasal sprays) intranasally of oxytocin per night for 2 weeks (14 days), or matching
      placebo (1 ml/10 sprays) intranasally per night for 2 weeks (14 days). The researchers and
      subjects will be blinded to the order of oxytocin versus placebo and to the randomization
      process (will be done by the MFA-investigational drug pharmacy). The end of the 2 week (14
      day) period will mark day 14. Subjects will continue using their auto-CPAP during these 2
      weeks as per standard-of-care. At day 14: (a) subjects will undergo another overnight in-lab
      sleep study (with their auto-CPAP) to assess sleep architecture, and (b) have another
      venipuncture to collect 50 ml of blood, (c) download of compliance report from their
      auto-CPAP, and continue to take either the placebo or oxytocin. Each subject will then have a
      wash-out period of 1 week (Days 14-21, they will continue using their auto-CPAP during this
      week as per standard-of-care). Beginning at Day 21 each subject will then receive either
      oxytocin or placebo (the opposite of what they did not receive the first time at point A) for
      14 days (2 weeks) Days 21-35: nightly dose of either 40 i.u of oxytocin (1 ml/10 sprays) or
      matching placebo intranasally after a wash out period of 1 week (days 14-21). Again, the
      researchers and subjects will be blinded to the compound given to the subjects. Subjects will
      continue using their auto-CPAP during these 2 weeks as per standard-of-care. At the end of
      this 2 week period will be day 35, when subjects will undergo another overnight in-lab sleep
      study and continue to take either the placebo or oxytocin (with their auto-CPAP) to assess
      sleep architecture, have another venipuncture to collect 50 ml of blood, and we will download
      the compliance report and pressure data from their auto-CPAP. The subject and all
      investigators will be blinded to the sequence of oxytocin or placebo until the study is
      unblinded at the end of the 35 day protocol.
    
  