
    
      Objectives

      The primary objective is to explore if human subjects with neurodegenerative diseases exhibit
      different level of neuroinflammation, as measured by brain uptake of a 3rd generation
      [11C]ER176 TSPO ligand, compared to control subjects. The secondary objectives are to
      determine, 1) if [11C]ER176 TSPO brain uptake shows disease-specific patterns across
      different neurodegenerative diseases and/or genetic mutations, and 2) if longitudinal imaging
      of individual patients shows a correlation between interval change of tracer uptake and
      disease progression.

      Study population

      Adults referred with a clinical diagnosis or with an increased risk of frontotemporal
      dementia, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer s disease, other related adult-onset
      neurodegenerative disorders, or healthy control subjects.

      Design

      Participants will undergo a general and neurological exam, a standard battery of
      neuropsychological tests to measure cognitive function, blood tests for analysis of TSPO
      polymorphisms, MRI of the brain, and PET imaging with the [11C]ER176 TSPO radioligand and
      [11C]PIB amyloid radioligand. Participants will be invited to return for repeat evaluations
      approximately 1, 2, and 3-5 years after their initial evaluation.

      Outcome measures

      Brain PET and MRI scans will be co-registered for anatomic definition of regions of interest,
      and SUV will be calculated in various brain regions. [11C]ER176 PET data will be analyzed
      with compartmental modeling. [11C]PIB PET and MRI data will be adjunctly used for segregating
      the collected data by disease subtype. For the primary objective, we will compare TSPO
      radioligand uptake of healthy controls compared to subjects with neurodegenerative diseases.
      For secondary objectives, we will determine if neuroanatomical regions of tracer uptake
      differ across different neurodegenerative disease subtypes, and if interval change of tracer
      uptake correlates with disease progression in longitudinal imaging of individual subjects.
    
  