
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Collect clinical data in parallel with biological data and samples from children with
           newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia for biobanking, and use part of the
           biobanked material to perform specific translational projects to achieve objectives
           II-IV.

        -  To identify new prognostic factors (e.g., minimal-residual disease [MRD] significance in
           small subgroups, miRNAs expression profile, PAX5 mutation, genetic abnormalities in
           T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia [T-ALL], and RAS pathway activation) and future
           therapeutic targets in children with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

        -  To identify leukemia cell genetic alterations (e.g., mutations in T-ALL and miRNA
           expression in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia [B-ALL]) and related molecular
           pathways (e.g., RAS pathway) underlying leukemogenesis.

        -  To identify patient pharmacogenetic polymorphisms impacting individual response to
           corticosteroids as part of standard therapy and investigate their prognostic
           significance.

      OUTLINE: This is a prospective observational biobanking study.

      Patients undergo clinical evaluation, laboratory tests, and imaging periodically. Data are
      collected before, during, and after first-line standard therapy. Clinical data are collected
      from all patients in parallel with the biological data and samples. Biological samples are
      partly used to perform specific translational research (TR) projects. Remaining biological
      materials are stored for future research.

      The following TR projects are performed on the biological samples for this study. Biological
      samples are analyzed for allele-specific amplification of Ig/TCR clonal rearrangements to
      quantify minimal-residual disease (MRD) via real-time PCR (TR1 Project); miRNA expression via
      qPCR (TR 2 Project); the detection of main point mutations via high-resolution melting PCR
      (TR 3 Project); genetic polymorphisms via real-time TaqMan allelic-discrimination method (TR
      4 Project); clinical significance of genetic abnormalities via quantitative real-time RT-PCR,
      direct sequencing, and fluorescence in situ hybridization (TR 5 Project); and RAS pathway
      activation via single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis and gene-expression analysis (TR
      6 Project).
    
  