
    
      1. Patients with series and matched lymphoma who were refractory to initial diagnosis,
           remission and recurrence were enrolled, our research group will collected patient
           information comprehensively and signed the informed consent.

        2. The standard diagnosis process and treatment selection will be completed, and our
           research group willcollect relevant clinical and laboratory data.

        3. 5 ml of peripheral blood from each patient was collected with EDTA anticoagulant tube,
           and the blood cells were centrifuged at 820×g for 10 min at 4℃ within 1 h to separate
           the blood cells.The plasma was then transferred to a microcentrifuge tube and
           centrifuged at 4℃ at 20,000×g for 10 min to remove cell debris.According to the reagent
           instructions, cfDNA was extracted from 2 ml cell-free plasma and the concentration of
           cfDNA in each patient was determined.Meanwhile, genomic DNA kit was used to extract
           matching tumor DNA from lymphoma bone marrow tissue.

        4. We will extract the lymphoma of bone marrow tissue samples of RNA, and reverse
           transcription for cDNA, the use of qRT PCR verifying the mutations in tissue samples,
           after identifying the lymphoma five of the most common mutations from the cancer genome
           map (TCGA;http://cancergenome.nih.gov/) .

        5. The differences of mutations detected by liquid biopsy and tumor in situ biopsy will be
           compared, by NGS sequencing of peripheral blood cfDNA and lymphoma tissue DNA.
           Meanwhile, the mutation rate of each gene mutation was analyzed for lymphoma tissue
           type.

        6. The classification and malignant changes of matched lymphomas were statistically
           analyzed to study the differences in cfDNA concentration of different types of
           lymphomas, according to the cfDNA concentration determined at the earlier stage.

        7. The mutation differences of cfDNA in the peripheral blood of each patient will be
           compared at three time points before, during and after treatment, combined with PET/CT
           detection, and the correlation between cfDNA detection indexes and therapeutic effect
           and prognosis monitoring will be evaluated.

        8. SPSS 23.0 statistical software would be used to evaluate the correlation between cfDNA
           concentration in lymphoma and disease staging, grouping, subtype, efficacy prediction
           and recurrence monitoring. P<0.05 was considered statistically significant.
    
  