
    
      Primary aim:

      The major aim is to ascertain whether multicomponent exercise program focused on function can
      maintain autonomy in older adults living in nursing homes.

      Secondary aims:

        -  To ascertain the influence of the evaluated exercise program on frailty, physical,
           psycho-affective and cognitive conditions in older people living in nursing homes.

        -  Analyze if the influence that the exercise program has had on dependence, frailty,
           physical, psycho-affective and cognitive condition is maintained after 6 months since
           the end of the program

        -  Examine the influence that the exercise program has on different clinical outcomes:
           falls, hospitalizations, visits to emergency service, the level of dependence, etc.

      Design: experimental, multi-center and single-group physical exercise intervention

      Intervention:

      Combined multicomponent physical exercise program that includes strength, balance and
      flexibility exercises and performed in long term care homes focused on functionality on
      activities of daily living.

      The first 3 months the exercise program aims to restore the physical condition through the
      multicomponent exercise program. Feasibility and safety of the multicomponent exercise
      program were ascertained in a previous study (Arrieta et al., 2018; Rodriguez-Larrad et al.,
      2017). This program will comprise of upper and lower body strengthening exercises, using
      external weights for 2-3 sets of 8-12 repetitions at a progressive incremental intensity of
      30-50% of 1Repetition Maximum (RM). In addition, static balance and flexibility exercise will
      be performed.

      From 3th to 6th months, the objective will be to improve autonomy in daily live activities
      through the functional exercise program. Strength exercises will be maintained with external
      weights and the intensity will be increased to 60-70% of 1-RM, 2-3 sets of 8-12 repetitions.
      Attention tasks, temporal space dissociation and dynamic balance exercises will be added to
      increase the difficulty and intensity in balance exercises. Flexibility and fine handle will
      be also performed.

      This intervention is individualized for each participant and is adjusted progressively during
      the 6 months. Weekly, two sessions of one hour are held and are supervised by
      physiotherapists or specialists in sports sciences trained specifically for the program. An
      interval of at least 48h between training sessions will be respected.
    
  