
    
      The objectives of this observational study are the following:

        1. To design a predictive model of significant liver disease due to NAFLD, based on
           clustering or clustering algorithms (AI)

        2. To apply and validate this model to classify patients according to the severity of the
           disease in such a manner as to provide more effective management of these patients from
           Primary Care to Hospital Care through process and resource optimization

        3. To develop a Deep Learning System based on convolutional neuronal networks for automatic
           recognition of images in a cohort of subjects with digitized liver biopsies, and to
           undertake pairwise analysis that allows for correct and exact classification of biopsies
           from subjects with NASH.

      Design:

      An observational study of the determination and validation of diagnostic predictive models of
      NAFLD.

      The study has four phases:

      Phases I and II refer to both unsupervised and supervised artificial intelligence learning to
      identify clusters and build diagnostic algorithms. They will be carried out on data generated
      from the ETHON cohort (see below).

      Phase III will consist on applying deep learning system technology as a support strategy to
      stratify liver biopsies in NALFD patients according to their grade of necro-inflammation and
      stage of fibrosis. Liver biopsies collected in the Spanish registry of NAFLD up to the
      beginning of the study will be used.

      Finally, a phase IV of validation will be performed with data from patients that are going to
      be registered in the Spanish registry of NAFLD.

      Population:

        1. - Study cohort (Phases I-III):

           A. Subjects from the general population identified in the ETHON (Epidemiological Study
           of Hepatic Infections) cohort* that has already been created (12,246 subjects between
           19-74 years of age) and B. Subjects belonging to the Spanish registry of NAFLD (HEPAmet)
           (1,800 subjects already collected at the beginning of the study)

           *The ETHON cohort was recruited between 2015 and 2017 to study the hepatitis C
           prevalence in the Spanish general population aged 19-74 years old. Lavin AC, Llerena S,
           Gomez M, Escudero MD, Rodriguez L, Estebanez LA, Gamez B, Puchades L, Cabezas J, Serra
           MA, Calleja JL, Crespo J. Prevalence of hepatitis C in the spanish population. The
           PREVHEP study (ETHON cohort). J Hepatol. 2017;66:S272.

        2. - Validation cohort (Phase IV):

      Patients diagnosed with NAFLD by hepatic biopsy recruited in the Spanish and European
      registers from the beginning of the study.

      -Inclusion and exclusion criteria:

      Inclusion criteria: subjects aged 19-74 belonging to the ETHON cohort or registered in the
      Hepamet Spanish registry of NAFLD or the European NAFLD registry

      Exclusion criteria: subjects that not fulfill the inclusion criteria and those who did not
      sign informed consent to participate in the ETHON cohort or to be registered in the mentioned
      registers.
    
  