
    
      The passive human upper airway (UA) is a collapsible tube with a relatively high compliance.
      At atmospheric luminal pressure, its cross-sectional area varies considerably. Subjects in
      whom the pharynx is closed, or nearly closed, at near atmospheric pressure require an upper
      airway dilating force to maintain adequate ventilation. During wakefulness pharyngeal dilator
      muscles (dilators) provide the necessary force to permit an adequate flow, regardless of how
      collapsible the pharynx is. This dilator activity is substantially lost at sleep onset.
      Subjects in whom the passive UA cannot permit adequate ventilation must recruit dilators
      through reflex mechanisms if they are to remain asleep. Recent studies have shown that
      activation of the muscles that open the airway in the course of obstructive apneas persists
      to a variable degree after the relief of obstruction, evidencing the presence of memory for
      prior activation in the the brain centers that supply the dilator muscles.

      Short-term potentiation (STP) is a neuro-physiological mechanism that results in a
      time-dependent increase in motor activity, that is not explainable by changes in stimulus
      intensity, and which persists after disappearance of the stimulus ( "after-discharge"). STP
      is well documented in diaphragmatic responses to chemical stimuli. Prominent STP in upper
      airway muscles would promote a stronger dilator response to upper airway occlusion. The
      after-discharge would also help to maintain dilator activity following the ventilatory phase
      of obstructive events, thereby mitigating recurrence of obstruction. Patients with
      obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) vary greatly in the extent to which this memory or STP is
      present. The investigators postulate that interventions that could potentiate the development
      of memory for prior activation would mitigate the recurrence of apneas and reduce the
      severity of obstructive sleep apnea. The same interventions, those that enhance memory for
      prior activation, would also likely improve central apneas in that these apneas represent
      loss of diaphragm activity following hyperventilation. Memory for prior activation of the
      diaphragm has been well documented in the past and appears to be defective in such patients.

      There has been extensive research into methods of improving neural memory. Cycloserine, an
      antibiotic that has been, and continues to be, used extensively in the treatment of
      drug-resistant tuberculosis, was shown to be effective in promoting memory in small doses
      (much less than those used for tuberculosis) both in animals and humans. We, therefore,
      propose that cycloserine has the potential of enhancing the memory properties of neurones
      supplying pharyngeal muscles and propose to study the effect of using it on the severity of
      sleep apneas of the obstructive and central varieties.

      Patients who have been diagnosed with OSA following routine clinical sleep studies will be
      asked to participate. Participation involves agreeing to two additional full night studies in
      the sleep laboratory, separated by 1 week. Both studies will be identical to the routine
      clinical studies, except that the patient will be asked to swallow a capsule containing
      either placebo or 250 mg cycloserine 1 to 2 hours prior to going to sleep. The order of the
      Placebo and Test nights will be randomized. The patient will be monitored continuously by a
      dedicated, senior polysomnography technologist.
    
  