
    
      Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in females in Egypt. It accounts for 32 % of
      cancer in women . Breast cancer in Egypt carries an unfavorable prognosis with 29% mortality
      and 3.7:1 incidence to mortality ratio .

      Despite the rising incidence of breast cancer, the survival rates have improved in recent
      years due to the deep research in biological behavior of breast cancer . Although the current
      5-year survival for primary breast cancer is relatively high (ranging from 80% to 92% in
      different populations) survival rates decrease to less than 25% when the disease becomes
      metastatic .These data support the need to develop more efficient strategies for preventive,
      intervention, evaluation of therapy, and prediction of prognosis .

      Autotaxin (ATX) is a glycoprotein encoded by the ENPP2 (Ectonucleotide
      Pyrophosphatase/Phosphodiesterase 2) gene located on chromosome 8. Identical to
      lysophospholipase D, ATX plays a role in the synthesis of the bioactive lipid mediator
      lysophosphatidate (LPA) from lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) .

      LPA acts through specific G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) to promote cellular
      proliferation, migration, and survival . ATX expression was also reported higher in poorly
      differentiated tumors and, in independent studies, is correlated with invasiveness of cancer
      cells suggesting a higher metastatic potential of ATX-expressing tumors . ATX is generated
      from platelets, endothelial cells, fibroblasts, and adipocytes and specifically, ATX from
      adipocytes has an impact on plasma LPA level . Thus, adipocytes could be an important origin
      of ATX in tumors. Breast cancer is a human cancer that has adipocyte-rich stroma. Adipose
      tissue comprises 56% of non-lactating breast tissue, and 35% of lactating breast tissue .
      ATX-LPA signaling has been reported to be involved in angiogenesis, tumor cell invasion, and
      migration in breast cancer .

      Increased ATX expression has also been reported in various forms of cancer, such as
      glioblastoma, hepatocellular and thyroid carcinomas, pancreatic and hematological cancers. A
      large number of evidence indicate that ATX-LPA is associated with chemotherapy resistance of
      cancer, and in breast cancer, ATX can reverse cell apoptosis.

      In a mouse model, α-bromomethylene phosphonate LPA (BrP-LPA), a dual ATX and pan-LPAR(
      Lysophosphatidic acid receptor ) inhibitor, inhibited migration and invasion of breast cancer
      cell lines and suppressed primary tumor and angiogenesis in a mouse xenograft study . Since
      tumor and stromal cells in breast cancer express ATX-LPA signaling-related proteins,
      inhibition of the ATX-LPA axis could be of therapeutic importance .Therefore, further study
      ATX as a tumor marker in breast cancer is required.
    
  