
    
      Although there is a significant increase in the risk of cerebral infarction in the presence
      of atrial fibrillation, it is difficult to say that all cerebral infarctions occurring in
      patients with atrial fibrillation are caused by atrial fibrillation. Carotid stenosis is
      found in 1/4 of patients with atrial fibrillation, which increases the risk of cerebral
      infarction. Additional antiplatelet therapy to standard anticoagulation therapy should be
      considered in some patients. To date, the best medical treatment for prevention of cerebral
      infarction in patients with atrial fibrillation and accompanying atherosclerosis has not been
      evaluated yet.

      Edoxaban reduced bleeding complication compared to warfarin in patients with atrial
      fibrillation. In addition, the ENGAGE AF TIMI-48 study showed a tendency to reduce cerebral
      infarction (p for interaction = 0.08) when administered in combination with one antiplatelet
      agent and edoxaban. The administration of antiplatelet agents may be due to patients had
      accompanying myocardial infarction or cerebral infarction. This group is also thought to have
      a high risk of bleeding due to high HAS-BLED scores. Nonetheless, there was a similar degree
      of bleeding in patients receiving additional antiplatelet agents. There was also less
      bleeding in the warfarin arm than in the use of additional antiplatelet agents. (Major
      bleeding: 0.19 vs 0.24% / yr; intracranial hemorrhage: 0.43 vs 0.57% / yr)

      Thus, Edoxaban have good clinical trial results in combination with antiplatelet agents in
      atrial fibrillation with atherosclerosis compared to other NOACs(new oral anticoagulants). It
      is also considered to be suitable for combination therapy with antiplatelet agents because of
      its advantages in different bleeding compared to other warfarin. However, there is no
      evidence to suggest that Edoxaban alone or in combination with additional antiplatelet agents
      is better for stroke patients with atrial fibrillation and significant arteriosclerosis.
    
  