
    
      Loss of function and mobility becomes an increasing concern as we age. Life expectancy is
      continuing to increase, which in turn leads to age-related diseases and syndromes becoming
      more common, complex and costly. Sarcopenia is the deficiency of muscle and this refers to
      the gradual loss of skeletal muscle mass and strength that occurs with advancing age This
      age-related disease is now understood as a major clinical problem for the elderly and it is
      becoming a public health issue in today's society.

      The European Working Group on Sarcopenia in Older People (EWGSOP) has developed a clinical
      and practical definition and a diagnostic criterion for age-related sarcopenia. They define
      sarcopenia as "a syndrome characterised by progressive and generalised loss of skeletal
      muscle mass and strength with a risk of adverse outcomes". The EWGSOP further develop their
      definition of sarcopenia into two different categories and three different stages. The two
      categories are known as primary sarcopenia and secondary sarcopenia. Primary or age-related
      sarcopenia is when there is no other cause evident except ageing. Whereas secondary
      sarcopenia is when there are one or more other causes, such as activity-related,
      disease-related or nutrition-related. The three stages of sarcopenia reflect the severity of
      the condition; these are known as presarcopenia, sarcopenia and severe sarcopenia. The
      presarcopenia stage is described as having low muscle mass, without influencing muscle
      strength or physical performance. The sarcopenia stage is indicated by again having low
      muscle mass plus either having low muscle strength or poor physical performance. The severe
      sarcopenia stage is characterised by meeting all three criteria of the definition; low muscle
      mass, low muscle strength and poor physical performance. The EWGSOP specify that the
      measurable variables of sarcopenia are muscle mass, muscle strength and physical performance.
      The challenge they raised is the difficulty determining which methods are best to accurately
      measure these variables.

      The EWGSOP indicate that muscle mass is best measured using body imaging techniques such as
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computer-tomography (CT). Both MRI and CT scans are known
      as the gold standards for measuring muscle mass within research. However, they are costly
      procedures that are not always freely available. Muscle mass can also be measured through
      dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA), for determining the presence of and formulating a
      diagnosis of sarcopenia. DEXA is based on the measurement of X-ray transmission crossing
      human tissues. The radiation energies produced by the DEXA are variably attenuated, either
      scattered or absorbed, by the anatomical structures within the body, dependent on the
      intensity of the energy and the density and thickness of the human tissues. DEXA enables
      measurements of fat mass (FM), lean mass (LM) and bone mineral content (BMC) and can assess
      body masses and bone mineral density (BMD) on a regional and a whole-body basis, whilst
      exposing only minimal radiation to the patient. According to the EWGSOP, DEXA is a preferred
      alternative method for measuring muscle mass within research and clinical use. However, it
      has been reported that measures of muscle mass from DEXA scans do not seem to be accurate,
      with a site-specific assessment of loss of muscle mass, using ultrasound-based assessment
      suggested. Ultrasound has been reported to be an effective and non-invasive tool to determine
      muscle wasting, potentially leading to an earlier and more accurate detection of sarcopenia.

      Measures of muscle mass are not as good a predictor of physical capability as muscle
      strength. Lower limb muscle strength is more relevant for gait and physical function than
      upper limb muscle strength. However, the EWGSOP recognise handgrip strength as the most
      widely used method for measuring muscle strength to screen for sarcopenia. Handgrip strength
      is strongly related with lower extremity muscle power, knee extension torque and calf
      cross-sectional muscle area. Consequently, it has been documented that muscle power
      deteriorates earlier and quicker than muscle strength in older populations. Therefore, a
      measure of muscle power could be more beneficial in the diagnosis of sarcopenia as older
      people lose power quicker than they do strength. Isokinetic dynamometers (IKD) are a commonly
      used tool and are recognised as a gold standard measure of muscle power and strength. IKD's
      measure force dynamically through a specified range of motion whilst allowing the velocity of
      the movement to be controlled and measured. It is recognised as a popular method to assess
      muscle function in both clinical and research settings. However, due to IKD's not being
      portable and are not always accessible, there has been a rise in the use of hand-held
      dynamometry (HHD) to assess isometric muscle strength. It has been reported that HHD is a
      simple and inexpensive and a reliable and valid assessment tool for measuring strength,
      particularity in older adults. The use of isometric strength testing may be more suitable for
      older adults if there is a limited range of joint motion and if joint pain is prevalent,
      concentric actions may be challenging.

      The importance of using physical performance measures within clinical geriatrics as well as
      ageing research has also been documented. There are many tests of physical performance that
      have been validated and are widely used. The EWGSOP identified popular methods for evaluating
      physical performance. These include the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB), usual gait
      speed (GS), the timed get-up-and-go (TUG) test and the stair climb power test. The ability to
      rise from a chair has been used in clinical evaluations and on-going assessments for decades.
      This everyday task was standardised and developed into the 'timed-stands' test. This test was
      initially designed to measure functional strength of the lower extremities as participants
      completed 10 timed-stands. Variations of this sit-to-stand (STS) task have evolved and now
      one of the most commonly used tools for clinical evaluation of physical performance is the
      Five-Times-Sit-To-Stand (5STS) test. The 5STS, requires the participant to stand up and sit
      down from a chair five times, with performance taken as the time to complete the test. The
      STS task was modified further, with a standardised 'time' protocol of 30 seconds (30sSTS),
      requiring the participant to stand up and sit down as many times as possible within 30
      seconds. They reasoned the use of the 30sSTS instead of participants performing a
      predetermined number of repetitions (e.g. 5STS, 10STS) to assess a wider range of ability.
      Moreover, the 5STS and potentially even the 10STS can be recorded as the participant performs
      the 30sSTS. In addition to functional performance, the STS task could also be used to
      estimate muscle power and even muscle mass. In a recent study, an accurate estimation of
      lower-limb muscle power was obtained using a simple regression equation in which only body
      weight and the number of STS performed in 20 seconds, of a 30-second trial were used. Another
      study had also reported a good estimation of muscle mass obtained from an MRI, again using a
      simple regression equation in which only three basic variables were used, namely leg length,
      body mass and the time taken for a single STS movement.

      Research Aim The aim of this study is to validate the use of the Sit-To-Stand task as a
      measure of muscle mass, muscle strength and power and physical performance in screening for
      sarcopenia compared to gold standard measures, in older adults aged 65 years and over.

      Research Objectives

        1. Suitability of the Sit-To-Stand task as a measure of muscle mass in comparison to the
           gold standard equivalents, the dual energy x-ray absorptiometry scan and diagnostic
           ultrasound.

        2. Suitability of the Sit-To-Stand task as a measure of muscle strength and power in
           comparison to the gold standard equivalents, the isokinetic dynamometer the hand-grip
           strength dynamometer and the hand-held dynamometer.

        3. Suitability of the Sit-To-Stand task as a measure of physical performance in comparison
           to other well used physical function tests, the Timed-Up-and-Go and gait.
    
  