
    
      In Europe, 29% of individuals are smokers, and tobacco use is directly related to 650,000
      mortalities each year across the continent, around 14% of all deaths. In France, 34% of the
      adult population is smoking everyday (www.OFDT.fr). The links between smoking and the
      development of several chronic disorders is well established and long-term smokers are more
      likely to die from a disease directly related to their habit. Smoking is also responsible for
      a large burden of evitable morbidity.

      From a dental perspective, smoking is directly implicated in most of the oral diseases
      (periodontal diseases, dermatological disorders of the oral mucosa, bad breath,
      peri-implantitis…). Smoking is also directly related to the development of potential
      malignant lesions of the oral mucosa and cancer of the oral cavity. Thus, dentists have
      access to an area of the body that is actively affected and this gives them a central role in
      dispensing advice and support regarding smoking cessation. Fifty percent of the EU population
      regularly visit a dentist and in France, a survey conducted in 2014 showed that 63.5 % of the
      15-75 year-old respondents reported to have visited their dentist in the 12 previous months.
      These data show that dentists have access to a large number of smokers with the opportunity
      to offer information and support regarding smoking cessation.

      Dentists often cite several issues, such as lack of time or limited education, to explain why
      they do not offer support for smoking cessation. A Cochrane review showed that a brief
      intervention by health professionals is effective in helping tobacco users to quit. This
      'brief' advice in primary care settings has been shown to increase smoking cessation by 1-3%.
      Whilst this number seems small, it represents a large number of people from a population
      point of view. By referring to stop smoking services, successful cessation increased to 15%.

      The "5A" approach to smoking cessation is the internationally accepted approach integrating a
      "brief intervention" for nicotine users. The 5A protocol can be summarized as follows:

        -  Ask about and record smoking status.

        -  Advise smokers of the benefit of stopping in a personalized and appropriate way.

        -  Assess motivation to quit (using stages of change model).

        -  Assist smokers in their quit attempt.

        -  Arrange follow-up with stop smoking services.

      Advice from the healthcare practitioner does not have to be focused on the details of
      cessation and requires only three minutes. Whilst knowledge of the treatment modalities to
      result in cessation are useful, ultimately the specialized stop-smoking services will be able
      to discuss any potential issues adequately with the individual.

      For practitioners who genuinely do not have time, a 3A approach may be acceptable. As
      dentists seem to be content with the first two 'A' in either scenario, it is the addition of
      'action' on responses which increases success rates in quitting. This can be summarized as
      follows:

        -  Ask and record smoking status.

        -  Advise patient of personal health benefits.

        -  Act on patient's response by providing details of local stop smoking services and/or
           prescribing NRT.

      This very brief advice can be delivered in less than one minute and there is an absence of
      conclusive evidence to indicate that the 5A approach is more successful than the 3A.

      The authors are aware of the need to be pragmatic in the approach to smoking cessation in the
      dental setting, therefore advice that the 3A approach is the best brief intervention to be
      undertaken by dentists. It is easier to complete than the 5A and, if done properly, both
      approaches result in similar rates of smoking cessation. Dentists can choose the most
      convenient approach to their practice and refer their patients to specialized care when
      needed.

      In a recent study, the effectiveness of a very brief structured counselling for tobacco was
      evaluated cessation in Swedish dental clinics. It was observed that a brief and structured
      counselling based on the 5A model in dental practice may achieve positive behavioural
      modifications among tobacco users, with significant reduction of tobacco consumption.

      General dentists are used to deliver preventive messages focused on oral hygiene (tooth
      brushing, flossing, reduction of sugar intake…) but they are less likely to deliver general
      health-promoting messages. A literature review on the factors associated with the delivery of
      lifestyle support in general dental practice has shown that organizational changes in dental
      practices to encourage more team working and professional time for lifestyle support may
      influence delivery of such messages. It was also observed that dental professionals who are
      smokers may require training to develop their beliefs about the effectiveness of smoking
      cessation interventions.

      Thus, even if they are well positioned to offer tobacco cessation advice and support,
      dentists do not always discuss their patient's tobacco use. A study by Smith et al showed
      that motivated dentists were particularly good at offering smoking cessation to patients.
      However, less than 50% of dental practices involved in the study offered referrals to stop
      smoking services. Further studies confirm that dentists are often poor at referring to stop
      smoking services, or offering brief interventions at the dental practice. There is therefore
      a need to understand the factors, barriers and lever action which influence dentists
      'practices toward tobacco cessation advice and support. When it is considered that patients
      expect their oral health professionals to assist in cessation attempts, this gives further
      reason for dental professionals to understand and implement cessation techniques.

      By utilizing the 'stages of change' approach to smoking cessation, an individual's
      willingness to quit smoking can be ascertained, with provision of knowledge on potential
      interventions empowering patients to make their own decisions on cessation modalities. Since
      2016, in France, dentists can prescribe nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) and it will be
      reimbursed to the patients by the French health insurance at a rate of 65%. NRT can reduce
      physical cravings and pharmacotherapies can reduce the desire to smoke. Stop-smoking services
      can provide smokers with interpersonal support and electronic cigarettes are increasing in
      popularity but cannot be recommended as a completely safe way of delivering nicotine.
      Interpersonal support in combination with NRT and/or pharmacotherapy is now considered the
      safest and most successful method of smoking cessation.

      To our knowledge, the role of dentists in the French national tobacco free program is not yet
      documented in France while the "Conseil de l'Ordre des Chirurgiens-dentistes" was associated
      to this program launched in 2014. Also, the role of dentists was underlined in the HAS
      recommendations in 2014 as any other health professional.

      Because of the impact of tobacco smoking on oral health and the frequency of individuals
      visiting them, dentists should be made aware and feel legitimate in their first line role in
      terms of smokers 'management combining 5/3 A approach, prescription of NRT and reference to
      specialized care.

      Continuous professional training is mandatory and could be an opportunity to improve dentists
      'motivation and skills to provide advice and support to their patients. By familiarizing the
      dental team with gold-standard cessation interpersonal and NRT support and by providing them
      with appropriate communication and reference resources, it can be ensured that smokers are
      assisted at every available opportunity.

      The idea is to develop an intervention that take part in the quality approach of the dental
      practice in the context of the continuing professional development so the dentists fell
      motivated, legitimate and competent to talk with their patients about their tobacco
      consumption and to assist them in their smoking cessation process. This intervention based on
      the 5/3A approach and prescription of NRT will include adequate training and provision of
      management kit with communication tools and network for appropriate references. To develop
      this intervention, it is necessary to have a comprehensive acknowledgement of all the factors
      with which the intervention fits, relative to the recommendations, to the health professional
      him/herself, the human and organizational environment.

      Investigators hypothesize that 5/3A approach is feasible in dental practices in France
      (dentists apply the approach to 90% of their patients) with adequate intervention and that
      the format, the conditions, the barriers and the lever actions of its implementation are
      known.
    
  