
    
      Severe infection resulting in sepsis is recognized as a leading cause of morbidity and
      mortality worldwide (Stehr and Reinhart, 2013). The incidence of sepsis in developed nations
      has been increasing while overall mortality is decreasing, but still remains around 30% (Mayr
      et al., 2014). Moreover, morbidity in survivors is often functionally devastating, and may
      include neurological impairment, chronic organ dysfunction, increased days admitted to
      hospital, and high rates of mortality postdischarge (Prescott et al., 2014). Emotional,
      social, and financial costs to individuals and health care systems are immense (Brun-Buisson
      et al., 2003).

      Neutrophils are the first line of innate immune defense against infectious agents. In
      addition, neutrophils' ability to eliminate pathogens by phagocytosis and/or degranulation,
      it has recently been demonstrated that neutrophils can bind to and kill a wide range of
      microorganisms by forming neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) (Brinkmann et al., 2004).
      This novel mechanism consists of the release of web-like structures of DNA decorated with
      histones and antimicrobial proteins, known as NETs. Microbes are immobilized in these traps,
      which contain a lethal concentration of antimicrobial agents killing a broad range of
      microorganisms, including gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria, fungi, viruses, and
      protozoa (Brinkmann et al., 2004, Fuchs et al., 2010, Camicia et al., 2014).

      The role of NETs in pediatric infection is not well understood. We hypnotize that children
      are capable of forming NETs and that NETosis plays an important role in pediatric sepsis.
      This study is designed to assess the role of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) in
      neonatal and pediatric sepsis as well as to evaluate markers of NETs formation as early
      predictors of neonatal and pediatric sepsis.
    
  