
    
      All-comer patients referred for coronary physiological assessment with pressure-flow
      measurements and acetylcholine endothelial function test, aimed to investigate different
      aspects of non-obstructive coronary artery disease, will be enrolled. Coronary hemodynamics
      during adenosine or acetylcholine evaluation will be measured either with a physiology wire
      equipped with pressure and temperature sensors (Abbott), or with a physiology wire equipped
      with pressure sensor and Doppler (Philips). Non-endothelium-dependent functional assessment
      will be performed with intravenous or intracoronary adenosine administration following the
      standard practice. Endothelium-dependent functional assessment will be performed with
      intracoronary acetylcholine bolus administration following the standard practice, which
      includes continuous 12-lead ECG monitorization. Microcirculatory dysfunction and vasomotor
      disorders will be diagnosed according to the criteria from the last European expert consensus
      on Ischaemia with Non-Obstructive Coronary Arteries (INOCA). Medical therapy will be adjusted
      on the basis of physiology study results and patients will be followed at 30 days, 1-, 2- and
      5-years either at the outpatient clinic or by telephone contact. The Seattle Questionnaire of
      Angina will be applied during follow-up for obtaining an objective characterisation of the
      angina status.

      OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY:

        -  To investigate the coronary hemodynamics across the spectrum of coronary
           microcirculatory dysfunction.

        -  To investigate the coronary hemodynamics across the spectrum of vasomotor disorders.

        -  To investigate the impact of coronary microcirculatory dysfunction on clinical outcomes
           and patient symptoms at long-term follow-up.

        -  To investigate the impact of coronary vasomotor disorders on clinical outcomes and
           patient symptoms at long-term follow-up.

        -  To investigate the impact of a stratified medical therapy (guided by invasive physiology
           study) on patient symptoms.

        -  To investigate the role of microcirculatory dysfunction and vasomotor disorders in
           different settings of ischemic heart disease (i.e., recurrent angina despite successful
           percutaneous coronary intervention; myocardial infarction without obstructive coronary
           artery disease; left ventricular dysfunction (either systolic or diastolic) with or
           without heart failure).

        -  To develop new, alternative methods aimed to assess the coronary microcirculation.

        -  To investigate the role of myocardial bridging on myocardial ischemia generating
           mechanisms.

        -  To document safety of intracoronary testing in routine clinical practice.
    
  