
    
      Background information

      Diabetic foot ulcers are one of the most frequent and serious complication in diabetes
      mellitus. Despite attempts of prophylaxis*, only two-thirds of the diabetic foot ulcers
      eventually heal, and up to 15-20% will ultimately require a minor or major amputation (Major
      lower extremity amputation is defined as through or above the ankle joint, and minor
      amputations is below the ankle joint. The incidence of diabetes is growing, but the
      multifactorial causes of impaired healing of chronic diabetic ulcers are still not well
      understood.

      The diabetic foot ulcers are known to reduce the quality of life for patients both
      psychically and psychologically and therefore further investigation in new treatment options
      is plausible. Current knowledge regarding how to improve the condition in the beginning phase
      of peripheral artery disease (PAD) is limited. Investigators know that high oxygen tension
      and perfusion of the limb as well as an adequate density of microvessels in the tissue, is
      essential to wound healing. Therefore, interventions that increase blood flow and promote
      microcirculatory growth are likely to be beneficial in the treatment of wound healing.

      *Dressings, debridement, compression, clinical observation, antibiotics and glycemic control

      It has been reported that passive training consisting of knee flexion/extension in a kinetic
      machine has a beneficial effect on up regulation of growth factors, remicrovascularization
      and improved blood flow. Høier et al described that passive movement of the leg induced a
      two-fold elevation in blood flow, elevation of angiogenic factors and initiates
      capillarization in skeletal muscle. All three factors are often impaired in the diabetic leg,
      which results in poor wound healing.

      Due to the typical localization of the diabetic foot ulcers, this patient group is unable to
      exercise properly. Therefore will the investigators use a recent innovative model for the
      improvement of the limb microcirculation, developed at the Department of Nutrition, Exercise
      and Sports, University of Copenhagen, involving passive movement of the lower leg, for
      inducing increased blood flow and microcirculatory growth.

      Rationale for the trial Diabetic patients have impaired wound healing due to multifactorial
      causes. The investigators know that high oxygen tension, and perfusion is essential to wound
      healing, and according to Høier et al's study, passive training can increase the perfusion
      and elevate proangiogenic factors in both young healthy males and peripheral artery disease
      (PAD) patients.

      Null hypothesis:

        1. Passive training does not lead to enhanced healing of diabetic foot ulcers.

        2. Passive training of the lower limb does not affect perfusion of the trained limb.

      Perspective:

      This projects aim is to discover that passive training of the lower limb will increase the
      healing in diabetic foot ulcers. In addition, present a new treatment offer to diabetic
      patients with ulcers, who are not able to heal properly or perform active exercises. The
      investigators hope to see that the benefits of training and accelerated healing affect the
      PROM's.

      Further on to present new knowledge of the specific molecular and functional changes that
      occur in the tissue during wound healing. This knowledge will be very important to improve
      our understanding of why ulcerations occur and why the tissue begins to decompose.

      This is a prospective, randomized, single-blinded, parallel controlled design trial in
      subjects with diabetes mellitus investigating passive training as a treatment for the
      diabetic ulcer. The participants are randomized to either a control group or intervention.

      The control group receiving standard wound treatment, and an intervention group receiving
      standard wound treatment, and passive training exercises for 8 weeks. The participants will
      be followed for 16 weeks or until clinical wound healing. All participants will receive
      standard wound care consisting of debridement, dressings, compression, offloading footwear
      and if necessary antibiotics The comparison groups should be as similar as possible as regard
      to important participant characteristics that might influence the response to the
      intervention. Therefore, a block randomization to ensure that equal numbers of participants
      with a characteristic thought to affect prognosis or response to the intervention, will be
      allocated to each comparison group.
    
  