
    
      Acute pulmonary embolism (APE) is the most serious clinical presentation of venous
      thromboembolism (VTE). According to registries and hospital discharge databases of unselected
      patients with Acute pulmonary embolism and venous thromboembolism , 30-day all-cause
      mortality rates are between 9% and 10%.

      According to the recent European Society of Cardiology (ESC) guidelines on the diagnosis and
      treatment of Acute pulmonary embolism patients, clinical classification of the severity of an
      episode of Acute pulmonary embolism is based on the estimated 30-day Acute pulmonary embolism
      - related mortality risk. Patients with cardiogenic shock caused by Acute pulmonary embolism
      comprise a high-risk group for early death, which is estimated at more than 15%.

      Fortunately most Acute pulmonary embolism patients are hemodynamically stable at admission
      but the early mortality risk is different in this population. Risk stratification of
      non-high-risk Acute pulmonary embolism patients is based on clinical presentation, cardiac
      laboratory biomarkers, and signs of right ventricular (RV) dysfunction on echocardiography or
      computed tomography. Low-risk patients require a short hospital stay and can be early
      discharged home or even treated as outpatients.

      Intermediate-risk subjects comprise a very heterogeneous group in which the early mortality
      ranges between 2% and 15%. More of these patients stabilize hemodynamically during
      anticoagulation, but in some of them clinical deterioration occurs and therefore they may
      require rescue thrombolysis or surgical or percutaneous embolectomy.

      Echocardiography is a useful diagnostic tool to detected right ventricular (RV) dysfunction.
      It was reported that tricuspid annulus plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) can be used for risk
      stratification of normotensive APE patients. The tricuspid regurgitation peak gradient (TRPG)
      is an echocardiographic sign of RV overload and it can also be used for risk stratification
      in Acute pulmonary embolism .
    
  