
    
      The aim of this study was to establish if a second dose of GnRHa repeated 12 h following the
      initial dose optimizes the cycle outcome in terms of oocyte maturity in women with PCOS of
      Asian origin.

      The study was approved by the institutional review board and written, informed consent will
      be obtained from each participant. Infertile women with a diagnosis of PCOS, who undergo the
      IVF / ICSI cycle are assigned to two groups by stratified randomization method according to
      the method of triggering. Before the starting the treatment cycle, patients will be
      randomized with sealed randomization envelopes. The random allocation is concealed from the
      physician performing the IVF/ICSI treatment cycle. All patients will receive antagonist
      controlled ovarian stimulation protocol with same starting dose of gonadotropin. On the day
      of trigger, serum E2, LH, and P4 concentrations will be measured. When three lead follicles
      achieved 17-mm diameter, in group A, the final oocyte maturation will be triggered with a
      single dose of 0.2 mg s.c triptorelin (decapeptyl), 35 h prior to oocyte retrieval in both
      the groups and in Group B, a repeat dose of 0.1 mg 12 h following the first dose.
      Post-trigger, LH, and progesterone levels will be measured 12 h following the first dose of
      GnRHa. Transvaginal ultrasound-guided oocyte pickup (OPU) will be performed 35 h following
      the first dose under intravenous sedation with single-lumen oocyte retrieval needle. Post
      pickup on days 4 and 7, an assessment for symptoms and signs of OHSS and patients will be
      advised to present at any time within 2 weeks of GnRHa administration.

      In all subjects, IVF or ICSI will be performed according to the standard operating procedure.
      The fertilization will be assessed 18 h following ICSI or IVF by the appearance of two
      pronuclei. All embryos will be cryopreserved by vitrification in the form of blastocyst. The
      frozen embryo transfer (FET) cycles will be performed following pretreatment with oral
      contraceptive pills in an artificial cycle with a daily dose of orally administered 6 mg of
      estradiol. When the endometrium evaluated by TVS was >8 mm with triple-layer morphology, it
      is considered mature. This will be followed by endometrial priming with 5 days of injectable
      progesterone for blastocysts. The transfer will be performed using Sure-Pro Ultra catheter.
      Luteal-phase supplementation will be continued with vaginal progesterone and estradiol for 14
      days and when pregnancy will be achieved till 10 weeks of gestation..

      The primary outcome will be the maturity rate of the oocytes (the ratio of MII oocytes to the
      total number of oocytes retrieved) and oocyte yield. The secondary outcomes are fertilization
      rate, number and quality of blastocyst embryos, OHSS occurrence, and post-trigger serum LH
      (IU/L), and P4 (ng/mL) levels. In addition, implantation and clinical pregnancy rates will be
      also evaluated. Data collection will be performed by using questionnaires to be filled as per
      the available records and laboratory results. Data analysis will be done through descriptive
      and perceptive statistical methods by using SPSS software version 20 for windows.
    
  