
    
      A proportion of patients with COVID-19 pneumonia (with or without ARDS) have a prolonged
      course of illness. Some of these patients continue to have considerable respiratory symptoms
      or persistent hypoxemia. The CT abnormalities in these patients are often a combination of
      ground-glass opacities and patchy multifocal consolidation consistent with a pattern of OP.
      In several patients, these radiologic abnormalities persist even after the symptoms of active
      COVID-19 have subsided and swabs from the upper respiratory tract for SARS-CoV-2 have turned
      negative. Such patients may be classified as having a secondary form of OP, namely
      post-infectious OP. Some of the patients also start developing signs of fibrosis.

      As with other forms of OP, patients with post-COVID OP or post COVID diffuse lung disease
      (PC-DLD) may benefit from treatment with oral glucocorticoids.

      Glucocorticoids may be a double-edged sword in this clinical situation. Steroids reduce
      inflammation associated with OP with a resultant resolution of symptoms, improvement in gas
      exchange (resulting in the resolution of hypoxemia), and potentially preventing the
      progression of early parenchymal abnormalities to irreversible fibrosis. However, they are
      associated with adverse effects such as hyperglycemia, delayed viral clearance, and increased
      susceptibility to infections. The ideal dose of glucocorticoids for treating PC-DLD is
      unknown. As PC-DLD is likely to get recognised early (much earlier than the average duration
      between onset of symptoms and diagnosis in other forms of OP, i.e., about 3-6 months), there
      is a possibility a lower intensity of glucocorticoids may be sufficient for treatment than
      the usual regimens, with the advantage of lesser adverse effects. A previous retrospective
      study that compared two regimens (higher dose intensity [DI] of glucocorticoids alone vs.
      glucocorticoids at a lower dose intensity along with clarithromycin), however, found that a
      complete radiologic response was higher in the prednisone alone (higher DI) group (81% vs.
      63%) than in the combination group (with a lower DI of prednisone). Statistical significance
      was however not achieved (p=0.38), mainly due to the small sample size.

      We hypothesize that in PC-DLD a higher intensity (i.e., starting with a medium dose of
      prednisolone) will be more effective than a lower dose intensity (i.e., starting with a low
      dose of prednisolone) of glucocorticoids in effecting a radiologic response at six weeks.
    
  