
    
      Femoral neck fractures are a type of hip fracture associated with high complication rates and
      poor functional outcomes. It is estimated that over 300,000 hip fractures occur in patients
      under age 50 annually. Hip fractures in younger aged patients are particularly devastating
      with profound impairments of quality of life and function. Virtually all patients require
      surgical repair of their fractures and unlike elderly hip fractures, failure of surgery
      offers few options for salvage. Arthroplasty is a successful treatment for elderly patients;
      however, a hip replacement is not a viable option for younger patients because of their
      higher functional demands for work and recreational activities that are not tolerated by
      joint replacements.

      There is more than one way to perform internal fixation for femoral neck fractures.
      Cancellous screws have traditionally been the preferred internal fixation implant for femoral
      neck fractures. Multiple screws (2 or more) are used during fixation, and advocates of this
      implant promote the construct's superior torsional stability, limited disruption of femoral
      head blood supply, minimally invasive insertion, and retention of more viable bone than the
      larger sliding hip screw (SHS). On the other hand, sliding hip screws have been gaining
      popularity and there is evidence to suggest that SHS provide greater fracture stability and
      may reduce patient complications. It is currently unknown which method of internal fixation
      provides the best outcomes for patients.

      Femoral neck fracture treatment is further complicated by vitamin D insufficiency in as many
      as 8 of 10 trauma patients. Vitamin D plays an important role in musculoskeletal health and
      bone quality because it regulates serum calcium homeostasis. Laboratory research and human
      clinical studies suggest important associations between vitamin D, musculoskeletal health,
      and improved fracture healing. Experimental animal studies have demonstrated the
      concentration of vitamin D metabolites are higher at a fracture callus compared to the
      uninjured contralateral bone, vitamin D supplementation leads to decreased time to fracture
      union and increased callus vascularity, and vitamin D increases mechanical bone strength
      compared to controls. Clinical studies have also demonstrated that vitamin D supplementation
      increases the callus volume of proximal humerus fractures, increases the number and diameter
      of type II muscle fibres, and can improve wound healing, however, the effects of vitamin D
      supplementation in you patients with femoral neck fractures are unknown.

      Using a 2x2 factorial design, participant will be randomly allocated to one of four treatment
      arms. Participants allocated to the cancellous screw group will receive multiple threaded
      screws (with a minimum of 3 screws and a minimum diameter of 6.5 mm) and those allocated to
      the sliding hip screw group will receive a single larger diameter partially threaded screw
      affixed to the proximal femur with a sideplate using a minimum of 2 screws for fixation.
      Participants allocated to the vitamin D Group will receive a bottle of 2,000 International
      Units (IU) vitamin D3 drops. Participants will be instructed to take two drops daily for six
      months, for a total daily dose of 4,000 IU. Participants in the placebo group will receive an
      identical bottle of placebo drops with no active ingredient. Similarly, they will be
      instructed to take two drops daily for six months. All vitamin D3 supplement and placebo
      bottles will be labeled in a blinded manner according to Health Canada and Good Manufacturing
      Practice.

      Participation in this study will last 12 months. In-person participant follow-up visits will
      occur at enrollment (baseline), post-surgery, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, and 12
      months post-surgery. Data for all outcomes and radiographs will be collected at each
      follow-up visit.
    
  