
    
      In Brazil, the search for satisfaction with self-image has been increasing, since the profile
      of the population has been altered by cultural factors such as industrialized foods with high
      caloric content and sedentary lifestyle. These factors result in the accumulation of adipose
      tissue in typical and atypical places, caused by the imbalance of the energy balance, that
      is, a higher caloric intake when compared to the energy consumption.

      Noninvasive fat reduction is a rapidly expanding field of cosmetic rejuvenation, as many
      patients are unwilling to suffer the downtime and healing associated with traditional
      invasive liposuction. The radiofrequency (RF) device has been shown to be safe and effective
      for non-invasive fat reduction, as well as cutaneous enhancement and improvement of skin
      flaccidity (BOISNIC, et al., 2014).

      Radiofrequency emits focused electromagnetic waves that find resistance in the tissue,
      generating heat (KRUEGUER, LEVY and SADICK, 2012). This thermal energy affects the triple
      helix structure of the collagen, subsequently breaking the intramolecular hydrogen bonds,
      resulting in immediate contraction of the collagen and neocollagenesis in the dermis, without
      interfering in the epidermis.

      This neocollagenesis and remodeling of collagen results in a visibly compacted and organized
      dermis. Skin enhancement is an important effect, since patients that search for non-invasive
      fat reduction usually also seek improvement in skin flaccidity. This represents a substantial
      improvement over currently available technology (BOISNIC, et al, 2014).

      There is controversy regarding the mechanism of fat mobilization. Some authors, after
      observing human skin cultures at the end of the series of RF treatments found a profound
      effect on subcutaneous adipocytes. The analysis resulted in altered morphology and increased
      expression of the pyroptosis marker, APAF-1, suggesting that pyroptosis induced by
      irreversible electroporation is the mechanism of action. Adipocyte pyroptosis results in the
      release of triglycerides from disintegrated cell membranes, but in a delayed and gradual
      manner, allowing a slow and safe removal through the interstitial space and liquid transport
      systems, lymphatic vessels and other metabolic functions. There was no evidence of necrosis
      or inflammatory changes observed in adipocytes after treatments with BodyFX, a type of
      radiofrequency (BOISNIC, et al, 2014).

      Other authors say that the increase in temperature caused by RF has physiological effects,
      such as increased cellular metabolism, increased vasodilation and blood supply and activation
      of branches of the autonomic nervous system releasing adrenaline and noradrenaline (BELENKY,
      et al., 2012; PUMPRALA, et al., 2015, MESSINA, et al., 2017, RYDDEN and ARNER, 2017). These
      effects culminate in the better efficacy of lipolysis, which is a biochemical process where
      lipid hydrolysis occurs.

      The evaluation and application of the protocol will be performed in the therapeutic resources
      laboratory of the physiotherapy course of Federal University of Triângulo Mineiro- UFTM
      (whose coordinator is the researcher responsible for this study), the material will be
      collected at the Clinical Hospital of the UFTM surgical center and the preparation and
      analysis of the slides will be carried out in the pathology laboratory of UFTM.

      The women who will undergo plastic abdominoplasty surgery at the Clinical Hospital of the
      UFTM will be invited to participate in the study. These women are in the electronic queue
      awaiting surgery and will be invited by the plastic surgery team.

      The volunteers will receive radiofrequency (TECAR-BTL® device, with epidermal temperature
      above 40ºC) in the right infraumbilical abdominal region, with an application time of 10
      minutes (2 minutes per applicator area) and the left region will be used as control. A single
      session will be held. After approximately 30 days of this application the material for
      histological analysis will be collected during the surgical act, at which point the skin and
      the subcutaneous tissue of the infraumbilical region are discarded by the surgeon.

      Fragments collected during surgery will be fixed in Methacarn (60% methanol, 30% chloroform,
      10% acetic acid) for 2 hours at room temperature (RT). The slides will be made by the
      department of general pathology of the Federal University of the Triângulo Mineiro. Samples
      will be dehydrated in ethanol, diaphonized in xylol and embedded in paraffin. Histological
      sections of 5 μm thickness will be obtained in microtome (Jung) and placed on pre-coated
      sheets with polylysine. The histological sections will be stained with hematoxylin and eosin,
      Picro-sirius and Verhoeff. By the staining of Hematoxylin-Eosin will be analyzed the general
      morphology of the tissue including the quantity and volume of the adipose vacuoles,
      Picro-sirius the presence and morphology of the collagen fibers and Verhoeff the elastic
      fibers.

      Blades stained by Hematoxylin-Eosin, Picro-sirius and Verhoeff will be visualized with a 20x
      objective. The images will be captured by a common light microscope and analyzed by the Axion
      Vision Automatic Image Analyzer System.

      In this way the field to be quantified will be captured, photographed through a camera
      attached to the microscope and to the computer for image scanning. Images will be saved in
      TIFF format. All blade fields will be photographed and saved.

      After the fields are saved, the Image J® program will be used to improve them, using the
      illumination reference so that they all have the same quality.

      The percentage of collagen, elastic fibers and the analysis of the amount and volume of the
      adipose vacuole will be marked by the Image J® program and registered in a Microsoft Excel
      worksheet.
    
  