
    
      Patients with osteoporosis who applied to PMR outpatient clinic of Istanbul Medeniyet
      University Goztepe Training and Research Hospital will be included in the study. Informed
      consent detailing the purpose and content of the study will be obtained from patients.
      Initial evaluation of patients will be performed by the same doctor. Initial evaluation
      consists of obtaining demographic data and performing international physical activity
      questionnaire (short form) to evaluate physical activity frequencies of patients.
      Additionally; Berg balance test, timed sit and walk test, single leg stance test, tandem walk
      test, tandem stance test will be performed. Baseline static and dynamic balance scores of
      patients will be determined by the Corebalance Premiere-19 balance device. After acclimation
      the device and tests, 3 measurements will be made and the most successful score will be
      taken. The lowest value will be showing best performance. After the first evaluation,
      patients will be randomized using windows excel randomization option to two groups by another
      observer. Patients will be blinded about which exercise group they will be separated to. To
      learn the exercises the patient will be referred to physiatrist Ozge Solakoglu who completed
      a 200-hour yoga teacher training programme certificated by Yoga Alliance. Both groups will be
      thought exercise series which will be based on recommendations which is published on October
      2016 by UK national osteoporosis foundation. Patients would be encouraged to perform the
      exercises on recommended basis and handouts will be given to patients in both groups. The
      yoga group will also be taught "tree pose".

      Patients will be encouraged to note their exercises regularly on daily basis. Patients will
      be reevaluated after first and third months and balance tests will be re-performed to
      determine the effect of given exercises.

      Inclusion criteria

      - Patients with T score of bone mineral densitometry lower than -2.5.-

      Exclusion criteria

        -  Neurological or vestibule dysfunctions which may affect balance

        -  Severe mental disturbances effecting communication

        -  Locomotor dysfunction which prevents patient to perform balance tests

        -  Active musculoskeletal pathology which disrupt performing exercises.
    
  