
    
      1. Participants will be recruited from the Tarzana Treatment Center, the Domiciliary
           Residential Rehabilitation Program, or Chabad Treatment Center, where they will be
           residing in a residential substance use disorder program. Potential participants
           recently admitted with stimulant use disorder will be given a flyer describing the
           study, and interested parties will meet with a research associate to discuss details of
           the protocol and sign the informed consent form. Prior to enrollment, they will be
           screened for initial eligibility criteria and exclusion criteria. Participants who
           provide written consent will complete questionnaires about their mood, medical,
           psychiatric and drug use history, personality and life experiences. They will also give
           a urine sample to determine what drugs they have recently used, a breath sample to
           determine the carbon monoxide levels in their system, and a blood sample to assess
           complete blood count, metabolic panel, screening for infectious diseases, and tests of
           kidney function. This blood sample will also be used to determine follicular and luteal
           phase in female participants.

        2. Consenting participants will meet with the study physician for additional screening. The
           study physician will take a medical history, take a personal and family health profile,
           perform a physical examination, and collect and review laboratory tests to determine
           eligibility.

        3. Participants will be seen at least weekly for follow-up throughout the study via a set
           of self-report questionnaires, including the Mini International Neuropsychiatric
           Interview (MINI), Patient Health Questionnaire-9, 4-Item Positive Symptom Rating Scale,
           Mood Disorder Questionnaire, International Physical Activity Questionnaire, and side
           effect questionnaires. Urine samples and exhaled breath will also be collected at these
           follow-up visits.

        4. After completing screening procedures, eligible participants will complete the following
           baseline assessments:

           A) Visit 1:

           i. Structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): High-resolution structural MRI scans of
           the brain Magnetization-Prepared Rapid Acquisition Gradient Echo will be obtained before
           positron emission tomography (PET) scans to confirm the absence of structural brain
           lesions and to aid in localization of volumes of interest.

           ii. Functional MRI (fMRI): The purpose of this session is to collect information on
           brain function and activity while participants are engaged in cognitive tasks and at
           rest, while accounting for physiological variability. During the scan, non-invasive
           physiological measurements, including respiration, pulse and rate of eye blinks will be
           collected to determine signals in fMRI data related to physiology. Resting state scans
           will be acquired to examine the functional connectivity of brains regions in the absence
           of cognitive demands. Participants will be asked to stare at a black screen.
           Participants will be asked to smoke 15-30 minutes prior to the fMRI scan.

           Participants may be asked to complete two or three of the following cognitive tasks in
           the scanning environment:

           The Balloon Analog Risk Task (BART): The BART measures risky decision making. During the
           BART, participants must make a series of choices between two options: inflating a
           virtual balloon to increase potential monetary gains ($0.25/inflation) or not inflating
           a virtual balloon and retaining accrued earnings. Each time a virtual balloon is
           inflated, the size and value of the balloon increases or the balloon explodes and the
           participants earn no money on that trial. The task will be administered in one 10-minute
           session.

           Reversal Learning task (RLT): Participants perform a simple categorization task with
           reversal stages. Participants learn to make one of two key-press responses to a set of
           abstract visual patterns (e.g., fractal patterns) on the basis of trial-by-trial
           feedback. Subjects view the stimuli (which are novel visual patterns) and must make a
           key press. Immediately after the response, feedback will appear on the screen:
           "correct", "incorrect", or a "no response recorded" message if no response is made
           within the response window. Participants will be trained on these stimuli that have
           varying numbers of trials before the reversal phase. The reversal phase is unbeknownst
           to the participant where previously correct stimuli are now incorrect. Participants
           learn this new pattern through feedback. After the task, participants may participate in
           a memory test of the pictures they saw during the RLT.

           Stop Signal Task (SST): This task consists of 256 trials (64 Stop trials). Each trial
           will begin with a fixation dot appearing at the center of the screen for 500
           milliseconds (ms), followed by a target stimulus, "O" or "X", which will remain for
           2000ms. Participants will be instructed to respond as quickly as possible with a left
           key-press for "O" or a right key-press for "X", but to try to stop themselves from
           pressing if the target was followed by a "stop-signal" tone (25% of trials). This signal
           will be presented at a variable delay (the stop-signal delay), after the target stimulus
           appears. After a successful Stop trial, the stop-signal delay will be increased by 50ms,
           and after a failed Stop trial, it will be decreased by 50ms, eventually titrating to a
           stop-signal delay resulting in ~50% successful inhibition rate. 3 days prior to the fMRI
           visit, each participant will be trained on this task.

           B) Visit 2:

           i. Prior to completing behavioral tasks and PET scanning, participants will visit the
           Clinical and Translational Research Center, where a registered nurse will draw
           approximately 20 milliliters (mL) of blood. Blood samples will be tested for plasma
           levels of nicotine, cotinine, and trans-3'-hydroxycotinine, as well as genetic markers
           associated with smoking and methamphetamine use.

           The DNA samples acquired from this protocol will be added to a larger database of DNA
           samples collected from participants in London Laboratory protocols. DNA samples will be
           stored for future use other than the aims and goals of this study. Participants will not
           receive their results because our laboratory is only qualified for genetic analyses
           associated with research purposes and is not certified for clinical assessment of
           genetic information.

           This blood sample will also be used to determine follicular and luteal phase in female
           participants.

           ii. Cognitive/behavioral testing: Working memory (N-back test), declarative memory (Rey
           Auditory Verbal Learning Task),sustained attention (Rapid Visual Information
           Processing), inhibitory control (Stop Signal Test) and reward-based decision-making
           (Monetary Delay Discounting and Reversal Learning) will be tested on the same day of the
           PET scan.

           iii. PET Scanning: A computed tomography transmission scan will be performed, before
           administration of the radiopharmaceutical, to obtain data for measured attenuation
           correction. A dose of [18F]fallypride, approximately 5 millicuries (mCi) (+/- 10% error)
           with an injected mass of 1.82 micrograms (μg) (+/- 10% error), will be administered as
           an intravenous bolus injection. Dynamic scanning will start after the bolus injection.
           The first dynamic emission scanning sequence will take 80 min. The participant will then
           be removed from the scanner for a 20-minute break. To reduce radiation-absorbed dose to
           the urinary bladder wall, participants will be instructed to water load and void during
           their break. A second 80-minute dynamic emission scan acquisition will follow.

        5. Participants will be randomly assigned to a varenicline (VAR) treatment or placebo group
           by the Semel Institute Statistic Unit. The participant as well as the experimenters
           administering PET scans or cognitive tests will be blinded to the assigned treatment.
           Both conditions will require that participants take capsules as instructed over the
           course of 3 weeks. Medications (active and placebo) for the upcoming week will be
           dispensed at the beginning of each week. At the end of each week, the participants will
           meet with the study physician for a check-up to monitor potential adverse events. After
           the 3-wk regimen (VAR or placebo), participants will undergo repeat testing of PET
           measures and behavioral tests as described in section 6. On the final day of treatment,
           a blood sample will be taken to assess plasma levels of VAR.

        6. After completing VAR treatment, participants will complete the following assessments:

           A) Visit 3:

           i. Structural MRI. As described in Visit 1.

           ii. Functional MRI (fMRI): As described in Visit 1.

           B) Visit 4:

           i. Prior to completing behavioral tasks and before undergoing PET scanning, participants
           will visit the Clinical and Translational Research Center, where a registered nurse will
           draw approximately 20 mL of blood. Blood samples will be sent to the Tyndale laboratory
           and tested for plasma levels of varenicline, and plasma levels of nicotine, cotinine,
           and trans-3'-hydroxycotinine to assess changes in smoking status from baseline. This
           blood sample will also be used to determine follicular and luteal phase in female
           participants.

           ii. Cognitive/behavioral testing As described in Visit 2.

           iii. PET Scanning: As described in Visit 2.

        7. Participants will be reimbursed for transportation costs to the University of
           California, Los Angeles from their inpatient treatment center throughout the entirety of
           the study. They will be escorted with a research associate via a taxi cab.
    
  