
    
      This open label, naturalistic study will enroll a total of 20 patients who are being treated
      for Behavioral and Psychological Symptoms of Dementia (BPSD), and who are being newly tried
      on Depakote in either the ER or sprinkle formulation. Patients who are suitable for study
      inclusion will have a score of at least 4 (out of 5, with 5 being the most severe) on at
      least one item (verbal agitation, physical agitation, and or aggression) of the
      Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory (CMAI), short form. In this study Depakote ER will be
      prescribed in addition to existing pharmacotherapy; there will be no washout of co-prescribed
      psychotropic agents. The study will not seek to enroll equal numbers of patients on Depakote
      only vs. concomitant treatment. Study subjects will be recruited in multiple assisted living,
      nursing home and hospital sites in Massachusetts. We anticipate that they will roughly mirror
      the age, gender, and other demographic distribution of the larger SCU population. This will
      be a rolling enrollment as patients present with symptoms appropriate for this treatment. Our
      estimate is based on past experience with the referral rates for medication evaluation from
      these sites. Patients currently on atypical antipsychotics who have residual BPSD will be
      considered for the study, as will those on acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. Our logic is that
      as prescribed, these agents are not having the desired effect in reducing BPSD. Patients who
      are taking, and are appropriate to remain on, conventional antipsychotics will be excluded
      from the study. For each enrolled patient we will obtain baseline a psychiatric and medical
      assessment; results of the Mini Mental Status Evaluation (MMSE), CMAI, NPI - NH version and
      CGI; and a nursing staff patient status report prior to beginning psychotropic medication.
      These will be completed at time of study enrollment. Patients will then be followed for six
      weeks, with valproic acid levels drawn at weeks 1,3, and 6. Nursing staff will complete the
      CMAI at baseline and at weeks 1, 3, and 6. Physicians will score patients on the CGI at
      baseline, week 1, 3, and 6, and Clinical Raters will complete the NPI at baseline and week 6.
    
  