
    
      The gastrointestinal tract begins its colonization shortly after the birth. During the first
      two years of life, microbiota is unstable and less diverse than in adulthood, when its
      complexity and diversity are modified. There are more than 100 trillion microorganisms hosted
      in the gut, mostly as phylae, Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes. These microorganisms help in
      various functions, and their balance is of great importance to control diseases and metabolic
      disorders. The lack of homeostasis of gut microbiota, results in gut dysbiosis, known by the
      imbalance of Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes concentration, but also with the presence of other
      phylae. Hypertension (HT) is characterized by blood pressure (BP) ≥ 140/90 mmHg HT can
      manifest itself with chronic or acute elevation of BP. Among the situations of BP chronic
      elevation, there is resistant hypertension (RH), defined by BP ≥ 140/90 mmHg, even with the
      use of three or more antihypertensive drugs in appropriate doses, preferably including a
      diuretic. Certain gut microbial strains may play either a pathogenic or protective role in
      the development hypertension. Changes in gut microbiota were observed in the hypertension
      with significant decrease in microbial richness, diversity and uniformity, in addition to an
      increased Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio, characterizing intestinal dysbiosis. These changes
      have been accompanied by decreases in acetate and butyrate producing bacteria.

      Thus, one of the mechanisms by which the gut microbiota may interfere with control of the BP
      is related to the production of metabolites produced by fermentation of fibers like resistant
      starch, known as short chain fatty acids (SCFAs). These metabolites have vasodilating
      property (acetate, butyrate and propionate), which may influence vascular tone. Acetate and
      the propionate are able to reduce the levels of BP in animal models, and that independent
      models of hypertension (SHR rats and Ang II), have less SCFAs producing bacteria than the
      normotensive controls. The SCFA butyrate, bacterial metabolic product, is produced from
      dietary fibers by bacteria found in lumen and hosts multiple beneficial properties for the
      host. Studies in animal models show that diet high in fiber and acetate supplementation
      correct gut dysbiosis, increase the abundance of acetate/butyrate producing bacteria and are
      associated with lower BP in hypertension animal model.

      The spontaneously hypertensive rats prone to stroke (stroke-prone SHR) show gut dysbiosis and
      fecal microbiota transplant of these rats to normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats increases the BP
      in normotensive rats. On the other hand, the intimate association between inflammation and
      chronic hypertension is well known. The control of inflammation by the sympathetic nervous
      system plays a central role in hypertension. Therefore, the gut receives significant
      sympathetic innervation, it is densely populated with a diverse microbial ecosystem, and
      contains immune cells that cause great impact overall inflammatory homeostasis. This
      influence can be demonstrated in germ-free mice subjected to the model of hypertension with
      infusion of Ang II. They showed mitigated inflammatory signs (smaller vascular leukocyte
      adhesion, smaller neutrophils and monocytes infiltration in the arterial wall), as well as
      smaller endothelial dysfunction and increased attenuation of the BP as a response to Ang II
      compared to conventionally raised mice, indicating systemic protection of inflammatory
      cardiovascular stress. Thus, the gut microbiota plays a key role in the immune system and can
      also influence the inflammatory response, by changing the endothelial function and,
      consequently, BP. Hypertension causes a vascular endothelium injury, triggering an
      inflammatory response that is accompanied with an increase in C-reactive protein, which can
      induce the PAI-1.

      The use of Prebiotics to treat hypertension Epidemiological studies suggest that dietary
      components, such as fiber, may reduce the development of HT. A high fiber diet consumption
      increases gut microbiota populations which generate SCFAs such as acetate and butyrate.
      Recently, Marques et al. have shown that a high-fiber diet or supplementation with the
      short-chain fatty acid acetate modulated gut microbiota and prevented BP elevation and the
      development of cardio-renal complications in DOCA-salt hypertension rats. The authors
      validated these findings in hypertensive model induced by angiotensin II infusion (Ang II),
      showing that other SCFA, butyrate, also reduced the BP and accompanied with lower levels of
      inflammatory cytokines in the large bowel (data not published). Hypertensive subjects also
      show an abnormal gut microbiota and lower production of acetate and butyrate. Prebiotics
      modified diets based on high-amylose corn starches, which release large amounts of SCFAs
      (acetate and butyrate) into the gut and into peripheral tissues, have the ability to
      successfully reduce the predisposition to develop diabetes type 1 in mice and improve type II
      diabetes mellitus control in humans. Dietary supplements, which produce high acetate and
      butyrate levels, have the ability to positively intervene in gut microbiota and in
      chronic-metabolic diseases such as HT and diabetes, being able to be used as a new strategy
      to reduce the BP. Therefore, we need further investigation to assess the behavior of
      microbiota in controlled hypertensive and resistant hypertensive individuals and show that
      modulate gut microbiota can bring health benefits.

      JUSTIFICATION With the high prevalence of hypertension in the globalized world and the
      consumption increase of industrialized foods, fast-food, ultra-processed foods and physical
      inactivity, there is a strong trend to the exponential growth of cardiovascular
      complications. Over 60 years ago, Dr. Irvine Page proposed the Mosaic Theory of Hypertension,
      which states that multiple factors interdigitate to blood pressure elevation. This fostered
      establishment of cellular, molecular, and physiological mechanisms altered in HT. However,
      However, how these diverse factors integrate to impair BP control remains a challenge.
      Furthermore, why some factors are prohypertensive in one individual and not in another, and
      where prohypertensive signals originate, remains an enigma. In this viewpoint, the gut
      microbiota can be one missing link and provide a potential unifying concept, occupying a
      prominent place in the mosaic theory. The latest evidence shows the involvement of the gut
      microbiota in BP control and its interference in HT in animal and in humans' models. Thus,
      addressing knowledge gaps in order to determine whether the gut microbiota is related to HT
      and if the change of the microbiota might help in HT treatment constitutes in an opportunity
      to develop new evidence to advance in this field, mainly in cases of resistant hypertension.
      It would be important to establish metabolites signatures and the microbiota that could be
      used to predict the development of HT or biomarkers for resistant hypertension. Despite great
      advances in drug therapy, HT continues to be the main modifiable risk factor for
      cardiovascular morbidity and mortality development, due to lack of BP proper control in
      resistant hypertension, which corresponds to about 10 to 20% of hypertensive subjects, this
      group is exposed to higher cardiovascular risk. Thus, this study will assess whether the gut
      microbiota is associated with BP levels of resistant hypertensive individuals compared to
      hypertensive controlled and whether the microbiota alteration with Prebiotics may help BP
      control and, consequently, decrease the prevalence of CVD in hypertensive patients.
      Additionally, this study compares the microbiota of two different global regions, Brazil and
      Australia, in relation to BP. Our hypothesis is that the gut microbiota and its metabolites
      acetate and butyrate play a role in the hypertension prevention and that medical diets
      ("Nutrigenomics") can be used to reduce the BP. Initially, the study will evaluate the
      microbiota of 3 different groups: normotensive, hypertensive controlled and resistant
      hypertensive individuals. In a second phase of this project, we propose the establishment of
      a randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled cross-over study using a prebiotic (dietary
      modified supplement). The use of Prebiotic is justified because it is a cheap, safe and
      simple therapy, constituting a new therapeutic approach that can increase BP control in
      resistant hypertensive patients who cannot control it with traditional drugs.

      OBJECTIVES General objective The aim of this study is to evaluate the gut microbiota of
      resistant hypertensive patients, compared to normotensive and hypertensive ones, and also to
      evaluate the gut microbiota response to medical intervention (Prebiotics) in resistant
      hypertensive patients.

      Specific objectives

        -  To analyze which bacteria, colonize the resistant hypertensive intestine, comparing them
           to the microbiota bacteria of normotensive and hypertensive controlled patients;

        -  To assess the patients' nutritional status studied and correlate it with their
           microbiota;

        -  To correlate metabolic-biochemistry profile (including inflammatory markers) and
           peripheral and central hemodynamic parameters of the patients who will be studied with
           the results of their microbiota evaluation;

        -  To carry out the intervention with the Prebiotics formula and reassess the gut
           microbiota after the treatment of the hypertensive controlled and the resistant
           hypertensive group.

        -  To compare the microbiota of normotensive, hypertensive controlled and resistant
           hypertensive of Brazilian population studied with Australians.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS The study shall be divided into two phases. The first phase will be a
      descriptive, observational cross-sectional study. The collection of material shall be carried
      out at the Hypertension Clinic of State Medical School at São José do Rio Preto (FAMERP),
      with the aim of evaluating the gut microbiota of normotensive, hypertensive controlled and
      resistant hypertensive patients. The second study will be a randomized, blinded,
      placebo-controlled crossover study, using prebiotics in resistant hypertensive patients
      during two periods of 4 weeks with a wash-out interval of 4 weeks.

      Characteristics of the participants

      Patients who are being monitored will be assessed at the Hypertension Clinic. The study will
      consist of 3 groups of participants:

        1. 40 normotensive patients with systolic BP (SBP) < 140 mmHg and diastolic BP (DBP) < 90
           mmHg at the office, without the use of antihypertensive drugs and evaluated through
           ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) to confirm normotension (BP < 130/80 mmHg)
           and the exclusion of possible masked hypertension.

        2. 40 controlled hypertensive patients using up to three antihypertensive drugs with SBP <
           130 mmHg and DBP < 80 mmHg evaluated through ambulatory blood pressure monitoring
           (ABPM).

        3. 40 resistant hypertensive patients defined by an uncontrolled BP in doctor's office (≥
           140/90 mmHg), despite the use of three or more antihypertensive drugs in appropriate
           doses, including preferably a diuretic, or the use of four or more drugs with blood
           pressure control. Patients will also be evaluated by the ABPM, which should present in
           SBP ≥130 mmHg and DBP ≥ 80 mmHg to be considered resistant hypertensive, otherwise they
           will be classified as controlled hypertensive. Resistant hypertension will be defined
           after the exclusion of causes of pseudo-resistance, i.e., inaccurate blood pressure
           measurement, white coat effect, non-therapeutic adherence, the use of drugs that can
           increase BP and secondary causes of arterial hypertension.
    
  