
    
      Purpose:

      This proposal will for the first time test the clinical utility of ProMisE in a pan-Canadian
      setting. Through molecular classification, Investigators are closer to providing consistent
      treatment to women with EC reducing disparities in care as might be observed according to
      geography/access to care, and/or racial differences. As the primary focus for this trial
      investigators will focus on identifying women investigators believe may be overtreated,
      working to avoid giving toxic therapies with consequential side effects of treatment as many
      women with EC may be cured by surgery alone. However, by performing molecular classification
      for all new ECs enrolled investigators will also be able to identify women who are at
      increased risk of recurrence or death from their disease based on molecular features and
      direct them to molecular-subtype-specific clinical trials. This will, investigators believe,
      reduce undertreatment (not identifying and treating women at high risk for recurrence) and
      will help select the best treatment according to an individuals tumor biology. In summary,
      the research proposed will assess the feasibility and impact of ProMisE-directed care within
      a rigorous clinical setting - fulfilling the last step in bringing molecular
      classification-driven care to women across the country with EC and ultimately improving
      outcomes for women with this disease.

      Hypothesis:

      There is a subgroup of early stage endometrial carcinomas that are at very low risk of pelvic
      recurrence and can be identified through molecular classification providing an opportunity to
      withhold or deescalate adjuvant therapy.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective:

      Determine if women with POLE-mutated or p53 wild type/NSMP early stage endometrial cancer who
      undergo surgery (hysterectomy, BSO, +/-LND)have a low risk (<5%) risk of pelvic (including
      vaginal) recurrence at 3 years with no or de-escalated adjuvant treatment.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. Determine recurrence-free survival.

        2. Determine overall survival.

        3. Determine sites of recurrence (vaginal, pelvic, distant).

        4. Determine health economic impact of molecular classification-tailored adjuvant therapy
           on the cost of treating endometrial cancer

        5. Determine the impact of molecular classification on patient Decisional Conflict Scale
           (DCS)

        6. Determine if variability in adjuvant treatment given to women with endometrial cancer is
           decreased by molecular classification-tailored adjuvant therapy as compared to
           current/historic standard of care.

      Exploratory Objectives:

      1. Are there additional molecular parameters that further stratify risk of recurrence within
      POLE or p53wt ECs.

      Other mutations are also on the Contextual Genomics FindIt™ panel and will be recorded for
      testing of prognostic or predictive value but will not be used to stratify care nor direct
      therapy in real time. Similarly L1CAM IHC on whole sections of representative tumor will be
      performed and tested for associations with outcomes. Additional analysis might include
      further IHC, proteomic, epigenetic assessment, and immune markers.Investigators will have the
      opportunity to weigh multiple molecular and clinicopathological parameters captured in data
      collection post hoc to see if any of these improve prognostic ability when applied with
      ProMisE.

      Research design:

      This is A single arm prospective cohort study is the most efficient trial design to address
      the primary hypothesis. Study investigators have experience with similar successful trials in
      other disease sites (breast-DUCHESS, LUMINA). Some components of this molecular based tool
      are now widely reported on standard of care pathology reports (MMRd, p53) making the
      possibility of creating a cohort blinded to these molecular results and thus randomization of
      this cohort impractical. With implications of these molecular features impacting HCP
      referrals, pathology categorization, and treatment opportunities (e.g., immune blockade) it
      is not appropriate to withhold these molecular results from patients. Randomization and
      creation of true blinded cohorts are therefore no longer feasible. Despite increasing
      availability of some of these molecular features in most cancer centers, POLE mutation
      testing has not routinely been available, and as yet there are no algorithms to direct
      management based upon molecular status thus practice variability is large. A prospective
      trial will get all components of the molecular classifier into the hands of clinicians and
      patients. Investigators have evidence-based publications supporting treatment recommendations
      herein, although taken from retrospective series or preclinical work. Investigators have a
      randomized controlled trial in molecular classification-driven care (PORTEC4a) that although
      not mature enough to be published has revealed no concerns for higher rates of adverse events
      in the observation-only arms that would threaten continuation. As clinicians are already
      beginning to factor molecular features into their management recommendations it is imperative
      that investigators measure the impact of implementation of molecular based triage in a
      controlled setting. This will enable us to have preassigned 'stop' mechanisms in place if
      higher than anticipated recurrence rates are note and has the potential to change future
      algorithms for care.

      NB: This trial will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, GCP and all applicable
      regulatory requirements.

      Statistical design:

      Primary Endpoint:

      The primary aim of this study is to provide reliable estimates of the 3-year cumulative
      incidence of pelvic recurrence, and to confirm that this probability is sufficiently low e.g.
      de-escalation or no adjuvant therapy is safe in molecular classification selected early stage
      ECs.
    
  