
    
      The patients will be divided into two groups. In group 1, the multimodal anesthetic cocktail
      consisted of 100 mg Levobupivacaine (0.5%, 20 mL) and 30 mg ketorolac (1 ml). In group 2, the
      multimodal anesthetic cocktail consisted of 100 mg Levobupivacaine (0.5%, 20 mL), 30 mg
      ketorolac (1 ml) and 0.6 mg 1:1000 epinephrine (0.6 ml). Both groups were mixed with a 0.9%
      normal saline solution to a total volume of 100 ml. The outcome research assistant who
      collects data was blinded to the treatment groups. Patients will be treated with the routine
      standard regimen for total knee arthroplasty. Surgeons will use same surgical techniques
      through a standard medial parapatellar approach. In addition, standardized
      posterior-stabilized TKA (Zimmer Nexgen LPS flex) was used in all patients. After bone
      cutting before inserting the actual implant, the assistant scrub nurse in the operating room
      will open the envelope that the patient was classified in group 1 or group 2 and perform
      mixing according to the prescribed medication. The doctor who undergoes surgery was blinded.
      The anesthetic cocktail was divided into 4 parts 25 ml each and it was injected into 4 areas.
      First 25 ml cocktail was injected into the posterior capsule (P), posteromedial (PM) and
      posterolateral capsule (PL). The second part was injected into the medial gutter (M). The
      third part was injected into the lateral gutter and the forth part was injected into
      quadriceps muscle, retinacula tissues, pes anserinus, suprapatellar and infrapatellar fat
      pads (A). During the first 48 hours, all patients received intravenous morphine prn for pain,
      as well as dynastat, Tylenol with codeine, as required, for control of pain. After 48 hours,
      the pain was controlled by oral intravenous morphine and medication as requires until the
      patient was discharged from the hospital.

      The primary outcome measure was the severity of postoperative pain during the first 48 hours
      after surgery. The pain was assessed by a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) ranging from 0 (no
      pain) to 10 (extreme pain) every 6 hours postoperatively. Secondary outcome measures compared
      the consumption of intravenous morphine, which was measured every six hours in 48 hours after
      surgery. Additionally, blood loss in the drain at 24, 48 hours was recorded. Any
      complications following surgery were recorded.
    
  