
    
      The investigators will contact the CML patients cohort (about 50) and ask them to join the
      study. Those consenting will be briefed on the use of an Actigraph wrist device, which the
      patients should wear for a week. In addition, patients will fill quality of life, depression
      and anxiety questionnaires.

      During the assessment week they will be asked to fill in a short "sleep diary" to be
      correlated with the objective Actigraph results.

      The investigators will analyze objective data and compare to the subjective report of
      patient's sleep and compare these results with a matched cohort of the control participants.
      The investigators will analyze the quality of life, anxiety and depression scores also.

      The main objective of the study is to try and find a correlation between CML and sleep
      disturbances, several previous studies found sleep disturbances in reported questionnaires,
      but the sleep parameters were never studied objectively. Also most of the studies
      concentrated on the fatigue as the main symptom, in our study the investigators will focus on
      sleep quality and quantity as a primary symptom.

      The quality of life questionnaire will be WHOQOL-BREF questionnaire. The anxiety
      questionnaire will be Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale. The depression questionnaire will be
      Beck Depression Inventory.

      The sleep watch that will be used is called Actigraph/Actiwatch and it is FDA approved
      device, this device will help the investigators assess and observe the objective sleep
      parameters like length of sleep, time to fall asleep, number of awakenings at night.

      There will be no intervention in the study, the results will not alter the treatment the
      patients receive. But if some patients will be found to have a severe depression or anxiety
      they will be referred to psychiatric consult.

      the study will be with the collaboration of Professor Iris Haymov, sleep researcher from the
      Max Stern Academic College of Emek Yezreel.
    
  