
    
      Subjects with metastatic ER+/HER2- breast cancer with disease progression on Fulvestrant, for
      whom continuation of endocrine therapy would be an appropriate treatment, will be treated
      with the combination of MLN9708 (proteasome inhibitor) and Fulvestrant (anti-estrogen).
      Subjects with visceral or soft tissue disease will have a tumor biopsy while on treatment
      with Fulvestrant but prior to initiation of MLN9708 to confirm ER/PR/HER2 status, and to
      provide a baseline specimen for molecular analysis. A biopsy of the same tumor will be
      obtained after 2 days of treatment with MLN9708 plus Fulvestrant (i.e. on day 3). Patients
      with bone-only disease will be eligible for the study, but will not be biopsied.

      The Investigators propose a 3x3 dose-escalation trial to assess the safety and efficacy of
      Fulvestrant and three dose levels of MLN9708 (2.3, 3, and 4mg) Subjects will be treated with
      Fulvestrant (500mg) once every four weeks on day 1. The dose of MLN9708 will start at 2.3mg,
      which is about 50% of the phase 3 dose in another ongoing study. If 2.3mg MLN9708 does not
      induce any grade 3 non-hematologic toxicity, or any grade 4 hematologic toxicity by CTCAE
      v4.0 (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4.0) in any of the 3 subjects
      treated for 1 cycle, the Investigators will treat another 3 subjects with the combination of
      Fulvestrant and MLN9708 (3mg); and if no grade 3 non-hematologic toxicity, or any grade 4
      hematologic toxicity by CTCAE v4.0 is seen over the first cycle, the Investigators will treat
      another 3 subjects with Fulvestrant and MLN9708 (4mg, which is the phase 3 dose). If
      dose-limiting toxicity is observed in 1/3 subjects, the Investigators will treat an
      additional 3 subjects at that same dose. If dose-limiting toxicity is seen in 2 of 6 subjects
      at any dose level, that dose level will be considered the maximum tolerated dose, and a total
      of 6 subjects will be treated at the prior dose. Plasma pharmacokinetic profiles of MLN9708
      will be determined over 21 days after the first dose of the combination.

      Pre- and post- treatment tumor biopsies will be formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded. Tissue
      sections will be analyzed by H&E (Hematoxylin and eosin) staining and immunohistochemistry
      using antibodies against markers of proliferation, apoptosis, estrogen receptor alpha
      activation, endoplasmic reticulum stress, and polyubiquitin. Proteasome activity of whole
      blood will be determined using samples acquired prior to treatment initiation, and on day 3.
      Tumor-specific plasma DNA will also be measured prior to treatment initiation and after the
      first two doses of MLN9708.
    
  