
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Enzastaurin is a macrocyclic bisindolylmaleimide which disrupts the intrinsic
      phosphotransferase activity of conventional and novel PKC isoforms via an interaction at the
      ATP binding site, displays selectivity in inhibiting the isoforms.

      Preclinical studies demonstrate potent anti-angiogenic activity of enzastaurin and studies in
      normal volunteers and solid tumor patients demonstrate the drug is very well tolerated at
      doses that achieve a biologically active serum concentration.

      OBJECTIVES:

      To establish the maximally tolerated dose of enzastaurin in patients with refractory primary
      brain tumors not on any enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic drugs (EIAED) and for patients on
      EIAEDs.

      To determine if twice a day dosing results in higher systemic exposure of enzastaurin and its
      metabolites than once a day dosing in patients not on EIAEDs and those on EIAEDs.

      To obtain exploratory data regarding the relationship between the activity of the PKC-b
      pathway (specifically GSK3-b activation) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of treated
      patients and clinical outcome.

      To obtain exploratory information about the anti-tumor activity of enzastaurin at the higher
      doses specified in this protocol.

      ELIGIBILITY:

      Patients with histologically proven malignant glioma will be eligible for this protocol.

      DESIGN:

      Patients will be stratified into Group A or Group B based on their concomitant medications.
      Patients who are on enzyme inducing anti-epileptic drugs such as phenytoin, carbamazepine or
      trileptal will be enrolled into Group B while patients who meet the eligibility criteria and
      are not on any enzyme inducers, will be entered into Group A.

      As of December 2005, three DLT's were observed at dose level 1 and it was determined that
      this was not a tolerable dose. A third dose level has been added using a lower dose for Group
      A patients only. Twelve patients will be entered at the third dose level in Group A only.
    
  