
    
      Currently, UCLA Health has 42 primary care clinics staffed with approximately 205 PCP's
      serving more than 300,000 patients. In order to improve health maintenance screening rates
      associated with the performance based program, the investigators will use a communication
      strategy that leverages behavioral principles to motivate providers to improve health
      maintenance screening rates.

      The investigators will implement a three-arm experimental communication campaign that
      includes monthly messages. The communication strategy will utilize behavioral change theory
      (particularly social comparison and recognition) to improve physician performance in health
      maintenance quality metrics.

      This study will primarily focus on one quality domain of the PCCE incentive program-Clinical
      Quality. Two further quality domains of the PCCE incentive program will serve as exploratory
      measures: Patient Experience and Professional Participation.

      For the primary outcome measure and high-priority secondary outcome measures, the
      investigators will first evaluate whether the combination of arms 2 and 3 differs from arm 1
      in terms of the measures listed in the Outcome Measures section. If this comparison is
      statistically significant, the investigators will next compare arms 1 vs 2. and then, if also
      significant, the investigators will compare arms 1 vs 3 and 2 vs 3. For the 1 vs 3 and 2 vs 3
      comparisons, we will use a Holm-Bonferroni p-value correction. These comparisons of treatment
      arms will be performed at the patient level using a mixed effects regression model, including
      random physician and clinic effects to account for clustering of patients. Control variables
      include (1) patient baseline order rates (or completion rates depending on the outcome
      measure) in July-October 2019, (2) patient characteristics (age, gender, comorbidity,
      insurance plan, zip code), and (3) physician characteristics (gender, race, years practiced,
      years at UCLA Health). Unless otherwise specified, p-values less than 0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant.
    
  