
    
      This is a prospective, multi-center, observational study to characterize the epidemiology of
      bleeding and clotting in patients with underlying systolic ventricular dysfunction undergoing
      heart transplantation, CABG surgery, or implantation of left ventricular assist devices.
      Patients will be followed for up to 28 days post-implant, post-CABG, post-heart transplant,
      or until hospital discharge, whichever comes first. There will be no randomization for this
      observational study.

      We will enroll 100 patients (we expect the distribution to be approximately 30 per Groups I -
      III, but no cap per group, and 10 for Group IV) who have been scheduled to undergo CPB within
      24 hours for one of the following:

      Group I: Cardiopulmonary Bypass + Heart Transplantation CPB for orthotopic heart
      transplantation (excluding any patients with VADs)

      Group II: Cardiopulmonary Bypass + Pulsatile LVAD CPB for implantation of a Thoratec
      HeartMate® I LVAD (for destination therapy or bridge to transplantation)

      Group III: Cardiopulmonary Bypass + Continuous Flow LVAD CPB for implantation of an axial
      flow or centrifugal flow LVAD (for destination therapy or bridge to transplantation) (e.g.
      HeartMate® II, DeBakey VAD® or VentrAssist® LVAS)

      Group IV: Cardiopulmonary Bypass + CABG/Valve Surgery CPB for CABG or valve surgery

      Heart transplantation and perioperative care will be performed in accordance with the
      standard of care at the clinical center. Pulsatile LVAD (e.g. HeartMate® I) implantation and
      perioperative management will be performed in accordance with the standard of care at the
      clinical center, and guided by the HeartMate® I Directions for Use. Continuous flow LVAD
      implantation and perioperative management will be performed in accordance with the standard
      of care at the clinical center, and guided by the specific VAD manufacturer's Directions for
      Use. CABG surgery and perioperative care will be performed in accordance with the standard of
      care at the clinical center.

      We anticipate that enrollment will be completed over a six-month period.

      We hypothesize that the initial activation of the intrinsic pathway of coagulation is
      attenuated for several days in patients undergoing CPB for CABG alone; however, in subjects
      undergoing CPB with VAD implantation or cardiac transplantation, activation of this pathway
      is biphasic and sustained.
    
  