
    
      Intervention group

      The base for the intervention is to identify a problematic everyday activity and identify
      factors, including physical, psychological and environmental factors, that can inhibit and/or
      promote the ability to perform the activity. The exercise that will improve the physical
      factors will be based on functional exercise such as Balance training and muscle strength
      training, e.g. fast walking in circle, marching on the spot with a high knee lift, leg lifts,
      power walking and stair walking, squats, lunge, turning trunk and head while standing, and
      walking over obstacles. Number of exercises and the dosage are based on how much the
      participant are able to do and want to do and will increase progressively considering the
      changes in function and health status of the participants. The content of the visits is as
      follow:

      Session: Identification of a problematic everyday activity and advice about physical
      activity.

      Session 2: Doing functional behavioural analyse including goal setting, discuss performance
      dosage of training.

      Session 3-5: Training in the basic physical and psychological skills relevant to goal
      setting.

      Session 6-9: Training to apply basic skills adequately for the goal setting, application of
      basic and applied skills to other behaviours, starting with subsequent activity goals.

      Discussion about how the participant can be able to maintain their new behaviour.

      Discussion of problem-solving strategies, how he/she can prevent and address new activity
      problems that may arise related to the goal setting and in relation to being physically
      active.

      During the intervention period will the participant receive visits by a physiotherapist
      during intervention weeks 1-8 and 12. Under week 10 will the participants receive one
      telephone call for support.

      Non-intervention Group

      The comparison group will receive standard care which means that the participants get one
      visit from physiotherapist which consist of written and oral information about general advice
      regarding physical Activity..Further will the comparison group receive telephone Calls to
      remind them of being physically active according to the advice during week 1-8 and week 10.
    
  