
    
      Microvascular complications of diabetes such as eye, kidney and nerve disease are common in
      individuals with type 1 and type 2 diabetes, and are a source of significant morbidity and
      mortality. Microvascular diabetes complications have been anecdotally reported in cystic
      fibrosis related diabetes (CFRD), but their prevalence is unknown. 40% of adult CF patients
      have CFRD, which shares features of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes but is a distinct
      clinical entity (1). Many clinicians are reluctant to add the burden of aggressive diabetes
      management to the already complex medical regimen of these patients. It is sometimes stated
      that they will not live long enough to develop complications of diabetes. However, longevity
      in CF has dramatically increased, and many patients now live into their thirties, forties,
      and fifties. As they live longer, it becomes increasingly likely that at least some will
      develop diabetes complications. A better understanding of this negative outcome would help
      resolve the question of whether aggressive screening and management of diabetes is necessary
      in CF.

      As in other forms of diabetes, duration of diabetes and the magnitude of chronic
      hyperglycemia are probably important determinants of microvascular complications in CFRD.
      This information is not usually known at the time of presentation of CFRD because of the
      insidious onset of the disease. Theoretically, CF pulmonary disease, including chronic
      hypoxia and venous congestion related to pulmonary hypertension, may additionally aggravate
      microvascular changes. However, the metabolic differences between CFRD and type 1 and type 2
      diabetes may also serve to protect CF patients from some diabetes complications. At the time
      diabetes complications develop, patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes tend to have
      concomitant obesity, hypertension, insulin resistance, hyperlipidemia and atherosclerotic
      cardiovascular disease. These factors, which are generally absent in CF, may contribute to
      the pathophysiology of microvascular complications in other forms of diabetes.

      The University of Minnesota CF Center is in the unique position of having a
      well-characterized diabetes population, since diabetes screening was instituted several years
      ago as part of routine annual CF studies. In our population of 450 CF patients, 113 have been
      diagnosed with diabetes, and the remainder are known to have either normal or impaired
      glucose tolerance. In addition to our CFRD experience, the University of Minnesota has a
      strong background of experience in large population-based screening and intervention trials
      concerning diabetes complications. Not only were we a participating center in the
      NIH-sponsored multi-center Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) (2) and the
      current DCCT follow-up Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications trial (EDIC),
      but our laboratory was central reference laboratory for the DCCT and EDIC. Thus, our
      physicians, nurses, biostatisticians, GCRC staff and laboratory staff are all quite
      knowledgeable and experienced in the methods to be used in the present application.
    
  