
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease whose pathogenic mechanism is the
      degeneration of substantia nigra of the midbrain, causing the degeneration of dopaminergic
      neurons in the putamen and caudate nucleus of the striatum, and the dopamine content in the
      synapses decreases and gradually loses the ability to act. Most of the clinical symptoms are
      motor function defects. The most obvious symptoms are tremor, limb stiffness, motor
      dysfunction and gait abnormality, and cognitive and behavioral problems may occur. In nuclear
      medicine PET examinations, labeled radiopharmaceuticals are possible to enter the putamen and
      caudate nucleus regions of the striatum in the brain by intravenous injection. The severity
      of Parkinson's disease is assessed and diagnosed by quantitative analysis of the defect in
      the image of the radiopharmaceuticals. Clinical studies often use manual selection of regions
      of interest (ROIs) for quantitative analysis. However, this method causes human error and low
      reproducibility due to subjective factors, and also considerable time consuming. Therefore,
      in order to solve the above problems, this research project plans to build an automated
      quantitative analysis system for PET/MRI images. The quantitative analysis of the PET images
      is performed automatically by using the putamen and caudate ROI segmented by the MRI images.
      In this study, patients will perform MRI T1 and 18F-FDOPA PET scanning of before and after
      acupuncture-treated PD patients in VGHTPE PET/MRI scanner. Every patient will be administered
      185 MBq (5 mCi) of 18F-FDOPA by IV injection. The MRI image is used to extract the target and
      background ROIs (region of interests), and is coregistered to the PET image. The ROIs
      generated by MRI image will be applied to its corresponding PET image. Then, specific uptake
      ratio (SUR) will be calculated for each patient. The calculation of SUR is the difference
      between the average image pixel value of the target ROI (left and right striatum) and the
      average image pixel value of the background ROI (occipital lobe) divided by the average value
      of the background ROI. After calculated each patients' standard uptake ration, Asymmetry
      index (ASI) can be calculated based on the absolute difference of SUR value of both sides
      (left and right) of striatum, divided by average SUR value of both sides of striatum. This
      automated quantitative analysis system is expected to improve the time-consuming, low
      reproducibility, and subjectivity problems of traditional manual ROI selection method, and
      provide a useful tool for the diagnosis of early PD. In the first year, this sub-project is
      expected to perform MRI T1 and 18F-FDOPA PET scanning of before and after acupuncture-treated
      PD patients provided by sub-project 3. In the second year, the correlation analysis will be
      made with the results of tremor test provided by sub-project 1 and that of the 99mTc-TRODAT
      SPECT image quantification provided by sub-project 4.
    
  