
    
      Introduction

      Colorectal surgery is a frequent operation with expected strong post-operative pain. Thoracic
      epidural analgesia is a preferred method by many authors, but it is not without risks. As
      patients in our hospital usually stay at a surgical ICU for 24 hours only and epidural
      infusion of opioids is prohibited at standard wards according to our hospital standards, it
      seems to be too demanding method. Systemic analgesia with strong opioids is usually an
      alternative, but high doses of opioids are known to cause side effects. The last possibility
      is a single-shot intrathecal injection of morphine which demonstrated long-lasting analgesia
      after various procedures. The main advantage is easy technique, absence of catheters and low
      cost. There are not enough studies to decide which method is the most convenient. The purpose
      of this prospective randomized open clinical study is to determine which postoperative
      analgesia is optimal after colorectal surgery. The investigators will compare intrathecal
      morphine, continuous epidural analgesia and compare both methods to standard systemic
      analgesia. All patients will have the possibility to administer themselves intravenous
      morphine as needed.

      Hypotheses

        1. Intrathecal morphine is non-inferior to continuous epidural analgesia

        2. ] Intrathecal morphine will decrease the need for i.v. systemic patient controlled
           analgesia (PCA) with morphine

      Aims of the study

      Primary aims

        1. To demonstrate non-inferiority of analgesia with intrathecal morphine 0.3mg compared to
           continuous epidural analgesia with 8 ml/hour of mixture of bupivacaine 0.125% and
           sufentanil 0,4ug/ml. Non-inferiority is defined as consumption of PCA morphine during 24
           and 72 hours not higher than 10% compared to control group.

        2. To demonstrate significantly lower consumption (at least 10%) of PCA morphine in
           patients with intrathecal morphine 0.3 mg compared to systemic analgesia with PCA
           morphine only.

      Secondary aims

        1. To demonstrate similar or lower side effects of intrathecal morphine compared to
           epidural or systemic analgesia. The investigators will record number of patients with
           respiratory rate <8/min, SpO2<90%, changes of blood pressure and pulse rate > 30% above
           base level before surgery, episodes of postoperative nausea and vomiting

        2. To demonstrate the same or shorter interval since surgery to the first bowel movement
           confirmed by auscultation and interval to the first flatus.

        3. To demonstrate the same or lower pain intensity in patients with intrathecal morphine
           compared to other two groups. The effect will be measured by area below visual analogue
           scale (0 - 10) pain intensity after 24 and 72 hours

      Duration of the study: Three days

      Method

      Design: Study will be performed as prospective randomized open clinical study

      Setting: Surgical ICU

      Inclusion criteria: Patients with elective colorectal surgery (left or right hemicolectomy,
      subtotal colectomy, resection of sigmoid, rectal or cecum)

      Exclusion criteria: Known allergy to any of drugs used, coagulopathy, sepsis, cognitive
      dysfunction and/or inability to understand instruction. Pregnancy (is assessed as a part of
      pre-operative examination). Abuse of drugs or administration of morphine therapy 5 or less
      days before surgery. Idiopathic bowel disease.

      Anesthesia: General anesthesia will be performed in all groups using propofol for induction
      and rocuronium for intubation and muscle relaxation. Patients will be ventilated to
      normocapnia by oxygen + air + desflurane mixture. Sufentanil 5 - 10 mcg will be administered
      if needed. Paracetamol 1 g i.v. will be administered approximately 30 min before the end of
      anesthesia and ondansetron 4 mg i.v. will be administered 10 min. before the end of
      anesthesia. At the end of anesthesia patients will be administered atropine and neostigmine
      to obtain TOF ration >90%.

      Standard postoperative analgesia: All patients will be administered paracetamol 1g i.v. every
      6 h for next 72 hours and can use PCA morphine, bolus dose 1 mg, lock-out interval 5 min. for
      3 days at surgical ICU.

      Monitoring: Except of standard anesthesia and ICU monitoring (ECG, pulse oximetry and
      non-invasive blood pressure) pain intensity (VAS 0 - 10) and side effects (see above) will be
      recorded.

      Power analysis: Total number of patients to demonstrate primary aims is 75 divided in ratio
      1:2:2; n=15 in systemic analgesia group (PCA) and n=30 in each group with epidural and
      intrathecal analgesia. Standard tests will be used to analyse results. P value < 0.05 will be
      considered significant.

      Interventions:

        1. Systemic analgesia: Patients will be administered standard general anesthesia. After
           surgery, bolus doses of morphine 2 mg will be administered until level of pain will be <
           4 (VAS 0 - 10). Analgesia will be continued by PCA device using morphine, bolus dose 1
           mg, lock-out interval 5 min. for 3 days at surgical ICU.

        2. Epidural analgesia: An epidural catheter will be inserted before induction of anesthesia
           in a sitting position between T9 and T10 - T12 and L1 vertebrae. A test dose of 4 ml 0.5
           bupivacaine will be administered to rule out intravascular injection or subarachnoid or
           subdural block. Standard general anesthesia will be performed. Thirty minutes before the
           end of the surgery, patients will be administered a bolus of a mixture of bupivacaine
           0.5% (3 ml) + sufentanil 10 mcg (2 ml) + NS 5 ml followed by a continuous infusion of a
           mixture containing in 1 ml bupivacaine 0.125% and sufentanil 0.4 mcg at 8 ml/h. At the
           same time patients will have the possibility to use PCA device with morphine, bolus dose
           1 mg, lock-out interval 5 min for 3 days at a surgical ICU. Epidural infusion will be
           stopped 24 hours after surgery.

        3. Intrathecal analgesia: An intrathecal administration of preservative-free morphine 0.3
           mg in 3 ml NS prepared in sterile ampoules by a hospital pharmacy will be performed
           before induction of anesthesia in a sitting position between L2 and L3 - L4/L5
           vertebrae. Standard general anesthesia will be performed. After surgery, the patients
           will have the possibility to use PCA device with morphine, bolus dose 1 mg, lock-out
           interval 5 min for 3 days at a surgical ICU.
    
  