
    
      Participants will be referred by colorectal surgery of the MUHC-Montreal General Hospital;
      100 participants will be studied. Inclusion: adult patients aged 18 years and older, of
      either sex undergoing colorectal cancer surgery. All adult persons scheduled for resection of
      malignant colorectal lesions will be included. Exclusion criteria: a compromised health
      status (American Society of Anesthesiologists [ASA] class 4-5) or comorbid medical conditions
      interfering with the ability to perform an exercise. Patients are unable to understand the
      information given, insufficient understanding of English or French language to provide
      informed consent or who are considered unable to perform study-specific procedures. Patients
      that diagnosis of a sleep disorder other than insomnia (e.g., sleep-disordered breathing) or
      received psychotherapy specifically for insomnia, as well as a night-shift worker in the past
      3 months or the next 18 months will be excluded.

      Study Design: Randomized controlled trial of two parallel arms: prehabilitation program and
      standard of care (SOC). Informed consent forms will be signed and dated before the conduct of
      any study-specific procedures. After baseline assessment, participants will be random, by a
      computer program, allocated to either an intervention or a control group. Duration and
      follow-up. The intervention will last for 4 weeks pre- and 8 weeks post-surgery, for a total
      of 12 weeks. Site visits will occur weekly before surgery and every 4 weeks after surgery. In
      that period, weekly phone calls will reinforce compliance and provide tips to help patients
      adhere to the treatment protocol. A dedicated and specially trained research team lead by a
      physician, a kinesiologist, a nutritionist and a psychologist will perform the measurements
      and collect the demographic and surgical details of all the patients, recording daily
      detailed information of clinical outcomes up to 8 weeks after surgery.

      Interventions: Common to both groups: as part of the enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS)
      protocol as the standard of care in our institution. All participants will wear an actigraphy
      to objectively assess their daily physical activity and their sleep behavior. The following
      outcomes will be assessed for all participants, at the baseline and will be repeated after 4
      weeks, before and after the surgery: sleep behaviors included sleep quality and duration,
      assessed subjectively and objectively. Self-reported and objective outcome measurements will
      be assessed from all participants such as the 6-minute walk distance (6MWD), daily activity
      counts, exercise tolerance (CPET) and handgrip strength, Insomnia Severity Index (ISI),
      Chronotype, health-related quality of life assessed by using the Medical Outcomes Study
      36-Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36) and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS)
      used to assess emotional distress.
    
  