
    
      Usual investigations [complete blood count (CBC), C reactive protein (CRP), serum
      procalcitonin, serum lactate, arterial blood gases (ABG), blood culture, electrocardiogram
      (ECG) and liver and renal function tests] will be done.

      Once the diagnosis of sepsis is definite and the patient develops hypotension, all patients
      will undergo simultaneous measurement by (EC) using the ICON_ device and (TTE).

      Electrical cardiometry (EC) measurements: by the ICON_ hemodynamic monitor (ICON
      Cardiotronics, Inc., La Jolla, CA 92307; Osyka Medical GmbH, Berlin, and Germany, model C3,
      Serial no: 1725303). Four sensors of (EC) will be applied (1st: 5 cm above the base of the
      neck, 2nd: on the base of the neck, 3rd: lower thorax at the level of the xiphoid and 4th: 5
      cm below the 3rd electrode at the level of the anterior axillary line). The ICON continuously
      displays heart rate, stroke volume, and cardiac output.

      Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) measurements: will be performed by using Philips (CX50 -
      Extreme edition) equipped with echo probe. SV of the left ventricle will be calculated using
      LVOT diameter (D) just below the aortic valve from parasternal long-axis view and velocity
      time integral (VTI) measured in left ventricle outflow tract (LVOT) from apical 5 chamber
      view (by pulsed wave Doppler), respectively. The machine's built-in software uses the formula
      ''(πD2/4) × VTI × HR'' to calculate CO.

      Management of sepsis will be done according to surviving sepsis campaign guidelines in 2016
      and its update 2018.

      Fluid resuscitation will be 30 mL/kg of intravenous infusion of lactated ringer to be given
      within the first 3 h (≈5 mL/kg/30 min) guided by fluid responsiveness (fluid responder if SV
      increases by > 10% after the fluid challenge). If the patient becomes fluid non-responder,
      vasopressor infusion (norepinephrine 0.05-0.3µg/kg/min) will start. The end of the study is
      when mean arterial blood pressure > 65 mmHg (either by fluid or both fluid and vasopressor).
    
  