
    
      Increase in intraabdominal pressure (IAP) has been demonstrated to correlate with
      consequential hemodynamic effects. Several studies have been carried out mostly in
      experimental settings to define the underlying mechanisms that regulate the pathophysiology
      following an increase in IAP. In the last years this topic has become concerning because of
      the wide spread of laparoscopy, that is namely an iatrogenic acute increase in IAP.

      Patients selected and consented for elective surgery will undergo standard of care and
      additional measurements during and after surgery. The measurements will be done at different
      stages of laparoscopic surgery.

        1. A) Baseline, patient under general anesthesia, Foley catheter positioned, beginning
           urine collection, before insufflation of pneumoperitoneum

        2. B) 10-15 minutes after insufflation of pneumoperitoneum at 15mmHg, PEEP at 5cmH2O or
           lowest setting

        3. C) 10-15 minutes after stabilization of PEEP at 10cmH2O, pneumoperitoneum still at 15
           mmHg

        4. D) 10-15 minutes after desufflation of pneumoperitoneum and basal mechanical ventilation

      Measurements include :

        -  Intraabdominal pressure IAP: assessed via laparoscopic insufflator, set at 15 mmHg as a
           standard value for all laparoscopic procedures

        -  Intrathoracic pressure: indirectly measured by variability of peak expiratory pressures

        -  Urine collection: through a Foley catheter from the beginning of surgery to
           post-operative day 1

        -  Urine osmolality (to be assessed at set time-points )

        -  Hourly urine output (at least 24 hours in order to evaluate expected significant
           variation even after the procedure end, since renal adaptation could take longer period)

        -  Serum/plasma collection : blood draws to evaluate specific values of

        -  Plasma Vasopressin (ADH)

        -  Serum osmolality

        -  Mean arterial pressure : standard of care

        -  Pulmonary expiratory end-pressure (PEEP): anesthesiologists routinely adapt PEEP in
           order to maintain an optimal ventilation, especially in obese patients and during
           laparoscopy

        -  Optic nerve sheath diameter (ONSD): a 7.5-MHz linear ultrasound probe to measure the
           diameter of the optic nerve sheath 3 mm behind the globe is going to be used; a trained
           study personnel physician will take the non-invasive sonographic picture using
           ultrasound. The ONSD will be measured from the captured picture. Study personnel will
           record the interaction on the patient's chart and include the measurement on the
           database
    
  