
    
      The device clinic of Aspirus Wausau Hospital follows approximately 2800 patients with
      pacemakers and automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillators (AICD). Approximately 300 of
      these patients have had an AICD inserted for primary or secondary arrhythmia prevention. From
      these 300 patients, approximately 20 patients who have an AICD implanted either
      prophylactically or for an established malignant arrhythmia will be recruited for this short
      study.

      This is a study to investigate the effect of ranolazine on arrhythmias detected by their
      device to see if it will reduce abnormal beats. It will also study whether ranolazine will
      impact microvolt t-wave alternans (MVTWA), a measure of the tendency to have a serious
      arrhythmia. Approximately 10 patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy and 10 patients with a
      non-ischemic cardiomyopathy will be chosen. All will have an ejection fraction of 40% or
      less. Prior to institution of ranolazine, a MVTWA study will be performed (Cambridge Heart
      Inc.®). The AICD will be used to generate the increase in the heart rate needed to induce
      MVTWA. Each patient will have MVTWA assessed at 80 beats/minute and then again at 110
      beats/minute. To eliminate interpretation bias, the auto interpretation feature of the MVTWA
      device will be used to determine whether the study is positive (MVTWA present) or negative
      (MVTWA absent) or indeterminate. In the coarse of this study, each patient will undergo a
      total of 3 MVTWA studies in an identical manner using the AICD to provide the needed changes
      in heart rate.

      After informed consent is obtained the patient will begin a 10-day "ranolazine run in". Each
      randomized participant will be given a 10-day supply of ranolazine to make certain they
      tolerate the medication (constipation is by far the most common limiting side effect). Each
      participant will be started on 500 mg BID and after 3 days increased to 1000 mg BID.
      Participants able to tolerate at least 500 mg BID will then be considered eligible to
      participate in the study and randomly assigned to either ranolazine at 1000 mg BID (or 500 mg
      BID if the 1000 mg dose was not tolerated) or a comparable placebo for the next 4 weeks.

      At least 3 days after the run in and prior to randomization, each patient will be brought in
      for or the baseline MVTWA and the device clinic will purge the AICD of data and reset the
      data counter. The patient will then immediately begin either placebo or ranolazine according
      to randomization. After 4 weeks, the MVTWA study will be repeated on either placebo or
      ranolazine and the arrhythmia data down loaded from the AICD, recorded and the arrhythmia
      counters and device operation counter again reset. Each patient will then cross over to the
      other therapy (ranolazine or placebo) for the next 4 weeks and the device interrogated and
      the MVTWA study repeated in an identical manner.
    
  