
    
      In recent decades, the percentage of Cesarean section (CS) deliveries has dramatically
      increased around the world. While it allows safe delivery in many situations, the risks of
      severe maternal complications associated with cesarean delivery are higher than those
      associated with vaginal delivery. These maternal complications include short term, long-term,
      the next pregnancy, and the non-pregnant state, such as abnormal uterine bleeding and
      postmenstrual spotting.

      Uterine niche, also named cesarean scar defect, deficient cesarean scar, pouch, or
      diverticulum, is defined as a triangular anechoic structure at the site of the scar or a gap
      in the myometrium at the site of a previous caesarean section. It is one of the most common
      complications associated with previous cesarean section. The primary clinical manifestation
      is postmenstrual spotting, which may seriously affect the daily life of patients. The
      treatment includes medical treatment, such as oral contraceptives, and surgical methods, such
      as hysteroscopy resectoscopic correction, endometrial ablation, laparoscopic surgery, and
      transvaginal repair surgery. Although good outcomes are reported in each study, present
      treatments could not decrease the incidence among women after undergoing cesarean section.

      Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are long-lived cells with the ability of both self-renewal and
      differentiation into multi-potential cells, such as osteoblasts, adipocytes and smooth muscle
      cells. Trials with MSCs in patients after myocardial infarction have shown an excellent
      safety and efficacy. In this trial, the investigators postulate that MSCs can reduce uterine
      niche and convert scar tissue to viable myometrium. To test the hypothesis, the investigators
      therefore undertake a Phase II clinical trial of the treatment for uterine niche among
      primiparous women who undergo cesarean section.

      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial designed to investigate
      the efficacy and safety of umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells treatment on the caesarean
      section uterine scars. A total of one hundred and twenty (120) participants will be
      randomized (1:1) to receive direct local intramuscular injection of 1*10^7 MSCs (a dose of
      1*10^7 cells in 1 ml of 0.9% saline) (MSCs group) or an identical-appearing 1ml of 0.9%
      saline placebo (placebo-controlled group). Cesarean procedures and care will follow usual
      practices. All participants will be performed by obstetricians from the investigators'
      department using a unified double-layer uterine closure technique with a continuous
      absorbable polyglycolic 1-0 suture. After suturing the uterine incision, direct local
      intramuscular injection will be performed in the uterine incision as soon as possible on the
      operating table. One ml solution will be injected as twenty aliquots of 0.05ml into each
      injection site on the incision. Injection sites will be selected near the incision at evenly
      20 different sites. Participants will be followed up at 6 weeks, 3 months and 6 months. For
      the purpose of the endpoint analysis and safety evaluations, the investigators will utilize
      an "intention-to-treat" study population.
    
  