
    
      Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in American men. Hormonal
      ablation, in the form of medical or surgical castration is the cornerstone of management for
      metastatic prostate cancer however, treatment options for a patient in whom androgen ablation
      fails are limited. Second-line hormonal agents are generally associated with low response
      rates and no documented survival benefit.

      A variety of taxane-based regimens have been tested in hormone refractory prostate cancer,
      yielding response rates between 38% - 69%. As responses to taxane-based regimens have
      appeared to exceed those typically associated with mitoxantrone plus prednisone, taxane-based
      therapy has been widely used in the community, typically as first line therapy. Second line
      therapy, which are non-taxane based and have comparable activities do not exist.

      This study builds on experience in drug development for advanced prostate cancer
      demonstrating the following:

        1. Ketoconazole produces serologic and objective clinical responses in over 50% of patients
           with disease progression on oral antiandrogen.

        2. GM-CSF, as a potent stimulator of dendritic cells, has demonstrated clinical activity in
           prostate cancer.

        3. GM-CSF is well tolerated in patients with prostate cancer. The addition of GM-CSF to
           antitumor therapy may augment the T cell response to apoptotic tumor cells and therefore
           may improve the clinical benefit produced by such agents.

        4. The addition of mitoxantrone with ketoconazole demonstrated improved clinical benefit
           relative to the published data with each single agent.

      The importance of this trial in the broader context of clinical research for prostate cancer
      is twofold: One, it represents an attempt to offer second line immunotherapy plus
      chemotherapy to patients who have failed prior frontline taxane based therapy. Two, this is
      the first trial to assess the combination of GM-CSF plus ketoconazole and mitoxantrone.
    
  