
    
      This is a prospective, multi-center clinical study designed to evaluate safety and
      effectiveness of the OsseoFix Spinal Fracture Reduction System used with PMMA bone cement
      relative to the clinical expectations for treatment of vertebral compression fractures
      (VCFs). The study will be conducted at up to 15 investigational centers in the United States
      in 115 (up to 125) subjects with one or two vertebral compression fractures between levels T6
      and L5 implanted with the investigational device(s).

      Baseline screening will be completed to determine eligible subjects. VCFs will be confirmed
      by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or by a CT / bone scan. These diagnostic tests will be
      utilized to confirm that there are no retropulsed bone fragments. Subjects who meet all
      inclusion criteria and do not have any exclusion criteria will be scheduled to receive the
      OsseoFix Spinal Fracture Reduction System.

      Subjects that are enrolled will be implanted with the OsseoFix Spinal Fracture Reduction
      System through a postero-lateral approach to the anterior vertebral body using instruments
      specifically designed for this procedure.

      Radiographs will be taken at each follow-up visit, including baseline and post-operatively.
      Subject's perception of pain will be assessed using the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS).
      Functional outcomes will be measured using the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) and Short
      Form- 36 (SF-36) questionnaires as well as their neurologic status. The VAS, ODI, SF-36 and
      neurologic status will be measured at baseline, 4-week, 3-month, 6-month and 12-month
      follow-up visits. Overall patient-satisfaction will be evaluated at all post-implant
      scheduled follow-up visits. Adverse event will be the recorded in all scheduled and
      non-scheduled visits.

      The endpoint analysis will be performed and submitted when all implanted subjects have
      completed their 12-months follow-up.
    
  