
    
      In 2014, the french hospital emphasized the need for tools to screen for social fragility in
      order to make explicit the choices of orientation of patients. To date, caregivers do not
      have any tools or clinical benchmarks for individual assessment of pediatric social and
      health vulnerability.

      The use of the Health Care Access Permanence Services (PASS) is intended to facilitate access
      to the health care system for people in precarious situations with care and social support
      within and outside the institutions. health.

      The hypothesis tested is that the use of a formalized tool makes it possible to improve the
      detection of pediatric social vulnerability and to overcome reluctance to practice by a
      simple, rapid and justified approach with regard to ongoing care.

      The primary objective is to validate a clinical tool for screening for pediatric social and
      health vulnerability - Tool: VUlnerable Child (ENVU) -; to allow for an appropriate
      orientation of the patient care pathway. The metrological validation of diagnostic
      performances (sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative likelihood ratios) will be
      studied in confrontation with the opinion of an expert caregiver in the care of vulnerable
      populations.

      The secondary objectives will be to study the validity of the ENVU tool with regard to
      pathologies epidemiologically associated with social vulnerability: hypotrophy, prematurity,
      weight-loss disorders, school delay, asthma, skin infection, oral health, visual disturbances
      not treatment, delayed immunization, over-consumption of unscheduled care in SAUP, iron
      deficiency and lead poisoning (if research indicated by the reason for consultation). The
      illustration of the added value of the PASS care will be observed by a before-after study of
      the ENVU tool and the collected clinical data.

      This multicenter cross-sectional validation study of the screening tool will be conducted in
      two SAUPs with a pediatric PASS.

      1000 children will be included in the centers for a period of 1 year.

      Following the introduction of the ENVU tool and after an expert interview, three groups of
      patients will be identified:

      Group A: no vulnerability according to expert with no indication of any PASS marker care
      Group B: probable vulnerability according to the expert with indication of at least one PASS
      marker care Group C: high vulnerability according to the expert with indication of at least
      two care markers PASS Group B and C patients will be reviewed at 6 months for a second visit
      to the ENVU tool.

      The main evaluation criterion will be the concordance between the indication of the use of
      the PASS by the "expert" PASS nurse (indicator of a significant social and health
      vulnerability) and the result of the ENVU tool.
    
  