
    
      Knee arthroscopy is one of the most common orthopedic procedures. Knee arthroscopy is
      commonly used for the repairement of meniscus tears, debridement and reshaping of cartilage
      flaps, and ligament reconstruction. Knee arthroscopy is a minimally invasive procedure,
      however patients may complain severe pain due to the port-site incisions and the ligaments in
      the knee joint. Opioid agents are commonly used for analgesia management. However, opioids
      have adverse effects such as nausea, vomiting, sedation and respiratory depression.
      Peripheral nerve blocks such as femoral block, adductor canal block (ACB) may be performed to
      reduce opioid consumption and opioid-related side effects.

      Selective blockadge of the saphenous nerve in the adductor canal for knee surgery provides
      effective analgesia without quadriceps muscle weakness. This is an important advantage of ACB
      since it there is no motor blockadge in the postoperative period. Blocking of the motor
      branches leads to delaying of the mobilization and it increases the patient's falling risk.
      ACB, targets the saphenous nerve and the vastus medialis branch which are the two largest
      sensorial nerves of the femoral nerve that innervates the knee. ACB blocks the articular
      branches of the obturator nerve at the same time. Since the ACB is performed at the distal
      site of thigh it does not target majority of the efferent branches of the quadriceps muscle,
      therefore the strength of this muscle may not be affected.

      ACB is an effective and safely block. It has been shown that usage of the tourniquet during
      performing the ACB block increases the spread of local anesthetics in a distal and proximal
      way. There are two questions in this issue. Firstly, the proximal spread of local anesthetics
      may cause possible quadriceps weakness. Secondly the distal spread of local anesthetics may
      increase analgesic effect via sciatic nerve blockade. In the routine surgical procedure, at
      the beginning of the surgery a tourniquet is attached to the thigh and inflated following the
      induction of anesthesia. Then at the end of the procedure the tourniquet is deinflated and
      the patient is extubated. ACB may be performed preoperatively or postoperatively. It may be
      performed before or after the inflation of the tourniquet.

      The aim of this study is to compare the different performing times of US-guided ACB for
      postoperative analgesia management after arthroscopic knee surgery. The primary aim is to
      compare postoperative opioid consumption and the secondary aim is to evaluate postoperative
      pain scores (VAS), and adverse effects related with opioids (allergic reaction, nausea,
      vomiting).
    
  