
    
      Consumption of milk proteins increase satiety and reduce glucose response when consumed alone
      or with carbohydrate. Milk proteins are of interest because proteins are more satiating than
      either carbohydrate or fat, and they regulate food intake and metabolic functions by the
      intact protein, encrypted peptides and amino acids on gastrointestinal and central pathways.
      White rice and white bread are two common carbohydrates types mostly consumed in Asia. Both
      of them are known to result in high glycaemic and insulinaemic responses. However, in most
      meals, they are accompanied by other foods such as soy milk, cow milk products. The glyceamic
      and insulinaemic responses are determined by the type of protein and the type of
      carbohydrates. And also the consumption time of protein and carbohydrate. Recent research
      points to an intrinsic value of small amounts of milk protein or dairy consumed shortly
      before a meal can reduce the glycemic response to carbohydrate and that this is not at the
      cost of increased demand for insulin. The objective of the present study is to investigate
      how glycaemic, insulinaemic and satiety responses to a white rice or white bread meal changed
      when a soy milk or cow milk consumed together or shortly before the meal. Whole soy milk and
      whole cow milk will be added to the meal. Healthy subjects (n 15) will ingest the test meals
      once. The meals will be provided as breakfasts, on 10 different occasions, in random order
      with ≥ 7 days between each. Blood samples (from the cannula and finger pricks) will be then
      drawn for 3 h, and glucose and serum insulin, plasma glucagon, satiety markers, inflammation
      markers, amino acids et.al will be analysed. The objective of the study is determining if
      different liquid protein consumed shortly before or with carbohydrate has different effects
      on metabolism. And also we will compare the difference of white rice and white bread.
      Determining the consuming time effect, milk protein type and carbohydrate type on glycaemic
      and insulinaemic are critical for the provision of dietary advice and formulation of public
      health guidelines.
    
  