
    
      The problem of neuropathic pain:

      A recent review has identified a neuropathic pain prevalence rate of 2-3% in the general
      population 1. Based on a Canadian population of 30 million, this means that close to one
      million Canadians suffer with neuropathic pain. Neuropathic pain is one of the most difficult
      types of persistent pain to treat effectively. No more than 50% 2 of patients with
      neuropathic pain obtain adequate relief using current treatments. This is related to the fact
      that there are numerous pathophysiological mechanisms that contribute to neuropathic pain.
      Neuropathic pain is now understood to involve neural responses in which both peripheral and
      central mechanisms contribute to the generation of spontaneous pain and evoked aspects
      including allodynia and hyperalgesia 3-5, Traditional approaches to neuropathic pain have
      involved the use of oral medications as single agents or in combination (NSAIDs, opioids,
      anticonvulsants, tricyclic type antidepressants) 6,7. Unfortunately this approach is often
      inadequate and accompanied by side effects. New treatments are needed for management of
      neuropathic pain

      Neuropathic pain associated with chemotherapy:

      Neuropathic pain associated with chemotherapy used for treatment of solid tumors (eg.
      paclitaxil, vincristine and cis-platin) is particularly resistant to treatment and is a
      growing clinical problem as chemotherapeutic regimes grow more successful in extending life.
      This type of neuropathic pain is particularly resistant to treatment and contributes to the
      overall level of suffering experienced by patients who recovering from cancer treatment with
      chemotherapy. There is pre-clinical evidence supporting that cannabinoid agonists may be
      helpful for treatment neuropathic pain caused by chemotherapy.

      Cannabinoids in treatment of pain:

      The potent anti-nociceptive and antihyperalgesic effects of cannabinoid agonists in animal
      models of acute and chronic pain, the presence of cannabinoid receptors in pain-processing
      areas of the brain, spinal cord and periphery and evidence supporting endogenous modulation
      of pain systems by cannabinoids, provide support that cannabinoids exhibit significant
      potential as analgesics8-13.

      In addition sixteen of 19 randomized controlled trials examining cannabinoids in the
      treatment of pain have demonstrated a significant analgesic effect , nine of the positive
      trials involved neuropathic pain 14. Several of these trials examined a cannabinoid extract
      preparation Sativex15-20 proposed in the current trial.

      What is the current standard of care for neuropathic pain caused by chemotherapy?

      The current standard of care for neuropathic pain associated with chemotherapy is similar to
      that for management of chronic neuropathic pain. The approach consists of an
      interdisciplinary active participatory approach to living with incurable pain. This includes
      trials of pharmacotherapy (eg. anti-convulsant analgesics, tricyclic antidepressant
      analgesics and opioids), therapeutic exercise programs and training in coping strategies such
      as pacing and positive self talk. Such an approach is offered at multidisciplinary pain
      centres such as the Pain Management Unit (PMU) here at CDHA.

      Study question:

      Given the limitations of current best practice, the compelling pre-clinical work supporting
      that cannabinoids exhibit anti-nociceptive effects in neuropathic pain and more specifically
      in chemotherapy induced neuropathic pain and initial clinical trials supporting that Sativex
      exhibits efficacy in other types of neuropathic pain we propose a pilot trial of 30 patient
      to evaluate the effectiveness of Sativex in treatment of neuropathic pain caused by
      chemotherapy. If there are positive therapeutic effects in the pilot trial, we plan a
      subsequent randomized controlled trial.
    
  