
    
      According to World health Organization (WHO), approximately 3.2 million children are born
      with birth defect(s) worldwide and the incidence of birth defects in China is 5.6%. Birth
      defects are the main cause of fetal death, infant mortality and morbidity, and long-term
      disability. Congenital heart defects, oral clefts, hydrocephalus, neural tube defects and
      mental retardation are most common birth defects in China. Though the etiology of birth
      defects is still unknow, many studies indicated that maternal key nutrition factors,
      especially maternal folic acid status, during periconception played an important role in
      organogenesis, reducing the incidence of neural tube defects, congenital heart diseases and
      some other birth defects.

      Our project is a single-blind, cluster randomized controlled trial that aim at evaluating
      whether hospital-based tertiary intervention approaches reduce the incidence of birth defects
      (compound primary outcomes, including neural tube defects, congenital heart defects, cleft
      lips and palates, hydrocephalus, alimentary tract malformations or urological deformities)
      that identified at middle of gestation via ultrasound or clinical observation at birth. Every
      couple attending premarital check or preconception physical examination from Minhang and
      Songjiang district in Shanghai will be recruited. Recruited couples are to draw blood samples
      and invite to complete questionnaires that collecting informations on diet supplementation.
      Comprehensive interventions before conception are based on serum folate, red blood cell
      folate, homocysteine, vitamin B12 and fasting glycemic and lipids profiles. Single nucleotide
      polymorphisms related to folate and homocysteine matalism pathway will be genotyped in
      participants with sufficient intake of folic acid but unknown deficiency of the nutrients.
      Venous blood of pregnant women and questionnaires about the supplementation of key nutrients
      at the first antenatal visit are also obtained. NT examination, Down's screening, and
      ultrasound examination results are collected during the second trimester (15-24 gestational
      week), then routine prenatal genetic counseling, assessment, and diagnosis are provided
      according to the local policy to those pregnant women with positive screen results indicating
      high risk of fatal birth defects. Newborns with above mentioned birth defects are provided
      green channel to clinical specialty team for further diagnosis, surgical correction and
      rehabilitation guidance. Clinical follow up will be conducted till 6-month old for the
      prognosis of treatment. The current project will provide evidence on the necessity and
      effectiveness of preconception intervention focusing on sufficient folate nutrition levels in
      prevention of birth defects.
    
  