
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To characterize the incidence and severity of diarrhea in patients with early stage breast
      cancer receiving adjuvant neratinib with or without trastuzumab in the setting of
      anti-diarrheal strategies.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the incidence of grade 3 or higher diarrhea using the dose-escalation strategy
      and anti-diarrhea medications as needed (prn) in patients who received prior trastuzumab
      emtansine (T-DM1).

      II. To assess neratinib adherence, holds, delays, and early discontinuation throughout the
      course of study therapy which includes patients receiving neratinib for > 1 year.

      III. To assess overall toxicity including constipation and cardiac toxicity with concomitant
      neratinib and trastuzumab.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of neratinib. Patients receive one of the following
      treatment regimen:

      NERATINIB MONOTHERAPY: Patients receive neratinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21.
      Cycles repeats every 21 days for up to 55 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients may receive loperamide and/or diphenoxylate
      hydrochloride/atropine sulfate as needed per physician discretion for symptom management.

      NERATINIB AND TRASTUZUMAB: Patients receive neratinib PO QD on days 1-21. Patients also
      receive trastuzumab maintenance therapy as determined by treating physician. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for up to 55 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. After completion of trastuzumab treatment, patients may continue on
      neratinib monotherapy for the remainder of the 55 weeks. Patients may receive loperamide
      and/or diphenoxylate hydrochloride/atropine sulfate as needed per physician discretion for
      symptom management.

      After completion of studies treatment, patients are followed up for 28 days.
    
  