
    
      In the US, carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning accounts for 1,300 deaths and 50,000 emergency
      department visits annually. Previous report showed that 37% of patients with moderate to
      severe CO poisoning experience a myocardial injury defined as elevated cardiac enzyme
      [creatine kinase, CK-MB, and cardiac troponin I (TnI)] or ischemic electrocardiogram (ECG)
      change. In other study, there was a mortality of 24% of patients during a median follow-up of
      7.6 years. A mortality among the patients who experienced the myocardial injury was higher
      than patients without the myocardial injury. The death caused by cardiovascular problems
      occurred more among patients with a history of the myocardial injury (44% vs. 18%). The
      myocardial injury was the major predictor of mortality. In addition, in the Taiwanese
      nationwide population-based cohort study, a history of CO poisoning showed a higher risk of a
      major adverse cardiovascular event.

      The investigators reported that myocardial injury (defined as elevated TnI or change of
      ischemic ECG) developed in 20% of CO poisoned patients and elevated TnI was normalized within
      65.0 hours. According to previous study of the investigators, among CO poisoned patients with
      myocardial injury, 74.4% of patients experienced CO-induced cardiomyopathy. All CO-induced
      cardiomyopathy recovered to normal status. In this situation, there is no definite approved
      reason why more cardiovascular events are occurred in CO poisoned patients with myocardial
      injury during long term follow-up period despite normalization of CO-induced elevated TnI and
      cardiac dysfunction.

      One case reported an image related to a CO poisoned patient with acute myocardial injury
      found by cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) with a normal coronary artery confirmed by
      coronary angiography. In that case, a patient showed that patient had mildly depressed left
      ventricular (LV) systolic function with hypokinesis of the anterior wall and regional
      akinesis of the inferior wall on the transthoracic echocardiography performed during
      hospitalization and late gadolinium-enhancement (LGE) images of CMR demonstrated multiple
      focal areas of high signal consistent with myocardial necrosis or fibrosis. Through this
      case, the investigators thought that CO poisoning might result in acute myocardial necrosis,
      demonstrating another type of myocardial injury that can be detected by CMR. In addition,
      Other case reported an image case that in cardiac MRI, inferolateral mid-wall myocardial
      fibrosis, which was defined as LGE, was present despite the setting of a completely normal
      echocardiogram at 4-month follow-up in a patient who experienced severe CO poisoning.

      Mid-wall myocardial fibrosis has been reported in dilated cardiomyopathy (DCMP) of unclear
      origin. In a follow-up study of 101 consecutive patients with DCMP, mid-wall fibrosis
      (presented in 35% of patients) predicted a combined endpoint of all-cause mortality,
      cardiovascular hospitalization, and sudden cardiac death. Myocardial fibrosis has also been
      demonstrated in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. The myocardial fibrosis has been linked to known
      markers for sudden cardiac death, although the independent prognostic value of CMR has yet to
      be determined.

      Through above results, the investigators thought that the normal LV cardiac function may not
      reflect that there is no problem with the heart, and it could lead to myocardial fibrosis in
      the chronic phase. Myocardial damage seen through CMR may be related to the patient's
      prognosis. Therefore, the investigators evaluate prevalence (frequency of LGE positive) and
      patterns (involved LV wall and range of LGE positive) of myocardial fibrosis (LGE positive)
      in acute CO-poisoned patients during acute (within 7 days after CO exposure) and chronic
      phase (at 4-5 months after CO exposure) and whether LGE positive developed in the acute phase
      has been changed in cardiac MRI performed at chronic phase. The investigators also evaluate
      LV ejection fraction and global longitudinal strain in transthoracic echocardiography
      performed at the ED (baseline) and within seven days (follow-up). The investigators also
      assessed the association between neurocognitive outcomes using the global deterioration scale
      (at 1, 6, and 12 months after CO exposure) and the presence of LGE positive.
    
  