
    
      An apparent life-threatening event (ALTE) refers to the sudden occurrence in an infant of
      symptoms such as breathing irregularities, stiffness, or limpness, that appear frightening to
      caretakers, prompting them to seek medical care. ALTE was first defined in 1986 by an NIH
      consensus panel. Population-based epidemiologic studies have reported a range of 2.5 to 9.4
      ALTE admissions per 1000 live births.

      While few ALTEs are truly life-threatening, both clinicians and parents may assume that the
      infant's life was-and may still be-in danger until proven otherwise. Since the actual risk of
      an adverse outcome in a well-appearing ALTE patient is unknown, this concern often leads to
      an extensive diagnostic evaluation and hospitalization to rule out serious occult pathology
      even when a patient appears well on presentation and has an unremarkable clinical assessment.

      Nonspecific inpatient diagnostic evaluations can harm patients by causing complications from
      invasive testing, false-positive test results, and vulnerable child syndrome. Given these
      risks and the low probability that such testing will identify a treatable diagnosis in a
      well-appearing infant, the American Academy of Pediatrics has established a Guideline
      Committee on ALTEs to develop recommendations for the management of these patients.
      Specifically, the Committee is formulating criteria to define a low-risk group of infants
      presenting with ALTE who may be safely discharged after minimal diagnostic testing and a few
      hours of observation. While an evidence-based clinical guideline has the potential to reduce
      unnecessary testing and hospital admissions, anecdotal evidence suggests that some parents
      may have been so frightened by the event that they will resist returning home with their baby
      even if the objective risk is extremely small. To gather data about parental attitudes, the
      investigators propose to survey subjects (parents of infants who have experienced an ALTE) to
      learn whether or not they would accept returning home after a brief period of observation in
      the emergency department if the physician determines that it is safe to do so. This survey
      will focus on subject's willingness to forgo admission to the hospital when the risks
      associated with hospitalization (e.g., hospital-acquired infection, complications of invasive
      diagnostic procedures) might outweigh the risk of a recurrent ALTE or serious underlying
      condition. Subject's with an obvious need for admission based on the initial clinical
      assessment will be excluded, since discharge home would not be an option. Study findings will
      inform efforts to develop clinical guidelines for the management of an ALTE that take into
      account both parental attitudes and objective evidence. Without both types of data,
      implementation of such a guideline will be problematic.
    
  