
    
      It is not currently known whether the optimum treatment of VRFs influences the progression
      and prognosis of Alzheimer's disease. Our starting hypothesis is that VRF control in
      Alzheimer's patients is associated with slower cognitive decline, less intense loss of
      personnel independence and fewer adverse events over the course of the disease
      (cardiovascular or cerebrovascular events, behavioural disorders, caregiver burden,
      hospitalization and death).

      COVARAD study is a randomized, controlled, multicentre study comparing 2 VRF care strategies
      in mild-to-moderate (MMSE > 18) Alzheimer's disease patients with at least one VRF. The
      objective of this work is to evaluate the effect of "optimal" care strategy, in strict
      compliance with the French HAS guidelines concerning targets for blood pressure, glycaemia
      and blood lipid levels, on the cognitive function in mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's patients
      (MMSE score > 18), in comparison with a control group (i.e. receiving standard care from a
      primary care physician). The study test the hypothesis whereby "optimal" care of the 3 main
      modifiable VRFs is associated with slower cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease patients
      (evaluated on the ADAS-cog score), when compared with standard care and to compare the MMSE,
      MoCA and VADAS-cog scores, mood and behaviour (MADRS and NPI), loss of independence
      (ADCS-ADL), the occurrence of cardiovascular or cerebrovascular events, the number and length
      of hospitalisations, caregiver burden (on the Zarit scale), institutionalization and survival
      in the two groups (i.e. depending whether VRFs are managed optimally or not).

      This study could influence clinical practice. If VRF control does have an influence on the
      progression of Alzheimer's disease, an information campaign could modify practice and have a
      significant impact on public health.

      An independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board will be set up to monitor the diabetic
      patients, in view of the risks related to "optimal" care (ACCOR and ADVANCE studies).
      Nevertheless, the risk of adverse events will be limited by raising the threshold value for
      glycated haemoglobin to 8%.
    
  