
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The cardiovascular disease complications of Type II diabetes mellitus are a major public
      health problem. The research is designed to provide new information about the relation of
      specific biomarkers, genes, and diet on risk of CVD complications in the high-risk Type II
      diabetes mellitus population.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study assesses biochemical markers of dyslipidemia and endothelial dysfunction, and
      omega-3 fatty acids in relation to risk of CVD among men and women diagnosed with type 2
      diabetes in two large ongoing cohort studies, the Nurses Health Study (NHS) and Health
      Professionals Follow-up Study (HPFS). By 1998, 12,600 confirmed type 2 diabetic cases had
      already accumulated in the two cohorts. By the year 2002, 5,507 blood samples prospectively
      collected from persons with previously or newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes will be available
      for analyses. Using this unparalleled resource, the investigators will evaluate (1) The
      relationship between plasma levels of cell adhesion molecules (i.e. sICAM-1, sVCAM-1,
      E-selectin), diabetic dyslipidemia, and risk of CVD among diabetics; (2) the association
      between Lp(a) concentrations and risk of CVD among diabetics, independent of high
      triglycerides and low HDL; (3) the association between long-term intakes of omega-3 fatty
      acids and CVD risk in diabetes. The main NHS and HPFS grants will provide follow-up and
      documentation of CVD in addition to covariate information. Overall, the large size of these
      cohorts, the prospective design, the high follow-up rates, and the availability of archived
      blood specimens provide a unique opportunity to study the relationship between diabetic
      dyslipidemia and risk of CVD in an extremely cost-efficient and timely manner. In addition,
      these two cohorts provide an unusual opportunity to compare lipid profiles and endothelial
      markers of CVD between diabetic men and women.
    
  