
    
      The strongest established risk factor for the progressively fatal disease pulmonary arterial
      hypertension (PAH) is female sex (~3:1 female:male ratio). Investigators and others have
      found higher circulating estrogen levels, and enhanced estrogen signaling, in PAH patients.
      Evidence suggests that exuberant estrogen signaling causes a perturbation of mitochondrial
      function and energy substrate utilization in both sexes. However, systemic estrogen level
      elevation is not uniform among patients, and the affinity of the pulmonary vascular bed for
      estrogens is unknown. In preliminary studies of prevalent PAH patients, estradiol (E2) levels
      dropped across the pulmonary vasculature suggestive of E2 uptake by the lungs; those patients
      with a high transpulmonary gradient (pre- minus post-capillary) had a higher mean pulmonary
      artery pressure at diagnosis.

      Investigators previously confirmed that urine 16α-hydroxyestrone (16αOHE1) is elevated at
      least 2-fold in females and males with PAH, consistent with data from other groups that
      estrogens are elevated in PAH. 16αOHE1 is an estrogen metabolite with high affinity for the
      canonical estrogen receptors (ESRα and ESRβ) and thus an active estrogen. Investigators
      published that in a transgenic mouse model of PAH, administration of 16αOHE1 significantly
      increased PAH penetrance concomitant with features of oxidant stress including elevated
      isoprostanes (IsoPs) and isofurans (IsoFs). Those animals also developed insulin resistance
      and mitochondrial dysfunction, characteristics investigators have described during the
      current PPG in humans with PAH. Concomitantly, through ESR signaling, 16αOHE1 reduced PPARγ
      expression via reduction in PGC1α. By co-administering drugs to block extra-gonadal estrogen
      synthesis and receptor signaling investigators were able to prevent or reverse the cellular
      metabolic defects and pulmonary vascular phenotype in investigators' transgenic model system.

      The capacity for enhanced estrogen signaling, represented by elevated blood E2 levels,
      elevated urinary 16αOHE1, and specific genetic variants, is a characteristic of PAH patients
      of both sexes in several studies. Experimental data from investigators' group and others
      support the concept that estrogen antagonism may be beneficial for humans with PAH. However,
      investigators recognize that not all subjects will benefit from estrogen antagonism, making a
      'one size fits all' approach too narrow.

      Investigators and others have shown that estrogens directly alter pulmonary vascular cell
      homeostasis and gene expression, including reduction in BMPR2 expression and signaling via
      ESR; and, experimental PAH models demonstrate increased expression of aromatase, an enzyme
      which converts androgens to estrogens, in the lungs. But no human studies investigate the
      direct contribution of the pulmonary circulation to estrogen avidity, ESR density, and
      outcomes. Investigators propose to evaluate the influence of estrogens on the pulmonary
      vasculature and cardiac function, using incident and prevalent PAH cases to reduce
      confounding by disease course. Findings from this study should help determine patients most
      likely to have a beneficial response to estrogen antagonism, supporting the overall project
      goal to improve "precision medicine" approaches in PAH.

      Investigators hypothesize that blood-based and radiologic markers of estrogen burden will
      support the determination of a phenotype profile of subjects with PAH for whom estrogen
      antagonism will be an effective therapeutic approach. In a cohort of PAH patients,
      investigators will determine if transpulmonary (change pre- to post-pulmonary capillary bed)
      E2 levels and/or lung ESR density associate with disease severity at cardiac catheterization,
      functional capacity, time to clinical worsening, and oxidant stress.

      Specific Aim 1: To test the hypothesis that among PAH patients, transpulmonary (TP) E2
      gradient associates with a more severe hemodynamic profile and worse 1 year outcomes.

      Specific Aim 2: To test the hypothesis that among PAH patients, higher lung ESR density
      associates with a more severe hemodynamic profile and worse 1 year outcomes.

      These studies may ultimately lead to novel discoveries in the transpulmonary gradient of sex
      hormones, investigate a novel imaging approach in PAH, optimize the ability to precisely
      determine the correct patient for sex hormone modification, and potentially support the
      development of novel therapeutic targets in PAH. The data collected in this study will also
      synergize with an ongoing NIH-supported clinical trial to investigate the use of sex hormone
      modification as a therapeutic approach for PAH:

      ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03528902.
    
  