
    
      The investigators have the following research questions:

      Confirmatory Research Question 1: Assess the effectiveness of the RCL intervention, compared
      to the control condition, on improving knowledge related to reproductive health, pregnancy,
      contraception and STIs. Outcome Measure 1: Knowledge Score (0-100%): Mean score on a
      44-question reproductive and sexual health knowledge survey.

      Confirmatory Research Question 2: Assess the effectiveness of the RCL intervention, compared
      to the control condition, on delaying initiation of sexual activity. Outcome Measure 2:
      Proportion of participants who report they have ever had sex.

      Confirmatory Research Question 3: Assess effectiveness of the RCL intervention, compared to
      the control condition, on improving condom use self-efficacy. Outcome Measure 3: Condom Use
      Self-Efficacy Scale (range 1-5): Mean score on a 6-question Likert scale (1-5).

      Confirmatory Research Question 4: Assess the effectiveness of the RCL intervention, compared
      to the control condition, on increasing intention to use a condom at next sex.

      Outcome Measure 4: Proportion of participants who report they intend to use a condom at next
      sex.

      Sub-Group Analysis Question 1: Assess the effectiveness of the RCL intervention, compared to
      the control condition, on increasing reported condom use at last sex among sexually active
      participants. Sub-Group Analysis Outcome Measure 1: Proportion sexually active participants
      who report using a condom at last sex.

      Sub-Group Analysis Question 2: Assess the effectiveness of the RCL intervention, compared to
      the control condition, on reducing the number of sexual partners reported by sexually active
      participants in the past three months. Sub-Group Analysis Outcome Measure 2: Mean number of
      sexual partners reported in the past three months by sexually active participants.

      Sub-Group Analysis Question 3: Assess the effectiveness of the RCL intervention, compared to
      the control condition, on reducing the number of times sexually active participants reported
      having sex without a condom in the past three months. Sub-Group Analysis Outcome Measure 3:
      1) Proportion of sexually active participants who had sex without a condom in the past three
      months. 2) Mean number of times reported having sex without a condom in past three months by
      sexually active participants.

      Sub-Group Analysis Question 4: Assess the effectiveness of the RCL intervention, compared to
      the control condition, on increasing contraceptive use among sexually active participants in
      the past three months. Sub-Group Analysis Outcome Measure 4: 1) Proportion sexually active
      participants who had sex without birth control in past three months. 2) Mean number of times
      reported having sex without birth control in past three months by sexually active
      participants.

      The impact evaluation will also examine two exploratory research questions:

      Exploratory Research Question 1: Examine whether the RCL intervention, compared to the
      control condition, improves parental engagement (communication and monitoring) among teen
      participants, and whether improved parental engagement is associated with decreased risky
      sexual behavior among those who are sexually active (as measured by confirmatory research
      question outcomes).

      Exploratory Research Question 2: a) Explore differences in risky sexual behaviors between
      adolescent participants who do and do not report substance use, and whether the RCL
      intervention, compared to the control condition, impacts adolescent substance use. b) Examine
      whether the RCL intervention, compared to the control condition, reduces reported substance
      use immediately prior to and/or during sex among sexually active participants.
    
  