
    
      The purpose of this study was to investigate an alternative approach to physical activity in
      people who are morbidly obese to improve their overall health, functional mobility, and
      quality of life. Although physical activity is recommended in most weight management
      programs, the type of physical activity that results in the most successful outcomes has not
      been determined. Walking programs are among the most common forms recommended, however few
      parameters or guidelines are provided, and well-controlled comparisons to other types of
      exercise are lacking. Compliance with exercise programs is also a factor that impacts
      success, therefore offering solutions that improve compliance would be beneficial as well.
      This study investigated the use of home-based exercise enhanced with DVDs along with weekly,
      supervised group sessions to compare Tai Chi to a walking program in participants who are
      morbidly obese.

      The participants were recruited from the community with the requirement that they have a body
      mass index of >40 and have a diagnosis of morbid obesity. A falls risk screening, the Four
      Square Step Test (FSST), was performed on which they must score as a low fall risk. A battery
      of physical and paper tests will be completed prior to starting the study to assess balance,
      endurance, functional lower extremity strength, and quality of life. Both groups completed a
      self-report of their weekly physical activity that was submitted on an Activity Log. Those
      who were designated to be in the control group did not have any additional interaction with
      the study until week 10 when they returned for post-testing. The Tai Chi intervention group
      met one time per week as a group to practice Tai Chi with the DVD as the guide. Physical
      therapy students and faculty were present at each session to modify and supervise as needed.
      The intervention group also followed the DVD in the home setting for 2 additional sessions
      each week. Following the 8 weeks of structured classes and home activity, the participants
      returned the following week for the post-testing session.
    
  