
    
      Cardiovascular disorders (CVD) including hypertension, myocardial infarction and stroke are
      still among the top causes of mortality and morbidity in both developed and developing
      countries. Several modifiable and non-modifiable risk factors play a crucial role in
      pathogenesis of CVD. Among modifiable risk factors, unhealthy diets and sedentary life style
      have been recognized worldwide. In this regard, many health authorities have developed
      guidelines to promote consumption of healthy diets and an active life style among the general
      population and for CVD patients. Furthermore, recent advances in the area of food and
      nutrition have revealed health promoting properties for some foods beyond their nutritional
      values. Such foods are generally known as "functional foods." The Department of Food and
      Human Nutritional Sciences at the University of Manitoba (U of M) is well-recognized for its
      contribution in this area of research. However, the effects of wild rice have not been tested
      in clinical trials. Hence, a pilot study is required before performing a large clinical trial
      to explore the effects of wild rice consumption and its potential mechanisms. This would not
      only benefit the populations, but also warranty its scope globally. In this study, the
      investigators will carry out such a study on the cardiovascular benefits of wild rice in 24
      women and 24 men (20-40 years old) over a period of 4 weeks. "Test food" including
      fruit/vegetable salad, energy cookies and casserole will be prepared by Tall Grass Bakery,
      Winnipeg, Manitoba. These foods will contain approximately 30 grams of wild rice per serving.
      The participants will be recruited per our standard procedures. After completion of
      recruitment procedures, including obtaining a fully informed consent form and health
      information, the participant will be asked to consume one serving of the "test food" every
      day over 28 days. Vascular measurements, plus urine and blood samples will be collected at
      day 0 and day 28. Serum lipids, inflammatory markers and fecal bacterial type, and numbers
      will be determined.
    
  