
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D)/maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of
      capecitabine when administered with pembrolizumab and bevacizumab. (Safety Lead-In Cohort)
      II. To evaluate the overall response rate (ORR) to pembrolizumab plus capecitabine and
      bevacizumab (complete or partial response rate per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors [RECIST] 1.1) in subjects with metastatic or locally advanced unresectable
      microsatellite stable (MSS)/mismatch repair proficient (pMMR) colorectal carcinoma (CRC) that
      is stable or progressing on fluorouracil (5FU)-based therapy. (Phase II Expansion Cohort)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES (Phase II Expansion Cohort):

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab in combination with capecitabine
      and bevacizumab.

      II. To evaluate ORR per immune-related RECIST (irRECIST). III. To evaluate duration of
      response (DOR), disease control rate (DCR) and progression-free survival (PFS) per RECIST 1.1
      and irRECIST and overall survival (OS).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Correlation of outcomes to line of therapy; stable disease or progression on a prior
      regimen containing infusional 5-FU or capecitabine; prior exposure to bevacizumab; and
      primary tumor location.

      II. To explore baseline immune profiles via PD-L1, and multiplex Immunohistochemistry (IHC)
      for identification of potentially predictive biomarkers in patients with metastatic or
      locally advanced, unresectable CRC treated with pembrolizumab-based combination therapy.

      III. To characterize the change in the populations of tumor-infiltrating immune cells (TIICs)
      by IHC induced by pembrolizumab-based combination therapy in paired pre- and on-treatment
      tumor biopsies from patients with metastatic or locally advanced, unresectable MSS / pMMR
      CRC.

      IV. To determine the change in T cell repertoire via next generation sequencing (NGS) within
      blood and tumor biopsy samples induced by pembrolizumab-based combination therapy in patients
      with metastatic or locally advanced, unresectable MSS/pMMR CRC.

      V. To establish human immune system (HIS) patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models from
      pre-treatment biopsies to a) analyze change in immune cell profiles HIS PDX models using the
      same techniques as described for corresponding patients, above and b) correlate response to
      pembrolizumab-containing therapy in patients and HIS PDX.

      OUTLINE:

      An initial safety lead-in will be performed to define the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD)/recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D). Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over
      30 minutes on day 1, bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1, and capecitabine orally (PO)
      twice daily (BID) on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 35 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 9 weeks until
      disease progression, start of new anti-cancer therapy, death, or end of the study whichever
      comes first
    
  