
    
      Once a patient with diabetes develops a foot ulcer 80% are likely to have a lower limb
      amputation in the future. Amputation carries a considerable burden of cost and impaired
      quality of life (QOL) and is associated with a 5-year mortality rate of 70%. Once a patient
      develops an ulcer they remain at high risk for life and are likely to suffer considerable
      morbidity, debilitation, reduced quality of life and numerous attendances with health care
      professionals including emergency hospital presentation. There are significant costs
      associated with the management of diabetes foot ulcers (DFU) which accounts for £1 billion of
      NHS funding and an average weekly care cost of £208 per person. Both diabetes ulcers and
      amputation for the most part are preventable providing that patients have effective glycaemic
      control, regular foot assessments, care for their feet appropriately and wear appropriate
      footwear or orthotic wear to prevent ulceration.

      The focus of this initiative is to utilise digital capability by 3D scanning systems in the
      community for the provision of highly cost-effective 3D printed soles for shoes which
      distribute the pressure on the feet whilst having the flexibility of being used in general
      footwear, thus improving compliance. The cost of these soles is very low at approximately £40
      for two pairs. More complex orthotics cost on average £525 each. Scanners and software are
      likely to be offered free if this is scaled up. The investigators are proposing to work
      closely with podiatrists in local foot protection services to assess a number of patients at
      high risk of foot ulcer and deliver a care bundle, which will include assessment, education
      around both foot care and promoting structured education and 3D sole provision.

      The study aims to assess reduction in the rate of diabetic foot ulcers in patients with
      high-risk diabetic feet using 3D printed insoles compared to standard care. The secondary
      outcome measures will be improvement in standardised QOL measures. 450 diabetes patients with
      high-risk feet would be recruited who would be prepared to wear the custom made 3D printed
      insoles on a regular basis (Intervention group). The control group will be formed of 450
      diabetes patients with high-risk feet who will receive standard care.
    
  