
    
      Non-toxic multinodular goiter (NMNG) is a condition referred to as a nodular enlargement of
      the thyroid gland due to the presence of two or more nodules without clinical hyper- or
      hypothyroidism. It is undoubtedly one of the most common thyroid disorders worldwide and it
      is estimated that more than 5% of the female population have a clinically-palpable NMNG
      (1,2).

      Although the majority of NMNGs do not cause symptoms and therefore, do not require any
      intervention other than simple surveillance, some can cause local pressure symptoms and
      cosmetic concerns over time (1-3).

      For NMNGs that cause symptoms, the most widely-accepted treatment has been surgical resection
      either in the form of a hemithyroidectomy or total thyroidectomy. Despite being safe when
      done in experienced hands, surgery is associated with complications such as recurrent
      laryngeal nerve injury and hypoparathyroidism, both of which can be permanent. In addition, a
      general anesthesia is almost inevitably required when surgery is performed. As a result,
      non-surgical thermal ablation techniques have been increasingly recognized as an alternative
      treatment in symptomatic NMNG (4). These ablation techniques utilize thermal energy to cause
      shrinkage of adenomatous nodules and thereby, relieve symptoms. Types of ablation include
      radiofrequency, laser and microwave ablations and more recently, high intensity focused
      ultrasound (HIFU). Regardless of which ablation technique, they have all been shown to not
      only induce significant nodule shrinkage but also alleviate symptoms (4-6). Radioactive
      iodine (131I) therapy (RAIT) is another promising non-surgical alterative which is
      recommended in patients who refuse or have contraindications for surgery. Despite being a
      less recognized treatment in both Asia and North America, this treatment has increasingly
      been adopted. In some European countries such as Denmark and Netherlands, it has replaced
      surgery as the treatment of choice in moderately-sized NMNG as recommended in
      recently-published clinical practice guidelines (1,7,8). However, RAIT has limitations. For
      example, it is less applicable in very large-sized NMNG (>100 mL) because large goiters tend
      to have a lower radioiodine uptake leading to suboptimal shrinkage. Also considerable
      inconsistency in goiter shrinkage has been reported (7). With our population getting older
      and the general public placing a greater emphasis on preserving organ function and
      lessinvasive treatments, non-surgical treatment alternatives will have an increasing role in
      the future treatment of NMNG. To our knowledge, it remains unknown whether one particular
      treatment modality is superior over the other modality because there has not been any direct
      comparison between the two modalities. Only one previous study compared treatment efficacy
      between laser ablation and RAIT. However, it mainly focused on the treatment of toxic thyroid
      nodules (9). To enhance treatment efficacy, a recent study reported promising results of
      combining the effect of thermal ablation and RAIT (10).
    
  