
    
      Home-based exercise interventions have a significant effect on fatigue; however, motivation
      and intervention compliance are the main challenges. The use of personalized exercise and
      immediate feedback though smartphome communication has been found to increase motivation. We
      developed a 12 weeks technology enhanced home exercise (TEHE) program using mobile
      technologies that provide immediate feedback and sends reminder messages to improve exercise
      motivation. Moreover, to enhance the effectiveness of exercise, we combine this TEHE program
      with techniques--auricular point pressure and brief mindfulness body scan--, which have been
      found to affect fatigue and physical activities. The Auricular Point Acupressure (APA) and
      Mindfulness Based Intervention (MBI) may enhance the effect of exercise on fatigue; however,
      the feasibility and effectiveness of this combination have not been tested. This study will
      examine the feasibility of the TEHEplus program and ascertain the effect of TEHE program
      alone, APA alone, the TEHEplus program and the TEHE-MBI program on fatigue among cancer
      survivors and cancer patients receiving immunotherapy. In addition we will explore peripheral
      and central markers (e.g., Phosphorous levels) of cancer-related fatigue using magnetic
      resonance spectroscopy (MRS). This study will also investigate whether specific types of
      fatigue (e.g., physical fatigue, cognitive fatigue) will have different levels of these
      peripheral and central energy markers).

      Conceptual Framework: The biopsychosocial model will be used. Main Research Variable(s): The
      independent variables are the 12-week program of TEHE alone, APA alone, combined APA and TEHE
      (TEHEplus) and combined MBI and TEHE (TEHE-MBI). Outcome variables are fatigue, physical
      activity, contributing factors of fatigue (depressive symptom, anxiety, sleep, relationship
      with others), and biomarkers.

      Design: Repeated measures randomized controlled trial design. Setting: Participants will be
      recruited through the Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins University.

      Sample: Participants diagnosed with non-metastatic solid tumor cancer; who had completed all
      primary cancer treatment (surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy )within at least 3
      months OR non-metastatic prostate cancer completed all primary cancer treatment and have
      hormone therapy for at least 6 month, OR participants diagnosed with solid tumor cancer; who
      are receiving immunotherapy for at least 3 months before enrollment, aged 21 years or older,
      experiencing fatigue in the past 7 days on average of ≥ 3/10, able to participate in a
      moderate-intensity exercise training program, self-report ability to complete the 6 min walk
      test with a perceived exertion of 3 or below, and can communicate in English.

      Methods: Participants who meet the inclusion criteria will be randomly assigned to the TEHE
      only, APA only, TEHEplus or TEHE-MBI or control (usual care) group. All exercise groups will
      be offered a 12-week exercise program. The program will based on personal exercise preference
      and physical activity goals to reach moderate intensity based on readings from a heart rate
      monitor and exertion level. Activity/steps will be monitored daily using the FitBit Charge.
      Reminders to exercise will be sent to the patient through a mobile phone application based on
      the participants' personal schedule and frequency. In additional to the TEHE, the APA only,
      and the TEHEplus group will receive an instruction on how to apply the pressure on the ear
      points through the online meeting and mobile application. The TEHE-MBI group will perform 5
      min of mindfulness body daily. The control (usual care) group will report their fatigue level
      daily and attend weekly meetings with the researcher to discuss fatigue. At the end of week
      12, in addition to the questionnaires, participants will answer open-ended questions about
      their opinions on the program. Fatigue will be assessed and blood will be drawn before and
      after the program. Participants who enrolled in the sub-study will be scheduled for a visit
      for an MRS before the exercise intervention.

      2. Objectives (include all primary and secondary objectives)

      Purpose/Specific Aims:

      The study primary aims are to (1) test the feasibility of a 12-week technology-enhanced home
      exercise (TEHE) program and combined technology-enhanced home exercise and Auricular Point
      Acupressure (TEHE plus) program among cancer survivors; (2) to determine the effect of the
      TEHE plus program on fatigue, physical activity and serum biomarkers (Heat Shock Protein 90
      and Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor) compared to the control (usual care) group.

      The secondary aims are to (3) compare the effect of the TEHE only, TEHE plus, APA only,
      combined MBI and TEHE on fatigue and physical activity; and (4) determine the change in serum
      biomarkers at week 12 compared to baseline in the TEHE only, TEHE plus, APA only, MBI+TEHE,
      and control (usual care) groups (5) explore the associations of muscle and brain energetic
      markers using magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) with fatigue symptoms of cancer
      survivors.
    
  