
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the overall pathologic complete response rate in women with previously
           untreated, locally advanced breast cancer treated with neoadjuvant AZD2171, doxorubicin
           hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide, and docetaxel.

      Secondary

        -  Compare changes in pretreatment levels of pKDR after 1 course of AZD2171 vs no
           medication.

        -  Determine the number of patients who respond to combination therapy beginning with the
           second course of therapy.

        -  Determine the clinical response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the safety of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the changes in tumor proliferation (Ki67) in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics and pharmacogenetics of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Correlate angiogenic parameters with tumor response in these patients.

        -  Determine tumor vascularity and permeability before and after treatment as seen on
           dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI and initial area under the gadolinium curve.

        -  Determine tumor choline levels before and after treatment as measured by quantitative
           single-voxel MR spectroscopy and correlate with response.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, randomized, pilot study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral AZD2171 once daily on days 1-7* during course 1. During the
           second and subsequent courses, patients receive oral AZD2171 once daily on days 1-21,
           doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 3-5 minutes, cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes, and
           docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF)
           subcutaneously (SC) on days 2-11 or pegfilgrastim SC on day 2. Treatment repeats every 3
           weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      NOTE: *If biopsy cannot be scheduled prior to day 7 or 8 of course 1, AZD2171 alone can be
      continued for up to 14 days.

        -  Arm II (control): Beginning during the second course, patients receive AZD2171,
           doxorubicin hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide, docetaxel, and G-CSF or pegfilgrastim as in
           arm I.

      All patients undergo tumor biopsiesat at baseline, before courses 2 and 4, and 3 weels after
      completion of study treatment. Tissue is examined for various biomarkers (phosphorylated-KDR,
      -MAPK, and -Akt, Ki67, VEGF, and p53) and for DNA ploidy analysis**.

      NOTE: **Patients also undergo dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI and quantitative magnetic
      resonance spectroscopy 1 week before beginning therapy, 24 hours after starting therapy,
      prior to courses 2, 4, and 6, and 3 weeks after completion of study treatment.

      After completion of AZD2171 and chemotherapy, patients undergo surgical resection.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 4 weeks.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  