
    
      Poor mental health is a significant public health concern that disproportionally affects
      university students, compared to their community counterparts, and stress is a main culprit.
      Although privileged in terms of attending higher education, the stress-related inequity
      experienced among university students stems from "academic load, constant pressure to
      succeed, competition with peers, financial burdens, and peer, teacher or parental pressure".
      These stressors can trigger or exacerbate anxiety levels, which are on the rise among
      students. The most recent National College Health Assessment Survey, which included Canadian
      postsecondary institutions, showed a marked increase in student anxiety between 2013 to 2016.
      Although less studied than undergraduates, graduate students' mental health also is worrisome
      with over 60% feeling exhausted, overwhelmed, hopeless, and/or depressed nearly all of the
      time. It is imperative that evidence-informed approaches to enhance resilience and reduce the
      negative mental health experiences of undergraduate and graduate students be implemented and
      evaluated. Although improving resilience and overall mental health is a growing focus across
      campuses, current programming is clearly unable to address the concern in its entirety, and
      additional interventions are required.

      An emerging and promising approach to promoting positive mental health and resilience among
      secondary students is performing acts of kindness. Arguably, performing acts of kindness
      improves mental health through the strengthening of psychological resilience. Resilience, as
      an outcome, is predicated on six underlying dimensions: health, collaboration, purpose,
      composure, reasoning, and tenacity. In terms of health and collaboration, a small
      classroom-based kindness pilot entailing logging acts of kindness by undergraduate students
      at Western University (UWO), found improvements in individual levels of wellbeing (i.e.
      confidence and decreased stress), perceptions of positive classroom culture, and classroom
      cohesion. Performing acts of kindness is correlated with happiness which results in a
      positive sense of purpose, increased composure, and improved reasoning and resilience.
      Moreover, the physiological effects are well-known as functional magnetic resonance images
      (fMRIs) show activation in the reward centres of the brain when subjects are engaged in acts
      of kindness. Despite the strong theoretical foundation that links acts of kindness with
      resilience, this area of research has yet to be sufficiently explored. To that end, the
      objective of this study is to assess the impact of engaging in deliberate acts of kindness on
      resilience (primary outcome); social interaction anxiety and affect (secondary outcomes); and
      mood (exploratory outcome) of undergraduate and graduate students at UWO.

      Methods

      Study Design

      A longitudinal repeated-measures, mixed methods randomized control trial grounded in an
      interpretive description paradigm will be used. Interpretive description is an inductive
      analysis approach that creates ways of understanding phenomena yielding application-based
      implications for practice. Recruitment of 200 participants consisting of 150 full-time
      undergraduate and 50 graduate students, randomized to either the intervention (n=100) or
      control group (n=100) will be achieved via a mass email to all full-time students at UWO once
      ethical approval is obtained and the trial is registered. This sample size was selected
      considering two criteria: 1) based on our previous work in the area the sample size is
      feasible; and 2) from a power analysis using resilience as the primary outcome, a sample of
      100 per group is sufficient to detect significant differences between groups (p < 0.05).
      Participants will be eligible if they are: (a) full-time undergraduate or graduate students
      at UWO and/or the affiliate schools (Kings, Brescia, Huron) and (b) English-speaking. Both
      intervention and control group participants will receive an email with access to a relaxation
      and stress management booklet from UWO's Wellness Education Centre. In addition, the
      intervention group will be asked to (1) complete and log/submit a minimum of three deliberate
      acts of kindness per day for one month, and (2) join the study-dedicated online site to
      connect with, support, and share experiences and ideas with each other around acts of
      kindness. Deliberate acts of kindness will be defined for participants as purposeful acts
      benefitting others that the others would presumably like.

      Data Collection/Metrics

      Baseline, immediate post intervention, and three-months post intervention data will be
      collected using Qualtrics, an online survey tool. Baseline will consist of basic demographic
      information, and four previously validated scales: (1) Brief Resilience Scale (BRS); (2)
      Social Interaction Anxiety Scale-Straightforward (SIAS-S); (3) International Positive and
      Negative Affect Schedule-Short Form (I-PANAS-SF); and (4) Brief Mood Introspection Scale
      (BMIS). The assessments will take 15-minutes to complete. After the completion of the
      baseline assessment participants will be randomized using stratification by degree level
      (i.e., undergraduate or graduate). Immediately following the intervention and 3 months post
      intervention all participants will complete the same assessments administered at baseline
      (minus demographics) with the addition of an open-ended question asking participants to
      describe their overall experience being involved in the study.

      Data analysis

      Data analysis will occur upon the completion of the study and quantitative data analysis will
      initially involve computing measures of central tendency and dispersion as well as the
      computation of the validated scales. Next, general linear models will be used to examine both
      differences between groups and overtime. For the qualitative data, inductive content analysis
      using interpretive description will be conducted independently, and simultaneously by two
      researchers who will subsequently meet, upon the completion of analysis, to determine
      agreement in emerging findings. Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) will be used
      for quantitative analysis and QSR International NVivo software will be used to code and
      categorize qualitative data. Knowledge Translation will involve both traditional mechanisms
      (publications/conferences) and engagement with social media (infographics, youtube videos).
    
  