
    
      This study will be carried out by the Grupo de Interés de Salud Embrionaria (GISE) group
      (part of the Spanish Fertility Society) who uses strict criteria to select the embryos most
      suitable for successful transference.

      OBJECTIVES

      Primary objective:

        -  To determine the benefit of r-LH supplementation in COS prior to in-vitro fertilization
           (IVF)/intracytosolic sperm injection (ICSI) in advanced reproductive age, in terms of
           embryo competence to implant, as compared against no r-LH supplementation

      Secondary objectives:

      To evaluate the benefit of r-LH supplementation in COS, in terms of:

        -  follicular development

        -  length of the stimulation

        -  oocyte number and their maturity

        -  fertilization rate

        -  embryo number and quality

        -  gestational sacs

        -  abortion

        -  ongoing pregnancies

        -  local and systemic safety of r-LH administration

      The study will consist of 2 groups randomized in 1:1 ratio and each subject would be followed
      up until the confirmation of her pregnancy status. Each subject will be administered
      gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist subcutaneously daily from previous mid luteal
      phase to r-hCG administration as a standard practice to achieve down regulation. Each subject
      will also be administered recombinant follicle stimulating hormone (r-FSH) at a starting dose
      of 300 IU from S1 up to ovarian stimulation completion (r-hCG day) as a part of standard
      practice. In addition to the above concurrent therapies, one group will be administered
      experimental treatment (Luveris®) and the other group (control group) will not be
      administered any other drug (control treatment) during the stimulation period from
      stimulation start (S1) up to ovarian stimulation completion or stimulation cancellation
      respectively. Ovarian stimulation on an average takes 11 days and it is expected that
      stimulation period will not be extended beyond 15 days. A single injection of r-hCG will be
      administered intramuscularly or subcutaneously after the last injection of Luveris or r-FSH
      to achieve final follicular maturation. After, 34-36 hours of administration of r-hCG OPU
      will be done for oocyte retrieval and embryo transfer (ET) will be conducted within 5 days
      from OPU. Subjects will also be provided luteal support with natural progesterone and will be
      followed until delivery or miscarriage. Ultrasound and estradiol (E2) assessment of
      follicular growth will be conducted at various time points during the stimulation period with
      or without treatment adjustment.
    
  