
    
      Objectives: To determine the effectiveness of a goal-directed care bundle of active
      management involving early physiological control (intensive blood pressure [BP] lowering,
      glycemic control, early treatment of pyrexia, and rapid reversal of anticoagulation), versus
      usual standard of care, on functional outcome (defined by a shift in scores on the modified
      Rankin scale [mRS] in patients with acute spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH).

      Study design: An international, multicentre, stepped wedge, cluster randomized clinical trial
      design involves implementation of a guideline-recommended intervention package applied to
      patients with ICH as part of routine care. Patients are only excluded if they refuse to have
      details of their management included and/or participate in the follow-up procedures.

      Study site inclusion criteria: Organized systems of acute stroke care; no established
      comprehensive protocols for the management of patients with ICH; suitable location,
      infrastructure and willingness to participate in clinical research; large volume of ICH
      patients (approx. 100 per year). The hospitals will have training, prior to their activation
      and commencement of the intervention. Data collection at baseline,Day 1, discharge/ Day 7,
      and 6-month (end of follow-up), will be captured through a web database. Randomized
      allocation of intervention will be assigned by a statistician not otherwise involved in the
      study according to a statistical program stratified by the country of the site.

      Process Evaluation: Mixed methods were used to explore how the care bundle, a complex
      intervention, is implemented, as well as to understand clinicians' perspectives, a
      prospective process evaluation will be conducted alongside the trial implementation.
      Intervention fidelity, reach, dose, adaption, feasibility and appropriateness of the
      goal-directed care bundle will be evaluated within the trial.

      Economic Evaluation: A multi-country within-trial economic evaluation will be conducted, from
      each healthcare system's perspective. Healthcare utilisation costs incurred within the
      initial hospital visit will be estimated using administratively collected hospital records.

      Statistical considerations: We anticipate recruiting a minimum of 110 sites in a
      stepped-wedge design consisting of 3 groups and 4 phases. Each group would therefore include
      approximately 36-37 sites. We assume an interclass correlation coefficient (ICC) of 0.044
      between sites which is similar to that found in the INTERACT2 and recently completed Head
      Position in Acute Stroke Trial (HeadPoST) trials across Chinese sites. To demonstrate a
      treatment effect with 90% power and a 2-sided type-I error rate of 5%, each site would need
      to recruit an average of 18 patients per phase for a total sample size of 7,920 patients.
      Assuming that 5% of patients will have a missing outcome, each site would need to target an
      average of 19 patients per phase per site for a total sample size of 8,360 patients. To allow
      for variability in the number of patients recruited at each site, with very large hospitals
      expected to recruit up to 50 patients per phase and smaller hospitals recruiting as little as
      1 patient per phase in order to allow a broad range of hospitals with variable experience and
      systems of care for the management of ICH. The sample size would need to be inflated by a
      factor of approximately 1.3; thus leading to a sample size of up to 25 patients per site per
      phase (11,000 patients in total). Assuming the worst case scenario for the effect of cluster
      size variability on power, this sample size would still provide at least 80% power. This
      sample size provides 90% power to determine a treatment effect of a 5.6% absolute improvement
      in the proportion of patients experiencing a bad outcome (modified Rankin scale [mRS] scores
      of 3-6), from 55.6% down to 50%. This also translates to a 10% relative risk reduction
      (relative risk of 0.90). All analyses will be undertaken at the patient level on an
      intention-to-treat basis at each center using Generalised Estimating Equations (GEE) or
      random-effects regression to account for clustering.

      Ethics consideration: A mixed consent process is proposed, according to local/national rules
      and regulations, for the following protocol:

      Cluster Guardian consent or appropriate approval (e.g. signed by General Manager or Chief
      Executive of hospital, or Head of Neurology/Stroke Department) for the goal-directed care
      bundle to be the new usual management for patients with ICH;

      With one of the following:

      (i). Individual standard consent for the collection of data through in-person assessment and
      data extraction from medical records during the hospital stay and follow-up, and for release
      of personalized information for research purposes to allow centralized follow-up at 6-month
      after admission, or (ii). Opt-out/withdraw consent for collection of data through in-person
      assessment and data extraction from medical records during the hospital stay and follow-up,
      and for release of personalized information for research purposes to allow centralized
      follow-up at 90 days after admission.

      Data management: The internet based data management system is managed at the George Institute
      for Global Health, which has extensive experience in clinical trial data capture and
      security. The George Institute has in place system security SOP with VeriSign SSL digital
      certification and encrypted HTTPS connection. Only staff listed in the delegation log will be
      given unique individual password to access the internet-based data management system.

      Data collection: Paper CRFs will be provided for sites preferring to use these for the
      initial collection of data. These forms will be used as source document and will need to be
      signed and dated by the investigator completing the form. All computerized forms will be
      electronically signed (by use of the unique password) by the authorized study staff and all
      changes made following the initial entry will have an electronic dated audit trail. It is the
      requirement that the collection of data and transfer of information for the 90 day follow-up
      assessment has to be approved by the local IRB for each site.

      Collarboration: Central international coordination is from GI, China and together with
      regional coordinating centers established and located in Sydney, and Santiago, Chile, the
      study will be overseen by an International Steering Committee comprised of world experts in
      the fields of stroke, neurocritical care, neurology, geriatrics, cardiovascular epidemiology
      and clinical trials. The investigators of the 110 participating hospitals (see study
      organisational chart) will be administratively tied through a structure designed to enhance
      effective communication, collaboration and study monitoring by maintaining operations through
      adherence to a common protocol.

      Data Safety & Monitoring Board (DSMB): The DSMB will review the safety, ethics and outcomes
      of the study.The DSMB will be governed by a charter that will outline their responsibilities,
      procedures and confidentiality.
    
  