
    
      As a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic, and after consultation with the appropriate
      research oversight, regulatory and monitoring entities, screening and enrollment was been
      placed on temporary administrative hold as of 3 17 2020. As the pandemic has continued, we
      have reviewed our data and decided to close the study to enrollment and proceed to our
      analyses of findings.

      RESEARCH DESIGN: A prospective cohort study of Veterans will be conducted to determine if the
      previously-identified specific actigraphy-based measurements highly associated with suicidal
      ideation in non-Veterans will predict suicidal ideation, suicidal behavior, and/or
      rehospitalization in Veterans.

      METHODS: An analysis of Veterans admitted to the Bedford, Massachusetts VAMC acute psychiatry
      unit will be conducted. The primary analysis will focus upon Veterans with current suicidal
      ideation or recent suicidal behavior (SI/SB) who do not have a primary psychotic disorder,
      Alzheimer's, or Parkinson's disease, and who are not undergoing alcohol detoxification. A
      separate analysis will be conducted of patients undergoing alcohol detoxification, half with
      SI/SB and half without SI/SB. Participants will wear a small, unobtrusive, wristwatch-like
      actigraph on their nondominant wrist, and complete self-rated and clinician-rated assessments
      of suicidal ideation, as well as self-rated assessments of the severity of other psychiatric
      symptoms. A Resiliency Index (RI) will be calculated using nonlinear dynamic analysis of the
      amplitude of movements over time frames from 6 minutes - 2 hours. These time frames are the
      periods for which a clear structure to the movement data is evident, with patients with
      suicidal ideation showing less variation in amplitude than patients without suicidal
      ideation. If medications given for alcohol detoxification are determined to not interfere
      with the RI, then a secondary analysis will examine the entire sample of Veterans. One Aim
      will focus upon determining whether the original Resiliency Index or alternative movement
      data indices, such as one based on the change in the movement data over the hospitalization,
      predicts the presence and severity of suicidal ideation among Veteran inpatients. This aim
      will also examine the sensitivity and specificity of the RI for detecting the presence of any
      suicidal ideation, and of substantial suicidal ideation. (In non-Veterans, the RI showed a
      sensitivity of 72% and a specificity of 100% for detecting any suicidal ideation, and 86% and
      88%, respectively, for detecting substantial ideation). In addition, the investigators may
      determine whether the RI predicts subsequent suicidal behavior or rehospitalization over
      different time periods within the original 12 month followup period, alone or combined with
      data about symptom severity, past history, and the present hospitalization.
    
  