
    
      Background: Whiplash is the most common traffic injury, affecting 83% of people involved in
      motor vehicle collisions. It results in a significant burden of pain, disability and health
      care utilization. Preventing chronic whiplash is a priority for clinicians, insurers, and
      policy makers. However, whiplash injuries are resistant to treatment and few of its
      prognostic factors are modifiable through intervention. One of the rare factors amenable to
      change is the provision of timely and effective clinical care. To date, no randomized trials
      that have investigated the effectiveness of a coordinated and staged multidisciplinary
      rehabilitation program aimed at improving the health outcomes of patients with
      whiplash-associated disorders. Moreover, it is not known whether rehabilitation programs are
      superior to physician care in promoting better health outcomes. Overall, there is a need for
      a pragmatic randomized controlled trial to investigate what program of care yields the best
      outcomes for patients.

      Purpose: To compare the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the "Soft Tissue Injury Care
      Model" designed by AVIVA Canada, the "Pre-approved Framework Guideline for Grade I and II
      Whiplash Associated Disorders" recommended by the Financial Services Commission of Ontario
      and a physician-based "Education and Activation" intervention on the rate of self-rated
      recovery from whiplash-associated disorders.

      Methods: We designed a three-arm pragmatic randomized controlled trial. Eligible participants
      will be randomly allocated to receive one of three program of care: 1) the "Soft Tissue
      Injury Care Model" designed by AVIVA Canada;2) the "Pre-approved Framework Guideline for
      Grade I and II Whiplash Associated Disorders" recommended by the Financial Services
      Commission of Ontario ; or 3) a physician-based "Education and Activation" intervention.

      Significance: The results of this study will provide evidence regarding the effectiveness of
      three commonly used management strategies for whiplash injuries in Ontario. The results will
      help guide the development of effective and cost-effective programs of care and inform
      insurance and government policy on the rehabilitation of whiplash injuries.
    
  