
    
      • Biopsies and blood from patients with rectal cancer subject to neoadjuvant treatment with
      (chemo)radiotherapy or radiotherapy 5x5 Gy with at least 6-8 weeks wait until surgery. All
      patients will be asked to answer a QoL questionnaire (appendix C) to cover their experiences
      of the neaodajvuant treatment. (Answered at diagnosis and at evaluation of treatment and
      decision of surgery or inclusion in the Watch and Wait part of the study).

      All patients will undergo scheduled (chemo)radiotherapy according to national guidelines. The
      patients with chemoradiotherapy will be evaluated at 8-10 weeks after completed treatment
      (25) with pelvic MRI. After this evaluation at 8-10 weeks patients with suspected complete
      response or near complete response will examined according to the protocol below.

      All patients that are considered to have complete response will be offered a "Watch and wait"
      approach with follow-up according to the protocol. They will then be followed at one of the
      Regional University Hospitals within their catchment are.

      All patients with a palpable rectal cancer staged as cT4bNX/anycTanycN and cMRF+/anycTanycN
      and lateral lymph nodes on MRI (and patients that have been offered short course
      raditotherapy with delayed surgery due to various reasons) that does not achieve complete
      response will serve as control and will be treated with surgery as planned prior to
      initiation of (chemo)radiotherapy.

      Patients with indication of complete response on follow-up MRI will undergo endoscopy, and
      digital rectal examination to ascertain complete response. MRI together with documentation
      from endoscopy will be reviewed at the Regional University Hospital to extablish agreement
      regarding interpretation. All the below mentioned criteria must be fullfilled to be
      considered complete response:

        1. No suspicious metastatic lymph nodes or evidence of remaining tumour on MRI. In the
           majority of cases a complete response on MRI will be seen as areas of homogeneous
           fibrosis. Absence of any remaining pathological tissue is seen in a minority of cases.

        2. Endoscopic examination with light/white mucosa or scar, telangiectasies. Prescence of
           fibrosis and oedema.

        3. No palpable tumour on clinical examination (26).
    
  