
    
      -  How are subjects recruited? What inducement is offered? If participants are paid, what
           amount and when are they paid? Is there partial pay for partial completion? (Append copy
           of letter or advertisement or poster, if any.)

      Subjects are voluntary participants in a Village and Savings Group organized by the
      International Rescue Committee

        -  Salient characteristics of subjects--number who will participate, age range, sex,
           institutional affiliation, other special inclusion and exclusion criteria (if children,
           prisoners or other vulnerable subjects are recruited, explain why their inclusion is
           necessary):

      Subjects will be 600 individuals, predominantly women, aged 20-50, who reside in the Burundi
      province of Makamba (in the southern part of Burundi)

        -  Describe how permission has been obtained from cooperating institution(s)--school,
           hospital, corporation, prison, or other relevant organization. (Append letters.) Is the
           approval of other research compliance committees or another Institutional Review Board
           required?

      Jodi Nelson: (protocols)

        -  What do subjects do, or what is done to them, or what information is gathered? (Append
           copies of instructions, tests, questionnaires, or interview guides to be used.) How many
           times will observations, tests, etc., be conducted? How long will their participation
           take? Are interviews to be tape recorded or videotaped?

      Everyone in the sample (N=600) is in a VSLA with its financial design previously determined.
      Half of the sample will be treated as the "control" group and will not receive the treatment.
      Of this sample, in half of the VSLA's the investigators will ask the spouse to accompany the
      member to one payment meeting. A baseline survey will be conducted in January 2008 to gather
      basic demographic information as well as pre-treatment levels of variables of interest The
      training/discussion groups will take place over several months are intended to promote joint
      decision-making. conduct a post-treatment survey to determine immediate gains from the
      treatment. After another 1-2 months, the investigators will conduct a final survey to
      determine the survival rate of any changes. Interviews will be recorded in written form to be
      input into computerized data management systems.
    
  