
    
      Each child's participation in this study is expected to last 6 months. Testing will be
      scheduled around 6 weeks after the carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning episode. During testing,
      each child will be asked to complete tests that measure cognitive (thinking), emotional, and
      behavioral performance. We will collect information from each child's medical record about
      the CO poisoning episode, and we will have a parent complete a questionnaire about any
      problems he or she may have observed in their child since the poisoning. The cognitive
      testing will take about 3.5 hours at the 6-week interval, and 2.5 hours at the 6-month
      interval.

      Around the same time, each child will also be scheduled for vestibular (balance) testing at
      the Intermountain Hearing and Balance Center. Vestibular testing will occur twice, at 6-weeks
      and 6-months following poisoning.

      At the 6-week visit, if the child and parents agree, we will ask each child to provide a DNA
      sample by one of three methods: mouthwash, spit collection, or swabbing the inside of the
      child's cheek. Each child's DNA will be analyzed for genes that are known to affect outcome
      following brain injury such as apolipoprotein E, and the sample will also be stored for an
      indefinite period of time. If discoveries are made about other genes that affect outcome
      following brain injury, each child's DNA will be analyzed for those genes as well.

      The primary outcome measure will be the percentage of patients with cognitive sequelae
      (thinking complications or results) at 6 weeks and 6 months following CO poisoning.

      Secondarily, we will also determine:

        1. Which individual neurocognitive (thinking) outcomes at 6 weeks and 6 months differ from
           normative data.

        2. Whether there is a difference in neurocognitive (thinking) outcomes between measurement
           at 6 weeks and 6 months.

        3. If there is a difference in the vestibular (balance) health of patients between
           measurements at 6 weeks and 6 months.
    
  