
    
      Approximately 2,000 to 3,000 low-grade gliomas (LGGs) are diagnosed in adults each year in
      the United States. Based on a variety of prognostic factors the median overall survival
      ranges from 3 to 9 years.

      NovoTTF-200A is a device that produces alternating electrical fields within the human body
      that disrupt cell division. These very low intensity intermediate frequency electric fields
      (TTFields) impair the growth of tumor cells through the arrest of cell division and inducing
      apoptosis.

      Although FDA approved for the treatment of recurrent or progressive glioblastoma, further
      investigation of NovoTTF-200A is warranted, in the setting of low-grade glioma where it has
      the potential to stunt tumor growth without significant toxicity. NovoTTF-200A has also been
      shown to be safe combined with adjuvant 5-day temozolomide regimen in newly diagnosed
      glioblastoma in an ongoing clinical trial. Given the low proliferative index in low-grade
      gliomas, combining NovoTTF-200A with metronomic chemotherapy may be more effective.

      This is a randomized, 2-arm, open label study of NovoTTF-200A alone or combined with daily
      temozolomide for the treatment of patients with newly diagnosed low-grade gliomas.

      Patients will be randomized 1:1 to one of two arms for a total of 22 patients (11 per arm).
      Arm A will receive NovoTTF-200A only and Arm B will receive NovoTTF-200A and low-dose (50
      mg/m2) daily temozolomide regimen.

      All patients providing informed consent will be screened for eligibility. Baseline
      assessments will include vital signs, physical exam, blood hematology and chemistries,
      Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) evaluation, Quality of Life (QOL) assessment using the
      Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Brain (FACT-Br), a neurological exam and
      neuro-imaging (MRI) of brain. An extra blood sample will be collected for biomarker studies.

      Clinical evaluations include physical exam, vitals, KPS, neurological exam and blood
      hematology and chemistries (obtained once every month throughout treatment). Neuro-imaging
      and assessment for response will be performed approximately every 3 months. QOL will be
      assessed with the KPS rating scale and the FACT-Br questionnaire at screening and then every
      six months during treatment. Blood will be collected for correlative studies on Day 1 of
      every even cycle. Any molecular information derived from the correlative studies or clinical
      care will be associated with the patient's response.

      Patients will continue monthly cycles of treatment for 12 cycles or until disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity (whichever occurs first). For those in Arm B, patients may continue
      NovoTTF-200A treatment if temozolomide is discontinued early for toxicity. An end of
      treatment visit for clinical evaluations and safety assessments will be performed
      approximately four to six weeks of withdrawing from study treatment. Patients discontinuing
      study treatment will be followed at months 18 and 24 with tumor assessments if they
      discontinued from study treatment without disease progression and for survival.
    
  