
    
      Arthritis is the most common cause of disability in the United States. Approximately 42.1% of
      women and 31.2% of men over the age of 60 have knee osteoarthritis (KOA). KOA is associated
      with pain, quadriceps weakness, swelling, instability, decline of range of motion, physical
      function, and quality of life (QOL). The presence of KOA significantly decreases QOL, while
      quadriceps strengthening has the ability to improve QOL. However, one challenge with
      strengthening is that knee pain influences muscle strength and physical function. Not only
      quadriceps strengthening but also reduction of knee pain may be necessary to reduce
      functional limitations from KOA. However, at this time, there is insufficient evidence
      regarding effective training to not only increase quadriceps strength but also reduce knee
      pain and improve neural function. Thus, there is a need for interventional studies to build
      on observational findings to evaluate the relationships of neural function, knee muscle
      strength, knee pain, and physical function.

      The critical barrier to studying whether quadriceps strengthening is protective against
      worsening physical function is the lack of an effective strengthening program for people at
      elevated risk for KOA. Factors that place older adults at elevated risk for symptomatic KOA,
      (e.g. sedentary lifestyle, obesity, knee pain, knee injury or surgery), may also contribute
      to reduced tolerance of high load quadriceps strengthening programs. If a well-tolerated and
      effective means of strengthening could be identified, it may also have additional benefits in
      reducing knee pain, improving physical function and avoiding disability in individuals with
      or at risk of KOA.

      Neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) is widely used to strengthen muscles and improve
      function in people who cannot exercise at medium-high intensity. For KOA, NMES is effective
      for enhancing quadriceps strength, knee pain, physical function. Therefore, NMES could
      contribute to decreased neural inhibition from knee pain and promote muscle function (e.g.
      muscle strength, power, contraction speed, and co-contraction). Recently, it was reported
      that the combined application of NMES and volitional contractions (NMES-VC) is effective for
      making up for a limitation of NMES. NMES-VC could help to improve motor recovery. The results
      of recent studies suggest that a hybrid training system that utilizes both volitional
      contractions and NMES simultaneously, might be an effective method that can improve physical
      function by strengthening muscles and relieving knee pain in people at risk for incident or
      progressive symptomatic KOA.

      This line of research could have a significant positive impact on public health, by leading
      to the introduction of an inexpensive means of well-tolerated and safe exercise that can be
      completed in community rehabilitative environments. Successful completion of this initial
      investigation will enable pursuit of research to determine whether NMES-VC is effective in
      quadriceps strengthening and pain relief while improving neural function in symptomatic and
      progressive KOA. Reduction of this primary cause of disability through cost-effective
      preventive exercise has a high potential to reduce the burden of disease and disablement,
      thereby improving the quality of life for older adults and significantly reducing the costs
      to individuals and society.

      The specific aim of the proposed research is to assess the efficacy of a twelve-week,
      efficient and tolerable, low-intensity exercise program with NMES-VC for improving quadriceps
      strength, knee pain and physical function in women with risk factors for incident symptomatic
      or progressive KOA. This specific aim will be achieved through a randomized, controlled
      trial, comparing low intensity exercise with and without NMES-VC. This research is novel in
      that it will be the first to use a low load regimen that will minimize the potential for
      adverse loading on the knee joint while still having a high likelihood to lead to clinically
      meaningful strength gains, pain relief and physical function improvement in older adults at
      elevated risk for symptomatic or progressive KOA.
    
  