
    
      There is a significant unmet need to develop clinical registry data on the presentation,
      natural history, management, and outcomes of PsA-SpA. There is no large clinical registry of
      PsA-SpA patients seen in general rheumatology practices. It is anticipated that Corrona's
      registry will supplement information gathered in other programs and potentially represent a
      more general rheumatology spectrum of PsA-SpA patients representative of the general
      population.

      The primary objective of the registry is to prospectively study the comparative effectiveness
      and comparative safety of therapies in a national cohort of PsA-SpA patients being cared for
      by rheumatologists. Secondary objectives include analyzing the epidemiology and natural
      history of the disease group, comorbidities, and current treatment practices.

      The design is a prospective, non-interventional, observational registry for patients with PsA
      or SpA under the care of a licensed rheumatologist. Longitudinal follow-up data is collected
      from both patients and their treating rheumatologists during routine clinical encounters
      using Corrona registry questionnaires. These questionnaires collect data on patient
      demographics, disease duration, medical history (including all prior and current treatments
      for PsA-SpA), smoking status, alcohol use, disease severity, pain, activity, and other
      clinical effectiveness measures, patient reported outcomes, comorbidities, hospitalizations,
      and other targeted safety outcomes, including pregnancy.

      After the enrollment visit, SpA patients and physicians will complete follow-up
      questionnaires during regularly scheduled clinical encounters. The goal is to collect data
      from patients and providers at six month intervals, not to exceed 2 visits in any 12 month
      period.

      Adverse events may be volunteered spontaneously by the subject, or be discovered as a result
      of general questioning by the Principal Investigator. During all Corrona related visits with
      the Principal Investigator, subjects will be questioned regarding the occurrence of adverse
      events.
    
  