
    
      Objective: Alzheimer s disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that impairs
      memory and other cognitive abilities, as well as behavior and the ability to function
      independently. It is the most common cause of dementia among older people. Alzheimer s
      disease is characterized by deficits in several neurotransmitter systems, most prominently
      acetylcholine (Ach). The cholinergic deficit in the AD brain is associated with the cognitive
      and functional symptoms in AD. Restoring this deficit in the cholinergic system is one proven
      approach for symptomatic treatment in AD. The action of Ach in the brain is terminated mainly
      by two enzymes called cholinesterases (ChEs): acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and
      butyrylcholinesterase (BChE). Inhibitors of these enzymes therefore augment the activity of
      surviving Ach neurons in AD. All ChEs inhibitors currently approved for the treatment of AD
      mainly inhibit AChE and, secondarily and to a varying extent, BChE. Reversible and
      brain-specific BChE inhibitors have been developed as a class of drugs called cymserine
      analogs. Scientists at the NIA/NIH have developed a novel BChE inhibitor called
      Bisnorcymserine (BNC). Pre-clinical evidence suggests that BNC may be a safe treatment for
      Alzheimer s disease. Based on this, we propose this first-in-human study to evaluate the
      safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of single doses of BNC tartrate administered
      orally.

      Study population: Healthy volunteers aged 55 years and older.

      Design: Double blind placebo-controlled Phase I clinical Trial of single oral doses of BNC
      doses in an ascending schedule: 20, 40mg, 80 mg, 160 mg, 270 mg and 380 mg. Each dose will be
      tested in groups of 8 subjects. Six subjects in each cohort will receive active drug and two
      will receive placebo. Subjects will be kept in the unit and followed clinically and with
      laboratory tests for adverse effects for 32 hours; they will return for a follow-up visit to
      assess safety in about 7 days. A Data Safety Monitoring Board will evaluate the safety and
      tolerability associated with each dose level before the next higher dose is tested in a new
      cohort. All research will be performed at the National Institute on Aging (NIA) Clinical
      Research Unit located on the 5th floor of MedStar Harbor Hospital.
    
  