
    
      The purpose of this study is to design and execute a prospective, longitudinal, descriptive
      cohort study in a pragmatic clinical practice for adults with symptoms that may be related to
      COVID-19 infection who participate in Chinese herbal medicine (CHM) telehealth visits and
      take CHM. CHM includes over 400 medicinal substances and CHM formulas are individualized at
      each visit according to the patient's presentation. CHM has been used to treat cough,
      shortness of breath, and fatigue and mechanisms of action have been investigated for SARS and
      H1N1 influenza prevention and treatment by anti-inflammatory effects and antiviral activity.
      Yet, there is a gap in our understanding of the clinical application of CHM in a community
      sample of individuals experiencing symptoms that may be related to COVID-19. The
      investigators have no pragmatic clinic data about the use of CHM for coronaviruses.

      Safe and effective treatment of symptoms associated with COVID-19 is a top international
      priority and research is needed to better understand if CHM is a safe intervention to treat
      symptoms. Further, dissemination of trustworthy CHM treatment approaches for this complex and
      emergent condition is needed within the CHM and scientific communities.

      Aim 1: Conduct quantitative analyses of the collected data and disseminate findings to CHM
      clinicians and to the scientific community.

      Case series will be reported bi-weekly to CHM clinicians via the SIEAM website including
      exposure, comorbidities, symptom change, concurrent medications, CHM prescriptions, adverse
      events and usability. Data will be analyzed at the study conclusion for presentation to the
      scientific community.

      Aim 2: Conduct qualitative analyses of the collected data and disseminate findings to CHM
      clinicians and to the scientific community.

      Chart notes reflecting clinicians' clinical reasoning will be content analyzed and posted
      bi-weekly on the SIEAM website. This will provide timely information for the CHM clinical
      community from highly experienced clinicians. Data will be analyzed at the study conclusion
      for presentation to the scientific community.
    
  