
    
      Patients will be randomized to either BFR therapy or no BFR therapy. Randomization will be
      carried out using block randomization with blocks of 6.

      Those undergoing BFR therapy will have a Delfi Personalized Tourniquet System (PTS) cuff
      applied to the proximal thigh of their operative leg and inflated to 80% limb occlusive
      pressure (LOP) calculated by the Delfi PTS device during physical therapy (PT) sessions from
      day 2 after surgery through day 7 after surgery. Those in the no BFR group will have the
      Delfi PTS cuff applied to their proximal thigh with inflation of the tourniquet to minimal
      pressure only. BFR therapy will be administered by health care providers who have undergone
      training and certification for BFR therapy with the Delfi PTS device.

      Both groups will undergo the following PT regimen two times daily beginning on the day after
      the surgical procedure and lasting for 6 weeks post-operatively:

        -  Quad sets = x1 min isometric hold, 30 sec off, 3 sets

        -  Terminal knee extensions = 3x15, 30 sec rest or short arc quads sitting 1 x 30 + 3 x 15,
           30 sec rest

        -  Once range of motion (ROM) allows: Bike 10 mins, low to no resistance

      Each physical therapy visit will last approximately 60 minutes. During that time, there will
      be a total estimated time of 5-7 minutes during which the tourniquet cuff will be on the
      thigh, and the tourniquet will be inflated for a similar time period. The tourniquet will
      inflate for about 1 minute in order to find out the specific pressure for the patient's leg
      and then will remain inflated until exercises are completed, which should take 4-6 minutes.
      The cuff will then be deflated and is removed from the leg within about 30 seconds of being
      deflated.

      Patients will have MRI performed pre-operatively and at 6 weeks post-operatively with axial
      cuts to 50% femoral length above joint line. Quadriceps cross-sectional area will be measured
      by a blinded observer using MRI. Patients will have clinical measurements including thigh
      girth, Lachman test, knee joint range of motion, and knee joint swelling performed
      pre-operatively, at post-op day 1, post-op day 14, and 6 weeks post-operatively. All clinical
      measurements will be performed by a blinded observer. Additionally, patient reported pain
      level will be obtained at the same timepoints in which clinical measurements are performed
      using visual analog scale.

      In order to ensure there are no nerve injuries present in patients prior to undergoing
      application and inflation of thigh tourniquet, all patients in the study will have single
      shot adductor and/or sciatic nerve blocks to ensure 24 hour period without nerve block prior
      to initiation of BFR therapy. Patients included in the study cannot have a nerve block
      lasting longer than the day of surgery. To ensure no new nerve deficits are present, the
      patients will undergo a physical examination during morning rounding on post-operative day 1
      to assess for new nerve deficits.
    
  