
    
      Advances in early detection and increasing success of chemotherapy have made cancer therapy a
      curable disease. In children and adolescents with cancer, cure rates approach 75%. These cure
      rates are achieved in great part due to the use of intensive chemotherapy, and in some cases,
      radiation. The use of these treatment modalities is associated with significant toxicity,
      including the potential for gonadal damage and subsequent reduced fertility. Aggressive
      chemotherapy is, however, usually gonadotoxic and results in infertility in many pediatric
      patients. Ovarian damage is drug and dose dependant and increases with patient age at
      treatment. Increasing numbers of young cancer survivors are therefore experiencing
      infertility related to their past cancer treatment. Having children thus becomes an important
      issue for young cancer patients.

      Cryopreservation of sperm is an effective method that is offered to pre- and post-adolescent
      males. Female gametes were however, not readily amenable to cryopreservation though the use
      of vitrification recently resulted in improved results. Nevertheless, this method is not
      applicable for young girls as it requires prolonged induction of ovulation and vaginal
      sonography to complete aspiration of oocytes. Similarly, In vitro fertilization (IVF) may be
      offered only to patients beyond adolescence. Ovulation induction requires a few weeks delay
      in the initiation of cancer treatment.

      Since ovarian stimulation is generally not a feasible option for young girls and adolescents,
      strategies for preserving fertility in these patients usually include ovarian
      cryopreservation, an experimental technology with some success in animal studies, recently
      resulting in few deliveries following human transplantations. Although the technique remains
      investigational, it is being increasingly offered to women undergoing cancer treatment. In
      prepubertal girls ovarian cryopreservation is the only option for potentially preserving
      ovarian function. As we and others have shown, it is probable that methods of ovarian
      transplantation with vascular anastomosis will be applied in the future.

      We have recently recommended that following individual consultation by a multi-disciplinary
      team, all female pediatric cancer patients and their families should be counseled regarding
      side effects of chemotherapy and be offered ovarian preservation.

      The methodology of ovarian cortex preservation, pioneered by Gosden is currently routine in
      many centers in a few countries. Nevertheless, it is realized that the future use of this
      cryopreserved ovarian cortex may be limited due to cellular injury during cryopreservation
      and due to the tissue ischemic damage following transplantation.

      Furthermore, cryobanking of ovarian cortex preserves only the smallest (primordial and
      primary) follicles, since all preovulatory antral follicles, which contain GV stage oocytes
      will not survive the procedure. We thus currently propose to all patients undergoing ovarian
      cryopreservation to perform integrated oocyte aspiration from antral follicles of the tissue,
      followed by in vitro maturation (IVM) and oocyte cryopreservation as an additional
      fertility-preserving method. The aim of this study was to analyze oocyte detection and IVM
      success rates in young girls and adolescents using this combined method.
    
  