
    
      The goal of this application is to assess the impact of safer treatment option
      Methylphenidate (MPH) on sleep and behavior problems in children with Attention Deficit
      Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and Behavioral Insomnia of Childhood (BIC). ADHD affects over
      11% of school-aged youth. Similarly, pediatric sleep disorders occur in over a third of
      children and impact multiple domains of the child's functioning as well as that of their
      parents. Children with ADHD are at an increased risk for sleep problems with a staggering
      comorbidity of up to 70%, while sleep deprivation worsens the already impaired social,
      emotional and academic functioning of children with ADHD. Therefore, improving sleep may
      translate into enhanced functioning in multiple realms. Delayed sleep onset latency (SOL) and
      bedtime resistance, the key component of the limit setting type of BIC, are particularly
      likely to occur in children with ADHD. Medications are commonly used for both conditions with
      over 6% of all school-aged children in the United States prescribed medication for ADHD and
      7% for sleep. In children with ADHD, 34% of prescribed sleep medications are antipsychotics
      that can cause marked weight gain and metabolic changes. Alternate medications for sleep have
      either been found to be ineffective, difficult to tolerate or are largely unstudied in youth.
      MPH has an extensive database supporting their safety and efficacy. Objective sleep studies
      of MPH have not found consistent results, with a few studies reporting delayed SOL and while
      others report improved quality of sleep. Therefore, this proposal will evaluate the impact of
      extending MPH treatment into the early evening on sleep onset using a 3-week with-in subjects
      randomized trial of .3mg/kg of immediate release (IR) MPH dosed 3 hours before bedtime vs.
      placebo in 38 children with ADHD and chronically delayed SOL who have a history of prolonged
      stimulant usage. The investigators will recruit 38 children ages 6-12 of any gender and
      racial/ethnic status with ADHD who have been treated with stable morning dose of extended
      release (ER) MPH for an extended time period (30 days or more) from the primary care and
      psychiatry clinics at Hershey Medical Center in Hershey, PA. Recruitment will be split into
      three waves (13, 13, 12 participants). Parents will be reminded to administer the blinded
      medication dose by text message each evening (or phone call by study staff) 3 hours prior to
      the desired bedtime. Sleep onset will be measured by actigraphy and sleep log, with parents
      also reporting on level of ODD and ADHD symptoms in the evening.
    
  