
    
      Study Design and Procedures - Comparison group (no-treatment control)

        1. Subjects will be identified by reviewing a REDCap database containing the list of all
           patients at the University of Illinois at Chicago Hospital (UIC) who were tested for
           COVID-19. Using these data, the investigators will identify those subjects who are >40
           years old, were admitted to the hospital during the period of the study, otherwise met
           all of the inclusion and exclusion criteria for the infusion arm of the study but were
           not enrolled and did not receive any medications for treatment of COVID-19 (were treated
           with only supportive care).

        2. Clinical data from the hospital admissions of these subjects will be entered into a
           REDCap database. The same clinical information captured for subjects who underwent
           transfusion (vital signs, oxygen status, etc.) will be entered into this database.

      Study Design and Procedures - Intervention arms Screening Visit

        1. Patients admitted to UIC Hospital and meeting the inclusion criteria will be enrolled
           after documentation of informed consent.

        2. Enrolled subjects will answer a symptom screen, undergo a physical exam, and have
           clinical data extracted from their chart (including medical history, demographic
           information, vital signs and documentation of oxygen requirement).

        3. Women of childbearing age will be asked if there is a chance that they might be
           pregnant, if they are currently breastfeeding, and if they are planning to become
           pregnant.

        4. Blood will be drawn for a Complete Blood Count (CBC) and blood type and screen, and a
           sample of blood will be stored for research purposes.

        5. Nasopharyngeal and/or oropharyngeal swabs will be collected for Reverse
           Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) testing.

        6. A study investigator will ask the patient's primary team if they are planning on
           treating the patient with Remdesivir. If the patient qualifies for this medication, the
           study investigator will monitor the patient's chart and work with the patient's nurse to
           ensure that the first convalescent plasma infusion and first dose of Remdesivir are
           given within 24 hours of each other.

      Study Design and Procedures - Transfusion Visits (Study days 0 and 1) Note - the first
      transfusion visit may be done on the same day as the screening visit if time permits,
      otherwise it will be done the following day. Items 1 and 2 will only be performed for the
      first transfusion visit if the visit occurs the day after the screening visit.

        1. The patient's clinical status, oxygen requirement, vital signs, and physical exam will
           be extracted from their clinical chart. Extracted information will include:

             1. imaging: chest X-ray or chest CT results

             2. labs: CBC with differential, C-Reactive Protein (CRP), alanine aminotransferase
                (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), total bilirubin, creatinine.

             3. Demographic and medical information: history of present infection (length of
                symptoms prior to presentation, etc.)

        2. Participants will be asked a symptom questionnaire.

        3. Randomization to convalescent plasma or fresh frozen plasma will be 1:1. Randomization
           will be conducted by a physician not involved in the study and using pre-prepared lists
           with random permuted blocks of varying sizes. This physician will hand-deliver an order
           sheet for either convalescent or fresh frozen plasma to the blood bank (this way no
           orders that could potentially unblind study personnel will be in participants' charts).

        4. The blood bank technical staff will select either two compatible blood-type
           non-therapeutic units of plasma or two compatible units of convalescent plasma,
           depending on which group the patient has been randomized to.

        5. If the blood bank does not have any product of that patient's blood type, investigators
           will not be able to have the subject complete the remainder of the study. However, the
           investigators will keep the information about the participant's blood type in the study
           database. Then, in the event that plasma of the appropriate blood type is obtained,
           study investigators may contact participants to find out if they are still interested in
           being part of the study.

        6. The blood product will be delivered to the floor and the participant's nurse will infuse
           and document plasma administration following UIC Hospital policy "TX 5.03." Study
           subjects will receive 1 unit of plasma the first day, with the second unit being given
           the next day.

        7. Once the blood product has been hung, the patient's nurse will place it in a bag that
           will prevent the patient or physician's taking care of the patient from seeing whether
           the unit is regular frozen plasma or convalescent plasma. The nurse will be under
           instructions not to convey information about which type of plasma was used to the study
           team.

        8. The nurse will be instructed to stop the transfusion while a small sample of plasma
           remains in the bag. The bag will then be sent back to the blood bank (this is usual
           protocol for blood products), and remaining plasma will be emptied into a storage
           container, labeled with the patient's study identification number, and frozen for later
           use for research purposes.

        9. If a transfusion reaction occurs the transfusion will be stopped and reported to the
           blood bank as stated in UIC Hospital policy "TX 5.03."

      Study Design and Procedures - Post-infusion monitoring

        1. Post-transfusion clinical data will be collected from electronic medical record daily
           for days 2-8 following the first transfusion (or until the participant is discharged if
           they are discharged prior to 8 days following transfusion). This information includes:

             1. vital signs: temperature, blood pressure, respiratory rate, pulse

             2. symptoms: cough, dyspnea, shortness of breath

             3. oxygenation: oxygen saturation, supplemental oxygen requirement, supplemental
                oxygen method (e.g., ventilator, nasal canula, prone positioning, etc.)

             4. imaging: chest X-ray or chest CT results

             5. labs: CBC with differential, CRP, ALT, AST, total bilirubin, creatinine (and
                whether or not the patient has required renal support)

             6. medications: antibiotics and anti-viral medications, neuromuscular blocking agents,
                vasopressors

             7. location: intensive care unit, discharged, regular hospital bed

        2. The participant will have a swab sample for SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR collected daily for days
           2-8 following the first transfusion (or as many days as they are admitted if they are
           discharged prior to 8 days following the first transfusion) and on day 14 following
           plasma infusion.

           Participants will also have blood drawn on days 2, 4, and 8 following the first plasma
           infusion for measurement of antibody titers to SARS-CoV-2 (if they are discharged prior
           to day 4 or 8 they will not undergo that day's blood draw).

        3. If the patient is discharged prior to 14-days following infusion of plasma, they will be
           asked to return to Project Wish on day 14 post- infusion of plasma for a blood draw (for
           antibody titers), a nasopharyngeal and/or oropharyngeal swab (for RT-PCR testing) and to
           answer a short symptom questionnaire.

        4. The patient will be contacted by telephone (if discharged) at 28-days following plasma
           infusion and will be asked a symptom questionnaire. If they remain in the hospital at
           this time point, they will be asked this questionnaire (if capable) and will have
           information regarding their clinical condition extracted from their chart.
    
  