
    
      New and existing CORRONA sites and patient participants are recruited to participate as
      subjects in this 12 month trial examining outcomes and feasibility of implementing a Treat to
      Target approach to RA disease management, requiring routine monthly monitoring and regular
      escalations of treatment for subjects not achieving low disease activity (LDA) when compared
      with a control group of subjects treated with usual care.

      Purpose The primary purpose of the study is to determine whether practices implementing a
      multi-dimensional T2T process can more effectively control active Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)
      in patients eligible-for-acceleration compared to those practices which continue usual care.
      The trial will also determine if the process of treating to target for the selected subjects
      is different between the two groups.

      A wide variety of therapies are used in clinical practice to treat patients with RA. The
      CORRONA Data Collection Program is designed to collect and document utilization patterns,
      effectiveness, and safety of DMARDs (Disease Modifying Anti-Rheumatic Drugs), biologic
      agents, and many other treatments currently used in the management of rheumatic diseases. It
      is anticipated that the study data may help improve the quality of information upon which
      clinical decisions are based.

      Objectives Co-primary Objectives 1. To measure rates of low disease activity (by CDAI score)
      between treatment arms (T2T vs usual care) at 12 months.

      1a. To assess implementation of a T2T Protocol by comparing rates of acceleration, frequency
      of visits, time to next visit, and probability of acceleration conditional on disease
      activity between subjects treated in a T2T intervention group, compared with a control group
      treated with usual care (UC) at 12 months.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. To determine mediators of differences in LDA rates between the two randomized groups.

        2. To determine the association between the process of treating to target and LDA
           (regardless of randomization).

        3. To determine the proportion of subjects with active RA and moderate to high disease
           activity by CDAI eligible for acceleration at Baseline that will have achieved low
           disease activity (LDA) by CDAI at 6 months in subjects treated in a T2T intervention
           group compared with a control group treated with usual care (UC), and to baseline
           disease activity.

        4. To compare performance of derived outcome metrics between the T2T intervention and usual
           care at 6 and 12 months, including:

             1. DAS28 ESR

             2. Patient Reported Outcomes- RAPID 3

        5. To determine the frequency of ineligibility for treatment acceleration due to risks,
           comorbidities, concomitant medication or clinician judgment in potential T2T study
           enrollees.

        6. To compare rates of drug toxicities between the T2T and UC groups over 12 months.

        7. To compare rates of Targeted Adverse Events (TAEs) between the T2T intervention and UC
           arms.

      Exploratory Objectives To determine the rates and reasons for non-acceleration of subjects
      with qualifying CDAIs, enrolled in the T2T and UC arms.

      Subjects with moderate to severe Rheumatoid Arthritis disease activity (defined as CDAI score
      >10) will be enrolled in the trial at participating sites. Sites will be randomized to either
      the Treat to Target or Usual Care arms. Visits will include a Baseline, Month 3, 6,9, and 12
      visit for all subjects. In addition, subjects enrolled at sites participating in the Treat to
      Target Arm that have not achieved low disease activity (CDAI ≤10) will be expected to return
      for Monthly Assessment visits. Treatment acceleration will be expected to occur as frequently
      as monthly and at least every 3 months in these subjects, unless contraindicated.

      Treatment acceleration for the purposes of this trial include the following options:
      Initiation or Change in prescribed treatment or dosage of "traditional" or "biologic" Disease
      Modifying Anti Rheumatic Drugs (DMARDs) or a change in the route of Methotrexate
      administration (from oral to subcutaneous)

      Upon enrollment, physicians and subjects complete Enrollment Questionnaires, including a 28
      joint assessment.

      Targeted Adverse Event Reporting Qualifying adverse events which occur during participation
      in the study and are reported on the Targeted Adverse Event (TAE) Questionnaires. TAE
      Questionnaires are completed and submitted when a flagged event on a Physician Follow-up
      Questionnaire has been selected. Submission of de-identified source documents (i.e. hospital
      records, laboratory results, etc.) in support of the reported TAE is required in order to be
      valid, unless otherwise determined by the CORRONA Organization. The TAE should be
      simultaneously reported on both the TAE Questionnaire and on the CORRONA Data Collection
      Program Physician Follow-up Questionnaire visit date that most closely follows the event
      (unless the TAE occurs on the date of the Follow-up Visit).

      In addition, sites will be encouraged to forward CORRONA, Inc.de-identified reports on
      qualifying Serious Adverse Events within 24 hrs of learning of them using the CORRONA SAE
      report form.

      Data submitted for inclusion in the Database does not include the names, addresses, telephone
      numbers, email addresses, or social security numbers of subjects. Data from Questionnaires
      are tracked in the CORRONA Database by a unique CORRONA identifier assigned at the
      physician's office. A link is maintained at the physician's office between
      patient-identifying information (e.g., name, address, telephone number) and the unique
      CORRONA identifier. The physician's office does not share information with CORRONA that is
      needed to match subject names with these unique CORRONA identifiers.

      Site Enrollment: Selected rheumatologists are invited to participate as investigators in the
      Treat to Target study.Not all rheumatologists who are involved in the CORRONA Data Collection
      Program will be involved in this study. Physicians are selected carefully to identify sites
      that have appropriate qualifications and infrastructure to support the trial and comply with
      applicable regulations and Good Clinical Practices to protect the rights of human subjects.
      All potential sites are screened for clinical research experience and GCP (Good Clinical
      Practice) training. Investigators must obtain Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval.
      Private physician offices and those not affiliated with an academic institution may submit to
      New England IRB (NEIRB). Sites at academic centers submit to their local institutional IRBs
      using approved templates and guidelines for submission, or to the NEIRB if this is approved
      by their institutional IRB.

      Subject Informed Consent Informed consent will be obtained by the investigator and/or
      designee(s). Informed consent is obtained in the office setting, and in accordance with FDA
      regulations and guidelines prior to commencement of any study-specific related activities.
      Patient participation is voluntary, and participants may withdraw their consent at any time.

      The CORRONA Organization conducts systematic reviews of submitted records. Additionally, all
      sites participating in the Treat to Target trial are expected to have at least one on-site
      monitoring visit during the course of the trial. This frequency may be adjusted, as needed,
      to address data quality issues.
    
  