
    
      Heart failure is a clinical condition in which the output of blood from the heart is
      insufficient to meet the metabolic demands of the body. In 2015, the American Heart
      Association, or AHA, report on heart disease statistics estimated that there are 5.7 million
      Americans over the age of 20 that have heart failure. Heart failure is increasingly prevalent
      due to the aging population and the increase in major cardiovascular risk factors, including
      obesity and diabetes.

      The AHA also estimates that one in five adults will develop heart failure after the age of
      40. During heart failure progression, the heart steadily loses its ability to respond to
      increased metabolic demand, and mild exercise soon exceeds the heart's ability to maintain
      adequate output. Towards the end stage of the disease, the heart cannot pump enough blood to
      meet the body's needs at rest. At this stage, fluids accumulate in the extremities or in the
      lungs making the patient bedridden and unable to perform the activities of daily living. The
      long-term prognosis associated with heart failure is approximately 50% mortality at five
      years following the initial diagnosis.

      CardiAMP is a comprehensive therapeutic treatment that comprises (i) a point of care cell
      processing platform, and (ii) a biotherapeutic delivery system. CardiAMP is the first
      comprehensive therapeutic treatment utilizing a patient's own cells for the treatment of
      ischemic systolic heart failure, which is heart failure that develops after a heart attack.
      In the screening process, the physician extracts a small sample of the patient's bone marrow
      in an outpatient procedure performed under local anesthesia. The clinic sends the sample to a
      centralized diagnostic lab, which tests the sample. During the treatment, a clinician
      harvests and then prepares the patient's own bone marrow mononuclear cells, or autologous
      cells, using the CardiAMP point of care cell processing platform, which a cardiologist then
      delivers into the heart using the Helix biotherapeutic delivery system.

      BioCardia intends to submit data obtained from this clinical trial in a Pre-Market Approval
      Application to the United States Food and Drug Administration
    
  