
    
      Acute coronary syndrome (ACS) is a disease with high mortality, morbidity and economic
      burden. Usually, it is caused by ischemic heart disease and atherosclerotic plaque rupture in
      the coronary arteries causing platelet activation, aggregation and thrombus formation. For
      decades, antiplatelet agents are the cornerstones of management of ACS and several clinical
      trials have confirmed greater clinical efficacy of dual antiplatelet therapy with clopidogrel
      and aspirin (ASA) versus ASA alone in patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) for up to
      a year of therapy. Ticagrelor (AZD6140) is a reversible, potent, oral adenosine diphosphate
      (ADP) P2Y12 receptor blocker which has stronger antiplatelet activity than clopidogrel. Data
      from PLATO, a Phase III pivotal efficacy and safety study of ticagrelor, have demonstrated
      superiority of ticagrelor 90 mg twice daily over clopidogrel 75 mg daily with a duration of
      up to 12 months in the prevention of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular event in ACS patients
      on ASA.

      In PLATO, ticagrelor was superior to clopidogrel in reducing the rate of the composite
      efficacy endpoint of CV death, MI, or stroke after ACS events. Furthermore, compared to
      clopidogrel, ticagrelor decreased the rate of death from any cause. PLATO-defined Major
      bleeding (primary safety endpoint) for ticagrelor did not differ significantly from that of
      clopidogrel but ticagrelor was associated with a higher rate of major bleeding not related to
      coronary-artery bypass grafting.

      The favourable results lead to approval of use of ticagrelor as Class I indication in ACS
      patients for up to one year in addition to ASA in ACC/AHA and European guidelines. After one
      year of DAPT, patients typically remained on single antiplatelet agent with ASA monotherapy
      being the conventional treatment. However, these patients are still at heightened risk of
      recurrent atherothrombotic events. The recent PEGASUS TIMI 54 trial investigated the use of
      ticagrelor in addition to aspirin in stable patients with prior myocardial infarction one to
      three years ago. It demonstrated ticagrelor either 90mg BD or 60mg BD significantly reduced
      the risk of cardiovascular death, MI and stroke compared with placebo; ticagrelor 60mg BD.
      However, the use of ticagrelor is also associated with higher risks of major bleeding;
      ticagrelor 60mg BD, HR 2.32.

      As the antithrombotic benefit of stronger antiplatelet effects of DAPT is offset by higher
      bleeding risk, it is reasonable to assume that a single potent antiplatelet agent such as
      ticagrelor may lead to better clinical outcome than ASA with less increase in bleeding risk
      when compared with DAPT. In addition to its antiplatelet effects, ticagrelor has been shown
      to improve endothelial function, increase plasma adenosine level, increase coronary blood
      flow, stabilize coronary plaques and reduce inflammation. These pleiotropic effects may lead
      to further clinical benefit of ticagrelor over other antiplatelet agents such as ASA and
      clopidogrel. Endothelial function as measured by flow mediated dilatation of brachial artery
      is a non-invasively measurable surrogate marker of adverse cardiovascular events. Adenosine
      is a purine nucleoside which has favourable effects on coronary vasodilatation, endothelial
      progenitor cell migration and ischemia-reperfusion injury while adenosine plasma activity can
      be measured by liquid chromatography.
    
  