
    
      This protocol is for a feasibility study of an adapted mindfulness-based stress reduction
      (MBSR) program for high-risk pregnant women attending a hospital-based outpatient clinic
      specialized in antenatal care for high-risk pregnancies. A history of a mental disorder
      and/or severe psychosocial problems that may pose a risk to the health of the mother and
      fetus are reasons for referral to the clinic. The protocol is part of the Good start to
      family life study and the primary aim is to address the need of high-risk pregnant women and
      care providers for a wider array of evidence-based options to address prenatal mental health
      care needs. Mindfulness-based interventions are promising interventions for mental disorders
      with performance equivalent to evidence-based treatments, such as cognitive behavioral
      therapy and antidepressant medication for some disorders. Moreover, it is an acceptable
      intervention for pregnant women. A history of any psychopathology or psychosocial
      adversities, including low social support and abuse, are predictors of mental disorders
      during and after pregnancy with little diagnostic specificity. Mental disorders or symptoms
      often continue after birth emphasizing the need for early intervention and prevention. The
      intention of teaching mindfulness to this group of pregnant women is thus to engage and
      strengthen their internal resources for optimizing recovery or prevent relapse of mental
      health disorders during the perinatal period, and to teach skills that may aid the formation
      of a healthy mother-child relationship.

      The objectives of the feasibility study are thus to assess the: (1) acceptance of study
      participation among at-risk pregnant women; (2) acceptance of allocated interventions; (3)
      number of referrals to psychiatric treatment during the study period; (4) risk of bias: loss
      to follow-up in the study arms; acceptance and compliance with the intervention, i.e.
      attending ≥ 5 sessions; (5) the extent of missing data leading to missing outcomes, and (6)
      indications of potential intervention effects. The adapted MBSR program will be referred to
      as prenatal MBSR.

      The study is conducted at Copenhagen University Hospital, Hvidovre, Denmark. The design is a
      single-center feasibility trial comparing prenatal MBSR as add on to usual care with a
      waitlist control group receiving usual care alone. High-risk pregnant women around 18 weeks
      gestation (n = 60) will be recruited for the study provided that they are not diagnosed with
      a major psychiatric illness, psychosis, current substance abuse or suicidality. Participants
      will be randomized in a1:1 ratio to prenatal MBSR or usual care.

      Teaching the skills of mindfulness meditation to a vulnerable group of pregnant women could
      prove as a viable and non-pharmacological approach to improve mental health and provide
      support in the transition to parenthood. The outcomes of the feasibility study will inform
      the design of a fully powered randomized controlled trial.
    
  