
    
      Background: Drug use remains a major public health problem among youth in the United States.
      Effective implementation of evidence-based interventions for youth is critical for reducing
      the burden of drug use and its consequences. The Michigan Model for Health (MMH) is an
      intervention that has demonstrated efficacy in reducing adolescent substance use. Yet, youth
      rarely receive evidence-based interventions (EBIs) as intended; this is, in part, due to a
      poor fit between the intervention and the context. The disconnect between the EBI and context
      is especially pronounced among underserved and vulnerable populations, including among youth
      exposed to trauma. Trauma is a potent risk factor for substance use, abuse, and the
      development of substance use disorders. Consequently, there is a critical need to design and
      test effective, cost-efficient implementation strategies to optimize the fidelity of
      school-based drug use prevention to better meet the needs of youth exposed to trauma. The
      objective of this study is to design and test a multi-component implementation strategy to
      improve intervention-context fit and enhance fidelity and effectiveness.

      Methods: Using a 2-group, mixed method, randomized trial design, this study will compare
      standard implementation (Replicating Effective Programs [REP]) versus enhanced Enhanced
      Replicating Effective Programs (Enhanced REP) to deliver MMH. REP is a previously established
      implementation strategy that promotes EBI fidelity through a combination of curriculum
      packaging, training, and as-needed technical assistance. Enhanced REP incorporates tailoring
      of the EBI package and training and deploys customized implementation support (i.e.,
      implementation facilitation).

      This research designs and tests an implementation strategy deployed to systematically enhance
      the fit between the intervention and the context for a universal drug use prevention
      curriculum. The proposed research will focus on youth at heightened risk of drug use and its
      consequences due to trauma exposure. The proposed research is significant because of its
      potential to have a positive public health impact by preventing and reducing youth drug use
      and its consequences.
    
  