
    
      Background:

      Physical training is one of the cornerstones within the treatment of diabetes, as well as
      medicine and diet modification, and the effect is well documented in terms of improved
      glycemic control, loss of fat tissue, lower content of triglycerides in blood, improved
      insulin sensitivity, and lower diabetes related mortality. Nevertheless people with diabetes
      and foot ulcers are urged to lessen their level of physical activity, to reduce pressure and
      thereby achieve fastest possible healing. Most ulcers occur at the footbed and the rationale
      is that the pressure on the ulcer area should be minimized to achieve healing.

      Purpose: The primarily purpose of the study is to investigate the feasibility of implementing
      progressive resistance training, combined with exercises for ankle mobility and aerobic
      training, for people with diabetes and foot ulcers, without compromising the ulcer. The
      secondarily purpose is to investigate whether this form of training is effective on the
      following:

        -  Muscle strength

        -  Limitations in activity

        -  Participants´satisfaction The hypothesis is, that it is possible to implement a
           structured exercise program and achieve improved muscle strength for this population,
           without compromising the diabetic ulcer.

      Material and methods:

        -  Design:The study is a prospective intervention study. This particular study is the pilot
           study and has focus on feasibility and includes 10 participants with ulcers at the foot
           sole, who exercises for 10 weeks, twice a week, in a structured program, closely
           supervised by a physiotherapist. Participants´ attendance and progression in training is
           thoroughly recorded, as well as size and depth of ulcer.

        -  Participants: People with diabetes above the age of 18, resident in the Community of
           Copenhagen.

        -  Data:

      Independent variables:

        -  Age

        -  Gender

      Dependant variables with registration of following parameters at baseline and at end of
      program:

        -  Muscle strength measured both isometric and dynamically

        -  Area of ulcer

        -  HbA1c

        -  Toe pressure

      Collecting data:

      Data will be registrated in two phases: at phase 1(pilot study)with 10 participants, and at
      phase 2 (RCT study), with suitable amount of participants based on power calculations after
      revision of methods based on experiences from the pilot study. For all participants the
      program includes two attendances at inclusion and at the end of program. First examination
      takes place at Copenhagen University Hospital Hvidovre,and includes measuring toe pressure
      and level of glucoses(HbA1c). Second examination includes measuring of area of ulcer by nurse
      and assessment of neuropathy, muscle strength, aerobic function, and screening for performing
      activities in daily life by physiotherapist, at Rehabilitation Centre Vanloese. Same
      examinations take place at end of program.

        -  Intervention

      Phase 1(feasibility of exercise program):

      After initial examinations, 10 participants with foot ulcers participates in standardized
      group training for 10 weeks, for one hour, twice a week. The program consists of warming-up
      and aerobic exercise on stationary bike(15 min), with submaximal training at 60-70%,
      estimated with Borg Scale. Resistance is low to minimize weightbearing on footbed and
      participants will instead strive for high cadence to achieve appropriate effect from
      exercise. The resistance training part of the program (35 min) will include training in
      exercise equipment for the following muscle groups:

        -  flexors and extensors of knee

        -  abductors of hip

        -  extension over glenohumeral joint and upper back (low row)

      In no exercise equipment is there pressure on footbed. Resistance level is 15 RM for the
      first three weeks and hereafter is progression up to 10RM sought.

      Strengthening of ankle dorsiflexors with resistance from elastic band is also part of
      resistance exercises.

      The last part of each exercise occasion(10 min) consists of exercises for ankle joint
      mobility (flexion, dorsiflexion, inversion, eversion). The prescribed ulcer treatment by
      nurse continues as usual.

      Phase 2:

      With revised manual a larger study will be implemented and by computerized block
      randomization, to equally sized groups with all new participants, whereas the intervention
      group follows the revised, standardized training program as in phase 1, besides the
      prescribed ulcer treatment by nurse, and the control group follows prescribed ulcer treatment
      and maintains usual activity level.

      For phase 2 the primarily effect target is whether resistance- and aerobic training in a
      population of people with diabetes with foot ulcers shows effect on muscle strength, aerobic
      function and balance.

      The statistical analysis will be repeated measures variance analysis (ANOVA) for determining
      effect of resistance- and aerobic training as balance score between baseline and at end of
      program.

      3.8 Data processing and analysis: Data will be collected and entered to SPSS by project
      manager. Statistical analysis will be repeated measures variance analysis (ANOVA) for
      determining effect of resistance- and aerobic training.
    
  