
    
      During a one-month intervention period, the investigators will pilot test the educational
      strategies in three participating UPMC ICUs. Prior to receiving education, participants will
      be invited to complete a short online survey. Participants in the control group will be
      invited to complete a 30-minute online continuing education module, which will conclude with
      a survey. Participants in the interprofessional education group will be invited to attend a
      90-minute, in-person, interprofessional education session that will occur in or near the
      participating ICU. A trained advance practice provider will provide participants in the
      just-in-time education group with 5-10 minutes of education in the ICU when the ICU team is
      rounding on a patient who is identified to be high risk for extubation failure. The
      just-in-time education may occur more than once per day, depending on the number of high-risk
      patients identified. All educational strategies will include content on the benefits of
      preventive post-extubation NIV, the indications and contraindications for preventive
      post-extubation NIV, and the value of working together as an interprofessional ICU team when
      implementing preventive post-extubation NIV. Each educational intervention will include a
      survey designed to determine the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary impact of the
      educational strategies. The investigators will also directly observe instances of
      interprofessional and just-in-time education and conduct in-person interviews to assess these
      factors in a qualitative manner. Lastly, during the intervention period and the 6 months
      before and after the intervention period, the investigators will collect data from the
      electronic health record and analyze changes in percent of high-risk patients who receive
      preventive post-extubation NIV, reintubation rate, duration of mechanical ventilation,
      ventilator-associated pneumonia, and in-hospital mortality.
    
  