
    
      Abstract Purpose: To describe a technique used to treat a patient with Lt upper limb
      synthetic arterio-venous vascular access and venous hypertension of the same limb. Technique:
      we expose the venous anastomosis of the graft by small longitudinal incision in the axilla
      and dissection of the axillary artery just parallel to the axillary vein , the investigator
      disconnect the graft from the axillary vein and do primary repair of the vein , then
      investigator s do end to side anastomosis of the graft to the axillary artery , after
      finishing this anastomosis the axillary artery ligated just below the anastomosis.
      Conclusion: the conversion of arterio-venous graft to arterio-arterial vascular access in
      precious access with venous hypertension lead to resolution of edema of venous hypertension
      and preservation of access for dialysis.

      Keywords: Arterio-arterial vascular access, Arterio-venous synthetic access, Venous
      hypertension, Hemodialysis patients.

      Introduction:

      In haemodialysis patients the investigator are confronted by patient with Left upper limb
      synthetic graft used for haemodialysis and the patient developed edema due to central venous
      occlusion ( venous hypertension) in the same limb. The other limb have no palpable pulse due
      to previous 3 operations for vascular access which ended by ligation of the brachial artery.

      First the hope to dilatation of the central veins but this trial failed due to failure of the
      wire to cross the lesion, so we think to convert this arterio-venous graft to
      arterio-arterial access as we have previous experience with brachial aretrio-arterial
      vascular access.

      One limitation of this technique was that the continuity of the brachial artery which will
      lead to thrombosis of the graft because of equal pressure in the graft and the brachial
      artery so ligation of the axillary artery below the proximal anastomosis was done despite our
      fear of ischaemia of the limb if the synthetic graft occluded later on.

      Technique:

      After failure of trial angioplasty of epsilateral central veins. This procedure was done
      either by local, regional, or general anesthesia (IV deprivan) according to the patient
      situation and surgeon preference.

      Longitudinal incision (about 5-7cm) in the axilla at the arterio-venous anastomosis of the
      synthetic graft and along the course of the axillary artery , good hemostasis is needed
      because of the edema and the venous hypertension in the dilated collateral veins.

      Good exposure of the end of the synthetic graft and mobilization of the axillary artery was
      done with ligation of intervening branches (a segment of 4-6 cm).

      The synthetic graft catted and we do repair of the axillary vein. End to side anastomosis
      between the synthetic graft and the axillary artery by 6/0 proline then the axillary artery
      is ligated just below the anastomosis by 2/0 silk suture , now the blood is reversed in the
      synthetic graft and the blood flow from the axillary artery to the synthetic graft then to
      the brachial artery and radial and ulnar arteries.

      Patients were discharged in the 2nd postoperative day unless need. Creep bandage was applied
      to the forearm and after 1-2 days the edema resolved and the patient regain the function of
      the upper limb and he can used the graft for dialysis immediately because the graft already
      healed and used previously for dialysis which is useful in those patients who has no venous
      access even for temporary catheter .

      The same instructions as any arterio-arterial graft for hemodialysis were given to the
      patient and the medical stuff at dialysis unit as:

        -  no medications given at the AAPL to avoid intra-arterial injection and acute ischemia.

        -  Only pulse which can be palpated at the graft but no thrill.

        -  Patency of the graft is done by palpation of the distal pulsation (distal brachial or
           radial artery) or duplex.

        -  The puncture site needs more time of compression than that needed for AV grafts.
           (Khafagy et al.,)
    
  