
    
      Consent must first be obtained from the prospective patient before Target Tape can be
      incorporated into the procedure. When a target procedure is scheduled to occur, the surgeon
      will first determine if Target Tape would be appropriate to use. The procedure will need to
      be able to integrate Target Tape into it using the Method of Use described above. The
      decision to then pursue the procedure will be under the discretion of the medical
      practitioner and consent from the patient. Depending on the procedure, the medical
      practitioner may need to communicate to the OR or the radiology department to integrate
      Target Tape into their protocol, since the practitioner making the incisions(s) may not
      always be the one applying it. Examples of procedures that may utilize Target Tape may be
      stabilization of fractures, interlocking screw insertions during tibia or femur nailings,
      breast biopsies, foreign body removals, thoracic and spinal surgeries. Once the procedure is
      determined to be appropriate to accommodate Target Tape, the medical practitioner will
      approach the prospective patient and explain how the device will be utilized, the benefits
      and potential risks associated with it, and answer any questions the patient may have. A
      representative from Aeos Biomedical may be on hand to aid with this process and may also
      observe said procedure to record the necessary information. The consent form will then be
      signed and Target Tape will then be utilized during the procedure.

      The methodology of creating an outcome measure will occur over 2 stages with multiple steps
      in each stage:

      Stage I: Proof of Concept

        1. Specify measurement goals

        2. Proof of Concept Testing

        3. Item generation

        4. Item reduction

      Stage 2: Verification 5. Verification Testing 6. Reliability 7. Validity 8. Interpretability

      (i) Subjects (ii) Involved Groups (iii) Data Collection (iv) Statistics

      6) Statistical Analysis Sample size

      Stage 1:

      3 Orthopaedic surgeons, up to 10 patients, per procedure type

      3 Spinal surgeons up to 10 patients, per procedure type

      3 Plastic surgeons up to 10 patients, per procedure type

      2 Thoracic surgeons up to 5 patients, per procedure type

      2 Radiologists up to 10 patients, per procedure type

      The number of medical practitioners in each type of procedure may fluctuate. Furthermore,
      this is not a definitive list of specialties. It is foreseeable that a greater variety of
      procedures from other specialties may be included in the proof of concept testing. Moreover,
      the number of patients may vary depending on the relative magnitude of the observations and
      feedback from the medical practitioners.

      Stage 2:

      The sample sizes for each segment of this stage corresponds to sample sizes used to create
      outcome measures in the different populations. After Stage 1 has been completed, the sample
      sizes for Stage 2 will be assessed and a statistical model will be created at that time. A
      preliminary estimate would require 5 times the sample size per procedure within Stage 1 to be
      a sufficient.

      Variable generation - There is no statistical analysis at this step. It is anticipated that
      up to 10 procedures would have used the device with at least two different doctors.

      Variable reduction - The list of items generated in the step above will be administered to
      doctors who will be asked to rate the items according to importance. Any items that are
      deemed insignificant will be removed from the list.

      Verification Testing It is anticipated that 5 times the sample size for each procedure will
      occur in this step. Subject to the testing results of Stage 1, there will be a set of
      significant performance variables determined for each respective target procedure. Target
      Tape would then be randomly utilized in the procedures, with controls for who is performing
      the procedure and patient characteristics. Observation of the significant performance
      variable occurs for all the procedures
    
  