
    
      As part of this study, investigators will review medical records to be sure that the patient
      meets the required criteria and is healthy enough to take part in this study.

      The study will consist of five separate visits to the Clinical research Center at the
      University of Florida and each visit will last anywhere from 6-8 hours. Patients will be
      given a diary of questionnaires where they will record when they take their medication and
      any side effects they might have. Patients will also have Electrocardiograms (ECGs) to make
      sure they are healthy enough to be a participant in the study and to measure the effects of
      their medication on their heart. During this study, patients will continue treatment of their
      Mycobacterium avium Complex infections. Patients will be observed taking their medication on
      each of the five separate days. On each of these days patients will have blood drawn at 2 and
      6 hours after their drugs are taken in order to measure drug levels in their blood. We will
      also use this blood to measure levels of proteins and hormones and to make sure the
      medications are not affecting the patient's heart. The patient will fill out several
      questionnaires and do a dietary assessment online. Investigators will assess the patient's
      body make-up using a device called the Bod Pod. The patient will also be assigned to one of
      two treatment groups: (1) Ondansetron 8mg (Zofran®, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park,
      NC) every morning before breakfast versus (2) a dietary supplement prior to taking daily
      medication. The patient will be assigned to the first treatment group for a period of two
      weeks. On the third study visit investigators will switch the patient to the second group.

      Although the incidence of tuberculosis has decreased in the United States over the last few
      decades, the incidence of chronic pulmonary infections with nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM)
      appears to be increasing. Unfortunately, a common problem in the management of these
      infections is the inability of elderly patients to tolerate the currently recommended
      multidrug regimen of (1) azithromycin or clarithromycin, (2) rifampin or rifabutin, and (3)
      ethambutol. The most frequent adverse reactions of MAC treatment are gastrointestinal (GI),
      most commonly associated with the macrolides and rifampin. Although macrolide toxicity is
      generally dose-related, the role of routine monitoring of drug concentrations and subsequent
      dose adjustment has not been studied. The role of anti-emetics or dietary supplements to
      mitigate these symptoms is also not defined.
    
  