
    
      Rational of the trial

      A phase I - II trial in RM-HNC based on pharmacologic and physic interventions related to
      each other facing immunology as a system rather than a single pathway, theoretically able to
      restore immune competence toward the tumor. The immune suppressive mechanisms that could be
      affected by this study and how the experimental approach could inhibit them, are listed
      below:

        -  PD-1 - PD-L1 axis is widespread among immune cell family including CTL, Treg, NK, NKT,
           APC and others showing, for example, opposite effect in CD8+ CTL (inhibitory signal) or
           in CD4+ CD25+ Foxp3+ (activating signal).

        -  Depletion of Treg results in tumor regression, in experimental models. The effect seems
           to be dependent on the extent of Treg suppression.

        -  Avelumab is a fully human anti-PD-L1 IgG1 monoclonal antibody. It enables the activation
           of T-cells and the adaptive immune system by inhibiting PD-1 - PD-L1 axis, induces
           antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) and engages the innate immune
           system.

        -  Low dose cyclophosphamide (metronomic cyclophosphamide), selectively reduce Treg
           population both in experimental models and in humans, but it does not affect effector T
           cells

        -  PD-1 - PD-L1 axis enhances and sustains Foxp3 expression and the suppressive function of
           inducible Tregs (iTrge)7. The blockade of the PD1 - PDL1 axis by Avelumab may have an
           opposite effect.

        -  The contemporary use of two, independent, mechanisms of Treg control (Avelumab
           inhibiting Treg clonal expansion and functions, and cyclophosphamide reducing Treg
           population) may result in a profound inhibition of Treg population.

        -  If the suppressive mechanisms of the immune system are weakened, the release of high
           quantity of tumor specific antigens or stress related antigens (epcam, HSPs, HMBG-1,
           Calreticulin, ATP), obtained by the induction of immunogenic cell death may induce a
           sort of "self vaccination" resulting into an effective immune response.

        -  Radiation may induce immunogenic cell death even in heavily pretreated patients in whom
           the use of cytotoxic chemotherapy may not, due to the previous exposure to drugs and the
           development of resistance mechanisms. More precisely, this effect is considered the
           basis of the Abscopal effect, i.e. the regression of tumor deposits outside the
           irradiated field. This effect is more frequently observed with low-dose, non ablative,
           hypofractionated radiation therapy (described at point 2.3.2) and represent a proof of
           concept that in particular situations, radiotherapy act as an inducer of "self
           vaccination".

        -  IgG1 mAbs, such as Avelumab, triggers ADCC; PD-L1 is widely express in many tumors and
           so ADCC may represent an additional mechanism of tumor control.
    
  