
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial and blind in the exercise area, postural control and
      biomechanics.

      The subjects with a clinical diagnosis of PFPS will be allocated in two groups: PFPS group
      with rigid bandage patella (n = 15) and PFPS group with placebo (n = 15).

      Procedures: The subjects with a clinical diagnosis of PFPS, will be forwarded to the
      evaluation protocols. The data collections will be held at University Hospital Physiotherapy
      Division of the State University of Londrina. Individuals respond to a questionnaire to
      characterize the sample, EVA and fill the patellofemoral disorders Scale (AKPS).

      Data Collection Protocol: will be held to familiarize themselves with the equipment and tests
      to be used on the force platform and test sitting and standing, voluntary is inserted in one
      of the groups (PPS + B or PPS + P) through randomisation previously established by
      www.random.org and stored in opaque and sealed envelopes.

      Following the participants carry out, random and drawn at the time way, the static and
      dynamic tests on the force platform:

      Static: The volunteers will stay 30 seconds in one-leg position of the lower limb with pain
      with the knee flexed and contralateral suspended to about 90; the test will be performed
      three times, with one minute of sitting home. Participants will be instructed to keep aligned
      and torso upright during the test and stay as long as possible with most of the plantar
      region touching the ground. Will be targeted to fix the look upon in a pre-established and
      pasted on the wall point.

      Dynamic Squat: The volunteers will perform three consecutive repetitions of squat exercise,
      controlled between about 0 ° to 45 ° of knee flexion in the lower limb with pain. The
      contralateral leg should be suspended and flexed to 90 °, the activity will be performed
      three times, with one minute rest in the sitting position between each repetition.
      Participants will be instructed to keep aligned and torso upright during the test and stay as
      long as possible with most of the plantar region touching the ground. Will be targeted to fix
      the look upon in a pre-established and pasted on the wall point.

      Dynamic Up and Down Stairs: The force platform will be positioned at 20 cm from the ground on
      a wooden structure. The front is combined with a second step, also with 20 cm high from the
      first step, simulating a staircase with two steps of 20 cm each. Voluntary perform the
      functional activity of climbing the two steps, starting the first step with the leg with pain
      to support the platform. The activity will be carried out three consecutive times, with rest
      of a seated minute, and then the voluntary hold the decline in two steps, with lower limb
      support with pain on the platform, also performed by three consecutive times.

      The average of the three repetitions of each activity (static and dynamic) will be used for
      postural control analysis (COP parameters) for each variable to be analyzed.
    
  