
    
      Injectate randomization:

      Study patients will be randomly assigned to the Eleview or the Hetastarch treatment group in
      a 1:1 ratio. Randomization will occur at the site using envelopes provided by the
      Investigator. The envelope's contents will specify the treatment assignment for each patient
      and opened by the research team (PI will be blinded). The investigators will monitor the
      safety and effectiveness data. The appropriate solutions will be injected into the submucosal
      space beneath the lesion(s) to be excised before the lesion(s) is/are removed. Subjects in
      both groups will receive the appropriate volume of injectate deemed necessary by the PI for
      the individual patient.

      Sample size and Statistical Analysis At least 200 patients will be enrolled. 100 of these
      patients will be randomized to Eleview injectate and 100 will be given the standard of care,
      Hetastarch injectate only. Efficacy and safety of Eleview injectate has only been reviewed in
      one previous study. Therefore, the planned sample size was not calculated using a statistical
      power analysis, but was regarded as sufficient to repeat the objectives of the COSMO study
      (2017) and satisfy the exploratory purposes of the present study.

      Study personnel will carry out a simple randomization using a commonly used online generator.
      Randomization assignments will then be sealed until day of procedure until patient
      eligibility has been confirmed. The Principal Investigator will remain blinded and will
      perform all data analysis after completion of the study.

      Data will be summarized and compared using classic descriptive statistics, i.e. mean,
      standard deviation, coefficient of variation (%), minimum, median and maximum values for
      quantitative variables, and frequencies for qualitative variables.

      The Sydney Resection Quotient will be compared between treatment groups using a Wilcoxon
      Rank-Sum test. The proportion of subjects with en bloc resection of all endoscopically
      visible lesions will also be compared between treatment groups using a Fisher's exact test. A
      nominal alpha level of 0.05 will be used for both the comparisons.

      No formal comparison will be performed for the secondary endpoints.
    
  