
    
      Vitiligo, a depigmenting skin disorder, is characterized by the selective loss of
      melanocytes, which in turn leads to pigment dilution or loss in the affected areas of the
      skin. Vitiligo reportedly affects 0.5% to 2% of the world's population, without a clear
      preference for race or sex. Vitiligo is clinically classified into two main clinical
      patterns: nonsegmental and segmental. Dermoscopy facilitates the diagnosis of vitiligo .and
      can be used to assess the evolution of the stage of the disease (stability, progression,
      repigmentation) as well as the response to treatment. Stability of vitiligo refers to the
      arrest of disease activity, in terms of the absence of new lesions, no extension of
      pre-existing lesions, and an absence of Koebner's phenomenon among other features. The
      duration of stability is a matter of debate, ranging from as little as six months to as long
      as two years Recent studies have indicated that skin lesions observed in vitiligo tend to
      recur in the same places where they were found before treatment. This phenomenon is explained
      by the presence of a recently described subset of memory T cells known as cluster of
      differentiation( CD8 + )resident memory T cells (TRM) in lesional vitiligo patient skin and a
      role in disease maintenance and relapse following treatment has been suggested. Thus, the use
      of immunosuppressants/modulators could ameliorate their activity hence playing a role in
      stabilizing or treating the disease. . They could also improve the results of surgical
      options utilized in stable vitiligo refractory to medical treatments including tissue grafts
      (full-thickness punch, split-thickness, and suction blister grafts), cellular grafts
      (autologous melanocyte cultures and non-cultured epidermal cellular grafts. In addition to
      cultured epidermal suspensions and hair follicle transplantation These immune-modulators
      include: systemic and topical corticosteroids, a topical calcineurin inhibitor, and
      phototherapy
    
  