
    
      Background: An accessory to the commercially available GALILEI Dual-Scheimpflug Corneal
      Topographer/Keratometer with the name "EBR Accessory" was developed by the company Ziemer
      Ophthalmic Systems AG for the measurement of intraocular distances. The combination is called
      "GALILEI Lens Professional". The measurement principle is based on on short coherence
      interferometry/-reflectometry, which has gained wide-spread application and has been applied
      clinically, including one of the members of this study group, for the precise measurement of
      axial, intraocular distances (12.1.). Such EBR Accessory measurements, in combination with
      measurements by the GALILEI, may be applied to given intra-ocular lens (IOL) types and IOL
      equations, an permit the calculation of suggested IOLs that are implanted during cataract
      surgery, in order to achieve the desired vision correction. To register this accessory for
      sale, the precision and agreement to existing devices with similar applications ("predicate
      devices") must be demonstrated. One complete measurement consists of a
      cornea-topography/keratometry scan, followed immediately by three consecutive, axial biometry
      scans of the anterior segment (cornea and crystalline lens) and - after a short re-alignment
      - three consecutive, axial biometry scans of the retina. The measurement process is
      continuous, but divided in two steps. Blinking by the patient is possible in between the two
      steps, which increases patient comfort and, in certain cases, measurement success. Precision
      is evaluated by three repeated, complete measurements with the GALILEI Lens Professional and
      each predicate device. Two standard devices with comparable optical technology that are used
      in routine cataract surgery were declared as predicate devices. These two devise are
      typically used in combination with standard keratometers, as which the GALILEI Lens
      Professional may be employed as well.

      Goal: The comparison of the GALILEI Lens Professional to predicate devices with respect to
      precision in measuring postoperative, calculated target refractions in cataract patients, and
      versatility of measurable quantities.
    
  