
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Develop educational, promotional, and evaluation materials for use in promoting physical
           activity (PA) in community-based after-school programs by multiethnic, urban
           adolescents.

        -  Develop a series of workshops for promoting physical activities (PAs) that are "a good
           fit" in after-school programs for these participants.

        -  Determine a small set of feasibility tests as a first step towards pursuing funding for
           a full-scale experimental study.

        -  Development of print materials for a series of skills-building workshops for these
           participants.

        -  Development of evaluation materials, including self-report survey questions and
           structured interview protocols for qualitative assessment of participants' skills in
           identifying PAs that are a "good fit" for them.

      OUTLINE: Youth participants will be assigned to one of two groups and may be involved in one
      or more research activities conducted during after-school hours at a community-based,
      after-school program site.

        -  Focus group: Participants, consisting of 5-8 adolescents per focus group, either all
           male or all female, attend a single audiotaped focus group with a trained moderator for
           60 minutes. Participants complete an anonymous participant information form, and explore
           their perceptions of physical activity (PA), perceptions of audience segments among
           peers that would be appropriate for tailoring physical promotions, and responses to
           images and graphic designs for use in developing print materials. Some participants may
           also be eligible to participate in a second focus group and the survey if interested.

        -  One-on-one interview: Participants attend a one-on-one audiotaped individual interview
           with a trained interviewer for 60 minutes. Participants in the first set of interviews
           explore their perceptions of PA, their perceptions of the concept of finding PAs that
           are "a good fit", and their perceptions of audience segmentation for promoting PA. In
           the second set of interviews, participants test a protocol for qualitative assessment of
           adolescents' skills in assessing "good fit" of PA. Participants are involved in a series
           of visual and written scenarios depicting a variety of PAs, and use a structured
           interview format to identify the PA they most or least enjoy. Participants will also be
           asked to elaborate on criteria and experiences on which they based their decisions.
           Participants may also participate in the survey if interested.

        -  Survey: Participants complete a paper and pencil 60-minute questionnaire about PA
           behaviors, attitudes, environments, and person-physical activity skills (i.e., skills in
           finding PAs that are "a good fit"). Two weeks later, participants are asked to complete
           a second questionnaire.

        -  Key informant interview (adult): Participants attend a 60-minute, audiotaped interview
           with a trained interviewer that focuses on respondents' perceptions of the PA-related
           attitudes, behaviors, strengths, and barriers of the young adolescents who participate
           in their program, the respondents' experiences with promoting PA in their program
           participants, and respondents' suggestions for program elements and logistics to enhance
           the feasibility and effectiveness of after-school workshops to promote PA.

        -  Workshop pilot testing: After data collection from the above field work is completed,
           1-2 workshop activities are conducted in cooperation with program leaders at
           community-based, after-school programs.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 420 participants (400 adolescents and 20 adults) will be
      accrued for this study.
    
  