
    
      The National Oncologic PET Registry (NOPR) was developed in response to the Centers for
      Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) proposal to expand coverage for positron emission
      tomography with F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET) to include cancers and indications not
      presently eligible for Medicare reimbursement. Under this coverage with evidence development
      (CED) program, Medicare reimbursement for these cancers can be obtained if the patient's
      referring physician and the provider submit data to a clinical registry to assess the impact
      of PET on cancer patient management. The NOPR implemented this registry for CMS. The NOPR is
      sponsored by the World Molecular Imaging Society (formerly the Academy of Molecular Imaging),
      and managed by the American College of Radiology through the American College of Radiology
      Imaging Network.

      The original goal of the National Oncologic PET Registry was to assess the effect of positron
      emission tomography with F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET) on referring physicians' plans of
      intended patient management for those cancers and indications not currently eligible for
      reimbursement from CMS. Data were collected from the referring physician before and after the
      PET study. If complete and timely data are reported to the NOPR within 30 days of the PET
      scan, the PET facility and interpreting physician (nuclear physician/radiologist) are
      eligible for reimbursement by CMS. Based in part on data obtained from the NOPR, CMS expanded
      coverage for FDG-PET in patients with cancer on April 3, 2009 and further expanded coverage
      on June 11, 2013. Specifically, on June 11, 2013, CMS issued a final decision memorandum
      ending the prospective data collection requirements under CED for all oncologic indications
      for FDG-PET. Overall accrual to the FDG-PET registry was nearly 288,000 scans.

      On February 26, 2010, CMS announced its decision to cover the use NaF-18 PET to identify bone
      metastasis. Under this new policy, the use of NaF-18 PET would be covered only under an
      approved (CED) program. The NOPR obtained CMS approval to develop a registry for NaF-18 as an
      amendment to the then-existing NOPR for FDG-PET. The NaF-18 PET registry component of NOPR
      was activated for accrual on February 7, 2011. Estimated total accrual to the NaF-PET
      registry is 45,000 cases.

      As with the registry for FDG-PET, the goal of the NaF-18 PET registry component is to assess
      the impact of this imaging examination on referring physicians' plans of intended management
      of patients with known or suspected osseous metastatic disease. Data are collected from the
      referring physician before and after the PET study, as well as from the interpreting
      physician. If complete and timely data are reported to the NOPR within 30 days of the PET
      scan, the PET facility and interpreting physician (nuclear physician/radiologist) are
      eligible for reimbursement by CMS.
    
  