
    
      Pilates is a popular exercise therapy approach that focuses on strength, core stability,
      flexibility, muscle control, and posture (Wells et al., 2014). This approach has evolved over
      time, to form a valuable therapeutic tool in the prevention and rehabilitation of a variety
      of injuries (Di Lorenzo, 2011). More recently, Pilates has become increasingly popular due to
      its wide-ranging health benefits for individuals with a range of MSK (musculoskeletal)
      disorders, as well as other conditions (Byrnes, Wu, & Whillier, 2018). This method has become
      more commercially recognised and accessible through various professional institutions. The
      Australian Physiotherapy & Pilates Institute (APPI), is a globally run organisation licensed
      in sixteen countries, delivering over 17000 classes per year, as a "graduated system of
      specific exercise rehabilitation" (Appihealthgroup.com, 2018).

      In the UK, Pilates based exercise therapy is used within both the National Health Service
      (NHS) and private healthcare sectors in the management of low back pain (LBP), general MSK
      pain, and various degenerative conditions (Yamato et al. 2015). An estimated 17.8 million
      people live with a musculoskeletal condition in the UK, around 28.9% of the total population
      (Global Burden of Disease network, 2016). Over 8.75 million people aged 45 and over have
      sought treatment for osteoarthritis (Arthritis Research UK, 2013), for which the main
      management strategy is exercise-based therapy. MSK healthcare services are under increasing
      pressure to provide care to the ageing population, and tackle the healthcare impact
      associated with inactivity (Hubbard et al., 2004). Group based exercise such as class
      Pilates, offers an accessible opportunity to increase activity levels in such individuals
      (Karlsson, Gerdle, Takala, Andersson, & Larsson, 2018).

      There is considerable evidence that Pilates has numerous physical benefits and may improve
      self-management of MSK conditions. This includes a wealth of quantitative research, several
      systematic reviews have demonstrated positive improvements on pain, quality of life and
      functionality (Aladro-Gonzalvo, Araya-Vargas, Machado-Díaz, & Salazar-Rojas, 2013; Byrnes et
      al., 2018). However, of the Randomised Controlled Trials (RCTs) reviewed, high levels of
      heterogeneity were reported, in terms of sample (sub-types of back pain), exercise selection,
      delivery and frequency of treatment.

      In contrast to this, there is a dearth of qualitative research evaluating Pilates as a
      treatment approach, mostly focusing on LBP populations (Gaskell & Williams, 2018). These
      methods can be valuable to review the definition, scope and rationale of Pilates treatment
      methods used by Physiotherapists, to provide optimum rehabilitation. Use of a qualitative
      approach could also gain understanding of how Physiotherapists utilise Pilates for a range of
      conditions other than LBP (Wells et al., 2014). Therefore, this study aims to investigate the
      variation in Pilates delivery and why, and in line with previous qualitative studies, further
      explore the perceived benefits, risks and rationale for this exercise approach. This is the
      first study to review NHS and private physiotherapists in their use of Pilates group
      exercise.
    
  