
    
      In this study, the feasibility of the use of NIR fluorescence imaging for the identification
      of the parathyroid glands during thyroid surgery will be explored.

      Per-operatively: The surgery will start as usual. When the surgeon would normally search for
      the parathyroid glands, 7.5 mg of ICG will be administered intravenously through the infusion
      in the patients arm. An intravenous administration is chosen because of the minimal invasive
      nature and results of the described earlier case series in which ICG was also administered
      via peripheral infusion. Directly after that, the fluorescence system can be switched to
      fluorescence mode. The surgeon will determine whether the parathyroid glands are visible now.
      If needed, due to washout, a second dose of 7.5 mg of ICG can be administered. After
      identification of the parathyroid glands, surgery will continue as in the standard situation,
      until there is a desire to visualize the parathyroid glands again, then another dose of ICG
      can be given. Time until first identification of the parathyroid glands and total surgical
      time will be measured. After complete removal of the thyroid, another 7.5 mg of ICG will be
      administered intravenously to visualize the vascularization of the parathyroid gland. The
      intensity will be subjectively scored: 1 parathyroid black after injection of ICG, 2
      partially vascularized, or 3 parathyroid is green; well vascularized. The fluorescence system
      will be used to record the whole procedure. Directly after the procedure the researcher will
      ask the surgeon whether he or she thinks the technique is feasible.

      Postoperatively: As in standard care, after thyroid surgery, the serum calcium levels will be
      determined. Low calcium levels can indicate misidentification of parathyroid glands. These
      calcium levels are determined only in patients after total thyroidectomy on day 1, 2 and
      after two weeks. Also TSH will be determined after two weeks as in standard care. The thyroid
      specimen will be send to pathology. In the specimen, the pathologist will search for
      parathyroid glands, as is standard care. Furthermore, video recordings will be analyzed,
      quantifying the fluorescence signal compared to the background: measuring the Target to
      Background Ratio. Also, in these video recordings the time until visualization of the
      parathyroid glands will be reassessed by an independent expert.
    
  