
    
      Head and neck cancer (HNC) is the 6th most common type of cancer in the world and is
      increasing in incidence. Squamous cell carcinomas (SCC) account for the majority of these
      HNCs. An increasing number of these SCCs are being found to be associated with the Human
      Papilloma Virus (HPV) which has also been shown to be associated with a more favourable
      outcome. These HPV related cancers tend to affect younger patients with fewer comorbidities.
      As such, we are finding a larger cohort of patients are surviving for longer after treatment
      for their primary cancers.

      HNC patients are over 11 times more likely to experience a second head and neck primary
      cancer than the general population over 20 years of follow up (SIR 11.2, 95% CI [10.6-11.8]).
      In addition to second primaries, patients may suffer from residual disease after treatment
      for their initial primary, identified within a 12 month period, or recurrent disease, cancer
      at the same site identified within 5 years. Treatment for all of these cancers, which we will
      broadly term 'recurrent' cancers for the purposes of this study, can be complex. Commonly,
      radiotherapy will have formed part of the treatment regime at either the primary site or to
      the neck for these patients. Radiotherapy causes fibrosis in the irradiated tissues, reducing
      tissue pliability, contributing to trismus and reducing healing potential at the effected
      sites. This can pose significant challenges to any further surgical intervention, which may
      form the mainstay of any subsequent management if re-irradiation is not an option or not
      indicated. Surgery must then look to be as minimally invasive as possible in order to
      maximise functional outcomes and reduce disruption of affected tissues.

      Options for surgery have traditionally involved transmandibular and transcervical routes.
      More recently transoral routes have been adopted as endoscopic instruments become more widely
      available and adopted. Transoral Robotic Surgery (TORS) is the latest development in the
      field which confers some significant advantages to the surgeon and to the patient. For the
      surgeon, the endoscopic view is binocular, giving a close objective lens and excellent depth
      perception. Further, the instruments have wrists which sit within the body cavity, allowing
      manipulation of the tissues beyond the direct line of sight through the oral stoma. For the
      patient, there is less disrupted tissue if access incisions are avoided, reducing the volume
      of tissue that would be susceptible to scarring which can affect swallowing function or lead
      to fistula formation.

      However, there are little data to show oncological and functional outcomes are acceptable
      following TORS surgery for recurrent cancers. This is in part as it is a relatively new
      technology and in part because whilst increasingly common, the absolute number of surgeries
      performed remains relatively low at individual centres. Published outcomes have shown 2 year
      disease-free survival rates around 75%. The RECUT study aims to use a collaborative
      methodology to document the outcomes from TORS for recurrent HNC being performed at a number
      of high volume centres across the globe.
    
  