
    
      1. Introduction

           Hepatitis C infection is a major cause of chronic liver disease and death throughout the
           world1. Approximately 3% of the world's population is infected with hepatitis C virus
           (HCV)2.

           HCV is transmitted by blood and in the UK occurs primarily through injecting drug use.
           Chronically infected people are at risk of progressive liver disease characterised by
           hepatocellular inflammation, hepatic fibrosis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma
           (HCC). These complications develop only in a proportion of patients and only after many
           years or decades of infection3. It has been estimated that up to 20% of chronically
           infected individuals will develop cirrhosis of the liver over a 20 to 25 year period.
           Approximately 3% to 4% of patients with cirrhosis will develop HCC per year3.

           New drug therapies such as protease and polymerase inhibitors called direct-acting
           antivirals (DAAs) have been developed in the last ten years and have recently been
           licensed for use worldwide. These DAAs have proven to be very well tolerated with
           minimal, and sometimes no, side effects. The current costs of these agents are extremely
           high, limiting their use to select populations of infected patients. However, they
           provide an opportunity to cure most patients with HCV if they can access and adhere to
           treatment. A bigger challenge is to engage and cure those who are not accessing medical
           care, or who have other complex problems, including homelessness, incarceration, and
           substance misuse. These underserved populations are disproportionately affected by
           infectious diseases such as HCV and face many challenges to access testing and adherence
           to treatment.

           There has been previously demonstrated a high prevalence (13% RNA detectable HCV4) of
           chronic HCV infection among homeless people opportunistically screened at residential
           hostels and day centres across London. Data from the HALT Hepatitis Study5 showed that
           41% of HCV Ab positive recruits were homeless at enrolment and that over 60% of HCV
           infected patients knew of their status but had disengaged from treatment services. This
           population therefore includes a high number of undiagnosed cases and previously known
           HCV positive cases who are not accessing treatment services.

           The epidemiology of HCV among homeless populations in the UK is poorly understood.
           Currently there are no data on the extent of liver fibrosis in this population to inform
           strategies for future management and estimate potential resource requirements to
           effectively mobilise treatment to this vulnerable and underserved group. Early detection
           of significant fibrosis is critical to prevent severe disease and death. Ongoing drug or
           alcohol use is not a contra-indication to hepatitis C treatment, and research shows that
           people who are actively using drugs can and should be treated for hepatitis C6. Point of
           care tests (POCTs) mean that infection can be identified immediately in the community
           reducing the risk of loss to follow up. Transient liver elastography (performed using
           FibroScan®) is now the gold standard in the assessment for liver fibrosis. FibroScanning
           is a 5 minute non-invasive, painless procedure to accurately assess liver fibrosis with
           high reproducibility7. This means that mush of what traditionally required several
           hospital appointments can now be done in potentially one outreach session.

           Strategies to improve HCV case detection and management have much to learn from the
           management of Tuberculosis (TB), a disease which affects the same group of individuals
           and community models of care have been used with great success. Strategies such as
           active case finding, community based screening and treatment, directly observed therapy
           (DOT) and peer support have all shown high rates of case detection and treatment
           completion.

           The Find&Treat Mobile Health Unit (MHU) from UCLH NHS Trust provides health screening
           for homeless individuals across various sites in London, UK such homeless hostels, day
           centres and drug services. They are experienced in using outreach models of care and
           peer advocates for infectious diseases such as TB to engage patients with specialist
           care. As HCV treatment moves into the community there is a need to evaluate outreach
           activities to inform future practice and care.

        2. Aims and Objectives

           This study aims to assess the effectiveness of community based interventions with peer
           support to improve case detection, carry out pre-treatment assessments and assist
           underserved populations through HCV treatment by the Find&Treat service.

           Primary Objective

           Evaluate the effectiveness of the HCV community based detection and management including
           screening, liver assessment and treatment support in underserved populations using
           mobile health facilities and peer support.

           Secondary Objectives

             -  Estimate the proportion of homeless people with chronic HCV infection and their
                degree of liver fibrosis.

             -  Risk factors for HCV infection and for re-infection for those completing treatment
                or testing negative at recruitment.

             -  Report this experience to inform the development of further programmes in the UK
                and other EU countries.

        3. Study design

      This is an observational study to establish the effectiveness of intensified community based
      screening, liver assessment and supported treatment for homeless people and underserved
      populations. Patients will be recruited from an NHS mobile health outreach service screening
      individuals accessing homeless and drug services in London, UK.

      Following enrolment patient will be followed up for up to 12 months or until an appropriate
      defined clinical end point is reached. Successful engagement with community based HCV
      screening and treatment is defined as:

      i. Successful pre-treatment assessment and a decision to not proceed by the clinician ii.
      Engagement with treatment support (including offered, start or completion of therapy
      according to individual circumstance)

      Preliminary data from the HALT study (1) shows an effect size in improved engagement of 1.9.
      To detect a 20% increase in individuals successfully engaging with community services, from a
      baseline of 20%, we would need to recruit 164 individuals who are HCV positive (with 90%
      power and 5% significance level) compared with 82 in the comparison group. The clinical team
      would therefore have to screen 820 individuals assuming a rate of infection of 20%, which was
      found in previous pilot study work.

      Among those screened we will calculate the prevalence of hepatitis C infection and the
      severity of disease in this population compared with published data and risk factors for
      chronic HCV infection and re-infection for those achieving SVR or test negative. We will also
      investigate the proportion completing treatment and factors associated with better treatment
      completion and SVR using multivariable regression models. Statistical software used in the
      analysis will be STATA version 14.1.

      (1) The HALT Study. Unpublished: http://www.isrctn.com/ISRCTN24707359
    
  