
    
      Patients will undergo collection of pancreatic fluid by the LINFU™ Technique as part of this
      study. This procedure takes about 30-45 minutes. This procedure will be done in the beginning
      of the participant's standard of care endoscopic ultrasound procedure (EUS). The details for
      the procedure are listed below.

      LINFU™ Technique

        1. Once the participant is sedated or under anesthesia, low intensity non-focused
           ultrasound excitation of the pancreas will be implemented. This means the sound waves
           from the ultrasound on the top of the stomach will be used to stimulate the pancreas to
           release juice.

        2. During the ultrasound, the Investigator will administer Lumason through a vein in the
           participant's arm (IV). Lumason is a contrast agent that was frequently used to create
           bubbles that allows a better visualization of images. In this study, Lumason will be
           used to create bubbles and possibly increase the number of pancreatic cells collected
           for the study.

        3. After 25 minutes of ultrasound, the participant will receive an IV dose of secretin over
           1 minute. Naturally, secretin is a hormone released into the bloodstream by a part of
           the small intestine, namely duodenum, (especially in response to acidity) to stimulate
           secretion by the liver and pancreas. In this study, Secretin is used to increase the
           number of pancreatic cell excretion to maximize the number of cells collected.

        4. The participant will then undergo clinically indicated EGD (insertion of a tube down the
           throat and past the stomach). EGD stands for esophagogastroduodenoscopy. This procedure
           would be done regardless of participating in the study. The Investigator who is doing
           EGD will discuss all risks and explain how the procedure will be done.

        5. The pancreatic juice will be collected immediately. About 15 minutes after the EGD
           procedure has begun, a second dose of secretin will be administered.

        6. The pancreatic juice will continue to be collected for a total of 30 minutes.

      The participant will then continue with the standard evaluation of the suspected malignancy
      with endoscopic ultrasound, with or without fine-needle aspiration (FNA). This is not part of
      the study and the Investigator has already determined that this test is required.

      The LINFU technique won't be used to guide medical care. This is an experimental technique so
      participants won't receive the results. Participants will undergo clinical diagnostic
      procedures as part of the standard medical care.

      Participants will be called 24 hours after the study procedure and 30 days after the
      procedure to see if any symptoms of pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas have
      developed). If so, participants will be asked to come back to the clinic for further
      evaluation as would be done as part of the standard medical care.

      Any identifiable private information or specimens collected and/or used for the purposes of
      this research will not be used or distributed for future research studies.
    
  