
    
      Patients should be assessed daily for their readiness to be weaned from mechanical
      ventilation, sedation must be withdrawn and all patients will be put on a spontaneous
      breathing trial (SBT), via T-piece, for 60 -120 minutes period, when they fulfil the weaning
      criteria. Patients who succeed to tolerate SBT will be extubated and monitored for signs of
      respiratory distress.

      Clinical assessment during and after SBT:

        -  The ability of maintaining a respiration rate of less than 35/min, and keeping oxygen
           saturation more than 90%.

        -  Arterial blood gases (ABGs) will be done 30-60 minutes after SBT and after extubation.

        -  To detect signs of respiratory distress: diaphoresis, tachypnea (RR> 35/min), increase
           activity of accessory muscles of respiration, tachycardia (heart rate > 140 beats per
           minute), systolic blood pressure > 180 mmHg or <90 mmHg, appearance of new arrhythmia,
           or alteration in mental status (drowsiness or anxiety). ABGs: PaO2 ≤ 60 mmHg or oxygen
           saturation < 90% on FiO2 ≥ 0.4, PaCO2 > 50 mmHg, or an increase in by ≥ 8 mmHg, pH <
           7.32 or a decrease in pH by ≥ 0.07 pH units.

      Clinical assessment will be done by an intensivist who will be blinded to the LUS score
      results.

      Lung ultrasound (LUS): will be performed while patients in supine position, with a curved
      probe on B- mode, using longitudinal view, to assess the amount of lung aeration. Each lung
      will be divided into anterior, lateral and posterior regions, each part will be divided to
      upper and lower zone, with total of 12 zones to undergo examination. Examination will be done
      by an expert physician in US.

      Lung US score [9]: The 12 scanned regions will be summed to calculate the LUS score, which
      ranged from 0 and 36. In each zone, the worst ultrasound form will considered to be
      descriptive of the entire region.

        -  Score of 0: Normal aeration is signified by the presence of horizontal A lines, lung
           sliding, or less than 3 vertical B lines.

        -  Score of 1: moderate loss of aeration is characterized by multiple regularly or
           irregularly spaced B lines that originated from the pleural line.

        -  Score of 2: Severe loss of aeration is manifested by multiple coalescent B lines in
           several intercostal spaces of the specific zone. Detected in alveolar-interstitial
           syndrome.[

        -  Score of 3: Complete loss of aeration, as detected in lung consolidation or atelectasis,
           is characterized by tissue echogenicity, which is similar to liver or splenic tissues.

      The score will be performed before starting and at the end of SBT (before extubation), or on
      developing respiratory distress during SBT.

      Patients will be classified according to the possible outcome:

      Successful weaning: patients who will not need re-intubation within 48 hours after
      extubation.

      SBT failure: which will be diagnosed by the appearance of signs of respiratory distress
      during SBT and patients will be connected again to the ventilator. Extubation failure: will
      be defined as patients who developed signs of respiratory distress after extubation within
      48hs and need reintubation or non-invasive ventilatory support.
    
  