
    
      Knee osteoarthritis (KOA), the most common degenerative condition affecting the peripheral
      weight-bearing joints, leads to pain, restricted mobility, and financial and moral burden.
      These effects will increase with rising numbers of incidents, exacerbated by population aging
      and obesity. Zhang et al. found KOA in 43% and 22% (15% and 6% in symptomatic individuals) of
      Chinese women and men, respectively, 60 years or older. In the United States, KOA affects 12%
      of the elderly population, and it is projected that the need for total knee replacement (TKR)
      to treat end-stage KOA will grow by 673% to 3.48 million procedures a year from 2005 to 2030,
      with the demand for TKR revision doubling from 2005 to 2015. Hong Kong's public hospitals
      performed 6658 TKRs from 2011 to 2014, with 10,000 cases wait-listed for 2016. These figures
      suggest that KOA will impose significant and increasing pressure on Hong Kong's healthcare
      system.

      As quadriceps muscle weakness increases the risk of KOA, its symptoms should be alleviated by
      leg muscle strengthening. Land-based exercise has been effective under close monitoring and
      supervision. A recent Cochrane Review involving 54 studies concluded that there is moderate
      to high-quality evidence that land-based exercises significantly improve muscle strength,
      physical function, and quality of life and reduce pain in KOA patients. The effect of such
      exercises is comparable to that of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs with no significant
      adverse effects. However, therapist-delivered exercise is costly and often impractical,
      especially in a public-health context, and Internet-delivered exercise regimes represent an
      alternative approach. In today's information technology (IT)-enabled environment, mobile apps
      are readily accessible to users of untethered devices (e.g., smartphones). The "any-where,
      any-time" mobile IT could be exploited to more effectively manage KOA by encouraging
      self-motivation to substitute for direct monitoring. This study will present "IT-centered
      endogenous healthcare" as a public policy to boost self-help in primary care and test its
      practicability and efficacy in KOA management in Hong Kong. The word "endogenous" suggests
      that self-motivation is a form of self-insurance in primary care. It is further suggested
      that demand-side incentives will be needed to induce individuals to incrementally allocate
      more resources (particularly time and effort) to incrementally self-insure health at the
      primary level.

      On the supply side, IT-based healthcare products have been mainly designed for commercial
      considerations such as marketing and are insufficiently focused on function for purposes of
      public health and policy. We follow Liao-Cheung's approach to reify demand-side incentives in
      the form of a publicly funded (and hence free) mobile app, the adoption of which could
      encourage self-insurance among individuals with knee problems or KOA. The users' time and
      effort will initially be rewarded by the app's user-friendliness and lack of a fee. The
      study's technology intervention, "mobile rehabilitation (mRehab) app", will link smartphones
      to videos of evidence-based, physiotherapist-prescribed exercises to alleviate knee/KOA
      symptoms, together with educational (e.g., diet and behavioral modifications) and
      motivational components. This mobile IT platform will have easier and wider accessibility
      than exercises delivered via tethered devices (e.g., desktop computers), and it can engage
      the users' interest whenever and wherever KOA effects are felt. Over time, self-motivation is
      also enhanced by high-frequency prompts, periodic upgrades with feedback, support from
      Internet KOA-awareness groups, the possibility of accumulating one's own health-data to
      facilitate queries and dialogue, and (most importantly) monitoring the health progression
      predicted by the exercise regimen.

      A natural research sample follows in the form of IT-enabled individuals with knee/KOA
      problems. The proposed hypothesis is then offered that sustained use of the mRehab app will
      significantly reduce the symptoms and improve functions of individuals with quadriceps
      weakness and knee pain or KOA over time and compared to a sham app (the analytical control).
      The effectiveness of the mRehab app regarding this hypothesis will be tested in two samples:
      (1) KOA-at-risk individuals and (2) KOA-diagnosed patients, in a randomized controlled trial
      (RCT).
    
  