
    
      Experimental Design:

        1. A physician investigator will obtain consent during the pre-operative appointment. Study
           team members may assist with the discussion.

        2. Upon arrival to the pre-operative area 2 hours prior to surgery, the participant will be
           injected with 2.5 mg/kg ICG (Indocyanine Green Dye) as per standard protocol: during
           regular pre-operative work-up, during which a standard of care IV is inserted. The PI or
           resident physician will administer the injection.

        3. The participant will undergo the tumor removal surgery as planned pre-operatively.

           To assess the accuracy and precision of ICG dye localization within tumor, not
           non-tumor, a small sample of tumor and a small sample of native tissue will be obtained
           for microscopy analysis (ICG fluorescence is possible on slides following frozen
           sectioning) 30 seconds, no intra-operative delay.

        4. Once the tumor is removed to the satisfaction of the surgeon, ICG Angiography (SPY PHI)
           will be performed to detect any residual signal, 2-3 minutes, no re-draping required.

           The surgeon will complete a "feedback sheet" that assesses if the tumor was completely
           excised (or an intentional positive margin was left).

        5. The operative surgeon will be blinded to the angiography result. ICG Angiography will be
           performed by the resident or surgical staff, without surgeon involvement. No study team
           members are blinded.

        6. The dose that will be administered 2.5 mg/Kg IC. Doses are being based on measurements
           on post-washout signal (or the remaining signal after the dye is metabolized). Weight
           based dosing is therefore far more important. The proposed dosing is not close to the
           LD50 (median lethal dose) of ICG and no side effects are anticipated with the increased
           dose.

        7. The Stryker team will be perform an in-service for SPY PHI ( SPY portable hand held
           imaging device) for all OR staff members, and individual demonstrations for each service
           resident will be performed. The device is very simple to use and no active measurements
           need to be made. No extended anesthesia will be required.

        8. The participant will be monitored for recurrence, which will be compared with ICG
           angiography findings intra-operatively.

        9. Study efficacy will be evaluated every 6 months, as early-termination and clinical
           translation will be indicated should accuracy be proven in compliance with IRB
           (Institutional Review Board) "do no harm" rules.

       10. Radiographs, that are completed post operatively during the standard of care visit, will
           be reviewed for this research.
    
  