
    
      Introduction Stroke survivors and their family caregivers often experience stress, anxiety,
      and depression. Research suggests the emotional wellbeing of the stroke survivor and family
      caregiver might be interconnected, which means optimum outcomes will only be achieved when
      they are supported as a partnership (Atteih, et al. 2015).

      Mindfulness-Based Interventions (MBIs) can help psychological wellbeing, but usually involve
      people attending groups by themselves, which might not suit everyone. Sometimes accessing
      group-based MBI can be difficult and/or people might not want to learn MBI within a group
      environment (Wahbeh, et al. 2014). Web-based MBIs have become more readily available in
      recent years, but little attention has been given to partnership orientated web-based
      interventions. Research is needed to explore the potential effects of web-based MBI for
      stroke survivors and family caregiver partnerships (Bakas, et al. 2017). This study aims to
      explore the feasibility, appropriateness, meaningfulness, and effectiveness of web-based MBIs
      for stroke survivor and family caregiver partnerships.

      Method Purposive sampling will be used to recruit community-dwelling stroke survivor-family
      caregiver partnerships (n=5 dyads). These partnerships will complete a four-week asynchronous
      tutor-led web-based MBI. The web-based MBI aligns with the eight-week Mindfulness-Based
      Stress Reduction (Kabat-Zinn and Hanh, 2009) and Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy
      (Teasedale, et al. 2000) courses, but in a shorter format. The course involves ten online
      interactive videos (30 minutes each), twelve daily practice assignments (with supportive
      emails), five audio downloads, and online tools for reviewing progress.

      The design will involve a mixed method multiple single-case (A-B) design: two-week baseline,
      four-week intervention, and four-week follow-up phases. Stroke survivors and family
      caregivers will complete the Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale (HADS) (Zigmond and Snaith,
      1983) weekly to evaluate psychological wellbeing and clinical effectiveness. Paired
      semi-structured post-intervention interviews will be completed at follow-up and
      Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis used to contextualize the results and explain the
      meaning associated with the findings.

      Results Recruitment and completion data will be reported using descriptive statistics to help
      evaluate feasibility and appropriateness. HADS outcome data for stroke survivors and family
      caregivers will be presented in individual graphs and using raw data to facilitate future
      meta-analysis. Visual and statistical analysis of outcome data will be completed to evaluate
      clinical effectiveness, effect size, and whether any changes were statistically significant.

      The Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis will be reported using relevant themes and
      participants' quotes to provide a coherent analysis of the feasibility, appropriateness,
      meaningfulness, and effectiveness of stroke survivors and family caregivers using web-based
      MBI.

      Discussion The findings will inform the feasibility, acceptability, and clinical
      effectiveness of web-based MBI for stroke survivors and family caregivers partnerships. The
      study will explore the usefulness and meaning of learning MBI online and in a partnership.
      These findings could help determine whether using web-based MBI in a partnership has any
      therapeutic value for participants and help tailor such intervention for stroke survivor and
      family caregiver partnerships.
    
  