
    
      Approximately 10% of TMD patients will not experience an improvement of their symptoms and
      around 75% of patients who fail to respond to conservative treatments are also not suitable
      for TM joint surgery. Initial studies from NIH-NIDCR R56 project using positron emission
      tomography (PET) with [11C] Carfentanil, a selective radiotracer for μ-opioid receptor (μOR),
      have demonstrated that there is a decrease in thalamic μOR availability (non displaceable
      binding potential BPND) in the brains of TMD patients during masseteric pain compared to
      healthy controls. μ-opioid neurotransmission is arguably one of the mechanisms most centrally
      involved in pain regulation and experience. Moreover, the thalamus is the major relay
      structure in the forebrain for (non)-noxious inputs, which will be distributed subsequently
      to multiple cortical areas for discriminative, cognitive and affective processing. MRI-based
      reports have found that those findings co-localize with neuroplastic changes in trigeminal
      pain patients. Conventional therapies are unable to selectively target the thalamus and
      associated regions, and there is a paucity of data on how to reverse neuroplastic molecular
      mechanisms when available medications fail. Interestingly, several studies with motor cortex
      stimulation (MCS) have shown that epidural electrodes in the primary motor cortex (M1) are
      effective in providing analgesia in patients with central pain and that it occurs via
      indirect modulation of thalamic activity. Evidently, the invasive nature of such a procedure
      limits its indication to highly severe pain disorders. New non-invasive neuromodulatory
      methods for M1, such as transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), can now safely
      modulate the μOR system, providing relatively lasting pain relief in pain patients. Recently,
      a novel high-definition tDCS (HD-tDCS) montage created by this research group was able to
      reduce exclusively "contralateral" sensory-discrimative clinical pain measures
      (intensity/area) in TMD patients by targeting precisely the M1 region. Therefore, the main
      goals of this study are: First, to exploit the μ-opioidergic dysfunction in vivo in TMD
      patients compared to healthy controls; Second, to determine whether 10 daily sessions of
      noninvasive and precise M1 HD-tDCS have a modulatory effect on clinical and experimental pain
      measures in TMD patients; and Third, to investigate whether repetitive active M1 HD-tDCS
      induces/reverts μOR BPND changes in the thalamus and other pain-related regions, and whether
      those changes are correlated with TMD pain measures. The studies above represent a change in
      paradigm in TMD research, as this research group directly investigates and modulates in vivo
      one of the most important endogenous analgesic mechanisms in the brain.
    
  