
    
      This study is a prospective, randomized controlled study of patients with atrophied
      multifidus muscles and axial lower back pain that are randomized to one of 3 treatment
      groups. Group 1 receives a series of 6 injections (1 time per week for 6 weeks) of platelet
      poor plasma into multifidus. Group 2 receives a series of 6 injections (1 time per week for 6
      weeks) of platelet rich plasma (PRP) into multifidus. Group 3 receives a series of 3
      injections (1 time every 2 weeks for 6 weeks) of PRP to multifidus, as well as PRP into facet
      joint, as well as an epidural injection of platelet lysate (PL).

      Prior to procedure patient will undergo evaluation of medical history, back pain history,
      lumbar examination, medication use and review MRI of lumbar spine.

      While lying prone, the patient's back will be exposed and prepped sterilely. While
      maintaining sterile technique, the physician will utilize US, x-ray or a combination of the
      two to guide the needles bilaterally into the multifidus, specifically the area of treatment
      using ultrasound, x-ray or a combination of the two. Once the lamina is reached the physician
      will either inject autologous 2.5 cc PPP (group 1) or will inject autologous 2.5 cc of 5x PRP
      into the multifidus muscle on one side and then repeat this on the opposite side for each
      level (group 2 & 3).

      Additionally, for patients in group 3, using sterile technique under fluoroscopic guidance,
      the physician will guide a needle into the supraneural transforaminal space to perform an
      epidural injection with 2cc of 3x PL and 1 cc of 0.5% ropivacaine. Next, a needle will then
      be guided into the facet joint to perform an intra-articular injection with 1cc of 14x PRP.
      After the procedure, the patient will be cleaned and bandaged. The patient will be given
      standard rehab protocols to perform at home.

      Patients will have follow-up visits with patient reported outcomes or pain and function at 3
      months, 6 months and 12 months. A post-treatment MRI at 6 months will be compared to baseline
      MRI to measure changes to multifidus atrophy.
    
  