
    
      Brain tumours are the most common group of solid tumours in children accounting for nearly a
      quarter of all childhood cancers. There are approximately 500 new cases of central nervous
      system (CNS) tumours in children/adolescents reported in the UK per year. Although prognosis
      has improved over the last 30 years, brain tumours remain the leading cause of
      tumour-associated death in children. Surgical resection is a mainstay of management of
      children with brain tumours, as for several tumour types there is strong evidence that
      survival and progression free survival are influenced by the degree of resection. Therefore
      extensive tumour removal is an operative goal, but the morbidity of surgery along with any
      subsequent oncological treatment should also be considered. The NICE guidelines for improving
      outcomes in children and young people with cancer identify that 'Survivors of CNS malignancy
      are among the neediest of all cancer survivors, because of the effects of the tumour and
      multimodality therapy, all of which affect neurological, psychological, endocrine and
      academic function and become more evident with increasing age'.

      Children with posterior fossa tumours (PFT), which account for approximately 50% of all
      childhood brain tumours, have a distinctive set of issues e.g. potential for gross change
      pre/post operatively, rapid onset of ataxia, hydrocephalus and increased intra-cranial
      pressure adding deficits distinct from ataxia, in addition to potential problems from any
      subsequent oncological management such as radiotherapy. Of these issues, ataxia is the
      predominant motor problem in children with posterior fossa tumours. Ataxia can describe a
      related number of impairments including upper limb control, balance, gait difficulties, eye
      movement issues and speech problems. It is a presenting sign in 58-90% of children with
      posterior fossa tumours. Ataxia and balance problems also persist long term following
      surgery, Piscione et al found 70% of children with posterior fossa tumours will have long
      term post-operative balance problems. Lannering et al specified that truncal ataxia was the
      most disabling motor impairment in children with brain tumours.

      Access to neuro-rehabilitation is recognized as crucial in paediatric neuro-oncology with
      physiotherapy integral to this; yet there is no consensus as to the type, intensity or timing
      of interventions. A literature review of physical therapy/physiotherapy for children with
      ataxia (of any origin) was carried out in preparation for this project to confirm the
      literature gap, and consider interventions that have been of value in other pathologies
      causing ataxia. Ten papers in total were identified which included three review papers that
      covered adult and paediatric literature though the data were not separated in the studies to
      enable consideration of paediatrics as a distinct group. Overall the reviews concurred there
      was a suggestion of the benefit of physiotherapy (including treadmill training,
      rehabilitation, virtual training) though treatment modalities were often not consistently
      defined and evidence was typically of low quality (level III/IV). The recommendations from
      these reviews are that the next step would be to undertake RCTs (randomised controlled
      trials) in more homogenous patient groups. Looking at the paediatric literature, there were
      three case studies identified (and one case series with a population of three adolescents)
      again in differing diagnoses though none were examining children with brain tumours that is
      the most common acute cause for ataxia in the paediatric population. The largest paediatric
      study (n=10) identified through the literature review was a cohort study by Ilg et al
      evaluating the effect of virtual training. Virtual training refers to the use of computer
      technologies that provide an interactive environment that requires limb movement to react to
      on screen game play. Ilgs study found positive results and proposed that virtual training
      should then complement/supplement therapy treatment tailored according to the individual and
      continued in the home environment. Virtual training has also been explored in other
      paediatric populations e.g. cerebral palsy.

      Overall the literature review highlighted that there is a gap in the literature regarding
      physiotherapy intervention for children with ataxia, in particular there is no literature on
      effectiveness of physiotherapy for children with brain tumours. However, there is an emerging
      evidence base in adults with ataxia and to a lesser extent paediatric populations as
      described above, from similar (though non acute) lesions in the cerebellum reporting the
      benefits of balance therapies including virtual training. This suggests the potential for
      recovery from ataxia in similar conditions i.e. children with damage to the cerebellum
      following surgical resection of posterior fossa tumour.
    
  