
    
      Objectives: The primary objective of this study is to compare local corticosteroid hand and
      elbow injections to placebo or ketorolac to determine if there is an equal or better
      reduction of symptoms for common orthopaedic upper extremity disorders including: De
      Quervain's tenosynovitis, trigger fingers, and tennis elbow (lateral epicondylitis).

      Number of Subjects: 780 total subjects:

      • 260 subjects in each of the 3 treatment groups (De Quervain's tenosynovitis, trigger
      fingers and lateral epicondylitis) Diagnosis and Main Inclusion Criteria Subjects 18 years or
      older, with any of the following diagnoses: De Quervain's tenosynovitis, trigger fingers, or
      lateral epicondylitis

      Study Product, Dose, Route, Regimen: Peritendinous soft tissue injection for De Quervain's
      tenosynovitis, trigger fingers and lateral epicondylitis:

      • 1 mL of ketorolac (30mg/mL) and 0.5 mL (5mg) of 1% lidocaine Duration of administration
      Single administration, with a second injection permitted only once as subject desires due to
      no major clinical response at the 4 or 8-week follow-up.

      Reference therapy: Standard of care peritendinous soft tissue injection for De Quervain's
      tenosynovitis, trigger fingers, and lateral epicondylitis:

      • 1 mL of dexamethasone sodium phosphate (4mg/mL) and 0.5 mL (5mg) of 1% lidocaine

      Statistical Methodology: The sample size as stated above was derived by a power analysis. A
      power analysis indicated that a total sample size of 200 patients randomized equally (1:1
      randomization) to each treatment arm (i.e trigger finger, De Quervain's disease, and tennis
      elbow) without any blocking or stratification would provide 80% statistical power (alpha=.05,
      beta=0.20) to detect a 10% difference in mean Quick Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and
      Hand (quickDASH) scores between cohorts assuming a common standard deviation of 25% (effect
      size = 10/25 = 0.4). To account for an estimated 30% loss to follow-up, the investigators
      plan to enroll a total of 260 patients per treatment arm (i.e. trigger finger, De Quervain's
      disease, and tennis elbow). In total, there will be approximately 780 patients enrolled among
      all treatment arms.

      1.1 Background Many orthopaedic hand disorders are comprised of different forms of
      tendonitis, tenosynovitis, and arthritis. The inflammatory processes of these disorders cause
      discomfort and functional impairment for patients. Decreasing the inflammatory response by
      use of splinting, physiotherapy, systemic anti-inflammatory agents, and local
      anti-inflammatory injections helps to alleviate some or all of the discomfort (2-4). Steroid
      injections are not entirely benign, and complications include tendon ruptures, subcutaneous
      fat atrophy, skin pigmentation changes, cartilage damage, and hyperglycemic responses in
      diabetics (9-11, 22-23). Studies have shown that ketorolac, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
      agent has a potent anti-inflammatory effect comparable to corticosteroids and a strong
      analgesic effect allowing for reduced opioid consumption postoperatively (7, 8). One could
      argue that the potent anti-inflammatory properties of ketorolac could be used to substitute
      for local corticosteroid injections in treating certain hand disorders. Given the side-effect
      profile for corticosteroids it may be beneficial to treat inflammatory disorders with local
      ketorolac injections. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents also have their known systemic
      adverse effects including gastric ulceration and intestinal bleeding as well as impairment of
      renal function. Most of these side effects are theoretically avoided with local tissue
      injections.

      1.2 Study Drugs

      Ketorolac:

      The proposed use of ketorolac in this study is outside of the FDA-approved indication and is
      the investigational agent in this study

      Ketorolac is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). The approved indication for
      Ketorolac is for the short-term (≤5 days) management of moderately severe, acute pain that
      requires analgesia at the opioid level, usually in a postoperative setting. It is highly
      protein bound (99%) and is largely metabolized by the liver. In it's approved indication it
      is contraindicated for those with renal impairment, active peptic ulcer disease, pregnant or
      nursing females, individuals with NSAID hypersensitivity, or individuals at high risk for
      bleeding/clotting disorders.

      Dexamethasone:

      Dexamethasone is a synthetic corticosteroid and possesses glucocorticoid activity, and will
      be used within its labeled indication for this study: intra-articular or soft tissue
      injection for: synovitis of osteoarthritis, epicondylitis, acute nonspecific tenosynovitis.
      It is the active comparator in this study.

      In its approved indication there use limitations for immunocompromised individuals, pregnant
      females, persons with allergy to steroids, individuals with systemic fungal infections, and
      individuals with cerebral malaria. It is contra-indicated in systemic fungal infections, and
      hypersensitivity to any component of this product, including sulfites.

      Lidocaine:

      Lidocaine is a local anesthetic of the amide type, and will be used within its labeled
      indication for this study: production of local or regional anesthesia by infiltration
      techniques such as percutaneous injection. It is to be given as concomitant therapy with both
      the investigational agent, ketorolac injection, and the standard of care therapy,
      dexamethasone injection.
    
  