
    
      Prostate cancer overview:

      Prostate cancer (PCa) is the 3rd leading cause of death from cancer in men and constitutes
      almost 1/4 of all new cancer cancers in men. Although PCa is prevalent, the risk of clinical
      or fatal PCa in a 50 year old man is estimated at only 10% and 3%, respectively Currently,
      over 2/3 of men diagnosed with PCa are diagnosed with organ confined, low risk disease (PSA <
      10 ng/ml, Gleason score (=GS) 3+3, cT1c). Management is depending on tumor grade, size and
      stage and clinical parameters (e.g. life expectancy) and may range from active surveillance
      to radical therapy including definitive whole gland treatment (radical prostatectomy (RP), or
      radiotherapy). Although radical whole gland therapy is effective from an oncological
      standpoint, it may be associated with significant side effects. A more conservative approach
      in select patients may be enrollment in an active surveillance program. The concept behind
      this approach is that small volume, low grade PCa may have an indolent course and may not
      progress to biological significance in the absence of treatment in the patient's lifetime.

      Conventional workup of patients with clinical suspicion of PCa:

      Transrectal Ultrasound (TRUS)-guided biopsies: Current workup of patients with clinical
      suspicion of PCa includes TRUS-guided systematic biopsies. These are associated with a
      relatively high false negative rate, especially for areas difficult to access for biopsy,
      with csPCa missed in approximately 1 of 4 patients. Furthermore, there is only ˜50%
      correlation between biopsy obtained GS and final pathology at RP, with upgrading in more than
      1 in 3 cases. This may lead to inaccurate risk stratification and inappropriate selection of
      therapy.

      Role of multiparametric-MR & MR-Ultrasound Fusion Biopsy:

      In recent years, multiparametric MR (mpMR) has been incorporated in the workup of patients
      with suspected PCa. T2- weighted imaging (T2WI) in combination with diffusion-weighted
      imaging (DWI) and dynamic contrast enhanced (DCE)-MR have shown promise in the detection,
      local staging and risk stratification of PCa, with a reported sensitivity and specificity of
      0.74 & 0.88, respectively. Prostate MR is interpreted using a 5-point scoring scale (PI-RADS
      - Prostate Imaging and Reporting Archiving Data System), with an overall sensitivity &
      specificity of 77.0% & 71.4%, respectively, for detection of csPCa using PI-RADS-v2. Using
      MR-US fusion targeted biopsy for mpMR detected lesions improves detection of csPCa compared
      to standard biopsy (median: 9.1%) and improves correlation of biopsy-derived and surgical
      tumor grade.

      Focal ablation therapy:

      In recent years, trials have evaluated various focal ablative therapies (FT) as alternative
      management for select patients with low/ intermediate risk, organ-confined disease. FT for
      PCa involves varying degrees of predefined subtotal glandular ablation using a myriad of
      ablative energy sources e.g high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), or laser ablation. The
      common aim of all of these methods is curative-intent tumor ablation while minimizing
      morbidity, thereby potentially providing the best balance between oncologic control and side
      effects of radical therapy. FT relies on the notion that the index lesion can be identified
      by mpMRI, and localized for intervention. Although no long term data exists on the safety and
      oncologic outcome of FT, FT appears well-tolerated and associated with significantly less
      morbidity than whole-gland treatment. At our institution, in-bore focal laser ablation
      program (MRgFLT) allows patients with a single site of csPCa to be treated while the in-bore
      HIFU program allows inclusion of patients with up to 2 sites of csPCa confirmed on MR-TRUS
      fusion biopsy.

      One of the main risks with a strategy of FT in PCa is selection failure. Although data is
      scarce, residual or unrecognized cancer was detected on follow-up biopsy in 22-50% of
      patients from two separate small series, including cancers in portions of the prostate not
      appreciated prior to intervention. Although it is uncertain how many of these are csPCa, this
      highlights the potential limitations of current workup algorithms for patients considered for
      FT. As only recognized index tumor site is targeted, detection of any further site of csPCa
      is paramount for appropriate patient selection and therapy success.

      Molecular imaging in PCa:

      There are shortcomings of current workup of patients with clinical suspicion of PCa,
      including significant false negative rate of TRUS-biopsies and mpMR. At least 1 in 5 patients
      in active surveillance program thought to have low-risk disease based on biopsies, turns out
      to have unfavorable features on surgical pathology. As specific patient management is based
      on accurate risk stratification, there is a clinical need for further tools to improve
      identification and characterization of csPCa. There has been increasing interest in molecular
      imaging in PCa in recent years. The most common radiopharmaceuticals used include choline
      (11C-Choline/ 18F-Fluorocholine) and 68Ga-PSMA.

      PSMA, a type II transmembrane protein, is expressed in normal prostate epithelium and highly
      expressed in ~90% primary PCa and metastases. 68Ga-PSMA-HBED-CC, the most common PSMA PET
      radiopharmaceutical assessed to date, has shown high sensitivity in detecting recurrent
      disease. Recently developed 18F-labelled PSMA compounds (e.g. 18F-DCFPyL) offer several
      technical advantages over 68Ga including high imaging statistic and higher image resolution.
      Initial preclinical studies have shown favorable tissue binding and the first clinical
      investigation in 9 patients has shown very high levels of uptake in primary tumors and
      metastases with further pilot data suggesting additional metastases identified in >20% of
      patients compared to 68Ga-PSMA.

      Recently introduced hybrid PET/MR scanners allow simultaneous acquisition of MR & PET data,
      incorporation the advantages of MR and molecular imaging. Emerging data is showing PET/MR to
      be potentially robust for assessment of oncology indications, particularly those that are
      better addressed with MR such as PCa. A recently published trial on 68Ga-PSMA PET/MR in
      intermediate-high risk patients has shown that mpMR, PET and PET/MR had a sensitivity of 66%,
      92% and 98%, respectively in localizing Pca. PSMA-PET may also help characterize equivocal
      lesions on mpMR (PI-RAD v.2 score 3) and may facilitate targeted fusion biopsies of lesions
      not seen on MR.
    
  