
    
      This is a single-center, open-label (all people know the identity of the drug), randomized
      (the study drug is assigned by chance), 3-period, 3-treatment cross over study of the
      relative bioavailability (the extent to which the drug becomes available to the body) of
      single dose rivaroxaban given to healthy participants in 3 ways. All participants will be
      randomly assigned to follow 1 of 6 possible ordered sequences whereby they ultimately receive
      rivaroxaban as: a whole tablet orally (Treatment A), a crushed tablet mixed in applesauce
      orally (Treatment B), and a crushed tablet in a water suspension administered via NG tube
      (Treatment C). Each rivaroxaban treatment will be taken with food (a standardized liquid
      meal).

      Participants will be randomly assigned into one of the following 6 sequences:

        -  Sequence 1: Treatment A - Treatment B - Treatment C

        -  Sequence 2: Treatment A - Treatment C - Treatment B

        -  Sequence 3: Treatment B - Treatment C - Treatment A

        -  Sequence 4: Treatment B - Treatment A - Treatment C

        -  Sequence 5: Treatment C - Treatment A - Treatment B

        -  Sequence 6: Treatment C - Treatment B - Treatment A.

      It is expected that a total of 9 participants will be randomly assigned into each sequence.
      Each single-dose treatment period will be followed by a washout period (period when receiving
      no treatment) of sufficient length to ensure absence of drug carry over from one treatment
      period to the next.

      The study will enroll approximately 54 participants to achieve 42 completed participants.

      The study will consist of a screening phase (no longer than 21 days before entering the
      clinical research facility on the day before starting the study drug), randomly assigned to 1
      of 6 sequences, and an open-label treatment phase consisting of 3 treatment periods (4 days
      for each treatment) separated by a washout period of 6-14 days between rivaroxaban
      administrations in each treatment periods.

      Participants will be admitted to the study unit in the morning of the day before the giving
      of the first dose of study drug (Day -1). Study drug will be given in the morning of the
      first day of each treatment period (Day 1), followed by a standard Osmolite® 1.5 Cal (Abbott
      Laboratories) liquid meal.

      Participants will receive study drug in the morning and Osmolite® 1.5 Cal will be given as
      the breakfast meal. Osmolite® 1.5 Cal is a standardized source of balanced nutrition for
      patients requiring low-residue meals via a feeding tube or orally and/or who may have limited
      volume tolerance or fluid restrictions. An Osmolite® 1.5 Cal meal includes 1.5 calories/mL
      overall, and 62.7 g of protein/L. Participants can have a regular meal 3 or more hours after
      the Osmolite® 1.5 Cal meal.

      Each treatment period will be followed by a 6 to 14 day washout period. The washout period
      will start after the giving of study drug.
    
  