
    
      The Diagnostic Innovation in Glaucoma Study (DIGS) and ADAGES are longitudinal studies in
      which participants with or without myopia are examined approximately biannually, in most
      cases. Healthy controls with or without myopia are examined once, in most cases. The ADAGES
      recruitment and testing of individuals of African descent is an independently funded
      multi-center (including UCSD, Columbia University, and University of Alabama, Birmingham)
      study, which follows the same study protocol as the DIGS to ensure that the data from both
      studies can be analyzed together. This harmonization of protocols leverages the advantages of
      both DIGS by increasing the sample sizes to address the unique hypotheses of each study.

      All participants must be 18 years old or older. Participants with or without myopia will be
      required to have at least one eye with open angles, best corrected visual acuity of 20/40 or
      better to be included. Participants taking a medication known to affect visual field
      sensitivity and eyes with a history of intraocular surgery (except uncomplicated glaucoma and
      cataract surgery), a secondary cause of elevated intraocular pressure, a coexisting
      intraocular disease affecting visual field, or a problem other than glaucoma affecting color
      vision may be excluded.

      Most of the extensive testing completed for these visits can be considered standard of care,
      but for clinical care all tests are not generally all done at the same patient visit with the
      variety of instruments included in this research project. The following tests can be
      considered standard of care: medical history, blood pressure and heart rate, height and
      weight, visual acuity testing near acuity testing, low contrast sensitivity testing, slit
      lamp biomicroscopy (including gonioscopy), measurements of intraocular pressure with contact
      and non-contact tonometry, corneal thickness measurement (pachymetry), corneal elasticity
      measured using non-contact tonometry, interocular axial length, corneal curvature, anterior
      chamber depth measurements (all measured using intraocular lens IOL master), dilated
      fundoscopy, stereoscopic ophthalmoscopy of the optic disc with a 78 D lens, color vision
      testing, standard automated perimetry, optical coherence tomography (OCT) and photography.

      There is currently no end date to the study, as the follow-up will continue as long as the
      research is supported.

      The time involved is usually 2-4 visits per year of approximately 2-5 hours each.

      DIGS Positional Study Subjects will also be given the opportunity to participate in the
      following additional auxiliary study. The DIGS Positional Study will allow subjects to
      participate in an ancillary study. Participation in this ancillary study includes imaging of
      the eyes using Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and Optical Coherence Tomography
      Angiography (OCT-A), as well as measurement of intraocular pressure (IOP) and blood pressure
      (BP) in sitting and supine positions. No invasive procedures or treatments will be
      administered. We will be using the standard clinically available software as well as
      investigational software available for research purposes. The investigational software has
      been deemed safe by the manufacturer of the device and does not pose any additional risks to
      patients. Since not every glaucoma patient has high eye pressure (low-tension glaucoma) or
      has pressure controlled with medication use (so that the untreated eye pressure is now
      known), glaucoma subjects using intraocular pressure lowering medication and with IOP < 25 mm
      Hg may be requested to stop their medication for 1 to 3 weeks, by the treating
      ophthalmologist depending on the class of medication, before being imaged. Risks are small
      and include IOP elevation. However, glaucoma progression is on the order of months to years,
      and not days. Subjects will resume using the medication after the research visit is
      completed.
    
  