
    
      Trochanteric fractures represent about half of the hip fractures (with femoral neck fractures
      as the other half), and are almost always treated surgically with internal fixation of the
      fracture. However, there is an ongoing debate on what is the appropriate implant to use. For
      stable fracture patterns the evidence seems to be in favour of the sliding hip screw, whereas
      for the unstable fractures it is unclear whether an intramedullary nail or a sliding hip
      screw with or without a lateral support plate should be the implant of choice. A series of
      studies is now planned at Oslo University Hospital in collaboration with Diakonhjemmet
      Hospital in hope to further clarify this debate. The use of the lateral/trochanteric support
      plate (TSP) is widespread in some regions (e.g. Norway, Sweden and parts of Britain), but
      virtually never used other places. The role of the TSP remains unclear and very little has
      been published on it's use, even though it is believed to be an important contributor of
      stability to the sliding hip screw construct.

      Trochanteric fractures are mainly caused by a direct trauma, i.e mainly a fall from own
      height in the elderly. The fractures are most often classified using the Müller AO
      classification or the Evans/Jensen, but several other classification systems also exist. The
      ideal classification system should be easily applicable, reliable, and aid in treatment
      decision making.

      The treatment of trochanteric fractures comprise perioperative and operative modalities. The
      perioperative modalities consist among others of medical optimalization preoperatively, early
      rehabilitation and prevention of new fractures by treating osteoporosis and preventing new
      falls. The main scope of the current study will, however, be the operative modalities.

      Surgery for trochanteric fractures is performed mainly with fracture reduction on a traction
      table and internal fixation, using either an intramedullary (IM) nail or a sliding hip screw
      (SHS), both available in various designs from different manufacturers. The latest Cochrane
      review did not conclude on which implant is the superior. However, among stable fractures
      there are less reoperations with the SHS, mainly due to peri-implant femoral fractures after
      operation with an IM nail that. The more unstable fractures, namely the reverse oblique and
      subtrochanteric fractures, may obtain better results using an intramedullary nail, probably
      due to less secondary dislocations with resulting varus deformity, shaft-medialization and
      shortening. The evidence for this is, however, weak and the role of the TSP remains unclear.

      Radiostereometry (RSA) is the most precise and accurate method to measure motion in vivo
      between different segments in orthopaedic research. To do so, radio-opaque tantalum markers
      are implanted into the bone defining different segments. Stereoradiographs are performed over
      time to detect movement and monitor the healing (or non healing) process. This movement can
      be calculated both as translations and rotations. They are ideal to describe and compare the
      stability of fracture systems. RSA has been used successfully in earlier studies on fracture
      healing. Due to the high accuracy and precision, RSA yield reliable results with relatively
      small study-groups. We plan to use RSA to measure fracture dislocation and time to healing in
      our studies.

      The study will be on the function of the trochanteric support plate and it´s ability to
      prevent secondary dislocation in AO 31 A2 fractures. We will utilize RSA for measurements
      during follow-up.
    
  