
    
      Priming techniques to enhance use dependent plasticity have been examined in stroke
      rehabilitation research. Priming can upregulate ipsilesional cortex and/or down regulate
      contralesional cortex to improve effectiveness of subsequent therapy. Most priming techniques
      are costly and approved only for research. Here, we describe a priming technique that is
      cost-effective and has the potential to significantly change clinical practice. Bilateral
      motor priming (BMP) uses bilateral, symmetrical, rhythmic movement to ready the motor cortex
      for functional limb training. A "rocker" is used so that the less affected limb can drive the
      more affected one in symmetrical wrist flexion and extension. Active range of motion of the
      affected wrist is not necessary, and, thus, BMP can be used in severely impaired
      participants. Beneficial aspects of bilateral motor priming (compared to priming using rTMS
      and tDCS) include the fact that BMP is: 1) cost-effective; 2) available to a larger pool of
      individuals due to a paucity of safety concerns; (3) does not require a skilled operator; and
      (4) can be used the clinic. Previous studies comparing bilateral priming plus therapy found
      the priming and therapy combination to be more effective than therapy alone. This project
      compares two groups of randomly assigned participants receiving task specific training (TST).
      Seventy-six participants will be randomized to receive either fifteen 2-hour sessions (30
      hours) of BMP + TST or 30 hours control priming (CP) + training. Participants will attend
      sessions 3 times per week for 5 weeks with possible missed sessions scheduled at week 6.
      Outcome measures will be collected at pre-intervention, post-intervention, and follow-up (8
      weeks post discharge). Aim 1 will determine the magnitude of change in upper limb impairment
      and function in chronic stroke survivors who have undergone 5 weeks of BMP+TST. The primary
      outcome measure is the Fugl-Meyer Test of Upper Extremity Function (FMUE). The secondary
      outcome is the Chedoke Arm and Hand Activity Index, an assessment of bimanual functional
      tasks. The investigators expect both groups to improve on behavioral measures from pre-to
      post-intervention. However, the BMP+TST group is expected to have larger improvements than
      the CP + TST. The investigators also expect these measures to persist at follow-up (8 weeks
      post cessation of treatment) in the BMP+TST group but not in CP + TST. Aim 2 will determine
      the effects of bilateral priming on cortical mechanisms as measured by transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (TMS). The investigators expect to find changes in TMS parameters that reflect a
      greater balance of hemispheric excitability in the BMP+TST group only. The hypothesis is that
      increases in hemispheric excitability will be associated with improvements in the FMUE.
      Currently, there is no clinically demonstrated long-term effective treatment for individuals
      with severe chronic upper limb hemiparesis. It is important to identify treatments for this
      underserved and under-investigated population.
    
  