
    
      The investigators will employ a single centre RCT with duration of two years (July 1, 2019 -
      June 30, 2021). Participant recruitment and enrolment will occur at the Women's Health Center
      for 1 year (July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2020), followed by one year (June 30, 2021) of follow-up
      data collection, data analyses and dissemination.

      At the preoperative consultation, the surgeon will determine if the patient is eligible for
      implant-based immediate reconstruction, using the inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      A total of 56 patients or 23 patients per arm will be recruited. Randomization will be
      accomplished using randomly permuted blocks, and the randomization list will be prepared by a
      biostatistician with no clinical involvement in this trial. Randomization will be stratified
      on the basis of center and laterality of reconstruction (i.e., unilateral versus bilateral
      reconstruction).

      The allocation sequence will be concealed by placing each randomization assignment in a
      sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed envelope. Consecutive envelopes will be delivered to
      the operating room by the on-site research study assistant once the mastectomy is complete.
      To prevent subversion of the allocation sequence, envelopes will not be opened until the
      attending surgeon confirms the absence of significant mastectomy flap necrosis and the fact
      that the patient does not undergo a concurrent axillary lymph node dissection.

      All patients will be blinded to their treatment arm. Once the treatment arm is revealed, the
      attending surgeon will advise the surgical team (surgical assistants and operating room
      nurses) the surgical plan. While the surgical team will be aware of the randomization code,
      the rest of the postoperative care team (including recovery room staff, day surgery nursing
      staff, and clinic staff during follow-up visit), outcome assessors, and data analysts will be
      kept blinded to the intervention performed.

      Outcome measures:

      At the baseline visit, following informed consent, demographic data (age, BMI, laterality and
      comorbidities) will be collected. The participant will then complete the following
      questionnaires: Pre-operative Breast-Q™: The Breast-Q™ Reconstruction Module is a validated
      PRO developed specifically for patients undergoing breast reconstruction. The questionnaire
      evaluates patient-reported satisfaction, psychosocial, physical and sexual quality of life
      [1] Primary outcome: Postoperative Pain scores and 24-hour narcotic consumption Secondary
      outcomes: All outcomes are measured within or at 12 months of the initial surgery.
    
  