
    
      The objective of this proposal is to test, in a primary care setting, the effect of an
      established intervention designed to promote healthy feeding and sleeping behaviors early in
      life on risk factors for subsequent obesity. Because nocturnal feeding of infants, short
      sleep duration, and childhood obesity are linked, the procedure is designed to prevent short
      sleep duration and subsequently accelerated weight gain during infancy, two emerging risk
      factors for obesity in childhood and adulthood. In this study, 40 participants will be
      randomized to receive either an intervention that teaches infants to sleep through the night
      by 8 weeks of age or standard care. The procedure instructs parents to offer a "focal feed"
      before bedtime, avoid feeding as the first alternative to infant waking and distress, and
      carry out environmental control measures that emphasize day/night differences. In assessing
      the impact of the intervention, night wakening, and rate of weight gain will be assessed
      between birth and 4 months of age. The current proposal will test the feasibility of
      delivering this proven intervention in the primary care setting, an environment that must be
      included in primary preventive strategies for childhood obesity.

      Aim 1: To adapt a procedure aimed at prolonging sleep duration during infancy that is
      effective in experimental settings to the clinical setting of primary care.

      This procedure, which instructs parents to offer a "focal feed" before bedtime, avoid feeding
      as the first alternative to infant waking and distress, and carry out environmental control
      measures that emphasize day/night differences has been successful at prolonging sleep
      duration in experimental settings. By demonstrating that subjects can be recruited from the
      newborn nursery, be taught the procedure at a primary care visit, and followed for four
      months, the feasibility of a larger study will be more apparent to external funding agencies.

      Aim 2: To evaluate, in the primary care setting, the effect of a simple training procedure on
      overnight sleep duration and rate of weight gain during the first four months of life.

      It is hypothesized that the positive effect of the procedure in an experimental setting will
      be replicated in a randomized controlled trial in the primary care setting. By definition,
      teaching infants to sleep through the night will be manifest in longer sleep duration, which
      has been shown to be protective for childhood obesity in epidemiological studies. Sleeping
      through the night is hypothesized to promote protective factors for childhood obesity by
      supporting
    
  