
    
      Obese people have an altered immune responsiveness. Studies have shown that obesity has a
      direct effect on the immune system and leads to immunosuppression, which leads to a
      susceptibility to infection.We investigate whether this influences immune responses to
      booster vaccinations (i. e. booster vaccination with TBE vaccine "FSME Immun") and if a
      modification of vaccination schedules is needed.

      The investigators will test and compare the humoral and cellular immune response of obese
      persons (BMI>30) and persons with normal weight (BMI<25) before and after a booster with FSME
      Immun.

      The aim of the study is to clarify if a modification of vaccination schedules or a change of
      booster intervals is necessary for obese people. Furthermore this study will increase our
      understanding of the influence of obesity on different components of the immune system, as
      well as on the quality and quantity of the immune responses.

      At Screening (visit 1) demographic parameters (age, gender, weight, BMI, waist/hip-ratio)
      will be recorded and metabolic parameters (Cholesterol, Triglycerides, HDL, LDL,
      Apolipoproteine, Lp(a), Glucose, Fructosamin, Leptin, Leptinreceptor on T- and B-cells (PCR),
      Insulin, high-sensitive CRP) and sex hormones (Testosterone, Estrogen, Progesteron, FSH, LH)
      will be tested. At visit 3 some metabolic parameters (Cholesterol, Triglycerides, HDL,
      Glucose, Fructosamin, Insulin und high-sensitive CRP) will be tested again. All parameters
      will be compared and correlated with humoral and cellular immune responses.

      Immunglobulins: IgG, IgE, IgD, IgM, IgA will be tested at visit 1-4.

      TBE antibody titers (NT) will be tested and titer course will be evaluated at visit 1-5.

      At visit 1 und 2, isolation of PBMC (Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells) with Ficoll gradient
      will be carried out and the following tests will be performed:

        1. Cytokine concentrations will be measured after re-stimulating the PBMC with TBE-Antigen.
           Duration of stimulaton: 48h; Detection with Luminex platform/ELISA: IL-2, IFNgamma,
           IL-10, TNF-alpha und IL-6

        2. Flow cytometry: Characterization of different lymphocyte-subpopulations with
           antibody-panels (CD surface markers: CD19, CD3, IgD, IgM, IgG, IgA, CD10, CD27, CD127,
           CCR4, CD8, CD4, CD28, CD31, CD38, CCR7, CD45RA, CD25, CD24, CD38 und FOXP3).

      Serious adverse events and adverse events will be recorded at all visits

      All participants will be tested again at V5, performing TBE-Neutralisation-Test three years
      after the booster vaccination for analysis of longterm immunogenicity. Demographic parameters
      will be recorded again.

      Participants who are not protected against TBE for another year, three years after the
      booster vaccination at V5 (NT <20), will receive a booster vaccination for free.

      V1 day 0, V2 day 7+3,V3 1 month +/-7 days, V4 6 months +/-14d V5 36 months+/- 1 month V6 only
      if TBE NT<20
    
  