
    
      Detailed Description:

      Sixty Four healthy participants will attend one session at the Wellcome Trust Clinical
      Research Facility (WTCRF) during which they will be tested on objective measures of divergent
      and convergent thinking tasks, a computerised neuropsychological battery including tasks of
      motivation, and on well validated questionnaires about subjective wellbeing and salience of
      pleasure. Participants will be randomly allocated to one group and will receive either one
      dose of modafinil (200mg) or a placebo prior to testing.

      Participants Sixty-four healthy volunteers will be identified via the City of Cambridge
      participant panel, and via local advertisements. Participants between the ages of 18-40 years
      will be chosen to avoid any effects of cognitive decline. The larger age range will be chosen
      to be representative of a wide range of ages and socio-economic statuses. A chartered
      psychologist will screen all volunteers.

      After participants are assessed by the team, they then will complete a baseline physiological
      measures (blood pressure and pulse) and the National Adult Reading Test (NART) which
      calculates pre-morbid IQ estimates and matches participants' level of verbal IQ. Participants
      will then be given a single oral dose (200 mg) of modafinil or placebo with a small glass of
      water. They will then be asked to rest in a quiet room. Two hours post-drug administration,
      participants will also complete the computerised neuropsychological battery including the
      motivational reinforcement cue task and the salience of pleasure task in the form of visual
      analogue scale (VAS) on a computer screen. The VAS will measure the subjective pleasure
      gained from completing the computerised tasks and in participating in the study. After the
      completion of the study, participants will be debriefed by the researcher and will be
      discharged by a research nurse.
    
  