
    
      People with serious mental illness (SMI) are at higher risk for contracting HIV than the
      general population. Although fewer people with SMI are sexually active, as compared to the
      healthy population, those with SMI who are sexually active tend to engage in sexual behaviors
      that put them at increased risk for HIV and other STDs. The onset of SMI, which often
      interferes with normal psychosocial development, may cause these behaviors. Additionally, SMI
      is frequently associated with poor judgment, affective instability, and impulsiveness.
      Interventions designed to reduce the risk for contracting HIV in people with SMI exist, but
      they have had little success. New approaches to treating this population are essential. This
      study will evaluate the effectiveness of motivational interviewing (MI) plus skill building
      (SB) exercises in reducing HIV risk behavior in people with SMI.

      Participants in this 6-month, open-label study are randomly assigned to partake in SB
      training either alone or combined with MI. The skill building program focuses on behavioral
      skills training, with an emphasis on negotiating and communicating with prospective partners.
      Training includes information about HIV risk, including mechanisms of transmission,
      abstinence, and safer sex and drug use behaviors; HIV risk reduction strategies, including
      condom use, abstinence/safer sex negotiation skills, and reduced/safer drug use; and an
      opportunity to be tested for HIV if the participant has not already done so. The SB plus MI
      intervention (SB-MI) includes components of the SB intervention, as well as elements of MI.
      MI includes identifying high risk sexual and drug use behaviors related to HIV; reducing the
      ambivalence about making high risk behavior changes; increasing motivation to change high
      risk behaviors; and developing a plan to implement these changes. HIV testing may be
      included. Participants in both interventions report to the study site on six to seven
      occasions over the course of the study. The visits last between 1 and 2 hours and include
      both treatment and evaluation. Participants attend two follow-up visits, one 3 months after
      randomization, and one 6 months after randomization.
    
  