
    
      The investigators will test the central hypothesis that associations between (a) increases in
      responsive caregiving (the main FIND target) and (b) subsequent caregiver well-being and
      child developmental and biobehavioral outcomes (secondary targets), will be partially
      mediated through (c) changes in caregiver neuroimaging-based and behavioral measures of
      inhibitory control and parent self-concept. The investigators will also examine moderators of
      hypothesized intervention effects.

      Aim 1: Quantify main effects of FIND on intervention targets (changes in responsive
      caregiving) and related caregiver and child outcomes.

      Hypothesis 1a: Compared with an active control, FIND will significantly increase
      developmentally supportive, responsive caregiving immediately post-intervention and will
      endure at the 6-month longitudinal follow-up. These effects will be associated with enduring
      improvements in self-reported caregiving self-efficacy and stress.

      Hypothesis 1b: Compared with an active control, FIND will significantly improve child
      developmental outcomes on cognitive, socioemotional, expressive language and biobehavioral
      measures (including child chronic stress assessed via hair cortisol concentrations, HCC and
      Heart Rate Variability, HRV), as well as measures of caregiver and child well-being. The
      investigators will also test whether FIND-related increases in responsive caregiving
      (Hypothesis 1a) are associated (at postintervention and 6-month follow-up) with child
      outcomes.

      Aim 2: Use fMRI to identify process-level neural mechanisms underlying FIND intervention
      effects (i.e., why FIND works) and variations in these effects (i.e., for whom FIND works).
      The investigators hypothesize that FIND-related changes in underlying brain and behavioral
      mechanisms of caregiver inhibitory control and parenting self-concept will partially mediate
      observed changes in responsive caregiving. The investigators will also determine how
      between-subjects variation in changes in these brain measures is associated with differential
      response to sustained intervention impacts on responsive caregiving, which could be key in
      future work on increasing the impact of FIND for a broader range of recipients and on
      developing adaptations for low-responding groups.

      Aim 3: Determine moderators of intervention impact, including child and caregiver variables
      and intervention fidelity and dosage. The investigators hypothesize that the relationship
      between FIND-related changes in caregiver brain activity, caregiving behavior, and
      caregiver/child outcomes will be moderated by characteristics of the family, including
      caregiver past/current adversity, family socioeconomic status, and child behavior.

      The investigators further hypothesize that intervention effects will be moderated by fidelity
      and dosage. Work on this aim will subsequently enable the investigators to develop
      supplemental strategies to support those for whom FIND is less effective.

      Assignment to group: Participants will be randomized to one of two conditions (FIND
      intervention or active control) before their baseline research visit. While multiple
      caregivers from one family may participate in the FIND intervention or active control
      condition (which will be documented and included in analyses), the primary caregiver from
      each eligible family will be the target participant. This participant will be the one
      randomized to condition, asked to complete the assessments, and, if they are in the FIND
      condition, the focus of the videos used in the intervention. Similarly, if families have more
      than one eligible child in the target age range, the investigators will ask caregivers to
      select one child who will be the focus of the videos and research assessments.

      Intervention delivery. For the proposed study, the investigators will train coaches to
      fidelity to deliver either the FIND intervention or the active control intervention. The
      investigators have extensive experience and well-established protocols for training and
      maintaining fidelity during intervention trials, including video-based interventions. To
      minimize between-group differences in coach demographics, the investigators will match
      coaches who are delivering each intervention as closely as possible on levels of education
      and early childhood experience, and will include this information as covariates in our
      analyses of intervention effects. Although the investigators do not anticipate contamination
      of the FIND material into the active control, it is noteworthy that such contamination will
      narrow any differences between the groups, thus providing a more rigorous test of our
      hypotheses.

      FIND intervention. FIND is a brief home-based video coaching intervention. FIND involves
      feedback provided by the coach to the caregiver using brief film clips derived from video of
      caregiver-child interaction collected in the home. The coaching focuses specifically and
      exclusively on showing caregivers instances in which they are engaging in developmentally
      supportive interactions during coaching sessions. FIND is delivered in 10 weekly home visits,
      each of which lasts 30-45 minutes. The process begins with an initial visit in which the
      coach provides an overview, records 10-15 minutes of the caregiver and child engaged in
      everyday interactions, and then introduces the concept of serve and return. The video is
      edited to show brief clips in which the caregiver is engaged in the first of five specific
      and precisely defined caregiver-based components of serve and return. The next week, the FIND
      coach reviews the edited clips in detail with the caregiver. Sessions continue, alternating
      between filming and coaching sessions until all five components have been covered
      sequentially, with each component building on prior ones. The hierarchical nature of the
      program is intentionally designed so that even partial completion of the program is
      hypothesized to confer benefits.

      FIND editing and coaching processes are fully manualized, including certification protocols,
      fidelity forms, and rubrics, and designed to be both straightforward and highly replicable.
      For editing, three short clips are selected from the video gathered in the home. Each clip
      begins with a brief onscreen text description that is read aloud by the coach, which cues the
      caregiver to notice the child's initiation (serve) and his/her own supportive response
      (return). Then the clip plays three times: (1) all the way through; (2) with embedded pauses,
      which cue the coach to pause and comment on specific elements of the interaction; and (3) all
      the way through again, giving the caregiver an opportunity to consolidate what he or she has
      learned. As the clip is playing, the coach narrates the serve and return process. To ensure
      all families receive the full benefit of FIND, all FIND coaches will participate in the
      four-phase FIND certification process for coaching and editing, which includes an initial
      training, fidelity training, application for certification, and certification. The
      investigators have used this process to train more than 80 certified FIND interventionists to
      date.

      Active control intervention. The active control condition for this study is designed to
      maximize rigor by controlling for nonspecific effects of FIND (supportive home visiting,
      child observation, and information about development) to determine the unique impact of the
      hypothesized "active ingredients" of FIND (i.e., specialized microsocial video coaching on
      the five caregiver-based components of serve and return). As such, families randomly assigned
      to the control condition will receive weekly home visits alternating between (a) coaching
      sessions covering one of five domains of child development (Motor, Cognitive, Language, Play,
      and Social-Emotional and (b) observation sessions that will include a review of the prior
      coaching session and an observation and discussion of the caregiver-child interaction. This
      intervention will consist of 10 home visits each lasting 25-30 minutes. The coach will not
      engage in any filming or video coaching, but will still be able to discuss caregiving
      concerns. Materials are adapted from the Partners for a Healthy Baby curriculum developed by
      Florida State University's Center for Prevention and Early Intervention Policy.
    
  