
    
      Pathological gambling has become an increasingly problematic condition in the United States,
      often causing serious financial, psychological, and public health consequences. In an effort
      to treat this growing problem, researchers have evaluated numerous therapies; one such
      therapy is CBT. CBT has been shown to improve pathological gambling outcomes. However,
      evidence suggests that adding CM to CBT could result in even more improved outcomes. This
      study will compare the effectiveness of CBT and CM with that of CBT alone in reducing
      pathological gambling.

      This study will last 12 months. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either CBT
      and CM or CBT alone for 8 weeks. CBT will focus on reducing gambling urges and helping
      patients develop alternative behaviors to gambling. CM will focus on encouraging patients to
      avoid gambling. Participants in the CBT and CM group will receive voucher incentives for
      completing homework assignments and engaging in non-gambling social activities. The vouchers
      will allow participants to take part in non-gambling activities of their choice. Changes in
      gambling activities and problems will be assessed with self-report scales and interviews at
      study start and at Weeks 10, 24, and 52.

      Participants will be asked to identify at least one person who knows about their gambling and
      will have regular contact with them over the 12 months of the study. This person will be
      interviewed at study start and at Months 2, 6, and 12. Contact persons will be asked about
      participants' gambling behaviors, personal relationships, legal problems, use of health care
      and mental health services, and how the participant can be contacted if he or she moves.

      For information on related studies, please follow these links:

      http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00158314

      http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00618462
    
  