
    
      There are several risk factors reported for postoperative complication after ileocolic
      resection for Crohn disease. With recent new therapeutics (anti TNF, monoclonal antibodies),
      these criteria are questioned.

      According to the ECCO 2010 Consensus Conference, five post-operative risk factors for
      recurrence of Crohn disease were described: smoking, extensive small bowel resection (>
      50cm), repeat bowel resection, presence of ano-perineal lesions, and penetrating disease
      (type B3). However, postoperative complication risk factors after ileocolic resection remain
      debated. Currently the place of a pre-operative treatment with anti-TNF seems to be a
      post-operative complication risk factor according to the last ECCO 2017 consensus conference,
      as well as preoperative parenteral nutrition and emergency versus planned surgery. In
      addition, a recent GETAID study seems to challenge the penetrating phenotype as a risk factor
      of postoperative complication. A current study could provide new data on the various known or
      suspected complication risk factors in the anti-TNF/monoclonal antibodies era.

      The classification of Clavien Dindo does not necessarily take into account the respective
      severities of each complication in a patients. The new classification (Comprehensive
      Complication Index (CCI)) could be usefull to take into account all the complications and
      their importance, without focusing only on the most important. To our knowledge, there is no
      study specifically evaluating CCI after ileocolic resection for Crohn disease. We believe
      that the CCI can provide a more refined analysis of risk factors for postoperative
      complications after this procedure.

      The aim of this study is to analyze the different complication risk factors after ileocecal
      resection according to the recent Comprehensive Complication Index, tools potentially more
      sensitive than Clavien Dindo classification to highlight differences in postoperative
      morbidity.
    
  