
    
      Being overweight and obese are becoming serious health care problems in developed countries
      as well as in Turkey. Both are associated with severe health problems as increased risk of
      heart disease, hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidemia, stroke, gallbladder disease,
      osteoarthritis, sleep apnea, respiratory and renal problems, and certain types of cancer. The
      behavioral and environmental factors (i.e. sedentary lifestyles combined with excess energy
      intake, unhealthy diet, low level of education and poverty) are primarily responsible for the
      dramatic increase of obesity. In Turkey, the prevalence of obesity has increased by 65% among
      men and 30% among women during the 90's. According to the recent findings of The National
      Household Research the incidence of being overweight was 31.35% and obese was 12.2% among
      those above 18 years. This was 28.93% and 14.59% in females and 33.64% and 9.70% in males,
      respectively. It was also reported that the incidence of being overweight had a tendency to
      increase linearly by age: 2.53% between 18-24 years, 7.96% between 25 - 34 years, 15.57%
      between 35-44 years, 22.61% between 45-54 years, 22.55% between years 55 - 64 years. This
      increase in obesity with aging may not be only due to the decrease in the fat-free mass but
      also due to an impaired ability to regulate the energy balance with age. Therefore, the
      age-related decline in basal metabolic rate, which is also related to the reduction in
      fat-free mass may alter the energy balance and contribute to weight gain. Thus, physical
      activity is essential for obese subjects in order to maintain or to increase their basal
      metabolic rate as well as their daily energy expenditure to enhance their weight loss.

      Therefore, regular physical exercise may be considered as an effective tool to increase the
      resting metabolic rate by improving the muscle mass. However, the modern life, equipped with
      technological support, has eventually decreased the amount of daily physical activities in
      household tasks, transportation or in work environments. As Kirk and Rhodes stated the
      positions of higher professional status are more likely to engage in sedentary work-related
      behavior (i.e. sitting) compared to those working in positions of lower professional status
      (i.e. manual labor). Additionally, male were more likely to be employed in blue-collar or
      high-manual-labor positions that require high physical activity compared to women. The women
      mostly prefer non-occupational and non-leisure activities; for instance house-work. It is
      also reported that low level physical activity habit is higher among people having office
      work and living in the cities in Turkey.

      Therefore, we have aimed to evaluate the physical activity level, physical status and the
      eating habits of the people in higher or lower professional statuses, and observe the gender
      differences.
    
  