
    
      During the last decades, different pharmacological and psychotherapeutic strategies have been
      used to treat patients with obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD). Drugs that inhibit the
      serotonin recapture and the cognitive behavior therapy, that includes the exposure with
      response prevention and cognitive strategies, have been the most efficient treatment so far.
      This study's aims are to compare group cognitive-behavior therapy and standard
      pharmacological treatment (SRIs) in a world real population, using broader inclusion
      criteria. DSM-IV diagnostic criteria for OCD will be used (APA, 1994) and patients will be
      interviewed with the following instruments: SCID-I and Y-BOCS. Inclusion criteria are: (1)
      OCD diagnosis, (2) YBOCS score ≥ 16 (for patients with both obsessions and compulsions) or ≥
      10 (for patients with only obsessions or compulsions), (3) informed consent to participate in
      this clinical trial. Exclusion criteria are: (1) patients with clinical or neurological
      diseases that may be worsen by the medications included in treatment protocol, (2) Current
      substance dependence, (3) Current psychotic symptoms, (4) Current suicide risk. Patients will
      be randomized in blocks of 12 and with stratification for the following parameters: current
      SSRI, age, sex and previous response to treatment. Rates of improvement will be based on the
      results of the YBOCS scores for obsessions and compulsions and on the results of the clinical
      global impression scale. Pos-treatment measures will be assessed by psychiatrists or
      psychologists not involved in the patients treatment that will be blind for the treatment
      being received by the patient. The patient will be considered responsive to treatment when he
      or she presents a reduction in YBOCS score ≥ 35% of the initial score and a CGI score of 1
      (very much improved) or 2 (much improved). The results of this study will help us to identify
      better health politics planning to a heterogeneous OCD population. So, it will improve our
      knowledge about the efficacy of the first line treatments in a real world OCD population.
    
  