
    
      Injury prevention in sports is very important, and a lot of investigative time and effort is
      spent in this realm. Many different tools have been created that are designed to pinpoint the
      athlete's predisposition to or risk for injuries. Also, health professionals and coaches
      should work with athletes to attempt to reduce the number of injuries as much as possible.
      The objective of the prevention process is not to eliminate injuries, but rather to reduce
      them and keep them at an acceptable level. Many authors have shown that interventions that
      include balance exercises are very efficient in injury risk reduction as well as performance
      improvement after an injury. Poor balance, altered motor control, or lack of neuromuscular
      control have all been described as predictors of injury risk in the lower limbs of athletes.
      The Y-Balance Test (YBT), a validated derivation of the Star Excursion Balance Test (SEBT),
      is a functional screening tool that can be reliably administered for a variety of purposes:
      to assess lower extremity stability, monitor rehabilitation progress, understand deficits
      after injury, and identify athletes at high risk for lower extremity injury. For these
      reasons, we have decided to research whether stretching exercises can improve the Y Balance
      Test. The research was conducted on football players in the first league of Bosnia and
      Hercegovina. Comparisons were made between static and dynamic stretching and their effects on
      Y Balance Test performance while no stretching exercises were performed in the control group.
      Stretching improves body posture, achieves good muscular and joint mobility, has a positive
      effect on preventing injury, and reduces muscle pain, also regular stretching improves body
      balance. The aim is to explore which stretching exercises will increase the results on the Y
      Balance Test and whether this will happen at all.

      This study aimed to investigate the effects of stretching exercises on the Y-Balance Test
      (YBT, as a test for dynamic balance) performance and postural control in female football
      players.
    
  