
    
      This study is testing a theory-based HIV treatment adherence intervention delivered by cell
      phone to patients in urban and rural areas. Adherence to antiretroviral (ART) medications is
      necessary to achieve HIV suppression and non-adherence can lead to treatment resistant
      genetic variants of HIV. People living with HIV/AIDS often experience difficulty sustaining
      high-levels of treatment adherence. Most factors that interfere with adherence are
      unanticipated and occur between clinical visits, including depression, side effects,
      substance use, and lapses in pharmacy refill. We will conduct a randomized clinical trial to
      test a cell phone-delivered theory-based medication adherence counseling intervention. The
      intervention is grounded in Self-Regulation Model and utilizes unannounced pill counts to
      monitor adherence and guide corrective feedback within the counseling context. Using pill
      count adherence information for counseling allows providers to detect and correct patient
      non-adherence within a time frame that can head off viral resistance. An experimental
      factorial design will test the effects of counseling and a text message reminder system as
      well the interaction of counseling and text message components with 600 men and women
      receiving HIV treatment. Following screening, informed consent and baseline assessments
      participants will be randomized to one of four intervention conditions:(a) self-regulation
      counseling + regimen tailored text message reminders; (b) self-regulation counseling only;
      (c) control counseling + regimen tailored text reminders; or (d) control counseling only. The
      study will therefore use a 2 (self-regulation counseling) x 2 (text message reminders) full
      factorial deign with participants followed for 9 months post-intervention. The primary
      endpoints are medication adherence assessed by unannounced pill counts and HIV RNA (viral
      load). This newly developed intervention strategy is grounded in Self-Regulation Theory and
      is designed for use in clinical settings with limited resources.
    
  