
    
      The purpose of the study is to determine if the administration of liposomal bupivacaine at
      the completion of a suburethral sling procedure will result in decreased postoperative pain
      compared to no injection. The hypothesis is that administration of liposomal bupivacaine at
      the completion of retropubic suburethral sling procedure will result in decreased
      postoperative pain compared to no injection. Although multiple routes for sling placement
      exist, no difference in pain has been found when comparing obturator verses retropubic
      suburethral sling. Previous trials have investigated varying formulations of injections along
      the sling pathway in order to reduce complications such as pain and voiding dysfunction.
      Local anesthesia along the trocar pathway has shown some improvements in pain. Other
      techniques, however, have varying results. In 2011, the FDA approved liposomal bupivacaine as
      a single dose wound infiltration for treatment of postoperative pain following
      hemorrhoidectomy and bunionectomy. Initial studies demonstrated decreased pain compared to
      placebo, prolonged release in a bimodal distribution, and greater sensory than motor
      blockade. Additionally, postoperative benefits such as decreased overall pain, decreased
      opioid use, and increased time to opioid need were observed. Liposomal bupivacaine may also
      have the advantage of reducing hospital stays and decreasing overall hospital costs. The side
      effect profile has similar or improved rates of adverse events compared to traditional
      bupivacaine, a favorable cardiac profile, and no increased risk of poor wound healing. With
      such promise, we aim to evaluate the use of liposomal bupivacaine to reduce postoperative
      pain for the placement of slings to treat stress urinary incontinence. The study will be a
      blinded randomized controlled trial. Patients randomized to receive liposomal bupivicaine,
      the standard 20ml vial will be diluted with 1 Oml of saline to a reconstituted volume of 30
      ml. Those in the control group will receive 30ml of normal saline injected in the same
      fashion as the study arm.
    
  