
    
      Purpose:

      The purpose of the study is to investigate the glucose-profile, HRV and sleep disturbances
      for 30 days after major emergency abdominal surgery using continues measurements with
      wearable devices. Secondly, the study investigates the association between glucose profile,
      HRV, sleep-disturbances, patient reported recovery and postoperative complications.

      Design and study population:

      The study is designed as a prospective, explorative cohort study applying repeated measures.
      Patients undergoing major emergency abdominal surgery at Zealand's University Hospital Køge
      are included. Included patients receive a standardized treatment regimen (Optimizing Major
      EmerGency Abdominal surgery, OMEGA), which has been established in the surgical department in
      order to reduce unnecessary waiting time and optimize and standardize treatment before,
      during and after major emergency abdominal surgery. The treatment regimen includes
      pre-operative antibiotics, I.V. fluid, pain and nausea treatment, nasogastric tube and
      prioritized, fast access to CT-scans and final surgical treatment.

      Sample Size:

      To the extent of our knowledge, no prior studies have simultaneously investigated sleep
      disturbances, heart rate variability and glucose profile using continues measurements with
      wearables before and up to 30 days after major emergency abdominal surgery. A traditional
      power calculation would be based on arbitrary data and is therefore omitted. Hence, the
      present study is designed as an exploratory study with no primary endpoint and functions as a
      pilot study prior to future larger, focused cohort studies. It is estimated, that inclusion
      of 40 patients in the present study is feasible and provides sufficient statistical power to
      show significant changes and association between glucose profile, HRV, sleep patterns and
      patient reported outcome measures.

      Course of the study and assessment tools:

      Eligible patients will be contacted by study investigators within 12-24 hours after surgery
      when the patient has been re-transferred to the surgical ward. Included patients will be
      followed for 30 days, and three scheduled study visits are planned during follow up at
      postoperative day 10, 20 and 30.

      Glucose is measured continuously from the interstitial fluid of the subcutaneous tissue with
      a wearable subcutaneous sensor (Dexcom G6). Continues Glucose measurement (CGM) is normally
      used by diabetic patients in an outpatient setting. Therefore, the CGM readings are validated
      in the perioperative setting using capillary blood glucose measurements obtained with
      standard finger-pricks 3-5 times a day during hospitalization. The CGM-monitor is mounted on
      the patient from inclusion until 30 days after surgery. Metrics of within-day glycemic
      variability include the standard deviation (SD), the 'mean amplitude of glucose excursions'
      (MAGE) and the 'derived coefficient of variation' (%CV). Stable glucose levels are defined as
      a %CV <36% according to the international consensus on use of continues glucose monitoring.
      Metrics of between-day glucose variability include 'Mean of daily differences' (MODD), which
      is the absolute difference between two glucose values measured at the same time with a 24 h
      interval. Furthermore, the daily 'mean glucose level' and 'time in ranges' (TIRs) will be
      reported.

      Actigraphy is used for measuring sleep- and activity patterns for the full study period. The
      device consists of three linear accelerometer with an integrated minicomputer that allows the
      direct measure of accelerations in all directions. In this study we will use the
      'Zero-crossing method', where every acceleration (>0,1g) during each epoch length are
      measured. The epoch length in this study is predefined to 60 seconds. Metrics of sleep
      disturbances include 'Time in Bed' (TIB), 'Total Sleep Time' (TST), ' Sleep Efficiency' (SE),
      'Wake Time' (WT) and 'Wake after Sleep Onset' (WASO), Sleep Latency (SL) and number of
      awakenings longer than five minutes" (NOA).

      A battery powered, rechargeable heart rate monitor (C3 Holter monitor, Cortrium, Denmark)
      will be used for monitoring HRV. The device is a triangular monitor (7x7x7cm) and consist of
      three integrated electrodes allowing for measuring long term ECG. Data is stored on internal
      memory on the device and can be transferred to appropriate desktop software (Kubios Premium).
      Heart rate will be monitored from inclusion until 7 days after discharge or until
      postoperative day 14, whatever comes first. Time-domain analysis of HRV will be applied as
      recommended in the guidelines from the European Society of Cardiology and The North American
      Society of Pacing and Electrophysiology.

      The widely used questionnaire quality of recovery-15 (QoR/15) quantifies patient reported
      quality of recovery with 15 Danish translated and validated questions. The questionnaire is
      completed in 2-3 minutes and results in a score up to 150 points with a high score indicating
      high self-reported postoperative recovery. The participants fills out QoR-15 every day during
      hospitalization and once at each scheduled study visit.

      Estimation of pancreatic beta-cell functions and peripheral insulin resistance will be
      assessed with paired C-peptide and plasma glucose samples obtained at inclusion, discharge
      and 30-day follow up. In addition, changes in p-carbamide, hemoglobin, hemoglobin A1C,
      C-reactive protein and white blood cell count are measured during the study period.

      A designated dietician assesses the patient's daily nutritional energy intake during
      hospitalization. In addition, the patient's nutritional consumption after discharge is
      estimated with the "24 hour recall method" at each follow up visit and the questionnaire
      "Food Frequency questionnaire" (FFQ), at 30 day follow up. In the FFQ-questionnaire, the
      patient reports the frequency of the consumption of 104 different common food and drink
      products during the last 30 days.

      To assess changes in the patient's mobility the "Timed Up-and-go"-test will be used.
      Furthermore, 7 basic abilities during hospitalization (e.g. showering or dressing) are
      assessed on a scale from 0-2 with the questionnaire "Mobility during Hospitalization". After
      discharge, the questionnaire "Activity of Daily Living (ADL)" is used for assessing whether
      the patient is able to perform everyday activities (e.g. cooking, grossery shopping) on a 1-5
      scale. In addition, handgrip strength, weight and bio impendence is measured at inclusion, at
      discharge and at each follow up visit.

      Data on demographics, peri- and postoperative data will be extracted from the electronic
      patient chart. Postoperative complications will be classified according to the Clavien-Dindo
      classification.

      To investigate the subjective experience of being discharged with three wearable monitors, a
      designated anthropologist conducts a semi-structured interview in a subgroup of 6-8 patients.

      Statistics:

      For baseline characteristics, descriptive statistics will be applied including reports of
      mean, standard deviation (SD), median and interquartile range (IQR) when appropriate. For
      comparison, chi^2 test and t-test will be applied. When data is not normally distributed,
      log-transformation will be used when possible. Further statistical methods include
      correlation analysis and logistic regression modelling with adjustment of relevant
      confounders. A two-tailed p-value of 0.05 is considered statistically significant. Designated
      statistical software will be used (e.g. R version 3.6.1, https://www.r-project.org/). A
      trained statistician will be consulted when analyzing data.
    
  