
    
      The growing burden of chronic disease in the U.S. and the economics of accountable care are
      driving a shift toward proactive approaches to disease prevention and health maintenance. At
      the same time, precision medicine studies continue to reveal substantial heterogeneity in the
      manifestations of even the most common chronic diseases. The bulk of morbidity and mortality
      in the U.S. arises from conditions with a significant lifestyle component (e.g. type II
      diabetes), and responsibility for monitoring and maintaining health largely falls on
      individuals.

      Recent advances in molecular biology, sensors, and digital health technology underlie rapidly
      growing market availability of products and devices for measuring and monitoring individual
      health. A vast array of wearable devices, smart home monitors, and health tracking apps
      provide an unprecedented view of individuals "in the wild" and provide customers with health
      information once accessible only to researchers. The growing digital health market is
      generating unprecedented volumes of information to support decision making around individual
      health, and current trends suggest the demand for personalized health information, tools, and
      services will continue to grow in the next decade.

      What is missing from this technological and scientific growth is a reliable, individualized
      way to translate data into action. If society wants to prevent diabetes, heart disease, and
      other chronic illnesses that kill millions of Americans each year, individuals must be
      empowered to address precursor conditions like obesity, hypertension, and depression.
      Dialogue around consumer health often fails to address the profound disconnect between
      measurements and outcomes/goals; e.g. monitoring one's weight is not the same as losing
      weight, and counting steps is not the same as lowering blood pressure. Data are only useful
      if they can help individuals identify interventions that work for them. The combination of
      diet, exercise, drugs/supplements, activities, and lifestyle changes that targets an
      individual's particular set of health problems is unique to him or her, and it is dependent
      on a complex web of factors including genetics, environment, and personal lifestyle. If
      individuals are to benefit from data, they must be able to relate changes in their personal
      data to targeted adjustments in actions and outcomes. This effectively necessitates
      conducting a robust trial at the level of the individual to determine the most promising
      recipe of personal lifestyle adjustments to effect change.

      To address these challenges, the researchers have developed a unified statistical framework
      for producing consistent, interpretable study results from diverse n-of-1 study designs. The
      analysis framework is the backbone of the initial software platform, which includes modules
      for study design, e-consent, data ingestion, data analysis, and visualization of results.

      To test this platform, the researchers plan to deploy a prototype study that allows
      individuals to test the cognitive effects of two commonly consumed substances: caffeine and
      caffeine in combination with a safe, prevalent compound, L-theanine. Each enrolled individual
      will participate in his/her own n-of-1 trial. After a baseline period where neither treatment
      is taken, participants will alternate between the two treatments ("caffeine alone" and
      "caffeine + L-theanine") according to a predefined schedule. Participants will complete a
      daily cognitive assessment composed of 3 validated cognitive tests administered via the N1
      app. The platform will analyze the cognitive assessment data and determine whether there is a
      statistically meaningful treatment effect for either treatment compared to baseline for any
      of the 3 cognitive tests for each individual that completes the study.

      It is important to state explicitly that the research objectives for this protocol are not
      related to the efficacy of L-theanine and caffeine. This specific study is designed to allow
      the researchers to efficiently recruit and enroll subjects so that the underlying statistical
      methods and software platform for executing n-of-1 trials may be evaluated.
    
  