
    
      Families with young children under age six participating in The Temporary Assistance for
      NeedyFamilies Program (TANF) that are deemed "work mandatory" are required to participate in
      work-related activities for at least 20 hours per week in order to receive TANF benefits.
      However, due to financial hardship, poor health, and exposure to violence and adversity, the
      success families achieve through TANF participation can be limited.

      In 2013, 45.3 million people lived in poverty in the United States, including over one in
      five children under the age of six, yet only 27% of eligible families received Temporary
      Assistance for Needy Families (TANF). While child poverty increases the risk of poor health
      and developmental delays, many public assistance programs, such as the Supplemental Nutrition
      Assistance Program (SNAP), the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and
      Children (WIC), and housing subsidies, protect vulnerable children from the negative effects
      of poverty. However, it is unclear if TANF has demonstrated significant improvements in
      maternal and child wellbeing, in moving families out of poverty, or in fully preparing
      low-income families for success in the workforce.

      One of the goals of TANF is to provide job skills and education programs to support adults
      and their children as they enter the workforce. However, many families experience barriers to
      employment, which may prevent them from successfully transitioning off of TANF. This may be
      due in part to poor health among those receiving TANF, as approximately one third of TANF
      recipients have reported a work-limiting health condition; and almost 43% of TANF recipients
      reported multiple types of disability including memory impairment, emotional/mental
      limitations, movement limitations, and sensory impairment. In addition to the poor health and
      disability reported by TANF participants, they also report alarmingly high rates of exposure
      to violence and adversity in their communities and in their family relationships. For
      instance, among TANF eligible families, rates of intimate partner violence are as high as 74%
      compared to up to 31% in the general community, posing a major barrier to rates of
      employment. While exposure to violence in adulthood indicates severe hardship, such exposure
      to violence across the lifespan, reaching back into childhood, is also reported at
      significantly higher rates among low-income families. Adverse childhood experiences (ACEs)
      consisting of physical and emotional abuse and neglect, sexual abuse, and household
      dysfunction, such as having a household member in prison, or witnessing domestic violence are
      especially prevalent among those receiving TANF. ACEs and violence exposure are closely
      linked to work-limiting conditions such as depression, cardiovascular disease, food
      insecurity and other health conditions. Exposure to ACEs has been linked to higher rates of
      worker absenteeism and stress surrounding work and finances in adulthood, indicating an
      association between ACEs and later financial stability. Other related barriers to work are
      having a criminal record, or having served time in prison, and among female heads of
      household TANF recipients, the prevalence of interactions with the criminal justice system is
      quite high compared to other low income populations. Finally, when a parent of a young child
      is in prison, it can have detrimental effects on the child's development, which in turn,
      demands more attention, time and care by adult caregivers, creating more barriers to work.
      Female heads of households who have a criminal history are at greater risk for reaching the
      TANF time limit which can exacerbate the barriers of obtaining employment. Furthermore,
      children whose parents have a criminal history are at a greater risk of becoming involved in
      the criminal justice system and are more likely to exhibit high-risk behaviors than children
      in the general population.

      The high levels of adversity among TANF recipients and those living in poverty is a
      significant concern because adversity impacts physical and mental health, academic
      achievement, employment, the development of executive skills such as working memory and
      cognitive controls, and parenting of the next generation. Emphasis on job search and work
      participation for families without attention to adversity and poor health can be a set up for
      failure. Preliminary evidence demonstrates that social support and comprehensive approaches
      to social work that build resilience may have strong success in limiting the negative impacts
      of exposure to violence and adversity. However, the majority of TANF programs across the
      country rarely integrate such approaches, and in many states, TANF participants that are
      unable to meet the mandated work requirements, potentially due to poor health and exposure to
      violence and adversity, may be more likely to be "sanctioned," either have their cash
      benefits reduced, or cut off completely for a duration of time.

      Families that receive sanctions are more likely to have significant health barriers to work
      participation. Additionally, those that have been sanctioned reported higher rates of
      intimate partner violence, and physical and behavioral health problems. Sanctions can then
      increase hardships families already face. For instance, compared to families who have not
      been sanctioned, families that experience sanction report higher rates of household food
      insecurity, utility shut-offs, child hospitalizations, difficulty paying for health care,
      homelessness, and disruptions in children's schooling. This is especially problematic as
      those who are sanctioned often have young children, putting those children at increased risk
      during sensitive developmental phases.

      To compound the mental and physical barriers to work and self-sufficiency, TANF-eligible
      families, like many low income families, have low financial literacy, poor no credit history,
      few or no assets, and are unbanked (having no checking or savings account) or under-banked
      (having a bank account, but still primarily relying on alternative financial services such as
      check cashing and money orders). In order to supplement meager income, families may resort to
      earning income and spending money through the informal economy where they are paying higher
      fees for check cashing, paying bills, and acquiring loans. This lack of access to mainstream
      financial institutions and activities can be crippling, as savings and other tangible assets
      play a critical role in helping shield families from unexpected income shocks, allowing
      families to weather periods of economic uncertainty without falling further into poverty.
      Savings create a financial foundation, increase economic security, and can be, over time,
      invested into education for children. Asset building activities show improvements in health,
      greater civic and community involvement, and lower rates in the intergenerational transfer of
      poverty. Savings can also reduce the extreme stress that often accompanies maternal
      depression. Finally, the positive impacts of savings have held true even during the
      recession.

      In partnership with the state of Pennsylvania Health and Human Services Department, The
      Building Wealth and Health Network (The Network), a randomized, controlled pilot study,
      sought to evaluate effectiveness of an intervention to address family hardships associated
      with exposure to adversity and violence, social isolation, and low financial capability in
      order to help families get on the pathway to self-sufficiency.
    
  