
    
      Background of the study Crohn´s disease (CD) is a chronic progressive destructive disease.
      Approximately one-fifth of adult and paediatric patients already have evidence of a
      structuring or penetrating intestinal complications at diagnosis. Despite decades of
      research, the aetiology of CD remains unknown. Disease treatments include a variety of
      approaches like dietary changes and immunosuppressive anti-TNFa antibodies as well as
      ancillary antibiotic therapy. Another interesting and promising approach in this context
      might be the supplementation of the certified medical device PMA-(Panaceo micro
      activation)-zeolite (a specific natural zeolite-clinoptilolite) due to its properties
      documented through many studies. In particular, the promising clinical results from a
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) with PMA-zeolite need to be highlighted. The strengthening/
      supporting of the intestinal wall integrity in healthy subjects suffering from intestinal
      problems was measured in this RCT and is claimed as intended main action of the PMA-zeolite.
      Based on these results the application of PMA-zeolite is an interesting and promising
      approach in patients with uncontrolled CD.

      Hypothesis In the present trial, it is being tested if supplementing PMA-zeolite can lead to
      an improvement of the defined markers and parameters (reduction of local and systemic
      inflammation, changes of the microbiota in the gut, positive detoxifying effect and general
      improvement of quality of life) in patients with uncontrolled CD compared to a healthy
      test-group.

      Aims This pilot study aims to evaluate the safety and efficacy of PMA-zeolite when used in
      patients with uncontrolled CD. The effect of the PMA-zeolite will be compared between a
      control-group (healthy volunteers) receiving either PMA-zeolite or placebo and the test-group
      (suffering from uncontrolled CD) and receiving either PMA-zeolite or placebo. In addition,
      this pilot-study should furthermore provide indications for the effect-size in order to
      estimate an effect for an eventual further human trial.
    
  