
    
      SUMMARY Over the past 30 years, childhood overweight/obesity, often beginning in infancy and
      toddlerhood, has reached epidemic proportions, particularly among minority and/or low-income
      populations in high-income countries. Rates of pediatric obesity (BMI ≥ 95th percentile) have
      almost tripled over the past 25 years, with current estimates showing a prevalence rate of
      16% for girls and 18% for boys. The prevalence of adolescent and childhood overweight and
      obesity in children living in Egypt, Brazil and Mexico has reached levels comparable to those
      seen in industrialized nations.

      Obesity is associated with alterations in iron metabolism leading to iron deficiency which is
      probably the most prevalent single common micronutrient deficiency in the world today.

      Aim of the study :

        1. To assess iron status among overweight/ obese primary school children. With age ranging
           from 6 years till preadolescence or age 12 years with Tanner score ≤ 2.

        2. To assess the effect of 6 months dieting program on iron status improvement in
           overweight/obese children.

        3. To study the psychological basis of obesity in children as well as associated
           co-morbidities.

        4. To assess the prevalence of obesity among primary school students.

      The study will be conducted on 2 groups:

      Group 1 1025 will be recruited from 2 urban primary schools with moderate-high social
      standards among children with age between 6 to 12 years.

      Weight, height were measured and body mass index will be calculated. All measures will be
      plotted on the percentiles for age. The percentage of obese and overweight children will be
      calculated.

      Group 2 will include 150 children, 100 obese children and 50 normal weight children with age
      ranging between 6 and 12 years.

      All 150 subjects will be subjected to:

        1. A questionnaire: inquiring about personal data, Socioeconomic data, family history of
           obesity, weight related attitudes, physical exercise performance, personal believes
           about diet (self-efficacy, barriers to change and dietary believes), previous trials to
           lose weight and school performance.

        2. Full clinical examination: including

             1. Systemic examination and blood pressure measurements.

             2. Anthropometric measurements which include weight, height and body mass index.

        3. Laboratory investigations: complete blood picture, serum iron, ferritin, transferrin
           saturation, total iron binding capacity, soluble transferrin receptor, serum
           triglycerides and serum cholesterol.

      All obese children will be subjected to weight reduction program which includes diet regimen,
      exercise and behavioral modification.

      All anthropometric and laboratory measures will be measured again after the 6 months
      intervention.
    
  