
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of moderate-duration (28 weeks) neoadjuvant total androgen
           suppression (TAS) and radiotherapy (RT) with short-duration (8 weeks) neoadjuvant TAS
           and RT, as related to disease-specific survival, in patients with intermediate-risk
           adenocarcinoma of the prostate.

        -  Compare these regimens, in terms of overall survival, disease-free survival, time to
           local tumor progression or distant failure, time to first biochemical failure,
           hormone-refractory state, and treatment-induced morbidity, in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      prostate-specific antigen level (no greater than 10 ng/mL vs greater than 10 but no greater
      than 20 ng/mL vs greater than 20 ng/mL), tumor stage (T1b-2 vs T3-4), Gleason score (2-4 vs
      5-6 vs 7-10), and prior hormonal therapy (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to one of two
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive total androgen suppression for 8 weeks prior to the initiation
           of radiotherapy and throughout radiotherapy. A luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone
           (LHRH) agonist is administered every 1-3 months AND bicalutamide OR flutamide is given
           orally daily for a total duration of 16 weeks. Beginning with week 9, patients undergo
           radiotherapy 5 days a week for 8 weeks.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive total androgen suppression for 28 weeks prior to the initiation
           of radiotherapy and throughout radiotherapy. An LHRH agonist AND bicalutamide OR
           flutamide are administered as in arm I for a total duration of 36 weeks. Beginning with
           week 29, patients undergo radiotherapy as in arm I.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 4 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,540 patients (770 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 4 years.
    
  