
    
      Background: High prevalence rates (10 - 25 %) and a promising setting for proactive
      intervention strategies make the general hospital a first choice setting for secondary
      prevention of alcohol-related disorders. Efficient screening instruments have been developed
      for early detection. With regard to the severity of alcohol problem (e.g. alcohol dependence
      vs. heavy episodic drinking) and the motivation to change, the target group is very
      heterogeneous. Although there are counseling strategies that take into account this
      heterogeneity, there is still a lack of implementation and poor knowledge about different
      implementation strategies in routine care. Objectives: To evaluate the effectiveness of a
      proactive secondary preventive intervention based on the TTM and on MI in a representative
      sample of general hospital patients carried out by a liaison service versus non-specialist
      physicians trained in counseling techniques by staff of the study. Methods: A sample of 1,479
      alcohol at-risk-drinking, alcohol abusing or alcohol dependent patients from four general
      hospitals detected by screening questionnaires will be assigned to (1) a group counseled by
      an addiction liaison service, (2) a group counseled by the physicians of the ward, and (3) to
      an assessment-only condition with treatment as usual. Outcome will be measured one year later
      and will include abstinence point prevalence rates, stage progress, help seeking, and
      cost-effectiveness analysis. Expected impact: The project will yield new scientific knowledge
      on how to implement early intervention for alcohol at-risk-drinking and alcohol use disorders
      in the general hospital. Results of the study shall be transferred to nationwide practice
      guideline proposals. The study will contribute to the improvement of the health care system
      as well as the education of medical students. The study is designed to reveal empirical
      evidence for proactive TTM-based interventions for individuals suffering from a prevalent
      substance use disorder.
    
  