
    
      Common variable immune deficiency (CVID), specific antibody deficiency (SAD), and X-linked
      agammaglobulinemia (XLA) are among the most common primary antibody deficiencies in which the
      mainstay of treatment is gammaglobulin replacement. The use of high doses of immunoglobulin
      replacement therapy and the early recognition of co-morbid diseases during the course of
      CVID, SAD, and XLA has improved survival and led to an aging population of CVID, SAD, and XLA
      patients.

      The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommends routine vaccination of all
      persons aged >60 years with 1 dose of vaccine directed against herpes zoster (Zostavax速) in
      the absence of any contraindications. Current standard of care includes avoidance of all
      vaccines when receiving gammaglobulin products due to passive immunity obtained from
      gammaglobulin against vaccine preventable infections. The exception to this rule is that
      patients on gammaglobulin should receive the yearly influenza vaccine due to its enhanced
      cell mediated immunity against the influenza virus. Clinical immunologists currently have no
      data upon which to advise patients receiving gammaglobulin replacement including those with
      CVID, SAD, and XLA concerning use of Zostavax速.

      All gammaglobulin replacement products maintain protective antibody levels against VZV.
      However, humoral immune responses with anti-VZV antibodies are relatively constant and do not
      protect against the development of shingles. Varicella zoster virus specific cell mediated
      immunity (VZV-CMI), which is T cell dependent, is the critical component in preventing herpes
      zoster (shingles). VZV-CMI diminishes with age leaving the elderly most susceptible to
      shingles. Several studies have concluded that boosting VZV-CMI protects older adults from
      developing herpes zoster and postherpetic neuralgia (PHN).

      Recommendations on the prevention of herpes zoster published in the Morbidity and Mortality
      Weekly Report (MMWR) by the Centers for disease control (CDC) in May 2008 make the following
      statements:

        1. Zoster vaccine should not be administered to persons with primary or acquired
           immunodeficiency including:

           a. Persons with clinical or laboratory evidence of other unspecified cellular
           immunodeficiency.

        2. Persons with impaired humoral immunity (e.g., hypogammaglobulinemia or
           dysgammaglobulinemia) can/should receive zoster vaccine.

      The investigators hypothesize that vaccination with Zostavax速 in adults with CVID, SAD, and
      XLA who have evidence of normal cell mediated immunity with normal T cell quantities and
      function will have a boost in VZV-CMI thereby reducing susceptibility to shingles and PHN.

      Successful completion of this study will provide clinical immunologists with data upon which
      to advise antibody deficient patients concerning the use of Zostavax速.
    
  