
    
      The local collaborator at each participating hospital will identify two clinical areas
      comparable for the following elements: similar hours of service, similar use of red cells,
      similar level of intensity, and similar nurse-to-patient staffing ratios. For the purposes of
      this study, a clinical area is defined as a discrete area where one type of clinical care
      takes place. Comparability will be established by completion of a checklist.

      The local collaborator will transmit comparability data to the study co-ordinator who will
      pass it on to a nominated medical consultant (Professor Mike Murphy) and the study
      statistician. If both parties are satisfied that the two clinical areas are comparable,
      confirmation will be transmitted to the local collaborator together with authority to
      commence the two-week baseline audit. Once the baseline is complete the local collaborator
      will contact the statistician, via the co-ordinator, to be informed of the area for
      intervention. The local collaborator will then inform the blood bank of the intervention
      area.

      The intervention will be applied to one clinical area or ward in each participating hospital.
      Both clinical areas will be audited during a two-week baseline observation period. The two
      areas will then be randomly allocated to either the intervention of labeled blood bags or no
      intervention. Auditing will carry on in both areas until 2 weeks after the intervention has
      been introduced. To assess the longer-term impact of the intervention, there will be a
      further two-week period of audit 8 weeks from the start of the intervention. The intervention
      will be carried out for the full 10-week period.

      The randomized comparison will be based on the data collected in the 2-week period after one
      area has received the labeled bags, and both areas have been observed by an observer for the
      same length of time. Thus the effect of the intervention will be separated from any initial
      effect that the observer may have on bedside checking practice. This comparison will also be
      made on the long-term audit data collected at 8-weeks.

      The intervention under investigation is a simple label applied to the blood bag in such a way
      to cover (obstruct entry) the "ports" used to administer blood. The label will be applied to
      units of crossmatched red cells only. The position of the label will require that the user
      remove the label to administer the red cells. The label will state: "STOP: Check the
      patient's wristband". The wording will be translated to the appropriate language as
      necessary.

      Observers (auditors)- not blinded to the test or control areas - will be asked to audit the
      bedside check at the time of transfusion. This will be done by direct observation. The
      auditor will take up a position to observe practice and will therefore be obvious to the
      staff. However the auditor will not participate in the transfusion check, not answer
      questions, and not reveal observed errors in the check (unless they observe that the wrong
      blood will be transfused, in which case they should intervene). Observations will be recorded
      on the data form.

      Participants are invited from Europe, North America, South America, Asia and Australia. The
      target is for at least 15 hospitals.
    
  