
    
      Oral mucositis is a predictable and unavoidable representation during the course of
      radiotherapy employed for treatment of head and neck cancers. The term oral mucositis is used
      to describe inflammation of the oral mucosa, a separate entity distinct from oral lesions
      with other pathogenic background generally summarized as stomatitis. The cells that line the
      gastrointestinal tract from the mouth to the rectum are especially vulnerable to such
      changes. The incidence and severity of oral mucositis is influenced by the type of
      antineoplastic treatment administered and patient related factors. The pathogenesis of
      radiation mucositis though not completely understood, is usually either by direct DNA damage
      or via an indirect mechanism of releasing free radicals upon radiolysis of water effecting
      the oral epithelium.It is associated with significant morbidity, pain, odynophagia,
      malnutrition thereby affecting the overall quality of life in these patients and carrying a
      more important risk of systemic infections particularly in impaired host defense setup.In
      addition to acute damage wide range of GI mucosal involvement occurs during radiotherapy.

      Various radiation modifying agents have been used which can either selectively protect normal
      cells but not tumor cells against therapeutic damage or can selectively enhance the effect of
      radiation on tumor cells but not on normal cells thereby improving efficacy of radiation
      therapy. In spite of extensive research most of them are found to be toxic.

      Antioxidants represent most selective radiation modifying agents that are non toxic to
      humans. However, because of many conflicting hypothesis on their usage affecting tumor
      response and also decreasing the radiation induced toxicity on normal cells, recommendations
      have followed for their non usage during chemo-radiotherapy. In spite of such reservations on
      behalf of oncologists over 70% of patients are on antioxidant supplements such as those
      containing vitamin A, vitamin C and polar carotenoids with or without the knowledge of
      oncologists.

      Antioxidants can neutralize those free radicals generated during radio-chemo therapy
      enhancing body's antioxidant stores in order to prevent mucositis and to maintain healthy
      oral tissues. Literature survey provides exhaustive list of such antioxidants successfully
      implicated in controlling oral mucositis to some extent. Antioxidants such as beta carotene,
      vitamin E and vitamin C in combination, glutamine, glutathione have been studied.

      Vitamin C is a water soluble nutrient that has wide antioxidant and wound healing properties.
      It has been widely in scurvy patients but its effect on conventional cancer therapy by
      radiation and chemotherapy were little known. Limited preclinical data suggested that this
      vitamin at high concentrations increased the toxicity of certain chemotherapeutic drugs in
      animals.

      Recommended daily allowance (RDA) for vitamin C is 90mgper day for men and 75mg per day for
      women, upper limit being 2000mg per day. Evidence points out that the intake to achieve
      therapeutic tissue concentration in normal people should be several times higher than RDA.
      Conversely a recent study implicated dangers of consuming high doses of vitamin C which may
      turn from antioxidant to pro oxidant interfering radiotherapy. However it should be noted
      that the conditions used in the above study prevailed were invitro in nature, which cannot
      reflect an identical situation invivo. Few other studies believed that it can enhance immune
      function by increasing natural killer cells and lymphocyte activity.

      With such controversial background and paucity of data in human intervention, this study is
      undertaken to evaluate the effect of vitamin c in assessing the severity of oral mucositis in
      patients undergoing cancer chemo and radiotherapy concurrently
    
  