
    
      Schizophrenia is a major mental illness characterized by psychosis, negative symptoms (e.g.,
      apathy, social withdrawal, anhedonia), and cognitive impairment. Depression and substance
      abuse commonly co-occur. These individuals have impaired functioning in the areas of work,
      school, parenting, self-care, independent living, interpersonal relationships, and leisure
      time. Among adult psychiatric disorders, schizophrenia is the most disabling, and its
      treatment accounts for a disproportionate share of mental health services.

      This study is part of the National Institute of Mental Health's Recovery After an Initial
      Schizophrenia Episode (RAISE) Project. The RAISE Project seeks to fundamentally change the
      trajectory and prognosis of schizophrenia through coordinated and aggressive treatment in the
      earliest stages of illness. This study, the RAISE Early Treatment Program (ETP), is one of
      the two independent research studies that NIMH has funded to conduct the NIMH RAISE Project.
      ETP is being supported in whole or in part with Federal funds from the American Recovery and
      Reinvestment Act of 2009 and the NIMH, National Institutes of Health, Department of Health
      and Human Services.

      The ETP study aims to compare two early treatment interventions for adolescents and adults
      experiencing a first episode of psychosis. The clinical centers have been randomly allocated
      to offer one of the two treatment programs. Both treatment interventions are designed to
      provide a person with treatment soon after he or she experiences the early signs of
      schizophrenia. Participants will be offered mental health services such as medication and
      psychosocial therapy. These strategies are all aimed at promoting symptom reduction and
      improving life functioning. Participation in this study will last between 2 and 3 years. All
      participants will first undergo an initial videoconference interview to confirm a diagnosis
      of schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, psychosis NOS, brief psychotic disorder, or
      schizophreniform disorder. Eligible participants will then be offered mental health services.

      In addition to the mental health services, participants will participate in a series of
      research interviews. Participants will be interviewed every 3 months for the first 6 months
      and then every 6 months for up to 3 years. At the research visit, participants will complete
      an interview about their symptoms and general quality of life, complete questions about
      experiences with their illness, their vital signs will be measured, and a blood draw will be
      collected. At the initial, 12 and 24 month visits, participants will also complete a brief
      test that assesses skills such as memory, attention and problem solving. Participants will
      also have monthly telephone interviews about their illness and services that they have
      received.
    
  