
    
      Recruitment:

      The sample will be drawn from the following Stanford Health Services clinics: the Stanford
      Cardiovascular Risk Reduction Clinic, the Electron Beam Computed Tomography Center, and the
      Cardiology Clinics. Subjects will also be recruited via the mass media.

      Screen:

      Potential subjects will be identified by a brief screen combined with a short follow-up
      interview, the PRIME-MD that consists of two self-report items, as follows: "During the PAST
      MONTH, have you been bothered A LOT by (1) little interest or pleasure in doing things (yes
      or no) or (2) feeling down, depressed, or hopeless (yes or no)." If either item is scored
      "yes," a short follow-up interview to establish a diagnosis is indicated. The two screen
      items yield a sensitivity of 69% and specificity of 82% when diagnoses made by a mental
      health professional are used as the criterion standard. Subjects will also have to have a
      general health questionnaire score > 5, indicating high levels of distress. Potentially
      eligible subjects will then undergo a structured clinical interview for diagnosis. Twenty,
      age, gender and cardiovascular risk level controls will be selected from the same population.
      Controls will be matched for age, sex and risk with the depressed subjects.

      Procedures:

      Participants will come to the Department of Psychiatry for baseline assessment, including
      undergoing a structured psychiatric examination and completing baseline self-report measures.
      If they are interested and eligible they will be asked to complete a series of assessments
      that will last three days. On day one, they will then be asked to report to the Stanford
      General Research Center on their next available Wednesday, at 9:00. At that time a medical
      exam will be performed, bloods were will be drawn and the FMVD (see below) undertaken. They
      will then be asked to wear a the "lifeshirt," a undergarment worn over the chest that will
      measure heart rate during the day, and to report their mood and activity on up to 5
      occassions using a portable computer attached to the lifeshirt. Each participant will be
      scheduled to obtain saliva samples using cotton swabs in "salivette devices" at the time of
      waking, 30 minutes later, and then at 1200h, 1700h, and 2100h on each of two days.
      Participants were asked to refrigerate each sample immediately after collection, not to eat,
      drink, smoke, brush their teeth, or use mouthwash in the 30 minutes before collection, and
      not to drink alcohol during the 8-10 hours prior to collecting samples or during the days of
      collection. On day two they will return the life-shirt and continue to obtain salivary
      cortisols. On day three they will be asked to return to the Stanford GCRC to undertaken a
      psychological stress test. The psychological stress test is a standardized social and
      cognitive stressor composed of 5 minutes of anticipatory stress, and then 5 minutes of public
      speaking (simulated job interview) and 5 minutes of mental arithmetic, both done before a
      panel of 2 evaluators. Subjects were sitting in a comfortable chair throughout the entire
      procedure. Subjects were informed that their speech would be evaluated by a panel of two
      expert behavioral coders and that it would be rated on the basis of poise, speaking ability,
      and expressiveness. During the psychological stress a number of physiologic functions will be
      measured using sensors attached to the chest and arms. Subjects will also be asked to provide
      saliva samples between the measurements and to report their mood. At the end of the stress
      testing they will meet with an investigator to be debriefed.

      Depressed subjects randomized to the cognitive behavior therapy (CBT)will be asked to attend
      16, one-hour sessions over 4-5 months. The CBT will be conduced by a senior therapist.
      Cognitive therapy aims at symptom removal by identification and correction of the patient's
      distorted, negatively biased, moment-to-moment thinking and theoretically aims at prevention
      of relapse/reoccurrence by identifying and correcting silent assumptions (personal beliefs or
      schemas). Modern cognitive treatment interventions also address behavioral aspects of
      depression through encouraging more activity of various kinds. (Because the level of physical
      condition is a potential confound for the variables of interest, increased aerobic activity
      will not be included in the intervention.) Depressed control subjects will be offered the CBT
      intervention (in a group format) after the six-month follow-up and/or referred for treatment,
      as desired and appropriate. At post-treatment and six-month follow-up, subjects will be
      carefully assessed for any psychotherapy and psychopharmacology interventions.

      The same assessments will be conducted at baseline and six months later.

      Measures:

      Intervention Descriptive and Control Variables: Baseline demographic information will include
      education, ethnicity and marital status.

      Structured Clinical Interview for Diagnosis (SCID). A structured clinical interview for
      diagnosis modified to include the Hamilton Depression Interview will be used. Structured
      clinical interviews are now the standard method of diagnosis in psychiatry studies.

      Medical status. A standard questionnaire concerning coronary risk factors, medications, and
      medical diagnosis will be completed at baseline on all subjects. Heart rate and baseline ECG.
      Resting 12-lead ECG will be recorded using a standard electrocardiograph at the time of the
      treadmill. Subjects with CVD events evident on their ECG will be excluded. Blood pressure.
      Resting blood pressure will be measured in triplicate by asculatory techniques using a
      mercury sphygmomanometer.

      Body weight (kg) and height (m). Weight (in kgs) will be measured on a balance beam scale.
      Height and weight will be obtained in a standing position, with shoes removed and subjects
      wearing street clothes.

      Lipids and apolipoproteins. Fasting plasma levels of total cholesterol and triglycerides will
      be obtained from fasting samples.

      Duplex ultrasonography of flow-mediated vasodilation (FMVD). The methods are as follows:
      Diameter of the brachial arterial (DBA) will be measured at multiple single time points under
      4 states using a standard 7 MHz linear array transducer and a Hewlett-Packard system
      (Hewlett-Packard, Palo Alto, California). The four states include: at rest, during limb
      ischemia (created by inflating a blood pressure cuff placed distal to the brachial artery to
      supra-systemic pressures), in response to reactive hyperemia (with increased flow producing
      endothelium-dependent vasodilation). Measurements of these three states will then be repeated
      a second time. Finally, DBA will then be measured in (4) response to the administration of
      sublingual nitroglycerin. ADMA (asymmetric dimethylarginine) will be measured.

      Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Activity Cortisol and diurnal cortisol variation.
      Cortisol will be measured using self-administered saliva samples. Subjects will obtain
      samples on three consecutive days, at five intervals throughout each day (at waking, 45
      minutes later, 5 pm, 9 pm and bedtime), in subjects' own homes. A testing kit will be used by
      each subject consisting of 15 salivette tubes. Salivary cortisol has been found to be a
      reliable tool for investigations of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity.

      Laboratory Assessment of RSA and Baroreflex Sensitivity RSA and baroreflex sensitivity will
      be assessed noninvasively in the laboratory during a 10-minute baseline. Physiological
      channels required for their quantification will be recorded using (1) an ECG (400 Hz sample
      rate); (2) two channels of respiration using a Respitrace system (Ambulatory Monitoring,
      Ardsley, NY); bands are placed around the upper thorax and around the abdomen and calibrated
      against spirometry (25 Hz sample rate); (3) a continuous arterial blood pressure waveform
      from the index finger by means of the Finapres 2300 system.

      Depression measures include the Hamilton Depression Interview (HDI) and the Beck Depression
      Interview (BDI), a short 21-item will also be obrtained. Perceived Stress Perceived Stress
      Scale (PSS). The PSS measures a global perception of stress during the previous month. It has
      a short version comprised of ten items, e.g., "In the last month how often have you felt
      difficulties were piling up so high that you could not overcome them?" Response options were
      assessed using a 5-point Likert-type scale: (0 = Never to 4= Very Often). The scores on four
      items that were worded in the opposite direction (e.g., "In the last month how often have you
      felt that things were going your way?") are reverse-scored.
    
  