
    
      Experiencing adverse events can compromise the clinical benefit of a cancer treatment, and
      may go undetected by clinicians. Specific to checkpoint inhibitors, Immune Related Adverse
      Events (irAEs) include symptoms such as fatigue, headaches, skin reactions, nausea or
      vomiting, diarrhea as well as colitis, liver toxicities, and endocrinopathies. A systematic
      review for 50 clinical trials with a total of 5,071 patients receiving immune checkpoint
      inhibitors revealed that grade 3 or 4 irAEs were present in up to 66% of patients. In
      general, if irAEs are detected quickly, they are reversible and manageable with
      immunosuppressive therapy. However, severe or life-threatening irAEs may lead to
      discontinuation of the checkpoint inhibitor, which can lead to cancer progression and
      ultimately patient mortality. Therefore, prompt recognition and management of irAEs before
      they become severe can prevent irAEs that may be life-threatening as well as prevent
      discontinuation of checkpoint inhibitors.

      Web-based interventions provide flexibility and overcome many obstacles to accessibility for
      patients who may not be able to meet at a certain location due to disease-related physical
      limitations or logistical limitations. Specific to cancer, web-based interventions have
      demonstrated efficacy in reducing depressive symptoms, distress, and improved functional
      well-being among patients with cancer. Finally, web based platforms are useful for monitoring
      patient-reported outcomes and linking outcomes to providers. Overall, web-based monitoring
      and embedding of patient-reported adverse events into clinical care can improve cancer
      outcomes. To the best of our knowledge, no study has established the efficacy of a platform
      that links patient-reported irAEs to oncology providers.

      Our primary outcome will measure the feasibility of the digital health program,
      ImmunOncoTool. Our secondary outcome will be the preliminary intended effects of
      ImmunOncoTool which will be assessed through endpoints such as clinician response and time to
      clinician response of patient-reported irAEs, number and length of unscheduled breaks in
      checkpoint inhibitor treatment and discontinuation of checkpoint inhibitor treatment, length
      of time spent managing any irAEs, provider reported irAEs, and concurrence between
      patientreported irAE and provider reported irAEs as these factors may explain the effect of
      ImmunOncoTool on improved clinical outcomes.
    
  