
    
      BACKGROUND:

      - Metastatic liver disease is a life-limiting factor for patients with a variety of cancers.
      For

      unresectable liver metastases, the 5-year survival is < 5%.

        -  For selected histologies the 5-year survival of resectable hepatic metastases ranges
           from 20-60%, suggesting that control of liver metastases could result in prolonged
           survival.

        -  Phase I through III trials have shown that Hepatic Arterial Infusion (HAI) is safe.
           However, agents used thus far in HAI have limited efficacy.

        -  TKM-080301 is a lipid nanoparticle (LNP) formulation containing siRNA against the PLK1
           (polo-like kinase-1) gene product. More specifically, TKM-080301 is a type of LNP
           formulation, referred to as SNALP (Stable Nucleic Acid Lipid Particles). PLK1 has been
           validated as a molecular target and a prognostic factor in a variety of cancers.
           Inhibition of PLK1 activity in proliferating cancer cells rapidly induces mitotic arrest
           and apoptosis.

        -  This study will offer HAI with TKM-080301 to patients with unresectable and/or life
           threatening primary liver cancer or liver metastases.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary Objective:

      - To evaluate feasibility of administering TKM-080301 via HAI and to characterize the
      pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics of TKM-080301 administered by HAI.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) of
           TKM-080301.

        -  To evaluate response rate using RECIST, PET and EASL criteria.

        -  To evaluate the conversion rate from unresectable to resectable disease.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Patients with unresectable colorectal, pancreas, gastric, breast, ovarian and esophageal
           cancers with hepatic metastases; or primary liver cancer patients who have demonstrated
           progressive disease following standard of care treatment.

        -  18 years old or greater with an ECOG 0-2

        -  Laboratory and physical examination parameters within acceptable limits by standard of
           practice guidelines prior to surgery or chemotherapy.

      DESIGN:

      - This is a dose escalation phase-I study testing HAI of TKM-080301 for patients with

      unresectable colorectal, pancreas, gastric, breast, ovarian and esophageal cancers with
      hepatic metastases, or primary liver cancers.

        -  Up to 54 patients who meet eligibility criteria will receive HAI with TKM-080301.

        -  Initial dose will be 4 mg/m(2); treatment will be given every 2 weeks for up to 12
           doses.

        -  Patients will be evaluated every 6 weeks. Patients whose tumors become resectable will
           be offered this option; patients who show progressive disease will be taken off
           treatment. All patients will be followed for survival.
    
  