
    
      Empagliflozin, an FDA-approved SGLT2 (Sodium glucose transporter 2) inhibitor used to treat
      type 2 diabetes, has been shown to reduce hepatic de novo lipogenesis and hepatic steatosis
      in animal models. There is little published evidence that this is so in Asian patients with
      type 2 diabetes. The investigators designed this open label proof of concept trial to
      determine if use of empagliflozin for 6 months in patients with type 2 diabetes can improve
      biomarkers and histological features of biopsy proven NAFLD.

      Hypotheses

      1. 6 months of empagliflozin will result in improved histology on liver biopsy in type 2 dm
      patients with NAFLD

      2.6 months of empagliflozin will result in changes in liver enzymes, adipocytokines and FGF
      levels in type 2 dm patients with NAFLD

      3.6 months of empagliflozin will result in improved liver stiffness measurement in type 2 dm
      patients with NAFLD

      Study protocol

      This is a prospective open-label proof-of-concept study. The investigators plan to recruit 25
      Asian patients with biopsy-proven NASH and type 2 diabetes and commence them on empagliflozin
      25 mg daily for 6 months. Upon recruitment clinical information will be obtained via an
      interview and use of a structured questionnaire. Anthropometric measurements will be obtained
      at baseline and 6 months. A repeat liver biopsy will be performed after 6 months of
      empagliflozin therapy. MRI and fibroscan of the liver will be conducted at baseline and 6
      months. Fasting blood samples will be drawn for glucose, insulin, c-peptide, triglyceride,
      HDL, LDL, total cholesterol, NEFA(non-esterified fatty acid), HbA1c , liver function
      test(including albumin, AST, ALT, gamma GT, uric acid, inflammatory markers, FGF(fibroblast
      growth factor) and other biomarkers at baseline and 6 months.

      Patients will be reviewed by a physician at 1 month and 6 months for development of any
      potential adverse events while on empagliflozin therapy.

      Patients will be instructed not to make any significant changes to diet and lifestyle in
      these 6 months in order to assess to full effect of the intervention with no possible
      confounding factors.
    
  