
    
      All subjects will be advised to stop using continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) for at
      least 7 days as previous study showed that severity of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) did not
      increase further after the first week of CPAP withdrawal. Subjects will then be invited to
      undergo a limited sleep study using "EMBLETTA" portable diagnostic system (MEDCARE, Iceland).
      The EMBLETTA is a pocket-sized digital recording device. It is a multi-channel transducer,
      providing an apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) based on recording time. It also detects both
      respiratory and abdominal efforts through the effort sensor and can differentiate between
      obstructive and central events. Built-in position sensors are also available to differentiate
      supine from non-supine events. Respiratory events are scored when desaturations of at least
      4% occurred in the absence of moving artefacts and irrespective of co-existing changes in
      snoring or heart rate. The EMBLETTA operates on battery power, with the internal memory
      storage of 16 MB, which allows approximately 12 hours of data collection. The EMBLETTA
      default settings for apneas and hypopneas will be used in this study. An apnea is defined as
      a decrease in airflow by 80% of baseline for at least 10 seconds. The EMBLETTA default
      maximum apnea duration is set at 80 seconds. A hypopnea is defined as a decrease in airflow
      by 50% of baseline for at least 10 seconds. The EMBLETTA default maximum hypopnea duration is
      set at 100 seconds. The EMBLETTA AHI used for analysis is automatically analysed by the
      EMBLETTA software. The EMBLETTA device has been validated against hospital-based
      polysomnography in the Hong Kong Chinese population. The EMBLETTA is a highly sensitive and
      specific screening device in quantifying AHI and differentiating obstructing and supine
      events when compared against polysomnography (PSG) in patients with suspected OSA. Patients
      will be instructed how to operate the EMBLETTA device for the sleep recording and estimate
      their time of sleep. Those who have failed the EMBLETTA sleep study will be arranged to have
      a second home EMBLETTA sleep study. Patients who are symptomatic of OSA with a negative home
      EMBLETTA sleep study will be arranged to have a hospital-based PSG.

      All subjects will undergo three-dimensional (3D) computed tomography (CT) scans of the
      head/neck region to evaluate the upper airway and craniofacial structures. Craniofacial
      restriction is determined by measuring the size of the maxillomandibular volume based on the
      mandibular cephalometric landmarks (left and right condylion, left and right gonion, anterior
      nasal spine (ANS) and menton) as per previous published study. The patient is positioned in
      the natural head position with a closed lip and bite. All measurements will be made by a
      single assessor and the analysis will be performed blind to knowledge of weight loss and AHI
      data.

      All subjects will go through several measurements. These include assessment of subjective
      sleepiness with the Epworth Sleepiness scale (ESS), anthropometric measurements (body mass
      index, neck and waist circumference) and blood pressure.

      The ESS is a questionnaire specific to symptoms of daytime sleepiness and the patients are
      asked to score the likelihood of falling asleep in eight different situations with different
      levels of stimulation, adding up to a total score of 0 to 24.
    
  