
    
      The design of this study, is a a two arm feasibility randomised controlled trial.
      Participants will be randomised between usual care, or the intervention arm which will
      consist of a brief behavioural assessment and recommended adherence strategies based on the
      outcome of the assessment. A sub sample of the population will undergo a qualitative
      interview to assess acceptability of the intervention

      Potential research participants will be invited to take part in the study with an invitation
      letter, along with the PIS and a reply slip. These will be sent out with information about
      their physiotherapy appointment, which they would normally receive.

      After time to consider the study and ask any questions, if participants are happy to take
      part, an appointment will be made to take consent and collect baseline measures. This will
      take place at the Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre, if possible just prior to their physiotherapy
      appointment in order to limit disturbance to the participant. If this is not possible the
      appointment to collect consent and baseline data will be at a time convenient to the patient.
      At this appointment, signed consent will be recorded and baseline data collected. This will
      involve the participants completing some questionnaires.

      Treatment allocation will be decided on the basis of the physiotherapist the participant is
      seeing. (Before the start of the study all physiotherapist taking part in the study will be
      randomly assigned to deliver either usual care or the intervention arm). Those participants
      in usual care will undergo physiotherapy as normal, the only additional thing they will be
      asked to do, is to complete an exercise diary for up to 12 weeks.

      Those in the intervention arm will be asked to complete 4 short questions related to exercise
      and treatment expectations. These will be completed in the waiting room prior to the
      physiotherapy appointment. The participant will be assessed and given treatment as normal in
      physiotherapy. After they have been given an exercise programme as part of their treatment,
      they will be asked to complete a further 7 short questions related to the exercise programme,
      and their motivation and intention to undertake it. On the basis of the answers to these
      questions and also in addition to any discussion with the physiotherapists, one or more
      adherence approaches may be suggested. The approaches are 'review of exercise programme',
      'review of method of delivery', 'cues', 'reminders', 'discussion of barriers and problem
      solving', 'motivational interviewing', 'decision balance sheets', 'behavioural contract' and
      'goal setting review'. The participants in the intervention group will also be asked to
      complete an exercise diary for up to 12 weeks.

      Participants in both groups will be followed up at 6 weeks and 12 weeks after their initial
      physiotherapy appointment. the follow appointment will consist of completing some
      questionnaires and to collect exercise diaries (12 week follow up). For the majority of
      participants this will be the end of the study. However a small sub-sample of participant
      will be invited to take part in an interview. This will last no longer than 1 hour, and will
      aim to explore the views of participants regarding the study, and also about trying to stick
      to an exercise programme. Participants will be given time to consider taking part in this
      additional interview, and will be asked to provide signed consent. Once they have finished
      the interview, they will be finished in the study.
    
  