
    
      Study protocol A single blinded randomized parallel study design will be used in this study.
      40 participants will be recruited for this study aged from 65 to 90 years old. The
      randomization will be performed using simple envelop methods. Participants will be divided
      into two groups, control and study groups. The control group will receive an isokinetic
      strengthening program for the quadriceps muscles. Twenty-four strengthening session will be
      performed using an isokinetic device. The exercise program begins with 60% of the mean peak
      torque, and the patient reaches this intensity by auditory biofeedback. An increasing dose
      program will be used in the first 5 sessions (1 set to 5 sets), and a dose of 6 sets will be
      applied from the sixth to twenty-fourth sessions, with the density rising from 60% to 80% of
      the mean peak torque according to the patient tolerance. Each set consisted of 5 repetitions
      of concentric (Con/Ecc) contraction in angular velocities of 30°/second and 120°/second for
      extensors. This program accomplished significant results in increasing the quadriceps power
      and strength.

      Participants in the study group will perform the same exercise parameters used in the control
      group but in a different manner. The isokinetic exercise will be done with a closed eye to
      improve the proprioception function. This exercise will be performed for 6 sets. We will add
      another set, in which the participant will be instructed that the range of motion of the knee
      joint will be divided into three ranges, the outer range (from 0 to 90 degrees of knee
      flexion), the middle range (90 degrees of flexion) and inner range (from 90 degrees to 145
      degree of flexion). During this set, the isokinetic device will be stopped at a different
      joint angle and the participant will be asked to identify at which range the knee joint is
      in. This modification is directed to improve the function of muscle spindles and Golgi tendon
      organs.

      Additional training will be performed by the application of three vibrators above and on both
      sides of the knee joint to improve the function of the Pacinian and Meissner corpuscles which
      is one of the included receptors in the sensation of the fatigue. This vibration will be set
      at a subsensory intensity (Stochastic theory39) and a frequency fluctuating frequency from 50
      Hz to 250 Hz to train both receptors40 and it will be performed for 20 min/each session. This
      programs will be performed for three sessions/week for two months.

      The primary outcomes measure will be the electromyographical analysis of quadriceps muscle at
      the onset of muscle fatigue and after recovery. The secondary outcome measures will include
      the Fatigue Index (FI) and the Rating-of-Fatigue Scale. These measurements at baseline, After
      one month, After two months.
    
  