
    
      Major depression prevail in patients with malignant tumor with an incident rate of 20% - 40%,
      2-3 times more than the prevalence of population, especially high in patients with advanced
      solid tumor patients as 40% - 50.6%. National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) palliative
      care guideline recommended PHQ-9 as the diagnosis tool for depression, total scores ≥ 8 was
      considered the standard of malignant tumor related depression. Major depression had been
      proved related with malignant tumors, mirtazapine is the currently effective drug in
      anti-depression clinical therapy, have better tolerance and equal effect compared to
      Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) or noradrenaline
      serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (NE-SNRIs).

      This is a phase II, placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blinded clinical trial. Study
      objective is to assess the efficacy and safety of mirtazapine in advanced NSCLC patients with
      malignant tumor related depression. Study hypothesis is that advanced NSCLC diagnosed with
      depression undertaking palliative chemotherapy with mirtazapine treatment for 8 weeks will
      have remarkable improvement in depression compared to baseline. Palliative chemotherapy and
      mirtazapine have better efficacy, recovery rate, response duration, tolerance and quality of
      life improvement than palliative chemotherapy and placebo. Moreover, mirtazapine could
      improve patients' anxiety and chemotherapy related nausea and vomit.

      Eligible advanced NSCLC Patients with PHQ-9 score ≥ 8, and undertaking palliative
      chemotherapy will be enrolled into this study. After baseline assessment (PHQ-9, HAMD-17 and
      EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaires), 236 patients will be stratified (gender, age, NRS score for
      cancer pain 0-3/4-6/7-10) randomized (1:1) into mirtazapine or placebo treatment. Patients in
      mirtazapine arm will be orally administered with mirtazapine 15mg, QD, consecutive medication
      for 8 weeks; along with palliative chemotherapy regimen decided by investigators. Patients in
      placebo arm will be orally administered with placebo 15mg, QD, consecutive medication for 8
      weeks; along with palliative chemotherapy regimen decided by investigators. During the
      treatment, PHQ-9, HAMD-17 and EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaires will be collected at 3 weeks (d22)
      and 8 weeks (d57), or treatment discontinuation date due to depression deteriorated or
      suicidal tendency and behavior. Follow-up will last up to 4 weeks after treatment end with
      depression assessment (questionnaires every 2 weeks). If anti-depression therapy is not
      effective after 8 weeks treatment or treatment discontinuation, patients will be unblinded
      and receive other treatment according to investigators. Treatment end at 8 weeks.

      Study endpoints: primary endpoint is the anti-depression efficacy (response rate). Response
      defined as the PHQ-9 or HAMD-17 questionnaire score decrease ≥ 50% compared with baseline
      level. Secondary endpoints included: 1.recovery rate, recovery defined as the PHQ-9 score
      less than 8 points. 2. Response duration, defined as the time period from treatment response
      to regression recurrence (PHQ-9 score ascending above baseline level). 3. Quality of life
      improvement, define as the best quality of life score minus baseline level. 4. Compliance to
      anti-depression therapy, defined as the medication count at each follow-up time points.
    
  