
    
      Background:

      This is a phase II prospective randomized trial comparing novel tumor segmentation and
      navigation with 3D roadmap vs. conventional imaging with angiography during trans-arterial
      embolization procedures. Cone beam CT (CBCT) obtains CT-like images in the angiography suite
      during trans-arterial chemoembolization procedures and liver chemo-perfusion (PHP). In
      addition, 2D liver perfusion metrics can be calculated from angiography images. 3D Roadmap is
      a navigation tool/ software that utilize the data from the CBCT overlaid on live fluoroscopy
      to display a segmented tumor, delineate its vascular supply and to navigate catheters to the
      target vessels. Moreover, with 3D Roadmap, CBCT can be fused to prior CT or MRI for improved
      target visualization. The 3D Roadmap software received 510 (k) clearance on February 19,
      2004. Our CRADA partner, Philips Healthcare, also submitted and received a separate 510 (k)
      clearance on January 30, 2015 for the software s vessel segmentation functionality and is
      under the trade name Emboguide. 3D Roadmap/ Emboguide software is intended to be used in
      combination with the AlluraClarity X-ray system.

      Primary Objective:

      To compare safety, and technical efficiency of navigation with 3D Roadmap vs. conventional
      image guidance during trans-arterial embolization procedures.

      Eligibility:

      Subjects are eligible if:

        -  They are more than 18 years of age

        -  They have primary or metastatic hepatic tumors scheduled for trans-arterial chemo-
           embolization or bland embolization in interventional radiology

        -  They are eligible for trans-arterial chemoembolization or bland embolization

      Subjects are excluded if they have:

        -  An altered mental status precluding understanding or consenting for the procedure

        -  Contra-indications to trans-arterial embolization

        -  A gross body weight exceeding 375 pounds (upper limit of angio table)

        -  A pregnancy

        -  A severe allergic reaction to iodine contrast which cannot be controlled by
           premedication with antihistamines and steroids

      Design:

        -  Number of Participants: 30

        -  Recruitment Time Frame: 2 years

        -  Number of sites: 1

        -  Type of Study: prospective randomized clinical trial
    
  