
    
      Postpartum women often are inadequately protected against rapid repeat pregnancy. Ensuring
      adequate inter- birth intervals could prevent an estimated 9% of deaths worldwide among
      children less than 5 years of age. Intramuscular injectable depot medroxyprogesterone acetate
      (DMPA) is rapidly becoming the method of choice in some settings, including regions where
      high maternal and child mortality make birth spacing critical. DMPA possesses many advantages
      for postpartum contraception as compared to other methods. However, the World Health
      Organization (WHO) advises against use of progestin-only injectables during the first six
      weeks postpartum among breastfeeding women. In contrast, the Centers for Disease Control and
      Prevention (CDC) recommends that progestin-only injectables generally can be started
      immediately postpartum on the grounds that their known advantages, as a whole, outweigh their
      unknown risks. This inconsistency in guidance reflects the lack of high-quality data for
      making evidence-based decisions. Studies conducted, to date, have important limitations:
      short follow-up intervals, low power, lack of consistency in using sensitive and standardized
      assessments, and lack of randomized trials evaluating DMPA administration specifically in the
      immediate postpartum period. Investigators propose to evaluate the effects of immediate
      postpartum initiation of DMPA on breastfeeding and on child development. We will conduct a
      randomized controlled trial of 429 adult women who have delivered a healthy, full-term
      infant, intend to breastfeed for ≥6 months, and want to use DMPA. Women will be randomized to
      receive within 48 hours of delivery: 1) DMPA ("intervention" arm), 2) placebo injection
      ("placebo" arm) or 3) no injection ("open control" arm). The first two arms will be blinded
      while the open control arm will be unblinded. Investigators will determine the effect of
      immediate postpartum initiation of DMPA on breastfeeding (Aim 1) and on contraception use
      (Aim 2). The proposed trial is innovative in use of 1) a randomized, partially-blinded design
      with sufficient power and follow up; 2) standardized, validated measures on lactation as well
      as breastfeeding and contraception behaviors; and 3) whole-body air displacement
      plethysmography to identify differences between arms in infant body composition. The findings
      of a pilot study in the target population support the feasibility of the proposed trial.
      Investigators expect the trial findings will permit the harmonization of the WHO and CDC
      guidance on the timing of DMPA initiation among breastfeeding women. This would have
      important implications for shaping global policy and practice worldwide, especially in
      settings where inadequate birth spacing contributes to high maternal and infant morbidity and
      mortality.
    
  