
    
      Fungal rhinosinusitis classified into invasive and noninvasive subtypes. Phenotypes of
      noninvasive fungal rhinosinusitis occur in immunocompetent subjects and include: local fungal
      colonization, fungal ball, and allergic fungal rhinosinusitis. Subtypes of invasive fungal
      rhinosinusitis include acute invasive fungal rhinosinusitis, chronic invasive fungal
      rhinosinusitis and granulomatous invasive rhinosinusitis.

      The estimated incidence of sphenoid sinusitis is only 2.7% of all nasal sinus infections,
      also the diagnosis of sphenoid sinus fungal infection is sometimes difficult. Clinical signs
      are often non specific and nasal endoscopy can be strictly normal.Early diagnosis is
      therefore difficult and diagnosis is often delayed with headache that may sometimes persists
      for several years before diagnosis of the disease.

      In most cases of sphenoid sinusitis, enlargement of the obstructed sinus ostium is sufficient
      to provide drainage of retained secretions and reestablish mucociliary clearance.According to
      Simmen and Jones, a type I sphenoidotomy entails identification of the ostium without further
      intervention; a type II sphenoidotomy entails enlargement of the ostium upward to the level
      of the cranial base, and inferiorly to one-half of the sinus height; and a type III
      sphenoidotomy involves widening the ostium to its most lateral extent.

      Eloy et al in 2017 stuited that,In more extensive sphenoid sinus surgery is reserved for
      cases where in the disease process is extensive or previous surgery has failed. In some cases
      sphenoid nasalization in which bilateral extended sphenoidotomy is necessary. In this
      procedure, the posterior aspect of the nasal septum is resected, along with the sphenoid
      rostrum, the intersinus septum, and other intrasphenoid partitions, creating a common cavity
      with a broad drainage pathway . It also allows access to the lateral recesses of this sinus.
    
  