
    
      Growing body of evidences have shown that fecal immunochemical test (FIT) outperform guaiac
      fecal occult blood test (gFOBT) in terms of sensitivity, neoplasm detection rate and public
      participation. Though direct outcome evidence is still lacking for FIT, it is anticipated to
      have higher colorectal cancer (CRC) mortality and incidence reduction compared with gFOBT. In
      Taiwan, nation-wide CRC screening program has been launched since the year of 2004 ,which
      provides biennial FIT screening for adults aged 50 to 69 years. Currently available data from
      the Bureau of Health Promotion has shown a significant stage-shift effect, an early indicator
      of screening effectiveness, by this screening program.

      Nevertheless, the aforementioned advantages of FIT, missed neoplasms and interval cancer
      still exists under the current one-day stool sampling method with biennial screening
      interval, which might affect the effectiveness of overall screening program. Increase the
      number of stool samples or shortening of screening interval may be helpful for early
      detection of clinically significant neoplasms but it remains unclear whether such an approach
      may lower the screenee compliance or public participation. Moreover, its impact on the demand
      of confirmatory colonoscopy and cost-effectiveness of the whole screening program is still
      largely unknown and need to be further investigated.

      In this study, we firstly aim to randomly allocate screening attendee to one of the following
      four arms: one-day sampling with annual screening, one-day sampling with biennial screening,
      two-day sampling with annual screening, and two-day sampling with biennial screening.
      Participation rate, positive rates of FIT, detection rate for neoplasms, positive predictive
      value, and long-term outcome including cancer incidence and mortality will be calculated and
      compared among four groups.

      Secondly, in the Taiwanese population, which is a typical presentation of Asian populations,
      although the incidence of colorectal cancer is rapidly increasing, Helicobacter
      pylori-related upper gastrointestinal pathologies remain highly prevalent, which may imply
      that mass screening solely based on FIT could be insufficient as significant upper GI
      pathologies can be missed. Since the FIT does not predict upper GI pathologies, the adjunct
      of an「Helicobacter pylori stool-antigen test (HpSA) 」 may be a potential candidate to realize
      a pan-detecting assay based on stool samples in a population in which both lower and upper GI
      lesions are equally prevalent. Therefore, in the present study, we will also evaluate the
      value of simultaneous FIT and HpSA test in the community-based mass screening. We invited
      subjects in a randomized study to receive the FIT or the FIT plus HPSA. Those who are tested
      positive for HPSA will receive upper endoscopic examination and anti-H. pylori treatment. For
      the short-term indicators, we will evaluate the participation rate and diagnostic yield when
      the HPSA is added. For the long-term indicators, we will compare the incidence and mortality
      of gastric cancer as well as complicated peptic ulcers.

      To summary, this study includes two randomized trials:

        1. To make a comparison between one-day sampling with annual screening, one-day sampling
           with biennial screening, two-day sampling with annual screening, and two-day sampling
           with biennial screening using FIT;

        2. To make a comparison between FIT plus HpSA and FIT alone for screening.

      Finally, the cost-effectiveness analysis will be also conducted using previously established
      Markov model of CRC natural history and stomach diseases (such as dyspepsia, peptic ulcer
      disease, and gastric cancer) using the results ascertained from this trial.
    
  