
    
      Experimental protocol

        1. On the day of experiment blood samples will be collected in 3.2% citrate tubes.

        2. One citrated blood tube will be centrifuged to collect plasma for biomarker measurements
           (C-reactive protein (CRP), fibrinogen, von Willebrand factor (vWF), interleukin (IL)-6,
           p-selectin, plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI)-1, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9).

        3. Blood samples will be incubated with different concentrations of edoxaban (no edoxaban,
           subtherapeutic range - 30 nM, therapeutic range -300 nM, and supratherapeutic range- 900
           nM) (3).

      A) Cora速 Hemostasis Analyzer System (Cora速) will be used to assess qualitative and
      quantitative assessment of the hemostatic properties of a blood sample in the presence or
      absence of edoxaban. The CORA is an integrated computer module with Ethernet connection
      capability and provides continuous resonance-frequency viscoelasticity measurements using a
      disposable four-channel microfluidic cartridge to determine simultaneous maximal
      platelet-fibrin clot strength, fibrin clot strength, and response to antiplatelet agents or
      anticoagulants. The cartridge has four channels - citrated Kaolin (CK) channel that measures
      platelet-fibrin clot strength, anti-Xa channel, DTI channel and FFC channel that measures
      contribution of functional fibrinogen.

      In addition, using the V-curve software, the following parameters of thrombin generation
      kinetics will be evaluated from the CK channel- R - Period of time of latency from the time
      that the blood was placed in the TEG速 analyzer until the initial fibrin formation. This
      represents the enzymatic portion of coagulation.

      K - K time is a measure of the speed to reach a certain level of clot strength. This
      represents clot kinetics.

      alpha - measures the rapidity of fibrin build-up and cross-linking (clot strengthening). This
      represents fibrinogen level.

      MA - Maximum Amplitude is a direct function of the maximum dynamic properties of fibrin and
      platelet bonding via GPIIb/IIIa and represents the ultimate strength of the fibrin clot. This
      represents platelet function/aggregation.

      TMRTG - Time to maximum rate of thrombus generation. MRTG - Maximum rate of thrombus
      generation. TG - Total thrombus generated. TMRL - Time to maximum rate of lysis MRL - Maximum
      rate of lysis L - Total lysis D - Delta is the difference between R time and the time of
      initial split point (SP, mins) of the TEG tracing (R - SP), representing the time interval of
      greatest clot growth secondary to peak thrombin generation.

      B) Calibrated Automated Thrombogram速 (CAT) System: Lag time, peak thrombin production, mean
      velocity rate index and endogenous thrombin potential (ETP) will be assessed by calibrated
      automated thrombogram in platelet poor plasma (Thrombinoscope by Stago).
    
  