
    
      The efficacy of an ACT self-help website for hoarding will be assessed through a randomized,
      waitlist-controlled trial. Participants will be recruited from within the United States
      through a variety of channels. Given the need to recruit a targeted sample with clinical
      levels of hoarding symptoms, online advertisements through Facebook and Google AdWords will
      be the primary recruitment method. Participants will complete an initial brief screening,
      provide consent, and then complete a baseline survey. Each of these steps will be completed
      online and participants will be automatically guided from each step to the next. That is,
      those who screen as eligible will be automatically directed to an online consent form, and
      those who provide consent will be automatically directed to begin the initial online baseline
      survey. They will be randomly assigned automatically upon completing the baseline survey to
      either use the ACT self-help website and receive supportive coaching for the next 8 weeks, or
      wait for the next 8 weeks. After 8 weeks, participants will be asked to complete a
      posttreatment survey. They will be asked to complete a final, follow-up survey after an
      additional 4 weeks after the posttreatment survey. After the follow-up survey is completed,
      waitlisted participants will be provided with access to the website. The website will
      implement a self-help version of ACT. Participants will be asked to complete 16 brief
      self-help website sessions, each taking around 15-20 minutes to finish, twice a week for
      eight weeks. Participants assigned to the website condition will also receive coaching.The
      purpose of coaching will be to help participants engage with the website and adhere to the
      intervention. Coaching will consist of an initial phone call of 10-15 minutes followed by
      weekly email contact during the 8-week treatment period. Coaches will be graduate students
      trained in clinical psychology.
    
  