
    
      Coronary artery disease is the most common type of heart disease that affects millions of
      people worldwide. It is caused by a narrowing or blocking of the arteries (known as stenosis)
      due to plaque, which restricts blood flow and reduces the amount of oxygen to the heart.

      Over the past decade, fractional flow reserve (FFR) measurement has been increasingly used in
      cardiac catheterization laboratories, providing a straightforward and readily available
      quantitative assessment of the functional severity of a coronary artery stenosis, as the
      ability of the cardiologist to discriminate between stenoses that can cause ischemia and
      those that are physiologically insignificant on the basis of coronary angiography alone is
      limited.

      Measuring FFR determines the ratio between the maximum achievable blood flow in a diseased or
      narrowed coronary artery and the maximum blood flow in a normal coronary artery. This ratio
      represents the potential decrease in coronary flow distal to the coronary stenosis.

      FFR is easily measured during routine coronary angiography by using a pressure wire to
      calculate the ratio between the coronary pressure distal to a stenosis or a diseased segment
      and the aortic pressure under conditions of maximum myocardial hyperemia. An FFR of 1.0 is
      widely accepted as normal. An FFR lower than 0.80 is generally considered to be associated
      with coronary ischemia and widely accepted in favour of revascularization over conservative
      management.

      The current standard methods of measuring FFR is to insert a pressure wire into the coronary
      artery while the hyperaemic agent, normally adenosine, is delivered by continuous intravenous
      infusion via a central femoral vein, a large ante-cubital peripheral cannula or
      intra-coronary bolus injection.

      The investigational device in this clinical investigation is an FFR catheter being developed
      by Diasolve Limited; a UK based medical device development company. The FFR catheter is a
      combined pressure wire and hyperaemic agent delivery catheter, which allows simultaneous
      delivery of a pressure wire and administration of the hyperaemic agent directly into the
      coronary ostium or most proximal section of the coronary artery, when performing a FFR
      measurement using currently available pressure wire systems such as Pressure Wire Certus or
      Prestige from St Jude Medical.
    
  