
    
      Rationale: Approximately 15-20% of adults have obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), and evidence
      indicates that the prevalence of OSA is perhaps twice as high among Veterans. OSA has been
      clearly linked to increased mortality and multiple morbidities, and undoubtedly contributes
      to the high prevalence of health problems among Veterans. Current treatments for OSA are not
      well tolerated, often have limited efficacy, and often do not result in improvements in
      health. The investigators' recent research demonstrated that 12 weeks of moderate exercise
      training elicited a reduction of OSA of ~25%, as well as significant improvement in mood,
      fatigue, quality of life, and cardiovascular health. Interestingly, as with other health
      benefits of exercise, the investigators' research is consistent with other research showing
      that exercise can reduce OSA independent of changes in body weight. These studies raise the
      exciting possibility that exercise training combined with modest weight loss could elicit a
      chronic reduction in OSA of 50% or more.

      Objectives: The investigators' Objective is to compare the effects of 16 weeks of exercise
      training alone, weight loss alone, and exercise + weight loss on OSA severity and associated
      morbidity.

      Methods: Following extensive screening and baseline assessment, N=90 overweight/obese
      Veterans (ages 18-60 years) with mild to severe OSA will be randomized to one of three
      16-week treatments. (1) Exercise Alone (n=30) will involve training 4 days per week under
      supervision of a clinical exercise physiologist. It will include aerobic exercise (treadmill,
      cycling, elliptical) that will gradually increase to 30-45 min on 4 days/wk, as well as
      resistance exercise (15 min) on 2 days/week. (2) Weight Loss Alone (n=30) will involve a
      structured meal plan (including some meal replacement with shakes or bars), and weekly
      counseling designed to elicit a reduction in body weight of 10%. (3) Exercise + Weight Loss
      (n=30) will involve the same exercise and weight loss interventions as in the other
      treatments. Outside of the interventions, participants will be asked to maintain their usual
      exercise and diet habits, as verified, respectively, with actigraphic recording and a 24-hr
      food recall. Before and after the treatments, participants will undergo 5 days/nights of
      home-based actigraphic and diary-assessed sleep, and one night of laboratory polysomnographic
      recording of sleep, including OSA severity. Comorbidity measures will include pre- to
      post-treatment changes in blood pressure, glucose, insulin, lipids, hemoglobin a1c, body
      weight/composition, and inflammation (e.g., CRP, IL-6). Also measured will be monthly changes
      in self-reports of sleep quality, functional outcomes of sleepiness (FOSQ), and snoring
      symptoms. A 3-month follow-up will include home assessment of OSA, as well as sleep quality,
      FOSQ, and snoring. Mediation analysis will explore whether improvements in OSA are mediated
      by changes in percent of deep sleep, body weight, trunk body fat percent, trunk total mass,
      respiratory muscle strength, and upper airway obstruction assessed in the laboratory.

      Implications for Future Research. Demonstration of a reduction of OSA by 50% would result in
      extensive subsequent studies. These would likely include studies of dose-response effects;
      comparisons of different modes of exercise; studies of the feasibility of telemedicine
      approaches to the interventions; comparative efficacy studies vs. PAP; further mechanistic
      studies, for example, of upper airway collapsibility and composition (e.g, via MRI); and
      studies of other positive health outcomes, such as extensive heart imaging.
    
  