
    
      The primary aim of the Carotid Revascularization Endarterectomy versus Stenting Trial (CREST)
      is to contrast the relative effectiveness of carotid artery stenting (CAS) versus carotid
      endarterectomy (CEA) in preventing stroke, myocardial infarction, and death. Stents are
      medical devices approved and commonly used for treatment of heart disease. The stent that
      will be used in this trial is the Rapid Exchange(RX) ACCULINK(TM) Carotid Stent System, an
      elastic-like metal scaffold that is expanded inside a carotid artery to hold the vessel open.

      The RX ACCUNET(TM) Embolic Protection System (an umbrella-like device that expands above the
      narrowed portion of the carotid artery) will be used in conjunction with the RX ACCULINK
      stent. The RX ACCUNET system is designed to capture embolic material that could break off
      from the narrowed area in the carotid artery while still allowing blood to flow through the
      vessel during the procedure. Embolic material could block blood flow to the arteries beyond
      the narrowing and be harmful to the brain. The RX ACCUNET System is closed and removed after
      the stent is placed.

      CEA involves a neck incision and physical removal of the plaque from the inside of the
      artery. CAS involves insertion of a catheter or tube into an artery in the groin and then
      threading the catheter through the arteries of the body to the location of the plaque within
      the carotid artery in the neck. The stent is then placed to cover the plaque and hold the
      artery open. Participants will be randomly assigned to undergo either CAS or CEA, and all
      patients will receive best medical management, which includes treatment with aspirin,
      treatment of high blood pressure, and treatment of other stroke risk factors. Participants
      will be followed for up to ten years.

      With the simplification of the protocol for long-term follow-up, the focus for secondary
      outcomes is to assess restenosis and viability of the procedure. Restenosis rates on an
      annual basis in both the endarterectomy and stenting arms of the study will be assessed using
      carotid duplex ultrasound exams performed annually (standard of care).

      In addition to restenosis, the "viability" of the procedures will be assessed by the need (or
      lack of need) for repeat revascularization (either open surgical or endovascular) after the
      index procedure. The question "has a new carotid intervention been performed since last
      follow-up" will be asked at every contact with the patient. If answered positively,
      additional data will be collected on the appropriate case report forms(CRFs).

      LINKAGE OF CREST COHORT WITH CENTERS FOR MEDICAID AND MEDICARE SERVICES(CMS) ADMINISTRATIVE
      DATA

      The purpose of linking Medicare-eligible CREST participants with CMS data files is to assess
      patient outcomes and utilization of health care services. This plan to link in- and
      out-patient episodes of care using national Medicare data establishes a new resource that
      will enhance current follow-up strategies, as well as explore alternative strategies to
      ascertain patient outcomes for future clinical studies.
    
  