
    
      The broad, long-term objective is to substantially increase human papillomavirus (HPV)
      vaccination rates by deploying effective population-health interventions in clinical
      practices across the United States. As part of this effort, the investigators intend to
      evaluate two evidence-based interventions with innovative enhancements at six Mayo Clinic
      primary care practices (PCP) to evaluate their individual and combined impact on rates of HPV
      vaccination among female and male patients. Aim 1, "Less Pain, Less Fuss, Right Now!", will
      test the hypothesis that, as compared to no intervention (current practice), a practice-level
      intervention utilizing reminder-recalls featuring the availability of non-medication and
      medication anesthetics, the convenience of nurse-only visits, and the use of persuasive
      language for early, on-time vaccinations will improve HPV vaccine delivery rates. Aim 2,
      "Make It Count!", will test the hypothesis that, as compared to no intervention, a provider
      level intervention utilizing a missed-opportunities assessment and feedback intervention
      applying social pressure (specific peer-performance comparisons) and equipping providers with
      a strong-recommendation toolkit will improve HPV vaccine delivery rates. Aim 3 will test the
      hypothesis that simultaneous implementation of interventions targeting individual,
      interpersonal, and organizational factors will have a synergistic effect on HPV vaccine
      delivery rates. To accomplish Aims 1-3, the investigators will use a stepped-wedge cluster
      randomized trial with an integrated process evaluation. The cluster approach prevents
      cross-contamination between patients or providers as we allocate two separate interventions
      (Aims 1 and 2) in the six PCPs. The stepped-wedge design, which ensures all practices
      eventually receive the same set of interventions, permits the single institutional review
      board overseeing all six PCPs to approve the study without requiring recruitment and consent
      of individual patients or providers. The stepped-wedge approach also permits the
      investigators to test the presence of each of the interventions in each PCP, making trial
      participation more attractive, while also allowing each practice to serve as its own control,
      reducing the bias due to imbalanced risk factors across practices. The factorial design
      allows the investigators to use a single trial to test two interventions and assess each
      individually and in combination. The design also conserves sample size while maintaining
      power. The investigators will measure the impact separately in females and males, 11-12 years
      of age for the rates of receipt of HPV vaccine doses due. Rigorously tested, highly
      effective, population-level interventions are essential if the US is to reach the Healthy
      People 2020 goal for HPV vaccination. The rigor, design, and high likelihood of success of
      this study will provide key evidence regarding practice- and provider-level interventions to
      improve HPV vaccination rates. Mayo Clinic's best practices inform not only its own 70
      practices across five states but its Mayo Clinic Care Network, which consists of nearly 40
      health-care organizations across 26 states and Puerto Rico.
    
  