
    
      The current study aims to examine the efficacy (i.e., symptom reduction, increase of heart
      rate variability, improvement of sleep quality, increase of intrinsic motivation to engage in
      physical activity, increase of the level of physical activity) of a three-months manualized
      group exercise program, named ImPuls. The program contains supervised and non-supervised
      endurance training combined with behaviour change techniques. The manual was designed for
      patients with major depression, anxiety disorders, insomnia, and ADHD who are waiting for
      psychotherapeutic treatment. It is assumed that the program will improve the
      psychopathological symptoms of the different mental disorders. Heart rate variability, level
      of exercise, sleep quality, motivation and symptoms are measured by objective measures
      (physiological measurements, accelerometers) and subjective measures (structured interviews
      and questionnaires). In a randomized controlled trial, ImPuls will be evaluated (n = 38
      intervention group vs. n = 37 control group). For four weeks, small group sessions of three
      to four people take place three times a week, combining endurance exercise (i.e., running)
      and behaviour change techniques, supervised by two therapists. The training is based on the
      actual evidence for effective therapeutic effects on psychopathological symptoms,
      individually adapted to each patient's fitness level (60-80% of the maximal heart rate) and
      lasts 30 minutes. In the following eight weeks, participants are encouraged to engage in
      physical activity independently for two to three times a week. It is assumed that the program
      will reduce symptoms of the different mental disorders as well as increase the heart rate
      variability, improve sleep quality, intrinsic motivation to engage in physical activity, and
      the engagement in physical activity. Safety will be monitored throughout the study.
    
  