
    
      After total knee prosthesis surgery, in the first postopertive days, serious pain complaints
      occur in the patients and this causes many problems, especially mobility limitation. For this
      reason, a strong analgesic is needed. As a part of multimodal analgesia after total knee
      surgery, nerve blocks are frequently preferred. While central nerve blocks are preferred in
      the forefront, peripheral nerve blocks are frequently preferred due to complications related
      to central nerve blocks. Femoral nerve block and adductor channel block are the preferred
      peripheral blocks for total knee prosthesis. Since early mobilization after total hip
      prosthesis is very important, it is aimed to provide sufficient analgesia by making less
      motor block. Previous studies have shown that adductor channel block provides similar
      analgesia with femoral nerve block. Early mobilization, early discharge and the impact on the
      risk of falls are not yet clear, although it is estimated to be in the positive direction.
      Again, previous studies have compared single doses and infusion doses but no repeated bolus
      doses. Repeated bolus doses have been shown to be more effective in studies in which adductor
      channel catheters have been introduced to date to compare infusion and recurrent bolus doses.

      investigators aimed to compare the effects of repeated bolus doses with femoral nerve
      catheter and adductor channel catheter on postoperative pain and muscle strength in patients
      undergoing total knee revision under spinal anesthesia in this study. Materials and Methods:
      The patient will be informed about the procedure to be performed before the operation and
      written approval will be given. The patient will be premeditated with 2mg midazolam and
      sedayon and monitored according to routine operating room procedures and total knee
      prosthesis operation under spinal anesthesia. Patients will then be transferred to the
      collection room and ECG, NIBP and SpO2 monitoring and appropriate sterilization will be
      performed, and a grubby femoral nerve catheter with USG will be attached to the other group
      adductor channel catheter. A 20cc 0.25% marcain will be administered in 6 hours, with the
      first dose catheter placed in both groups.

      In the compilation unit, the patient will be infused with IV PCA in the morphine. The bolus
      dose of 1 mg IV of the PC will be adjusted to the duration of 10 minutes of lockout.
      Postoperatively, 3x1 metoclopramide, 4x1 gr / 24h IV paracetamol and 3x50 mg / 24h IV
      dexketoprofen will be administered to each patient.

      In this process, demographic information of the patients, peroperative KH, ABP, SpO2 values
      will be recorded. In the postoperative period, the patient's pain level, opioid requirement,
      motor block and muscle strength will be recorded and compared statistically.
    
  