
    
      Objective. Blood group incompatible (ABOi) LD renal transplantation represents a recognized
      treatment modality in Germany. In this setting, ethical considerations allow for a detailed
      study of short- and long-term immunological and virological effects of Rtx induction therapy,
      including sequential protocol biopsies. In the proposed project we will perform analyses on
      peripheral blood, iliac lymph nodes and protocol biopsies. Protocol biopsies are routinely
      obtained 3 and 12 months posttransplant at the Universities of Giessen and Freiburg. In this
      prospective, open pilot study, immunological parameters of graft outcome and control of
      polyomavirus, EBV and CMV replication will be compared between RTx-treated ABOi LD renal
      transplant recipients (n=25-30, group 1) and blood group compatible LD renal transplant
      recipients without Rtx induction (n=25-30, group 2) but otherwise comparable
      immunosuppressive treatment (MPS and Tacr, switch to Tacr-MR (modified release) within 2
      weeks posttransplant; follow-up of 5 years). The same analyses will be done in DD renal
      transplant recipients treated with Tacr (switch to Tacr-ME) and MPS (n=25-30, group 3). This
      study design allows to analyze the impact of living donation on immunoregulation and virus
      control (groups 2 versus 3).

      Background. There is growing evidence that humoral mechanisms play a major role in chronic
      allograft dysfunction, which was shown to be significantly associated with de-novo formation
      of donor-specific antibodies against human leucocyte antigens (HLA). However, B cells appear
      to act not only in humoral responses against the graft but may play a significant role in
      T-cell mediated antidonor responses due to their role as effective antigen-presenting cells.
      This is further suggested by the fact that Rtx is effective in primarily T-cell mediated
      diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis or multiple sclerosis.

      Hypothesis/specific aims. We hypothesize that Rtx induction may alter immunoregulation short-
      and long-term after renal transplantation with the potential to improve long-term outcome.
      Graft protective effects of Rtx induction may be provided by B cell depletion and the
      resulting effects on humoral as well as T cell responses, and also by altered responses after
      B cell repopulation. Possible negative effects of Rtx on polyomavirus and CMV control as well
      as protective effects on EBV replication, de-novo monoclonal gammopathy and regulation of
      lymphoma growth factors (interleukins 6 and 10 (IL-6, IL-10)) will be analyzed. Furthermore,
      B cell subset analysis in peripheral blood and the probably associated impact of Rtx on B
      cell depletion in graft draining iliac lymph nodes may enable us to establish an optimized
      Rtx dosage and thereby allow successful ABOi renal transplantation without the currently
      observed 15% drop outs.

      Preliminary results. We have performed clinical studies showing the predictive power of
      immune parameters such as regulatory anti-Fab autoantibodies, sCD30, CD4 (cluster of
      differentiation 4) helper activity, and CD4 cell IL-4 (interleukin 4) and IL-10 (interleukin
      10) responses on graft outcome. The long-term effect of Rtx induction therapy and of living
      donation on these parameters will be analyzed.

      Previously, we found that patients at risk of polyomavirus nephropathy may be recognized
      early posttransplant by sequential reverse transcriptase polymerase chain (rt-PCR) assessment
      of polyomavirus replication in urine. Sequential rt-PCR testing of polyomavirus replication
      in urine and plasma will be used to analyze effects of Rtx induction on polyomavirus control.

      Proposed methods. Immune parameters will be analyzed mainly pretransplant, 3 months and 1, 2
      and 5 years posttransplant. Flow cytometry (including regulatory T cells, B cell subsets,
      expression of cytokine receptors, costimulatory and adhesion molecules), mitogen-stimulated
      allogeneic cocultures, protein-A plaque assay (B cell responses, CD4 helper activity),
      intracellular cytokine analysis of CD4+ and CD8+ (cluster of differentiation 8) T cells, B
      cells and monocytes, rt-PCR for virological studies (BKV, JCV, CMV, EBV) and
      immunofluorescent staining of iliac lymph nodes (obtained at time of transplantation) and
      protocol biopsies will be used. Donor-specific antibodies will be detected using
      lymphocytotoxicity, HLA class I and II ELISA and Luminex assays. Donor-specificity will be
      confirmed by T- and B-cell crossmatch with donor cells. Regulatory IgG (immunoglobulin G) and
      IgA (immunoglobulin A) anti-Fab autoantibodies, neopterin and sCD30 will be assessed by
      ELISA.

      Expected results. We expect that Rtx induction will show an impact on immunological
      parameters of graft outcome, such as de-novo posttransplant antidonor HLA antibody formation.
      This pilot study may allow for improved long-term kidney graft outcome in recipients with
      immunologic risk parameters by virtue of patient-tailored immunosuppressive therapy. In ABOi
      renal transplantation, this study may prevent the current 15% drop out rates by allowing an
      optimized Rtx dosage based on the intended dose response analysis (B cell subset analysis in
      blood and graft draining lymph nodes). Furthermore, this study will allow risk estimation of
      Rtx administration with respect to CMV and polyomavirus replication, and may provide clues
      concerning protection against EBV replication and posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease.
      The latter point is of great clinical importance in patients with an enhanced PTLD
      (posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease) risk such as EBV negative recipients of EBV
      positive grafts.
    
  