
    
      The timing of food intake and caloric distribution across the 24hr day are emerging as
      contributing factors to weight gain. The idea that not only what you eat, but when you eat
      can contribute to weight gain has garnered interest from both the scientific community and
      the public. In fact, the distribution of caloric intake over the 24hr day has been recently
      recognized as a potential source of "circadian misalignment" which can result in adverse
      health outcomes, including overeating, impaired glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity.
      Moreover, reward driven eating (eating for the pleasurable aspect instead of energy need)
      generally results in caloric intake well in excess of energy requirements and is recognized
      as a major culprit in the epidemic of obesity. The endocannabinoid (eCB) system is involved
      in both homeostatic processes (energy need only) that govern food intake, and has been shown
      to play a key role in reward eating. Thus, the role of circadian organization of the eCB
      system and how misalignment may contribute to overeating, overweight, obesity, and diabetes
      is the main focus of this study. The overall goal is to determine whether the timing of food
      intake is a major determinant of the 24 hour variation in eCB activity that in turn affects
      hunger and appetite, glucose metabolism, and insulin sensitivity. This study will focus on
      overweight individuals who are at high risk of obesity but are still on a trajectory that can
      potentially be reversed by lifestyle changes. Following a careful assessment of the subject's
      habitual sleep and meal timing and caloric distribution under real life conditions, a short
      laboratory study will determine whether participants who consume more of their daily calories
      later in the day (later dietary chronotype) display delays in the eCB rhythm and lower
      insulin sensitivity. During a 6-day in patient intervention, combining laboratory and
      ambulatory procedures, study procedures will assess the effect of experimentally changing
      caloric distribution across the day, advancing versus delaying the dietary chronotype. The
      outcome measures will be the timing of the daily peak of the eCB rhythm and insulin
      sensitivity. This study will also measure the potential durability of the intervention on
      subsequent habitual behavior under real life conditions, in that how long does one maintain
      the feeding in lab imposed feeding schedule and does that schedule effect subsequent behavior
      and/or weight. Identification of circadian misalignment of the eCB system as a mediator of
      increased food intake and reduced insulin sensitivity may help develop novel preventive
      strategies.
    
  