
    
      Opioids are key analgesic drugs. Unfortunately, they have a high potential for abuse with
      potentially lethal consequences, more specifically death due to respiratory suppression. In
      both Canada and the US, the number of deaths from opioid overdose continues to rise at an
      alarming rate, far exceeding fatalities from motor vehicle accidents in Canada and becoming
      the number one cause of unintentional injury-related death in the US. In light of the opioid
      epidemic and CDC-scrutiny of opioid use, determining genetic profiles susceptible to
      respiratory depression could prove useful in further tailoring the treatment of pain both in
      the perioperative setting and in the chronic pain management setting.

      The purpose of the proposed study is to evaluate for a genetic component of opioid-induced
      respiratory depression. Our overall study hypothesis is that genetic variation influences
      opioid-induced respiratory depression.

      The primary aim of the study is to correlate an intravenous opioid bolus and genetic
      variations of opioid-related target genes. Secondary aims or outcomes are the determination
      of general variation in respiratory responses in response to a single intravenous fentanyl
      bolus. Other observed effects are age and gender related differences, the effect of a single
      fentanyl bolus on alertness, the incidence of emesis and opioid effects on micturition as
      determined by the modified Aldrete discharge criteria.

      Based on existing work on genetic determinants of opioid receptor effects, we propose to
      correlate clinical parameters of respiratory depression (proportional reduction in
      respiratory minute ventilation) with the expression of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)
      of genes related to opioid-induced analgesia. We propose to identify a subset of participants
      with the most significant respiratory depression and contrast those with participants that
      exhibit no respiratory effects. The blood samples from these two groups will be used to
      compare genetic variances of genes related to opioid-induced analgesia.

      This will be a collaborative project between the clinical physicians and basic scientists in
      an effort to better characterize opioid-induced respiratory depression. We believe this work
      will be valuable as a means to prevent and treat opioid toxicity and guide development of
      safer approaches to opioid therapy and drug development.
    
  