
    
      In previous studies, the investigators used retrospective analysis of cases of acute upper
      gastrointestinal bleeding in patients with liver cirrhosis from the Fifth Medical Center of
      the General Hospital of Beijing PLA, China from January 2018 to May 2019. The survey and
      return visits were completed by the patient's clinician, and the subject researcher was
      responsible for reviewing and including a complete questionnaire for eligible patients. The
      database includes demographic information, vital signs and other key clinical manifestations,
      endoscopic findings, laboratory test results, imaging studies and complications, and
      rebleeding and deaths within 42 days. Covers known risk factors for rebleeding and death.

      First, the investigators performed univariate and multivariate analyses of rebleeding risk
      and death risk based on all data. Second, based on the analysis of 85% of the sampled data,
      the investigators randomly selected 85% of the patient data to build a model, and then used
      the remaining 15% of the patient data for model validation. Re-bleeding risk scores and death
      risk scores were established respectively.

      This study intends to prospectively verify the two risk scoring systems described above.
      After statistical calculations, about 500 patients with liver cirrhosis who plan to undergo
      emergency gastroscopy for acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding within the next 5 months at
      the Fifth Medical Center of Beijing General Hospital of China Performed in adult patients.
      the investigators will exclude patients with incomplete or lost follow-up records. One
      researcher was responsible for patient identification and data collection during the initial
      review, and one researcher performed subsequent data entry, which was statistical processed
      by a professional statistician.

      Perform patient self-control,using the existing upper gastrointestinal bleeding risk scores
      (AIMS65, Rockall, and Blatchford) and the previous scoring system model separately, compared
      with the actual rebleeding rate and mortality for comparison. To verify and revise the
      rebleeding risk score and death risk score that the investigators constructed earlier.

      The establishment of an acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding rebleeding and death risk
      scoring system for patients with liver cirrhosis can help distinguish patients with high or
      low risk of rebleeding or death to determine the patient's treatment needs.
    
  