
    
      Study Design and Setting:

      This is a single-center, prospective, randomized, double-blind, clinical trial performed in
      an ED of a tertiary care hospital with annual census of approximately 37.000 visits. The
      local ethics committee approved the study.

      Interventions:

      We conducted a randomized, controlled clinical trial comparing single intravenous doses of
      paracetamol (1 g), dexketoprofen (50 mg) and morphine (0.1 mg/kg) for patients presenting to
      the emergency department (ED) with suspected low back pain. Subjects with inadequate pain
      relief at 30 minutes received rescue fentanyl (0.75 microg/kg). We compared changes in pain
      intensity 30 minutes after treatment.

      Methods of Measurements:

      Subjects reported pain intensity on both a 100-mm visual analogue scale (limited by 'no pain'
      and 'the worst pain') and a 4-point verbal rating scale (no pain, mild, moderate, or severe
      pain) just before the drug administration, 15th minutes and 30th minutes after the study drug
      administration. The demographic features of study patients and adverse effects, nausea,
      vomiting, dizziness, vertigo, headache, hypotension, altered mental status, allergic
      reaction, itching, urinary retention, thoracic rigidity, respiratory depression and dry
      mouth, were recorded to the study form.

      Outcome Measures The primary outcome measure was the pain reduction in VAS and VRS at 15th
      and 30th minutes. Secondary outcome measures were the need for rescue drug and the presence
      of any adverse event.

      Primary Data Analysis:

      The present study was planned as a superiority trial. When the 20 mm difference in VAS is
      accepted as clinically significant and the standard deviation is accepted as 25 mm, 35
      patients are needed with each group with 95% power. All the analysis were implemented
      according to the intention to treat analysis. The precise of differences between time
      intervals within groups and between groups and statistical significance were expressed by 95%
      confidence intervals (95% CI).
    
  