
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare 3-year survival of patients with previously untreated stage III or IV squamous
           cell carcinoma of the head and neck treated with induction chemotherapy comprising
           docetaxel, cisplatin, and fluorouracil followed by radiotherapy and carboplatin or
           docetaxel vs radiotherapy and cisplatin only.

      Secondary

        -  Compare 2-year progression-free status in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare 5-year survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare 3- and 5-year progression-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the complete response rate in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare tumor site-specific survival in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare functional organ preservation in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Correlate tissue and germline markers with response, local/regional control, and the
           development of distant metastases in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive induction chemotherapy comprising docetaxel, cisplatin, and
           fluorouracil. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses. Patients achieving a
           pathologic complete response at the primary site and a clinical complete response in the
           neck then receive carboplatin once weekly and undergo concurrent radiotherapy once
           daily, 5 days a week, for 7 weeks. Patients with a partial response at the primary site
           (i.e., positive biopsy), stable disease, or radiographic evidence of persistent disease
           in the neck receive docetaxel once weekly for 4 weeks and undergo concurrent
           radiotherapy once or twice daily, 5 days a week, for 6 weeks.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive cisplatin IV on weeks 1 and 4 and undergo concurrent
           radiotherapy once or twice daily, 5 days a week, for 6 weeks.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and then at 3, 12, and 24 months.

      Patients are followed monthly for 1 year, every 2 months for 1 year, every 3 months for 1
      year, and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 330 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  