
    
      Retirement has been recognized as a critical turning point in determining physical activity
      behaviours in old age. The literature gives a varying picture regarding change in physical
      activity level with work retirement but often a reduction in total physical activity has been
      reported. Retirement typically takes place at a time where the skeletal muscle mass,
      -strength and -power declines by 1-3% per year.

      Interventions to promote physical activity in adults aged 55 to 70 years have been shown to
      be effective at 12 months but it is very unclear if the effect is maintained thereafter. Both
      exercise at home or at a center improves health and physical function - but home based
      programs appear to be superior to center based programs in terms of adherence to exercise
      especially in the long-term.

      In older adults, strength training at 60% of 1RM has been shown to be sufficient for large
      effect on muscle function and muscle protein synthesis, and potentially lower loads (45-60%
      1RM) have effect when adding more repetitions.

      The overall objective of the study is to assess the long-term effects of 12 month of
      supervised high-intensity center based resistance training or "guided" moderate-intensity
      home-based resistance training relative to a non-exercising control group upon muscle power,
      -strength and -mass, physical function, physical activity level and health in older people
      around the time of retirement.

      The hypotheses are:

        1. Supervised high-intensity center based resistance training over one year results in the
           best improvement in muscle power and bodily function

        2. "Guided" moderate-intensity home-based resistance training will result in a more active
           lifestyle and thus in sustained elevated activity level after the 1-year intervention
           period. Thus in the long run (several years) "guided" moderate-intensity home-based
           resistance training has superior effects compared to supervised high-intensity center
           based resistance training upon functional ability, health and potentially also cognitive
           function.

      450 participants recruited through advertisements in local newspapers will be included in
      this three-armed, single-blinded randomized trial. After baseline assessment they will be
      randomized to one year of 1) supervised, high-intensity progressive, resistance training
      conducted in machines three times weekly in a local fitness center 2) "guided"
      moderate-intensity home-based resistance training conducted with elastic bands and body
      weight three times weekly. "Guided" means that the participants are offered supervised
      resistance training once weekly in addition to home based resistance training 2 times weekly
      or 3) various social and cultural activities that do not require physical activity.

      All participants complete a wide range of tests before and after the 12 months intervention
      period and the primary time point for outcome assessment will be at 12 month. The same "test
      battery" is conducted in the subsequent years (2, 4, 7, and 10 years later) as a follow-up.
    
  