
    
      Rationale: Today's management of patients with a chronic disorder like Parkinson's disease
      (PD) is imperfect. The understanding of clinical profiles is based on observations in small,
      selective populations with brief follow-up. Moreover, treatment decisions are based on
      averaged population results that may not apply to a specific individual context. These
      drawbacks will be addressed with a "big data" approach. Ambulatory sensors will be used as an
      objective measure of patients' performance under everyday circumstances, for longer periods
      of time. The researchers aim to explore the potential of using longitudinal ambulatory data
      to enrich a standardized clinical dataset, which reflects current clinical practice for the
      assessment of disease status.

      Objective: The study will include a total of 250 physiotherapists and 1000 patients. The aims
      of this study are: (1) to perform "big data" analyses on the raw sensor data, in relation to
      concurrently acquired clinical data in these patients (limited version of the PPMI
      -Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative protocol) to develop patient profiles; and (2) to
      correlate the ambulatory sensor data to simple self-assessments made during follow-up.

      Study design: Observational descriptive study. Study population: Dutch Parkinson patients,
      male or female, age 30 years or older, with PD diagnosis given by a physician, and own a
      suitable smartphone.

      lntervention: 250 ParkinsonNet physiotherapists and 1000 eligible patients will be included
      in this study. Patients and physiotherapists will be recruited in 5 consecutive cohorts based
      on geographic region. Patients will be asked to wear a smartwatch and a pendant movement
      sensor, both with triaxial accelerometers, during day and night, for a period of 13 weeks.
      Additionally, a self-monitoring App on a smartphone is used, where the patient reports when
      (s)he takes any PD medication. An additional, optional button allows the patient to report
      general feeling. During the 13 week follow-up, trained physiotherapists will perform a
      standardized clinical assessment, based on the PPMI protocol (www.ppmi-info.ors) for every
      included patient. This assessment will last for 60 minutes. The smartphone is used to
      transmit data from the watch to a cloud-based data platform. lntel developed this dedicated
      data analysis platform for ambulatory data. lntel will receive coded data only.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Study endpoints include parameters registered with the
      smartwatch, the pendant movement sensor, the self-monitoring app and collected with the PPMI
      assessment. The smartwatch data provides, after data processing, a measure for the level of
      physical activity during the day. Falls will be registered with the pendant movement sensor.
      Medication intake and mood are registered using the smartphone. Finally, PPMI assessment
      includes assessment of motor symptoms, cognition, depression, sleep and daily activity.
      Correlations will be determined between the above mentioned parameters.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: First, participants are asked to wear the devices 24/7 and data will be recorded
      continuously, for a total duration of 13 weeks. Second, data will be transmitted to a data
      platform developed and managed by lntel, on behalf of the Michael J. Fox Foundation for
      Parkinson's Research. To access these data, researchers can grant permission for research
      purposes, provided by Michael J. Fox Foundation. Patients will be asked for permission to
      share the raw coded data for dissemination to the research community, analysis and use in
      future publications. Participation in the study warrants that patients provide written
      permission for this.
    
  