
    
      Background:

      -PU-H71 is a synthetic HSP90 inhibitor which can bind both open and closed conformations of
      HSP90. It demonstrates extended tumor retention and client protein degradation, while being
      rapidly cleared from normal tissues. It has shown complete tumor responses and retained
      sensitivity to retreatment in vivo.

      Primary Objectives:

        -  To establish the safety and tolerability of PU-H71 administered on a once weekly, 2
           weeks out of 3 schedule, in patients with refractory solid tumors and lowgrade
           non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL).

        -  To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of
           PU-H71 administered on a once weekly, 2 weeks out of 3 schedule, in patients with
           refractory solid tumors and low-grade NHL.

        -  To determine the pharmacokinetics of PU-H71 administered on a once weekly, 2 weeks out
           of 3 schedule, in patients with refractory solid tumors and low-grade NHL.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To perform pharmacodynamic studies to ascertain PU-H71 effect on HSP70 in tumor tissue,
           serum, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) at the MTD.

        -  To perform pharmacodynamic studies to ascertain PU-H71 effect on HSP90 client proteins
           in tumor tissue at the MTD.

      Eligibility:

      -Study participants must have histologically confirmed solid tumor malignancy or low-grade
      non-Hodgkin s lymphoma that has progressed or recurred after at least one line of
      chemotherapy or for which no standard treatment option exists; no therapy within 4 weeks
      prior to entering the study; age greater than or equal to 18 years; Eastern Cooperative
      Oncology Group (ECOG) less than or equal to 2; life expectancy > 3 months; and adequate organ
      and marrow function. Patients entering on the expansion cohort at the MTD must have disease
      amenable to biopsy with willingness to undergo pre- and post-treatment biopsies.

      Study Design:

        -  This study will follow a modified accelerated titration design (Simon et al., 1997).

        -  The accelerated phase ends when 1 patient experiences a dose-limiting toxicity or 2
           patients experience Grade 2 drug-related toxicity during the first cycle; after which
           the study will follow the standard 3 + 3 design.

        -  PU-H71 will be administered intravenously over one hour, once weekly, 2 weeks out of 3,
           (i.e., on days 1 and 8) every 21 days.

        -  Pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) studies will be conducted during cycle
           1. Up to 10 additional patients will be entered at the MTD to further define toxicity
           and perform PD studies at this dose; pre- and post-treatment tumor biopsies will be
           mandatory for these patients.

        -  Computed tomography (CT) scans will be performed at baseline and every 2 cycles (6
           weeks) for restaging.

        -  Up to 100 patients may be treated.
    
  