
    
      Acinetobacter baumannii has been increasingly reported in the outbreak of nosocomial
      infections in the intensive care units, which not only prolong the length of hospital stay
      but result in high attributable mortality. With its intrinsic resistance to many
      antimicrobial agents and rapid acquirement of resistance mechanism, resistance to
      carbapenems, which is often accompanied with resistance to multiple drugs, has emerged
      worldwide. The limited treatment choice included tigecycline, colistin, and sulbactam.
      However, the low serum level and bacteriostatic nature of tigecycline hamper its application
      in blood stream infection, one of the most common presentations of A. baumannii infections.
      The nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity of intravenous colistin have caused great concerns in
      critically ill patients whereas immediate bronchospasm after inhalation and significant
      clinical consequences have been reported. Sulbactam has been used for decades in combination
      of ampicillin and well tolerated. However, the emergence of resistance strains and discourage
      of monotherapy in severely ill patients make combination an attractive choice. Combination of
      sulbactam and carbapenems has good synergism against A. baumannii with elevated minimal
      inhibitory concentration (MIC) of sulbactam and/or carbapenems while in an animal model using
      A. baumannii with higher MIC of both sulbactam and meropenem, survival rate was higher in
      combination group than sulbactam or meropenem-treated alone group. The similar in vivo
      bactericidal effect was also observed in combination of imipenem and sulbactam. Despite
      plenty of in vivo and in vitro studies mentioned above, the clinical studies were limited.
      Besides, the information regarding the correlation of in vitro synergistic effect of
      carbapenem and sulbactam with the clinical effect is rarely mentioned. Therefore, our study
      is aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of combination therapy of imipenem and sulbactam in
      patients contracted with A. baumannii, and to correlate the clinical effect with the in vitro
      synergistic results
    
  