
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      Each study cycle is 4 weeks.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take nintedanib capsules
      by mouth 2 times each day. Each dose should be about 12 hours apart, at about the same times
      every day. The capsules should be swallowed whole with about a cup (8 ounces) of water within
      30 minutes after eating a meal.

      If you forget to take the capsules and it has been more than 2 hours since you were scheduled
      to take the dose, you should skip that dose and take the next dose as scheduled. Do not
      double the next dose to "make up" the missed one.

      You will be given a study drug diary to write down when you took each dose of study drug. You
      will need to bring back any empty or partially used bottles of study drug, along with any
      leftover study drug, with you to the clinic at each cycle.

      If you experience side effects, you will be given standard drugs to help decrease the
      symptoms of the side effects. You may ask the study staff for information about how the drugs
      are given and their risks.

      Study Visits:

      All tests and procedures below will be performed before your dose of study drug.

      On Day 1 of every cycle:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      On Day 1 of Cycles 1-7 and then every odd-numbered cycle after that (Cycles 9,11, 13, and so
      on), the physical exam and blood draw will be performed at MD Anderson . On Day 1 of Cycles 8
      and then every even-numbered cycle after that (Cycles 10, 12, 14, and so on), the physical
      exam and blood draw may be performed at a local clinic or doctor's office and the results
      will be sent to the study doctor for review. The study doctor will discuss this option with
      you.

      On Day 1 of Cycle 3, blood (about 2 tablespoons) will also be drawn for biomarker testing.

      On Day 1 of Cycles 3, 5, 7, and then every odd numbered cycle after that (Cycles 9, 11, 13,
      and so on):

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, photographs will be taken of any areas affected by
           the disease.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have an x-ray, ultrasound, CT scan, PET/CT
           scan, and/or a bone scan to check the status of the disease.

      At any point that the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have an EKG, ECHO, and/or MUGA
      scan. You may have any of the above tests/procedures repeated as well, if the doctor thinks
      it is needed, to check on your health.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drug for up to 2 years. You will no longer be able to take
      the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are
      unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after you have completed the follow-up period.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      Within 14 days after the last study visit:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, photographs will be taken of your skin and any areas
           affected by the disease.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have an x-ray, ultrasound, CT scan, PET/CT
           scan, and/or a bone scan to check the status of the disease.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have an EKG and either an ECHO or MUGA scan.

      Follow-up Visits:

      You will be called by a member of the study staff every 3 months for up to 1 year after your
      end-of-treatment visit and asked how you are doing. These calls should last about 2 minutes.
    
  