
    
      Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) is a common gastrointestinal disorder characterized by chronic
      abdominal pain and altered bowel function (diarrhea and/or constipation) that effects up to
      20% of the United States population. Although the pathophysiology of IBS is unknown, visceral
      hypersensitivity (i.e., decreased pain thresholds in response to gut distension) is a
      biological marker of the disorder. The mechanisms that lead to visceral hypersensitivity,
      however, are currently unknown. As a consequence of our current VA-supported studies, our
      laboratory has acquired evidence that patients with IBS and visceral hypersensitivity also
      have cutaneous hypersensitivity in response to experimental thermal pain stimuli. These new
      findings differ from previous investigations that indicated IBS-associated hypersensitivity
      is limited to the gut. Rather, our data suggest that patients with IBS have alterations in
      central pain processing mechanisms that may represent the underlying pathophysiological basis
      for visceral and cutaneous hypersensitivity. Based on our preliminary data, we propose that
      alterations in spinal processing mechanisms are similar in patients with IBS to those that
      have been described for patients with other chronic pain disorders. Cutaneous
      hypersensitivity is also seen in other chronic pain conditions such as fibromyalgia where
      altered central pain processing mechanisms have been shown to be responsible for maintaining
      hypersensitivity. In our current proposal, we hypothesize that IBS patients have increased
      peripheral and central afferent processing of nociceptive cutaneous and visceral stimuli.

      Our objectives are as follows:

        -  Specific Objective #1. To determine if lidocaine applied to the rectum decreases
           visceral hyperalgesia, as tested by nociceptive rectal distension.

        -  Specific Objective #2. To determine if lidocaine applied to the rectum decreases
           cutaneous heat hyperalgesia to test for the presence or absence of central hyperalgesia
           in IBS patients.

        -  Specific Objective #3. To determine the relationships between doses of IV lidocaine,
           serum levels of IV lidocaine, and their anti-hyperalgesic effects, as tested by rectal
           distension and cutaneous heat stimulation.

      Specific Objective #4. To determine the effect of rectal lidocaine on clinical pain and
      clinical symptoms of IBS.

      The proposed studies will test the central hypothesis using well-controlled sensory stimuli
      designed to separately evaluate central and peripheral mechanisms. The objectives will be
      accomplished by systematically applying and comparing pharmacological and psychophysical
      studies to IBS patients and controls. This application is an extension of the principal
      investigator's current VA Advanced Career Development Award that examines the neurobiology of
      visceral hypersensitivity in Persian Gulf veterans who returned home with chronic abdominal
      pain. The proposed Clinical Research Program will study afferent mechanisms of visceral and
      cutaneous hypersensitivity in veterans with IBS. Our laboratory is uniquely positioned to use
      our expertise in psychophysical and pharmacologic evaluation of patients with fibromyalgia to
      study patients with IBS. The results of this current proposal will lead to larger clinical
      trials with sodium-channel blockers (i.e., lidocaine, mexiletine) as potential therapeutic
      agents for veterans with IBS.
    
  