
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The Black population has age-specific all causes mortality rates among adults which are up to
      3.5 times higher than for whites. There remains a pressing need to improve detection and
      treatment of coronary artery disease among Blacks in an attempt to reduce these unfavorable
      racial differentials. Also, many fundamental advances in our understanding of atherosclerosis
      have come from the study of geographic pathology - the epidemiologic comparisons of
      population groups with widely varying distributions of risk factors. Two prominent features
      of the epidemiology of coronary artery disease among United States Blacks which are fertile
      grounds for such comparative studies are the high prevalence of hypertension and the
      increased susceptibility of Black women to this disease. Knowledge gained from these studies
      can potentially be applied to coronary artery disease in all human population groups, as has
      been done with work among the Masai, Seventh-Day Adventists, and other groups.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In this longitudinal study, patients were recruited from the adult Emergency Service of Cook
      County Hospital. Key end-points included: case fatality rates from acute events; long-term
      survival rates; sudden versus non-sudden death rates; occurrence of first myocardial
      infarction among patients with new onset angina; functional recovery after myocardial
      infarction and coronary artery bypass graft. Baseline data were collected in all groups and
      include: age, sex, education, weight, height, medical history, hyperlipidemia, alcohol and
      cigarette use, and medications. Both two-dimensional and M-mode echocardiograms were obtained
      and an exercise test performed. At the time of cardiac catheterization fasting blood samples
      were drawn for lipid analysis. Bi-plane ventriculography and cineangiography were performed.
      After discharge, patients returned to the clinic at three-month intervals for up to two
      years. Analyses were conducted on left ventricular hypertrophy and socioeconomic status as
      predictors of mortality. The two control groups permitted comparisons of baseline findings
      and end-points. One hundred and fifty patients from each of the control groups were followed
      long-term, primarily through surveillance of government vital status records. The study
      provided data on survival rates, incidence of new events, and mode of death, the roles of sex
      differences and hypertension in coronary artery disease, and the efficacy of coronary artery
      bypass surgery.

      The study was renewed in FY 1993 to address a series of major questions related to the
      clinical epidemiology of coronary artery disease among Black women and to continue the on
      going study involving 2,806 Black men and women who had been enrolled in a hospital-based
      registry. An examination of the survival patterns and related risk factors in the cohort of
      1,559 Black women was the primary focus of this project.

      The study was renewed in 1996 to continue to follow the original cohort to examine the
      interaction of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) and mortality risk in the subgroup of
      patients with coronary heart disease, to investigate further the impact of left ventricular
      geometry on survival, and to define the prognostic significance of obesity. Also to enroll a
      new clinical cohort of 5,600 patients, approximately equally divided between Blacks and
      whites, from Louisiana State University (LSU) Medical Center. The survival patterns of these
      groups are compared directly, and the contribution of LVH to the Black:white differential
      estimated. The new cohort serves as a validation sample for the hypotheses derived from the
      original cohort.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  