
    
      This clinical trial is focused on cardiovascular disease due to dystrophin deficiency.
      Dystrophin is normally localized to the muscle cell membrane where it interacts with a
      complex of proteins including neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). DMD gene mutations lead
      to the loss of dystrophin and to mislocalization and reduced activity of nNOS, consequently
      reducing cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) and the activity of its downstream effector,
      protein kinase G. Our group and others have shown that inhibition of phosphodiesterase 5
      (PDE5) leads to favorable cardiac remodeling and improved vascular tone in animal models of
      heart failure.

      This will be a phase 2, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled single center study for
      6 months followed by open-label period of 6 months in which all enrolled subjects receive
      Revatio (a PDE5 inhibitor). A single dose of Revatio (20 mg three times daily) will be tested
      based on the safety and efficacy of that dose for treatment of pulmonary hypertension.

      The primary endpoint will be the change in cardiac left ventricular end-systolic volume
      (LVESV) as determined by cardiac MRI after 6 months of Revatio compared to baseline. A 10%
      change in LVESV will be considered significant. This degree of improvement has generally been
      observed in cardiac therapies that improve survival such as ACE inhibitors, beta blockers,
      and cardiac resynchronization. The change from baseline in LVESV after 6 months of Revatio
      will be compared to the change in LVESV over 6 months with placebo. The study will extend for
      an additional 6 months of open-label Revatio to provide data on 6 months versus 12 months of
      Revatio treatment. Additional secondary endpoints will include differences in systolic and
      diastolic LV function by MRI, differences in LV mass and fibrosis by MRI, brachial
      flow-mediated vasodilation (peripheral endothelial function), and targeted exploratory
      assessment of differences in skeletal muscle function using forced vital capacity (FVC) and
      pincher and grip testing. Safety will be assessed by differences in the frequency and grade
      of adverse events

      The study is taking place at the Kennedy Krieger Institute/Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions
      in Baltimore, MD. The trial requires out-patient visits over a 12-month period. Travel funds,
      through a grant from Ryan's Quest, are available.
    
  