
    
      Insulin resistance and the accompanying hyperinsulinemia also lead to the development of
      multiple metabolic abnormalities which are responsible, at least in part, for the excessive
      risk of coronary heart disease in T2DM , non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), and impaired
      diastolic left ventricular (LV) function. Thus, insulin resistance contributes, not only to
      increased T2DM risk, but also to the morbidity and mortality associated with the disease.

      Etiology of Insulin Resistance Insulin resistance is closely related to obesity. Multiple
      mechanisms contribute to insulin resistance in obese individuals. Accumulation of fat in
      insulin target tissues (i.e. ectopic fat), e.g. in myocytes and hepatocytes, plays a central
      role in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance. When energy intake exceeds energy
      expenditure, the energy excess is stored in subcutaneous adipocytes in the form of
      triglycerides. However, under conditions of persistent positive energy balance, subcutaneous
      fat stores become filled and the excess energy spills over into the circulation in the form
      of FFA, leading to increased fat content in lean tissues, i.e. ectopic fat. Many studies have
      documented the important role of ectopic fat content in the pathogenesis of insulin
      resistance in obese individuals. The severity of insulin resistance in skeletal muscle and
      liver strongly correlates with ectopic fat content in myocytes and hepatocytes, respectively.
      Further, therapies that deplete ectopic fat, e.g. weight loss and pioglitazone, significantly
      improve insulin sensitivity.

      Fat spill over and the subsequent increase in ectopic fat content in lean tissues could
      result from subcutaneous fat cells that are filled to capacity or the inability of the
      subcutaneous fat stores to expand. Consistent with this hypothesis, several studies have
      demonstrated increased fat cell size in subcutaneous fat in insulin resistant obese
      individuals compared to insulin sensitive controls. Moreover, large fat cells have a higher
      rate of lipolysis and decreased rate of FFA esterification compared to small fat cells,
      suggesting decreased ability of large fat cells to further store fat in subcutaneous adipose
      tissue in obese individuals. Of note, large fat cell size is a strong predictor of future
      T2DM risk in non-diabetic individuals, independent of insulin resistance. Collectively, these
      results have led to the hypothesis that inability of subcutaneous fat tissue to expand
      results in fat spill over into muscle, liver, heart, etc and the subsequent development of
      insulin resistance.
    
  