
    
      The investigators hypothesize that serial evaluation of (a) intrinsic thrombogenicity
      measured by thromboelastography (b) platelet activation and aggregation, and (c) selected
      biomarkers will provide the "blueprint" of individual hemostasis to precisely characterize
      COVID-19 patients who are at heightened risk for thrombosis or bleeding. The latter will
      facilitate future efforts to personalize antithrombotic therapy regimens in COVID-19
      patients.

      Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), a viral respiratory illness caused by the severe acute
      respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has been shown to predispose patients to
      thrombotic diseases (venous and arterial) with reported rates in hospitalized patients
      between 17- 40%. The influence of SARS-CoV-2 infection on the coagulation is hypothesized to
      be regulated by platelet activation, proinflammatory cytokines, endothelial cell injury and
      stasis.

      The elevated levels of d-dimer and fibrinogen and clinical signs of organ damage point to a
      significant hypercoagulable state. The latter induces a high risk for micro-thrombi and
      multiorgan ischemia. Therefore, early detection and a comprehensive understanding of the
      influence of the virus on the coagulation and platelet pathways are essential to address this
      epidemic. It is critical at this time to make all efforts possible to optimize our available
      technology to care for COVID-19 patients who are at risk for thrombotic disease through
      appropriate choice, dosing, and laboratory monitoring of antithrombotic therapy.

      Our research group and others have reported a "thrombo-inflammatory" state-a distinct
      pathophysiological state -of heightened platelet function, hypercoagulability, and
      inflammation in several cardiovascular disease (CVD) processes. It has been demonstrated that
      patients with acute respiratory infections are at elevated risk for acute myocardial
      infarction after influenza (incidence ratio [IR] 6.1, 95% CI 3.9-9.5) and after non-influenza
      viral illnesses including other coronavirus species (IR 2.8, 95% CI 1.2-6.2). Tantry et al.
      proposed a mechanistic link between inflammation and heightened thrombogenicity in the
      presence of unstable CVD state. Furthermore, investigators have hypothesized that this
      thrombo-inflammatory state becomes even more relevant when patients with CVD and human
      immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection undergo percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).A
      similar scenario may be present during COVID-19 infection, where evidence of an early
      myonecrosis may be related to fundamental changes in pathways affecting thrombosis. However,
      currently, there is no information on how COVID-19 influences hemostasis/thrombosis pathways
      and subsequent adverse clinical event occurrences.

      Cardiovascular comorbidities including hypertension, obesity, high cholesterol, and diabetes
      mellitus are common in patients with COVID-19 and such patients are at higher risk for
      morbidity and mortality.12 Furthermore, emerging demographic data in COVID-19 patients shows
      that incidence and mortality is disproportionately higher in African Americans and Latinos.
      In a study conducted at Sinai hospital, Lev et al. analyzed a large cohort of racially
      diverse patients (n=1,172) with CAD or CV risk and demonstrated that sex and race are
      significantly associated with platelet-fibrin clot strength, a marker of hypercoagulability.
      Most interesting, AA women had the highest thrombogenicity profile, potentially conferring a
      highrisk phenotype for thrombotic event occurrence. Furthermore, in a study entitled,
      "PlateletReactivity in Different Ethnicities" also conducted at Sinai hospital, investigators
      have demonstrated that Latino and AA races had the highest platelet-fibrin clot strength as
      compared to Caucasians and others races studied.The latter findings may be described by
      difference in frequency of a single-nucleotide variant in protease-activated receptor-4
      (PAR-4) between AA and Caucasians respectively (63% vs 19%). PAR-4 is an active thrombin
      receptor on human platelets essential for thrombin-induced platelet activation and has been
      shown to be more active in African Americans as compared to Caucasians. This evidence may
      provide a potential mechanistic explanation for racial disparities observed in COVID-19
      patients and require further investigation. Hence, investigators will collect a genetic
      sample to analyze single-nucleotide variant of PAR-4 and other genetic markers related to
      thrombosis.

      Thromboelastography (TEG) is a method for measuring global hemostasis and has been widely
      used in surgery and anesthesiology, emergency departments, trauma centers, intensive care
      units,and cardiac catheterization labs for transfusion management, prediction of thrombotic
      and bleeding events, and choice/adjustment of anticoagulation and antiplatelet therapies.
      Light transmittance aggregometry (LTA) is a widely used gold standard method for identifying
      heightened platelet reactivity to various agonists, a marker of thrombotic risk.More common
      conventional coagulation tests include prothrombin time (PT, INR), partial thromboplastin
      time (aPTT), fibrinogen, platelet count, and d-dimer. However, these latter tests do not
      reflect interactions between platelets, endothelium, and fibrinolytic factors and must be
      used in combination to provide a complete picture of hemostasis status. Unlike these tests,
      the TEG can assess platelet function, clot strength, and fibrinolysis. Furthermore, The TEG6s
      Hemostasis Analyzer is a portable, all-in-one cartridge-based system that requires minimal
      blood sample and minimal sample processing, a potential safety advantage when processing
      blood samples in COVID-19 patients. Lastly, COVID-19 infection may be associated with acute
      cardiac injury as indicated by elevation of cardiac biomarkers to > 99th percentile of the
      upper reference limit, but also electrocardiographic and echocardiographic abnormalities.
      Cardiac injury is highly prevalent in patients with COVID-19 but may not be an important
      marker as it occurs after damage has been done. Inosine and hypoxanthine are specific markers
      of acute cardiac ischemia (ACI) that are measurable within 20 minutes as compared to 4 hours
      with CKMB and Troponin testing. Investigators believe that this marker may indicate the early
      presence of micro-thrombi and organ damage. Investigators plan to investigate these novel
      markers in this trial. Investigators hypothesize that COVID-19 is a heightened
      prothrombotic/hypercoagulability state that can be characterized using platelet function
      testing and Thromboelastography. More information is required to study the effect of COVID-19
      on coagulation and platelet pathways to develop effective antithrombotic treatment
      strategies.

      The study is a multi-center, non-interventional study involving laboratory testing of blood
      samples and data collection for a COVID registry using electronic medical records. The study
      specific laboratory assessments will be obtained at baseline (closest to time of
      hospitalization), Day 3 and Day 8 from baseline, and at hospital discharge. Patients will be
      followed for clinical events during hospitalization, and 1 and 6 months after discharge.
      Patients (n=100) hospitalized at Sinai Hospital of Baltimore and Northwest Hospital with at
      least one of the following will be enrolled.

        1. With a confirmed diagnosis of COVID-19 infection using a positive RT-PCR or a positive
           IgG antibody test prior to or during hospitalization or,

        2. With a negative COVID-19 RT-PCR test but with symptoms of possible COVID-19infection
           and:

             1. an elevated D-dimer and/or

             2. positive imaging results showing unilateral or bilateral pneumonia or ground glass
                opacity in lungs.
    
  