
    
      Breastfeeding is a public health priority. The CDC and WHO, among other professional
      organizations, have issued the following recommendations with respect to breastmilk. Infants
      should be exclusively breastfed through the first 6 months of life and continue to receive
      breastmilk through at least the first year of life. Many women, however, are not meeting
      these benchmarks even among those who desire to do so. Approximately one quarter of infants
      are exclusively breastfed at 6 months and a little over 1/3 are still receiving breastmilk at
      the time of their 1st birthday.1 What looking at these numbers alone miss is the number of
      women who attempt to breastfeed and do not continue to do so. 83% of women attempt
      breastfeeding indicating that there is a significant drop off that occurs between delivery
      and 6 and 12 months of life.

      While the risk factors for this are vast, lack of education poor socioeconomic status and
      poor social support are important contributors to breastfeeding problems. Both professional
      and informal support through family or friends have a significant impact on breastfeeding
      outcomes. Not all patients, however, have the resources needed to obtain professional support
      or the family experience necessary to meet their breastfeeding goals.

      Digital support in other medical specialties have shown success in health outcomes. Multiple
      international studies have also demonstrated the benefits of text-messaging on breastfeeding
      rates including improved rates and duration of exclusivity. Thus far, none of these studies
      have been performed in the United States.

      Therefore, the aim of this study is to determine if text-based breastfeeding support improves
      breastfeeding initiation, duration, and exclusivity when compared to usual postpartum care.

      All women without a contraindication to breastfeeding and access to a mobile phone with
      unlimited text messaging capability will be approached in the 34-36 week of pregnancy.

      All consented women will be enrolled in a "run-in" period in which they receive weekly text
      messages with factual information about breastfeeding. A response is required to one or more
      of these texts in order to be eligible for randomization at delivery.

      Upon delivery of a healthy term neonate, women who responded in the "run-in" period will be
      randomized to either text-based breastfeeding support using the Way to Health platform or
      usual care.
    
  