
    
      Patient population:

      During 6 months, at least 1000 consecutive patients (age > 18 years) referred for diagnostic
      coronary angiography in up to 10 centers in Italy involving a minimum of 4 operators will be
      enrolled. To be qualified as expert, operators should have performed at least 250 transradial
      procedure/year in the previous 3 years and have performed at least 20 right and left distal
      radial procedures.

      Demographic and medical history data of patients including age, sex, history of diabetes
      mellitus, hypertension, height and weight will be collected. Height and weight of operators
      will be also recorded. Type of angiographic system will be recorded. Procedural data as
      contrast medium amount, subclavian tortuosity, numbers of diagnostic and guiding catheters
      and numbers of cine-angiographic acquisitions (frames) will be also recorded.

      Subclavian tortuosity will be classified as:

        -  Grade 1: tortuosity or calcification of the subclavian artery that can be crossed by a
           standard 0.035" nonhydrophilic wire facilitated with deep inspiration

        -  Grade 2: tortuosity or calcification of the subclavian artery that can be crossed with a
           0.0035" hydrophilic wire and a standard diagnostic catheter

        -  Grade 3: tortuosity or calcification of the subclavian artery or congenital anomalies
           that require a 0.035" stiff wire and a standard catheter

        -  Grade 4: severe tortuosity and/or calcification of the subclavian artery or congenital
           anomalies preventing the catheter or guide to reach the aortic valve plane or engage the
           coronary ostia with a stiff wire Subclavian tortuosity > grade 2 will be considered as
           significative. Type of catheters and the number of views for angiography and PCI will be
           left to the discretion of the operator. Lead shields placed under the catheterization
           table, as well as ceiling mounted lead shields, will be used in every procedure.
           Procedural success is defined as completion of the procedure through the intended
           arterial access. Crossover, if needed, is permitted to femoral access or to
           contralateral arm or approach.

      Arterial access protocol:

      Right radial access: radial artery access will be obtained with a 20-gauge Teflonsheated
      needle using the Seldinger or the counter puncture technique. An introducer sheath is
      inserted in the radial artery according to local practice. An intra-arterial vasodilator
      cocktail will be administered consisting of ntroglycerin 200 mcg and verapamil 5 mg after
      sheath insertion. 5000 IU of unfractioned heparin will be administered intravenously after
      sheath insertion, and adequately adjusted in case of interventions. The introducer sheath
      will be removed at the end of the procedure, and a mechanical or inflatable pressure band
      will be applied to the access site to achieve hemostasis.

      Distal radial accesses: following distal radial artery palpation, 1 of the 2 possible
      puncture sites (anatomic snuffbox or in the first intermetacarpal space) is chosen. In case
      of left-side access, the left hand is bent toward the left groin with support below the left
      elbow to ensure patient's comfort. The operator is positioned at the right side of the
      patient. To favor a shift of the distal radial artery to the surface of the fossa, the
      patient is asked to grasp his or her thumb under the other 4 fingers or to hold a roll of
      gauze, a 20 ml syringe, or the handle of a dedicated system. After disinfection and local
      anesthesia, the artery is punctured according to operator preference and/or experience using
      a micropuncture needle or a cannula-over-needle. An introducer sheath (preferably a slender
      introducer sheath) is inserted in the radial artery according to local practice. An
      intra-arterial vasodilator cocktail will be administered consisting of nitroglycerin 200 mcg
      and verapamil 5 mg after sheath insertion. 5000 IU of unfractioned heparin will be
      administered intravenously after sheath insertion, and adequately adjusted in case of
      interventions.

      Coronary catheterization:

      Angiographic systems were set according to the standard of the operators, and the field of
      view or fluoroscopic and cine-acquisition speed will be recorded for each procedure. The
      diagnostic procedures will be performed using a standard sequence of 3 projections for the
      right coronary artery and maximum 6 projections for the left coronary artery. Differently,
      the percutaneous coronary interventions will be performed according to the lesion and to the
      operator preference.

      Vascular access as well as the sheath selection, catheter curve used, and the use of
      adjunctive tools will be at the discretion of the operator involved in the procedure.

      In all procedures, standard operator radioprotection will be ensured using a lead apron, a
      thyroid lead collar, lower body x-ray curtain fixed on the angiographic table, an upper
      mobile leaded glass suspended from the ceiling, and leaded glasses. The use of adjunctive
      protective drapes to reduce operator radiation exposition ws left to the operator's
      discretion

      Radiation measurement:

      Radiation measures collected are fluoroscopy time (expressed in minutes), the AK (expressed
      in mGy) and the DAP (expressed in Gy*cm2). The number of acquired cineangiograms will be
      recorded. Fluoroscopy and cineangiography will be performed at 7.5 or 15 frames/s according
      to operators' preferences.

      Operator radiation exposure is measured for each participating operator using 1 dedicated
      electronic dosimeter (PM1610B; Polimaster, Vienna, Austria) to be worn at mid-thorax level,
      in the breast pocket outside the lead apron, and expressed in µSy. The radiation and operator
      measures will be recorded at the beginning and the end of each procedure. For those patients
      who undergo a PCI after the diagnostic procedure, the measures of fluoroscopy time, DAP, and
      dose of the wearable dosimeters will be reset after the end of the diagnostic procedure and
      restart at the beginning of the PCI. To take into account possible differences in patient
      radiation dose affecting the operator exposure, the DAP-normalized operator dose will be also
      calculated.

      The equivalent dose at the thorax will be also converted in operator effective dose dividing
      it by a factor of 33 according to apron thickness, 0.5 lead equivalent with a tube voltage
      under the table. Patient effective dose will be calculated using a conversion factor of 0.20
      mSv/Gy*cm2.

      Statistical Hypothesis and analysis:

      the null hypothesis is that ld-TRA exposure to radiation is the same as right-side TRA
      (access site at the wrist and at the anatomical snuffbox of the right hand). In the previous
      RADIANT study right-side TRA was associated with a mean operator exposition of 13 µSy (SD +10
      µSy); hence, to detect non-inferiority between the two groups (risk of type I error 5%, risk
      of type II error 80%, non-inferiority limit 3 µSy) at least 138 per group are needed. The
      alternative hypothesis is that ld-TRA exposure is reduced compared to rightside TRA. The
      amount of this reduction is to be determined. An arbitrary period of 6 months should be
      sufficient to record the radiological exposition in at least 1000 procedures. Taking into
      account possible crossover between groups, a minimum proportion of 20% of procedures through
      distal left radial artery PCIs was mandated to guarantee adequate numerosity of the group.
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov analysis will be performed to evaluate the distribution of each variable
      analyzed. Categorical variables will be analyzed using chi-square test, and continuous
      variables will be analyzed using analysis of variance for normally distributed variables and
      Kruskal-Wallis test for variables with distribution that were not normal. If needed,
      log-transformation of non-normal variables will be performed. Hierarchical linear regression
      will be used to identify independent predictors of radiation exposure, entering control
      variables found to be significantly associated with radiation exposure on univariate
      analysis. Propensity score matching will be performed to minimize the risks of imbalances due
      to variation in the complexity of the diagnostic or therapeutic procedures within each
      operators. Prespecified analysis of subgroups (diagnostic coronary angiography vs PCI, expert
      operators vs fellows, use of adjunctive drapes, physical characteristics of operators) could
      be planned.
    
  