
    
      This study was a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, paired study to evaluate the
      efficacy of S-Caine Peel for local dermal anesthesia for facial dermal filler injection in 70
      adults. The study was multi-center, with 3 centers participating.

      Patients who presented to the study center for a dermal filler injection procedure and who
      met study entry criteria were invited to participate in the study. At the screening visit,
      the study, including potential risks and benefits, was clearly explained to each patient. A
      written and dated informed consent was obtained from each patient. A medical history was
      obtained including skin type, demographic data, and the use of concomitant medications. A
      brief physical examination was performed (a skin examination at the study treatment area and
      basic vital signs), and a urine pregnancy test was obtained for females of childbearing
      potential.

      At the procedure visit, patients who met the eligibility criteria were assigned the lowest
      available sequential patient number. The randomization determined the placement of the
      S-Caine Peel and placebo with the active study drug applied to either the "top/right" or
      "bottom/left" treatment area and the placebo applied to the alternate treatment area. The
      treatment areas were defined as 2 similar anatomical locations that required similar amounts
      of dermal filler (as measured in mLs injected, and number of injections) administered. The
      point of reference for these designations was the patient's right and left or top and bottom.
      Patients had a concurrent administration of the study drugs, with the appropriate study drug
      applied to the top/right treatment area first followed immediately by the other study drug
      applied to the bottom/left treatment area. Study drug application was double-blind. The study
      drugs were applied with a uniform thickness of approximately 1 mm and remained on the skin
      for 30 minutes (+/- 2 minutes).

      Upon removal of the study drugs (top/right treatment area removed first, followed immediately
      by removal of the other study drug from bottom/left treatment area), the investigator
      evaluated the treatment areas for erythema, edema, blanching and any adverse skin reaction.
    
  