
    
      OBJECTIVE: To design and validate a proficiency-based ex-vivo training curriculum for
      laparoscopic bariatric surgery.

      BACKGROUND: Laparoscopic bariatric surgery is an advanced laparoscopic procedure with a
      potential for significant morbidity and mortality along the early part of a surgeon's
      learning curve. Simulation-based training has been shown to improve a surgeon's technical
      performance and shorten the learning curves in the operating room. Despite these benefits,
      specific simulation-based training curricula have not been widely adopted in residency
      training programs. This is likely a result of the lack of valid simulation-based training
      curricula for minimally invasive operations. Presently, there is no evidence-based ex-vivo
      training curriculum for laparoscopic bariatric surgery. The purpose of this project is to
      develop and validate such a curriculum.

      HYPOTHESIS: Completion of the proposed training curriculum is expected to result in superior
      cognitive knowledge, superior technical skills in the operating room, and superior
      performance in a simulated crisis scenario when compared to standard residency training.

      METHODS: The evidence-based training curriculum will be made up of cognitive, technical, and
      non-technical components. The cognitive component will deliver procedure-specific knowledge,
      while the technical component will provide training in basic and procedure-specific
      laparoscopic skills. Non-technical component will address additional components of surgical
      competency including situation awareness, decision making, task management, leadership,
      communication and teamwork. Technical skills will be learned on a bench-top cadaveric porcine
      models. Training will follow a distributed practice schedule until preset proficiency
      benchmarks are achieved. The proposed training curriculum will be validated in a
      single-blinded randomized controlled trial comparing procedure-specific knowledge, technical
      performance in the operating room, and non-technical skills in a simulated crisis scenario
      for 12 surgical residents in the curricular training group and 12 residents in the standard
      residency training group. Cognitive knowledge will be assessed with a multiple choice
      examination. Technical performance will be assessed with previously validated
      procedure-specific and global rating scales. Non-technical skills will be assessed using a
      previously validated NOTECHS scale.

      CONCLUSIONS: The design and implementation of the proposed training curriculum has the
      potential to affect surgical training programs on a national and international level by
      standardizing the proficiency of surgical trainees prior to the start of operating room
      training. This standardization is expected to shorten the learning curves and improve patient
      safety in the operating room.
    
  