
    
      This is a single arm, open label, exploratory study to evaluate the efficacy of Valchlor in
      the treatment of LPP. Subjects will be screened by the Department of Dermatology at the Mayo
      Clinic in Florida outpatient clinic and interested qualified subjects will be consented and
      offered participation. This study is designed to establish feasibility and proof of concept
      and will not include randomization or crossover components.

      Patients with biopsy proven LPP who have failed one prior topical or systemic therapy with
      evidence of active disease will be eligible to participate. The presence of active disease
      will be based on a baseline clinical exam showing perifollicular erythema with scaling.
      Patients with predominance of end stage scarring hair loss but without significant active
      erythema will be excluded. Involvement restricted to the frontal scalp is a recognized
      clinical variant of LPP and is known as frontal fibrosing alopecia (FAA). As the histological
      features of LPP and FAA are identical, patients with FAA subtype of LPP would also be
      eligible to participate in the study.

      Eligible participants using high-potency topical corticosteroids, intralesional
      corticosteroids, or oral hydroxychloroquine may enroll but will be required to discontinue
      use during the study period.

      All study participants will apply Valchlor 0.016% gel to involved areas at night. Patients
      will be instructed to first part the hair away from involved area as needed, limit
      application to areas with alopecia and erythema, apply 30 minutes after showering or washing,
      and allow treated areas to dry for 5 to 10 minutes before covering with clothing or going to
      bed. Participants will be instructed to wash their hands with soap and water after applying
      Valchlor. Caregivers who assist in application will be instruction to wear disposable nitrile
      gloves when applying Valchlor and dispose with the household trash. Patients will be
      instructed to store Valchlor in the refrigerator away from foods at 36°F - 46°F and apply
      within 30 minutes after removing from refrigeration.
    
  