
    
      HYPOTHESIS The main hypothesis is that oxygen treatment can increase oxidative stress,
      systemic inflammation, markers of apoptosis, matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and their
      tissue inhibitor (TIMPs) in individuals subjected to endotoxin-induced inflammation. The
      investigators also hypothesize that pretreatment with statins can prevent this oxygen effect.

      AIMS

        -  To evaluate whether oxygen treatment can increase oxidative stress in healthy volunteers
           subjected to vaccine-induced inflammation.

        -  To assess the effect of oxygen treatment on plasma levels of soluble markers of
           apoptosis, MMPs and TIMPs in healthy volunteers with vaccine-induced inflammation.

        -  To study the effect of oxygen treatment on systemic inflammatory activity and leukocyte
           subset distribution in healthy volunteers with vaccine-induced inflammation.

        -  To evaluate the effect of oxygen treatment on platelet aggregation in healthy volunteers
           with vaccine-induced inflammation.

        -  To determine whether a potential oxygen effect on these cellular- and biomarkers can be
           prevented by pretreatment with Atorvastatin.

        -  To serve as a pilot study and basis for power calculations for a future planned study:
           "Effects of oxygen treatment on biomarkers of reperfusion damage and infarct size in
           ST-elevation myocardial infarction patients undergoing primary PCI".

      DESIGN The present study is an experimental randomized pilot study in healthy volunteers.

      STUDY POPULATION The investigators intend to include 36 healthy male volunteers. Females will
      not be included, due to the potential risk of hazardous effects of Salmonella typhi vaccine
      and Atorvastatin to a fetus in case of pregnancy.

      STUDY DESIGN

      At the time of inclusion all study participants will be randomised into one of three
      intervention groups:

      Group 1) Salmonella typhi vaccine Group 2) Salmonella typhi vaccine + oxygen treatment Group
      3) Salmonella typhi vaccine + oxygen treatment + Atorvastatin At 8.00 am on study day a
      peripheral venous catheter will be inserted. This catheter will be used to collect blood
      sample during the study day. In addition, peripheral oxygen saturation will be measured by
      pulse oximetry. After baseline venous blood samples have been collected, all study
      participants will receive 0.5 mL of the Salmonella typhi vaccine as an intramuscular
      injection (Typhim Vi®, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, injection solution 25 microgram/0.5 mL).

      Half an hour after vaccination is administered, oxygen treatment will be initiated (in group
      2 and 3) at 6 L/min via Oxymask® and continued for 6 hours. During oxygen treatment
      peripheral oxygen saturation will be measured by pulsoximetry. In group 3, a single dose of
      Atorvastatin 80 mg will be given immediately prior to start of oxygen. Venous blood samples
      will be collected at 3, 6 and 8 hours after baseline. After the 8-hour blood sampling, the
      peripheral venous catheter will be removed and the study day ended.

      An experienced registered nurse and a resident or specialist in Cardiology and Internal
      Medicine will be present during the entire study day taking care of all study interventions,
      collecting blood samples and register data into the case report form (CRF) including
      potential adverse events.

      EFFICACY OUTCOMES

        -  To determine the effect of oxygen treatment on biomarkers of oxidative stress,
           apoptosis, matrix metalloproteinases, markers of inflammation and platelet aggregation
           in healthy volunteers with Salmonella typhi vaccine-induced inflammation.

        -  To compare levels of these cellular- and biomarkers over time during an 8-hour study
           day.

      SUMMARY The presented study is an experimental randomized pilot study performed in healthy
      volunteers with a Salmonella typhi vaccine-induced inflammation with the purpose of studying
      to date unknown effects of oxygen treatment on biological systems involved in the
      pathogenesis of IR- injury. As part of the DETO2X trial series, this study aims to contribute
      essential knowledge to clarifying the role of oxygen in treatment of acute myocardial
      infarction.
    
  