
    
      Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection is a major complication following allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation (SCT). The risk of CMV infection after SCT is inversely related to the number
      of CMV-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTLs) present in the allograft. CMV-specific
      lymphocytes can be readily detected and quantified in the blood by sensitive in vitro
      techniques that measure T cell cytokine secretion following antigen stimulation. A previous
      phase I clinical trial has demonstrated that CMV-specific T cells can be safely generated in
      normal CMV-seronegative (naive) subjects after immunization with the CMV vaccine, ALVAC-pp65
      (vCP260), an attenuated canary pox-based vaccine Sanofi Pasteur (formerly known as Aventis
      Pasteur, Lyon, France).

      We propose a clinical trial to evaluate an accelerated immunization schedule with the same
      vaccine. Study participants will be 1) SCT donors and their matched recipients participating
      in intramural NIH allogeneic SCT protocols and 2) CMV sero-negative normal volunteers. Donors
      will receive two or three immunizations prior to allograft collection, and followed for 45
      days for the development of CMV immunity. Normal volunteers will receive two or three
      immunizations and followed similarly to the donors. CMV sero-positive subjects will receive
      two immunizations; CMV sero-negative subjects will receive three. Transplant (SCT) recipients
      will be evaluated for incidence of CMV infection and disease.

      The study is designed as a two-stage phase II trial with stopping rules at each stage. The
      primary outcome measures are the effectiveness of the vaccine in (a) generating cellular
      immunity in CMV-seronegative (naive) donors or CMV sero-negative normal volunteers and (b)
      boosting the cellular immune response in CMV-seropositive (sensitized) donors and healthy
      volunteers. Secondary outcomes include the clinical safety profile of the vaccine in vaccine
      recipients and the incidence of CMV infection/disease in transplant recipients. Since the
      cellular immune response to CMV is a standard model for immune reconstitution post
      transplant, our study may also provide important information on the feasibility of immunizing
      stem cell transplant donors with other microbial and tumor vaccines.
    
  