
    
      Pseudarthrosis (or 'nonunions') is defined as a bone movement which occurs after about 6
      months from the traumatic event as consequence of the inadequate healing of a fracture. The
      use of regenerative medicine for treating recalcitrant pseudarthrosis is considered a
      promising strategy to promote bone consolidation. Among the various approaches used, the
      local cell therapy based on autologous mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC), combined with or
      without growth factors, has been extensively used. MSC reside within the stromal compartment
      of bone marrow which may be obtained from the iliac crest. Growth factors may be discharged
      from platelet gel (PG) which is obtained after activation of autologous platelet
      concentrates. Nevertheless, the results of recent clinical studies show that the above
      mentioned regenerative approach shows a failure rate of approximately 30% (Calori et al,
      2008). The availability of a laboratory test which may predict the regenerative capacity of
      the PG may help the orthopaedic surgeon in addressing the decisions regarding the
      regenerative approach, e.g. to use or non use autologous platelet concentrates or to enhance
      the use of autologous derivatives with recombinant factors.The rationale for the use of
      platelet concentrates in pseudarthrosis is the significant reduction of osteoinductive growth
      factors observed at the lesion site (Gandhi et al., 2005). Platelet gel mimics what happens
      physiologically after any bone injury, when platelets are entrapped in a clot within a fibrin
      matrix. Platelet activation determines the release of various growth factors promoting bone
      healing. The optimal level and ratio of growth factors and their synergistic effects should
      be more efficient than single recombinant molecules, even though no data are available on the
      most relevant molecules and on their optimal amount. In this context, the in vitro
      mineralization assay could be a valid tool to assess the pro-osteogenic activity of platelet
      gel, thus obviating the measurement of the myriad of platelet-derived substances.

      The aim of the study is to determine whether the evaluation of pro-osteogenic activity of
      autologous serum may predict the effectiveness of PG in the regeneration of bone tissue in
      patients with nonunions of long bones. The rationale is based on the following issues:

        -  in 30% of long bone nonunions treated with PG, bone consolidation is not obtained
           (Calori et al, 2008);

        -  the proportion of growth factors in serum is comparable to that observed in platelet gel
           after activation, even if the concentration is lower;

        -  the autologous serum is able to support the 'in vitro' osteogenic differentiation of
           MSCs and the formation of mineral nodules (mineralization assay) (Granchi et al, 2010);

        -  the correlation between 'in vitro' mineralization and regenerative capacity has been
           demonstrated in various experimental models (De Bari et al, 2008);

        -  preliminary data obtained in our lab showed that in patients affected by congenital
           pseudarthrosis of the tibia the presence of osteoinductive growth factors in serum is an
           essential requirement to warrant the effectiveness of the local cell therapy with MSC
           and PG (submitted paper).

      In order to evaluate the ability of the autologous serum in inducing the mineralization in
      vitro the investigators will use a bioactivity test (mineralization assay). For this purpose
      serum samples of patients candidates to the treatment with MSC and PG will be collected the
      day before the surgery and used for cultivating normal MSC, whose ability to mineralize in
      vitro will be previously verified in standard culture conditions.

      Further analysis will be conducted in order to determine whether the pro-osteogenic
      properties are maintained over time, and serum samples will be collected the 1 month before
      the surgery.

      In order to determine whether the pro-osteogenic activity of the serum is able to predict and
      discriminate between individuals who achieve or not achieve bone consolidation, the
      laboratory results will be correlated with clinical and radiographic results at 12 months,
      when patients will be considered as healed or not healed.
    
  