
    
      Background

      Venous thromboembolism (VTE), comprising pulmonary embolism (PE) and deep vein thrombosis
      (DVT), are common and associated with significant morbidity and mortality. VTE risk is higher
      in chronic inflammatory conditions including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and rheumatoid
      arthritis (RA) compared to the general population. Evidence for differential VTE risk in
      other inflammatory diseases, notably psoriatic arthritis (PsA) and vasculitis, is more
      limited. Risk factors for VTE have been described in the general population, but there has
      been little interrogation of VTE risk factors for individuals with chronic inflammatory
      conditions and their association with subsequent VTE.

      Objective

      This study aims to describe the prevalence of VTE risk and risk factors in individuals with
      systemic inflammatory disorders in a contemporary real-world population, by disease type
      (IBD, RA, and PsA) and relative to a control population without systemic inflammatory
      disease. In the same cohorts a further comparison will be performed of the influence of VTE
      risk factors on risk of VTE events in individuals with systemic inflammatory disorders.

      Method

      A retrospective cohort study will be performed to compare VTE risk and VTE risk factors in
      adults with IBD, RA, and PsA and matched controls between January 1, 1998 and January 1,
      2018, within the Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP) Research and Surveillance
      Centre (RSC) network. In the cohorts with and without inflammatory conditions estimate will
      be determined for the risk of VTE overall, and for PE and DVT separately, using unadjusted
      Cox proportional hazards models, stratified by matched set (exposed cohort versus unexposed
      cohort), to provide overall hazard ratios for the association with each outcome. Models will
      be subsequently adjusted for sociodemographic and clinical and VTE risk factors in
      multivariable analysis to explore potentially important associations with VTE. The same
      analyses for each autoimmune condition will be repeated separately. Prespecified sensitivity
      analyses will be performed to explore the robustness of any potential associations.
    
  