
    
      Suicide is one of the most pressing public health problems facing the United States (US),
      ranking as the 10th leading cause of death, with incidence rates increasing year after year
      in the recent past. The National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention (NAASP) has
      prioritized suicide prevention efforts in emergency departments (EDs) because of their
      well-established safety-net role in treating patients with suicide risk. However, there are
      serious problems with accessing timely, high-quality behavioral healthcare in many EDs,
      leading to unnecessary psychiatric hospitalizations, long waiting times, and substandard
      suicide-related care. As suggested by RFA-MH-20-226, telemental health service delivery has
      promise for not only improving timely access to behavioral health specialists, it also holds
      promise for improving adherence to best practice suicide prevention standards.

      The study will evaluate whether telehealth can improve behavioral health specialist access
      and suicide-related care quality using a Type 2 hybrid effectiveness-implementation trial,
      titled Telehealth to Improve Prevention of Suicide (TIPS) in EDs. The study will involve ED
      patients with suicide risk from two Intervention EDs that do not currently have on-site
      behavioral health specialists and two Non-intervention control EDs. The study design will
      blend a three-phase interrupted time series design with a nested individual level randomized
      comparative effectiveness trial. Phase 1, Treatment as Usual (TAU), will comprise a
      historical control for the four EDs. It will use data spanning three years (October 2017 to
      September 2020) and will include all patients who screened positive on a universally
      administered, evidence-based screener, or who received a mental health evaluation in the
      participating EDs, which will allow the study team to establish a stable, representative
      control sample. Phase 2, Intervention, will involve implementing the TIPS telehealth protocol
      into routine clinical care for 24 months within the two Intervention EDs. Masters-level
      behavioral health specialists from an existing mental health center will perform a behavioral
      health evaluation using synchronous, two-way televideo software and hardware. In addition,
      for patients with a preliminary decision to be hospitalized, a telepsychiatrist will be
      consulted, with the goal of reducing hospitalization for those who can be adequately managed
      in a lower level of care. When needed, the telepsychiatrist will also complete his or her own
      televideo evaluation of the patient and collaterals. In addition to expanded behavioral
      health specialist access, the study team will improve the quality of suicide-related care.
      The study team will not only provide enhanced training for behavioral health specialists on
      best practice suicide risk assessment, safety planning, and care transition strategies, the
      study team will leverage fidelity review of recorded televideo evaluations and provide
      personalized feedback to improve adherence to performance standards.

      In addition, during Phase 2, a 50% subset of patients who received the TIPS evaluation during
      their visit and who are discharged from the ED will be randomly assigned to the
      evidence-based Emergency Department Safety Assessment and Follow-up Evaluation (ED-SAFE)
      protocol after the visit (TIPS+EDSAFE). This will allow the Investigators to evaluate the
      added value of contact after the visit to further decrease suicidal behavior compared to the
      within-visit components alone (i.e., comparative effectiveness). Phase 3, Sustainment, will
      be the final phase during which the study team will remove grant financial subsidies for
      clinical services to definitively ascertain self-sustainability of the interventions. The
      investigators will collect the same system metrics and clinician behaviors on two
      Non-intervention EDs across the same time periods. These EDs will not implement the study
      interventions, and their data will help control for confounders, like macro-system or secular
      trends.
    
  