
    
      STUDY DESIGN The investigators will conduct the pilot study at Indiana University Health
      Methodist Hospital in Indianapolis, Indiana and at Indiana University Health Ball Memorial
      Hospital in Muncie, Indiana.

      The pilot study includes two study arms.

      Arm(1): Regarding the POINT intervention, a recovery coach (someone certified by the Indiana
      Counselors' Association on Alcohol and Drug Abuse to deliver recovery supports who has lived
      experience with addiction) meets patients in the ED after they have been revived from an
      overdose (patients are typically alert and oriented, as the overdoes reversal drug completely
      stops the effect of opioids in their system, and patients will not be approached until a
      physician has determined they are eligible for release). As part of the POINT program, the
      recovery coach offers the patient a range of evidence-based services including a brief
      assessment of high-risk behaviors, Hepatitis C and HIV testing, harm reduction counseling
      informed by motivational interviewing, and treatment referrals with follow-up to either a
      medication assisted treatment (MAT) provider, detoxification services, or an inpatient
      treatment setting-with most patients choosing MAT referral. Patients are offered a take-home
      naloxone kit (the overdose reversing drug, which is offered as part care delivered by the
      recovery coach) and assistance with Medicaid enrollment. Close collaboration with the local
      community mental health provider ensures POINT patients have their first assessment for MAT
      within 1-2 business days of ED discharge. Grounded in the concept of critical time
      intervention, recovery coaches provide over the phone or in person support to navigate
      barriers to care throughout the recovery process. Also as part of the POINT program, recovery
      coaches offer to accompany patients to intake appointments or criminal justice and child
      welfare meetings as part of the standard care they deliver (no data collection for research
      purposes will occur as part of this service provision). The entire care transition process
      takes between 2 weeks and several months, and POINT leaves the door open so patients can
      re-engage at any point they require help overcoming recovery barriers.

      Arm (2): The standard care arm will consist of basic referral to services by informing
      patients of available treatment options in the community.

      RANDOMIZATION & ENROLLMENT For each day of the study, researchers will randomly select during
      which of the shifts patients will enroll into the POINT arm and which will enroll into
      standard care (morning shift (8am-4pm), evening (4pm-12am), and overnight (12am-8am). Any
      individual who is discharged from the ED for an opioid overdose or for an opioid-related
      health issue, including opioid withdrawal, abscess (from IV drug use) or active opioid
      intoxication will be eligible for the study. The research team and recovery coaches will
      receive an electronic alert from emergency medical services any time an overdose patient is
      admitted to the ED. A recovery coach will be sent to the ED on POINT shifts, and a research
      assistant will be sent on non-POINT shifts. Once they have confirmed that the admit is reason
      is either an opioid overdose or an opioid-related issue, they will read the questions on the
      DSM-5 for Opioid Use Disorder screening tool. Any individual who is at least 18 years of age
      and is discharged from the ED for an overdose an opioid related health issue AND scores at
      least a "1" on the opioid use disorder screening tool will be eligible for the study; they
      must also be cleared for discharge and medically stable and capable of providing consent.
      Depending on the arm of the study patients are being recruited to on that shift, either the
      recovery coach or the research assistant will inform the patient of the study and request
      their consent to participate.

      Researchers will not fully disclose the purposes of the research to the standard care arm
      because (1) Methodist Hospital and Ball Memorial were planning on implementing POINT outside
      of the context of this study and because their ability to staff recovery coaches is limited
      anyway, we are not creating any disparity in patients ability to access point that would not
      naturally exist and (2) We are concerned that full disclosure of the purposes would
      unnecessarily upset standard care patients who might desire the services after learning of
      them.

      The study site plans to implement Project POINT regardless of the research study. Therefore,
      all recovery coach duties are part of POINT prescribed services that would be carried out
      regardless of the research. The investigators are randomizing the shift during which POINT is
      delivered to take advantage of the fact that they are not able to fully staff all hospital
      shifts with a recovery coach--thus allowing us to test the intervention's effectiveness. Only
      those patients in the standard care arm will be asked to complete data collection activities
      that would not be completed outside of the research study.

      After study consent, all subjects will be asked to complete a structured interview with
      either a recovery coach (POINT group) or a research assistant (standard care). This interview
      will occur in the ED, and it can take between 30-60 minutes and covers the following topics:
      demographics, social support; living arrangements, drug use, context of current overdose,
      treatment history, interest in recovery services, use of strategies to reduce risks related
      to drug use, HIV and Hepatitis C, physical and mental health, adverse childhood experiences,
      and detailed contact information. Additionally, the RA or recovery coach will collect
      detailed contact information on the participant to increase chances of being able to follow
      up with the participant. This contact information will be entered into a separate database
      and will not be linked to questionnaire responses.

      The investigators will also collect information from the following existing secondary data
      sources:

        -  Indiana Network for Patient Care (contains hospital and overdose admission data)

        -  INSPECT (contains prescription information for controlled substances)

        -  Division of Mental Health and Addiction (contains methadone treatment information)

        -  Indiana Office of Medicaid Planning and Policy (contains Medicaid enrollment
           information)

        -  Indiana Department of Child Services (contains child welfare involvement information)

        -  Valle Vista Health System (contains addiction and mental health treatment data)

        -  Midtown Community Mental Health (contains mental health treatment data)

        -  Clean Slate (contains addiction treatment data)

      As part of the POINT project, recovery coaches engage with POINT patients for two weeks
      (reaching out to patients every 2-3 days until the patient is successfully engaged in
      recovery services), but this may last longer (several months) depending on patient need and
      desire for continued assistance. Recovery coaches will not be collecting data for study
      purposes during this time; rather, any information they collect will be their employment
      purposes as a recovery coach. Standard care patients are not seen after the initial referral.

      The investigators will also collect data from hospital records and government and public
      health databases on patients enrolled in the study after obtaining a release for these
      information from subjects. The investigators will collect methadone data from the Division of
      Mental Health and Addiction (DMHA), prescribing information related to controlled substances
      from INSPECT (prescription drug monitoring system), the hospital admission data from Indiana
      Network for Patient Care (INPC), overdose death information form coroner records, insurance
      information from Medicaid, child welfare system involvement form the Department of Child
      Services (DCS), and publicly available criminal justice data. A third party, Regenstrief
      Institute, will work with all of these systems to securely obtain and merge the data and to
      de-identify the data before sharing it with the research team.
    
  