
    
      At the end of life, some patients may feel pain during care procedures. These painful
      procedures contribute to the patient's overall suffering. Of course the investigators do not
      take into account procedures which could be considered as futile medical care and would not
      bring any comfort to the patient. The procedures that the investigators do consider are
      necessary and acceptable: basic hygiene care, such as bandaging. Even with the best
      palliative care, certain pains caused by these procedures can be refractory to analgesics, to
      Entonox and to other conservative treatments. These pains are ethically unacceptable,
      especially at the end of life. In these cases, short-term procedural sedation could benefit
      the patient, as indicated by the Agence Nationale de Sécurité du Médicament (French Agency
      for the Safety of Health Products). However, there are no documented recommendations on the
      way to administer these types of sedations because of a lack of scientific studies in that
      field. It therefore remains an important issue in palliative care research. The sedations
      consist of a transitory reduction of vigilance which is sufficient enough for the patient not
      to suffer. They are therefore a major tool to provide sufficient comfort to terminally ill
      patients while being used as part of a treatment approach. However, they still have
      drawbacks: patients lose contact with the environment but can also experience respiratory
      complications (embarrassment, respiratory depression, inhalation). These risks compel the
      investigators to only use these sedations for terminally ill patients suffering from major
      refractory pain at the end of life, in which case they consider that comfort is an absolute
      priority (principle of double effect). The decision to use sedation must be agreed upon after
      collegial consultation and discussion with the patient and/or his or her relatives. The risk
      of side effects must be reduced as far as possible without pursuing a reanimation approach
      which would go against a palliative approach.

      Sedation, which was originally exclusively administered by anesthesiologists, has been used
      by palliative care doctors for many years. At first, midazolam seemed to be the best sedative
      agent and its use spread although it has not been much documented in that context. However,
      midazolam has its limits. It cannot provide a very deep sedation because of its respiratory
      depressant effect and the patient, when under light sedation, often experiences persistent
      discomfort. Moreover, midazolam requires a long titration period and often causes a sedation
      which can last several hours, thus reducing the patient's relational life and increasing the
      risk of congestion and respiratory depression. Investigators are therefore looking for
      alternatives. According to them, propofol would be a suitable molecule because of its
      pharmacological properties. Its pharmacokinetic properties allow the patient not only to
      quickly reach deep sedation and therefore better comfort, but also to wake up as soon as the
      painful care procedure is completed, thus limiting the risk of respiratory side effects.

      Note that it is already used in other situations for procedural sedation by doctors who are
      not anesthesiologists (pulmonologists, gastroenterologists, emergency doctors).

      In a feasibility study, investigators pointed out that propofol could be used in a palliative
      care unit for transitory sedation administered by an anesthesiologist following a strict
      protocol and could relieve terminally ill patients at the end of life during painful care
      procedures in a sufficiently safe way (preliminary results presented at the French Society of
      Support and Palliative Care conference in 2015).

      Investigators aim at showing that a procedural sedation using propofol can be administered by
      palliative care doctors who are not anesthesiologists but have been trained to follow a
      precise protocol and that it can bring relief to terminally ill patients with refractory pain
      experienced during care procedures without causing major side effects.
    
  