
    
      The study is an exploratory investigation to evaluate use of sub-tenon injected HA or saline
      followed by sub-tenon injection of 4 mg aflibercept for the treatment of acute thyroid
      disease. The study will prospectively and sequentially enroll a total of twenty-four patients
      who meet the study enrollment criteria and will be randomized to one of three treatment arms:

        1. Group 1: Sub-tenon's injection of saline followed by injection of 4 mg aflibercept
           (total volume 1.1 ml) in the worse eye

        2. Group 2: Sub-tenon's injection of HA followed by injection of 4mg aflibercept (total
           volume 1.1 ml) in the worse eye

        3. Group 3: HA injection alone (total volume 1.1 ml) in the worse eye

      Study subjects will receive bi-weekly sub-tenon injections on day 1, day 14 and day 28 for a
      total of 3 treatments. Subjects will be followed for an additional 62 days (until the 90-day
      visit) after the last injection.

      At the time of enrollment, patients will undergo a full ophthalmologic examination including
      external photography, a 30-2 automated Humphrey visual field, intraocular pressure, ocular
      motility and alignment, calculation of the CAS score, smoking status, measurement of blood
      pressure, a pre-treatment CT scan, and laboratory work-up (including plasma testing of TSI,
      thyroglobulin antibodies, thyroid peroxidase antibodies, cytokine levels (IL-6, IL-8, IFN-g,
      TNF-a, IL-1B, TGF-B) and a baseline measurement of systemic VEGF levels). The CAS is a
      7-point clinical activity score and includes 1 point for the presence of each of the
      following: Redness of eyelids, spontaneous pain, pain when moving the globe, redness of
      conjunctiva, swelling of plica and/or caruncle, swelling of eyelid, and chemosis.

      Careful clinical monitoring will follow initial injection including a complete re-evaluation
      on day 4 (CAS, motility exam, photos, patient questionnaire, measurement of blood pressure,
      and repeat thyroid antibody and cytokine levels). Patients will be re-evaluated in the same
      way on day 14, day 28, day 45, and day 60. A post-treatment CT scan will be obtained at day
      45. A long-term follow-up visit will occur at day 90.
    
  