
    
      Until today it was not possible to reliably assess the function of a new bypass, i.e., to
      measure myocardial perfusion. Measuring intramyocardial blood flow directly after
      revascularisation would greatly improve the assessment of graft function. With transthoracic
      contrast echocardiography myocardial perfusion can be reliably assessed, as it has been shown
      in numerous studies.

      As there is a new transoesophageal ultrasound probe on the market which allows contrast
      imaging, we would like to establish contrast echocardiography in the operating room in
      patients undergoing CABG surgery.

      Ultrasound contrast agents (e.g., SonoVue®, Optison®) consist of gas filled microspheres
      surrounded by a stabilizing coat. They are smaller than red blood cells and similar to blood
      in their rheological habit. The microspheres are injected into a peripheral or central vein.
      They pass lung circulation and disperse into the left heart, coronary arteries and body
      circulation. A few minutes after administration the low-soluble gas of the microspheres is
      exhaled. The interaction of the ultrasound beam with microspheres leads to oscillation of the
      microspheres and thereby amplification of the ultrasound signal. This technique allows
      enhancement of endocardial border but also visualization of myocardial perfusion and
      assessment of myocardial blood flow reserve. The latter requires measurement of myocardial
      perfusion a first time at rest and a second time during hyperemia with adenosine. The
      quotient of both gives myocardial flow reserve. This parameter is of paramount importance in
      cardiology to detect coronary artery stenosis and reduced coronary or myocardial flow reserve
      quantitatively.

      The contrast agents as well as adenosine (a natural purine nucleoside, which can be found in
      all cells of the body) have a good safety profile with harmless and transient side effects.
      Our patients will be under anesthesia and therefore feel none of those side effects.

      The study will be spread into two parts. In a first part we will clarify methodological
      aspects of contrast echocardiography: two different contrast agents and three different
      contrast imaging methods will be evaluated. One imaging method and one contrast agent will be
      chosen for the second part. In the second part we will analyze the validity of contrast TEE
      in the operating room. In addition correlation of changes in myocardial blood flow after
      coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery and improvement in myocardial perfusion as well
      as global and regional function in follow-up SPECT (Single Photon Emission Computed
      Tomography) and transthoracic echocardiography, respectively will be evaluated. By means of
      these data we possibly will be able to predict success of revascularisation at the end of
      surgery.
    
  