
    
      Dialysis treatment is hemodynamically problematic in up to one third of the patients.
      Particularly, estimation of the adequate fluid removal during the dialysis can be difficult.
      Removing too much fluid can lead to dehydration, hypotension and dizziness, and insufficient
      removals can lead to fluid accumulation and worsening of possible heart failure. Both under-
      and overestimation of the fluid removal have been connected to increased mortality. Balancing
      the fluid balance is especially challenging in patients with simultaneous heart failure.

      Several measures are made and precautions taken during the dialysis to optimize the
      ultrafiltration individually for each patient. The key question in the estimation of the
      right amount of ultrafiltration is, how much and at what speed fluid can be safely removed
      from the patient without critically lowering the filling and preload of the heart.

      The results of the CHAMPION trial show that therapy guided by PAP is superior to conventional
      way in estimating the optimal fluid balance among heart failure patients. Compared to the
      heart failure patients in the CHAMPION trial, the ESRD patients share some similarities. In
      both groups, estimating the fluid balance is crucial, but difficult. The changes in fluid
      balance among ESRD patients are much larger.

      In the present study the investigators aim to evaluate the potential of invasive measured PAP
      in the context of dialysis treatment for patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD).

      After the implantation the basic medical history is taken, echocardiography is made, and
      their laboratory measurements are recorded. Participants are then monitored during their
      routine dialysis treatment twice a week over the period of 1 month. In addition twice a day
      measurement is recorded in home during the study.

      PAP measures and its changes are then compared to all the haemodynamical data available
      including blood volume, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, hematocrit
      measures and bioimpedance measurement during the dialysis treatment.
    
  