
    
      Background: Existing interventions for informal caregivers (CGs) of care recipients (CRs)
      with dementia vary on multiple dimensions (e.g., content, administration time, mode of
      delivery), and findings indicate that these programs are effective in improving CG and CR
      outcomes. The investigators' team has developed and evaluated two CG programs that are unique
      in that they are relatively brief (i.e., 3 months) and rely solely on telephone
      administration. The original program, the Telehealth Education Program (TEP), provides CG
      support, psychoeducation, and skills training in a group format. The second program adapted
      the original TEP to be delivered to individual CGs and includes collaborative care management
      services. Key components of this CR/CG-centered program include direct collaboration among
      teams of care managers, primary care providers (PCPs), and CGs. The decision to develop an
      individually-tailored, collaborative care program was partly in response to the success of
      collaborative care models with other patient populations and the fact that the majority of
      individuals with dementia receive their healthcare from their PCPs. Nonetheless, an
      individually-delivered program lacks the benefits derived from the mutual peer support and
      feedback provided by group-based interventions. What remains to be determined, therefore, is
      whether modifying the individually-delivered care management program to deliver TEP in a
      group format is more effective than the individually-delivered program alone.

      Objectives: The objectives of the project include: a) testing the comparative effectiveness
      of 2 delivery models (individual TEP + individual care management vs. group TEP + individual
      care management) of a telephone-based, collaborative dementia care intervention for CGs, and
      b) exploring whether the individual or individual + group intervention is more
      effective/acceptable among spousal vs. adult children CGs.

      Methods: To meet these objectives, the investigators will use a prospective, randomized
      control group, repeated measures (i.e., baseline, 3, 6, and 12 month follow-up) design.
      Participants will include 405 CGs (spouses and children 18 years of age and older) of
      Veterans diagnosed with dementia and receiving routine clinical care at two VA sites. CGs
      will be recruited for participation if they live with and/or provide 4+ hours of care/day.
      CGs will be randomly assigned to usual care, the individual intervention, or the individual +
      group intervention. The main objectives of both interventions are to facilitate resource
      connection and provide education, psychosocial support, and care management for individuals
      caring for Veterans with dementia, thereby improving access to and use of non-institutional
      services, rates of guideline adherent care, and CG/CR outcomes. In both interventions, CGs
      will receive education, continuous support, skills training, and monitoring of Veterans'
      medication adherence, symptoms, and service needs. CGs will be asked to complete an
      assessment battery of standardized measures of CR- and CG-characteristics. Veterans' clinical
      medical records (including cost data) also will be evaluated for screening and clinical data
      collection purposes. Generalized estimating equations (GEE) will be the primary method used
      to analyze the nested, longitudinal data.
    
  