
    
      The research will be conducted at the Dalhousie University Dental Clinic. As part of their
      anaesthesia clinical course, students enrolled in the second year of the dentistry and dental
      hygiene programs practice different anesthesia techniques on each other during a planned
      hands-on training activity. The research study will take place during the same day.
      Participants who meet the eligibility criteria and consent to participate will be randomly
      assigned to one of two groups. Following anesthesia obtained as a part of their hands-on
      training session, subjects allocated to Group 1 will receive 1ml of phentolamine mesylate
      following anesthesia, while subjects allocated to Group 2 will receive 1ml of sterile
      physiological water.

      Phase 1, Both Groups:

        1. Subjects will be trained to use the Assessment of Anesthesia questionnaire

        2. Following training, subjects will perform baseline assessments of their lip and tongue
           numbness (should be normal).

        3. Prior to anaesthesia is given, vital signs will be recorded. Blood pressure, respiratory
           rate and pulse will all be recorded.

        4. Topical anesthetic, 20% benzocaine, will be applied to the injection site for 3 minutes.
           Subjects will be given a standard inferior alveolar nerve block injection, with
           aspiration before injection, using 1ml of 2% lidocaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine from
           the student they are teamed with. This step is not part of the study; it is done as part
           of their clinical anesthesia course.

        5. Soft tissue anaesthesia will be self-assessed, by using finger tapping and palpation, to
           ensure profound anesthesia. The second phase (OraVerse or water) will not take place
           before profound anesthesia has been achieved. The anesthetic outcome will be considered
           a failure if the participant does not report anesthesia of the lower lip within 10
           minutes.

        6. If profound anesthesia is achieved within 10 minutes, subjects will proceed to phase 2.
           If profound anesthesia is not achieved within 10 minutes subjects will be withdrawn from
           the study. Subjects who are withdrawn from the study will continue with their standard
           training protocol which is to receive a re-injection of anesthetic. A withdrawal form
           will be used by Dr. Flood to record the occurrence of anesthesia failures. This form
           will also record reasons for withdrawals, should any occur for different reasons.

      Phase 2 Group 1: Phentolamine Mesylate After anesthesia is confirmed, subjects in Group 1
      will receive an injection of 1ml of a solution containing 0.24mg of phentolamine mesylate in
      the same site previously injected with anaesthetic solution. Dr. Brittany Flood will give the
      injection to ensure consistency.

      Group 2: Water After anesthesia is confirmed, subjects in Group 2 will receive an injection
      of 1ml of sterile physiological water in the same site previously injected with anesthetic
      solution. Dr. Brittany Flood will give the injection to ensure consistency.

      Phase 3 Vital signs will be taken immediately after injection, by their student partner, and
      all students will be monitored for 30 minutes. During the monitoring period, the participants
      will self-assess their anesthesia, using the Assessment Of Anesthesia questionnaire. This
      self-assessment will be done every ten minutes until soft-tissues revert to their normal
      state. After the 30 minute monitoring period participants will be free to leave the clinic,
      taking the questionnaire with them but will continue to check for anesthesia every 10 minutes
      until tissue sensation and function return to normal. Students will be instructed to return
      the forms to the office of the Research Development Officer.

      The Case Report Forms will include the following:

        -  Assessment Of Anesthesia questionnaire: self-assessment of state of soft-tissue
           anesthesia

        -  Subject Eligibility Checklist: inclusion/exclusion criteria

        -  Consent form

        -  Participant Identification allocation Log (centrally kept): Participant study ID and
           chart number

        -  Treatment Group Allocation Log (centrally kept): Participant study ID and treatment
           group ('A' or 'B')

        -  Withdrawal information

        -  Adverse Event form

      Recruitment and reversal injections will be done by Dr. Brittany Flood, who is a licensed
      dentist currently enrolled as a student in the Masters of Periodontics program at Dalhousie
      University Faculty of Dentistry. Dr. Pierre-Luc Michaud who is a dentist and full-time
      assistant professor at Dalhousie Dentistry will supervise the project and perform data
      analysis. He will not be involved in recruitment and will not be present during the clinical
      phase of the study. Dr. Brittany Flood is not in a position of authority with the dental or
      dental hygiene students and will therefore be the only research member working directly with
      the participants. She will be the only research team member aware of who has volunteered to
      be in the study.

      Two weeks before the anesthesia session, the potential participants will be given a thirty
      minute presentation, followed by a question and answer session. On the evening of the
      anesthesia course session, the initial numbness assessment (2 minutes) and reversal injection
      (5 minutes) will be the only clinical time required from participants in the study, as the
      other manipulations (vital signs monitoring and 30 minutes post-injection waiting-time period
      before leaving) are a standard part of their course. Following the clinical portion,
      participants will be free to leave the clinic but will continue to check for anesthesia every
      10 minutes and then fill out a short questionnaire when sensation and function return to
      normal (to record duration of soft-tissue anesthesia). The duration of anesthesia could take
      between 1 and 2.5 hours, depending in which group the participant is.

      This study is a randomized double-blind study. The Research Development Officer of the
      Faculty of Dentistry will be responsible for the randomization procedure. A computerized
      random number generator will be used to generate six randomly permuted blocks, with a block
      size of six. Within each block, an equal number of subjects will be allocated to the two
      treatment groups ('A' or 'B'). These will refer to either OraVerse group or Control group,
      but the Research Development Officer will withhold the information until the statistical
      analyses are completed. She will however give a copy to the supervisor of the anesthesia
      training session (who is not involved in the study) so that the information on what was
      injected could be quickly accessed during the hands-on if required and to appropriately fill
      participants' clinical chart. The allocations will be placed in sequentially numbered (01
      through 36), opaque, sealed envelopes (referring to participants' ID) to be opened at the
      time of participant's reversal injection. The treatment group (A or B) randomly assigned for
      each participant will be recorded in the Treatment Group Allocation Log. The syringes will be
      marked as 'A' or 'B'; the person injecting (Dr. Brittany Flood) will not know which contains
      OraVerse (PM) and which contains water. As previously discussed, the anesthetic course
      supervisor will however have the information as a safety measure and to appropriate fill the
      patients' chart. To ensure continuous blinding of allocation, the randomization code will be
      kept secret by the Research Development Officer until after data analysis. Only the
      participant study ID will be used to label the subject's case report forms. Only the
      Participant Identification allocation Log could associate the participant ID with the
      patients' chart number, but this file will be kept centrally during the study time.
    
  