
    
      80 patients will be enrolled in this prospective study. The first 40 patients will serve as
      controls and will not have an intervention.

      Patients who have surgery and receive general anesthesia often receive muscle relaxants
      called neuromuscular blocking drugs or NMBDs. NMBDs facilitate anesthesiologists' performance
      of tracheal intubation, provide muscle relaxation during surgery, and are sometimes
      administered to prevent movement. After surgery, an anesthesiologist monitors how the muscle
      relaxants wear off, and gives a drug to help reverse the effect of the NMBDs before the
      tracheal breathing tube is removed and a patient is awakened and taken to the postoperative
      care area (PACU).

      A patient who receives NMBDs for their routine care can experience a leftover effect of the
      drug after their general anesthesia wears off. This condition is called Residual
      Neuromuscular Blockade. The management of NMBDs in patients for routine care vary by
      anesthesia provider. This study will explore if the use of a specific plan to managing muscle
      relaxants will help decrease the risk of muscle weakness after general anesthesia.
      Anesthesiologists routinely use peripheral nerve stimulators to assess the degree of muscle
      relaxation. Very commonly a series of 4 electrical stimulations are given over 2 seconds and
      each stimulation result in a twitch of the thumb when the ulnar nerve is stimulated at the
      wrist. This is called train-of-four (TOF) monitoring. When the patient is deeply relaxed,
      then all twitches are not present but as the drug effect diminishes over time, the twitches
      return. When 4 twitches are present, an exact measurement of the so-called TOF ratio can be
      calculated if an objective monitor is used. The ratio is the strength of the fourth twitch
      divided by the strength of the first twitch. The most commonly used reversal drug is
      neostigmine and it is known from previous research that it works more effectively if the
      muscle relaxation is not profound. In the intervention group, the investigators will confirm
      that the neuromuscular blockade has spontaneously recovered to a level where all 4 thumb
      twitches are present before neostigmine is administered.

      All patients will have objective measurements obtained using the FDA approved monitor
      TOF-Watch SX. This monitor will be applied at the beginning of each case and will be
      calibrated immediately after induction of anesthesia. This is a simple automated process that
      takes less than 1 minute. The investigators will also obtain a TOF ratio measurement at the
      beginning of the case, before a muscle relaxant has been administered. This initial
      measurement allows for normalization of postoperative measurements. Measurement will be
      obtained again at the time of extubation, i.e. the removal of the breathing tube, which
      usually occurs in the operating room as the patient is awakened after surgery. Patients are
      routinely transferred to the post-anesthesia care unit (PACU) within minutes of being
      extubated and shortly after arrival to the PACU, the anesthesiologists transfers the care to
      PACU RNs. The investigators will obtain one more TOF-ratio measurement when the patient has
      just arrived to the post-anesthesia care unit (PACU).
    
  