
    
      Background: Chronic hepatitis C (HCV) is a major health concern that disproportionately
      affects U.S. veterans. Veterans with HCV experience impaired quality of life as a result of
      HCV infection and other co-morbid disorders; namely substance abuse and mental health
      problems. Only a small proportion of these patients currently receive and are cured of HCV
      with Interferon-based treatments. Treatment recommendations for HCV-infected veterans not
      scheduled for Interferon-based treatment include additional evaluations/procedures and
      adherence to behavioral/lifestyle guidelines. However, many patients with HCV and commonly
      occurring co-morbidities have difficulty following these recommendations without additional
      assistance. HCV self-management programs are one option for helping these patients adhere to
      treatment recommendations while improving their quality of life. Patient self-management
      programs augment traditional information-oriented patient education with problem-solving
      skills and cognitive-behavioral techniques that enable patients to manage chronic illness and
      their lives as a whole.

      Objectives: Our primary objective was to assess the efficacy of a 6-session self-management
      workshop designed to improve health outcomes for veterans with HCV who are not receiving
      Interferon-based treatment.

      Methods: One hundred- thirty seven Veterans with HCV who receive health care at VA San Diego
      Healthcare System facilities were randomized to either the HCV Self-Management Workshop
      (HCV-SMW) or to the Information intervention study arm. The self-management intervention
      includes six 2.5-hour weekly workshop sessions in addition to the basic information provided
      to Usual Care. The HCV-SMW was co-led by a health educator and a peer-leader, and has been
      adapted from an existing self-management program that has been effective for patients with
      other chronic illnesses. The primary outcome for the study is health-related quality of life.
      Secondary outcome variables include attendance at recommended health care visits,
      self-reported health behaviors related to preventing viral transmission, substance use/abuse,
      and patient-provider communication. Data was collected at baseline, end-of-intervention (6
      weeks), at a 12-month and 18-month follow-up visits using self-report questionnaires. In
      accordance with HIPAA guidelines, VA medical records and other databases were accessed to
      gather data on health care utilization and mortality. Data was analyzed using
      repeated-measures analysis of variance, ANCOVA, and linear mixed-model approaches. In
      addition, an exploratory cost analysis will be conducted when final analyses are conducted.

      Status: The study was completed in 2011. Results have been published and citations are
      provided on this website. An additional manuscript including a cost-effectiveness analysis is
      in the process of being published.
    
  