
    
      This study will be performed at multiple study centers to collect sputum samples from three
      cohorts including (1) healthy Participants, (2) individuals at high risk for lung cancer and
      (3) individuals who have been diagnosed with lung cancer. Participants in the high risk
      cohort will undergo low dose computed tomography (LDCT) scans to confirm they do not have
      lung cancer. LDCT scans will be evaluated by a radiologist at each site. Each subject's
      sputum specimen will be processed in accordance with individual experimental protocol at the
      laboratory of bioAffinity Technologies, Inc. (BA) located at the University of Texas at San
      Antonio 1604 main campus in San Antonio, Texas, or at the Research DX laboratory in Irvine,
      California.

      Once a sample is obtained and delivered to the laboratory, the Assay methodology consists of
      chemical dissociation of sputum to produce a single cell suspension sample that is labeled
      with antibodies to identify various types of cell populations in the sample. Thereafter,
      sputum samples are stained with the cancer detection compound, CyPath® Lung. This compound
      has a unique fluorescent spectrum that can be analyzed by a flow cytometer. The flow
      cytometric analysis confirms that the sample is from the deep lung and identifies various
      cell populations based on characteristics such as cell size, granularity, and antigen
      expression. Cancer samples can be distinguished from non-cancer samples by the presence of
      highly fluorescent cells labeled by CyPath®. In this manner, CyPath® can identify lung cancer
      cells and other distinguishing cells that have been sloughed off in the lungs and coughed up
      in the sputum sample, including cancer cells.

      Researchers who will be blinded as to the Participant's identity will perform the experiments
      that compare the characteristics of samples collected by the alternate sample collection
      methods and labeled by CyPath® Lung. In the latter phase of the study, the analytical results
      of sputum sample analysis requires that the researchers be blinded to the classification of
      the sputum sample and methods of collection.

      Findings from the CyPath® Lung Assay will not be used in the diagnosis of Participants or
      subsequent treatment decisions.
    
  