
    
      The study is being conducted at a specialist National Health Service (NHS) mental health
      service for refugees, asylum seekers and forced migrants suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress
      Disorder (PTSD). We aim to recruit up to 13 participants from this service to take part in
      the study, which is an extension of a pilot study previously conducted. Due to the Covid-19
      pandemic, guidance from the trust R&D and NHS service manager states that face-to-face
      appointments should not currently take place at the NHS clinical recruitment site. Therefore,
      until this guidance changes, the research will take place remotely via video calls.

      The study will have a multiple baseline case-series design (AB), with a randomised duration
      of baseline length up to three weeks. At the start of the baseline phase, participants will
      create, with the help of the researcher, a list of their most frequent and distressing
      intrusive memories of trauma. Each intrusive memory will be given a label (for example; a
      letter, colour or symbol) so that the frequency of each intrusive memory can be monitored in
      a pen and paper diary. The frequency of specific intrusive memories the person experiences
      after they have received the intervention will be compared with the frequency of specific
      intrusive memories they had during the baseline phase. For each specific intrusion the period
      prior to that intrusion being targeted in an intervention session will be the baseline phase
      (A); therefore, the baseline phase will include the minimum baseline duration (lasting up to
      three weeks) plus the additional weeks in which the specific intrusion remained untargeted by
      the intervention. The post intervention phase (B) will be the time after the specific
      intrusion was targeted. Some intrusive memories on the list may not be targeted by the
      intervention but will be monitored (through the intrusion diary) throughout the duration of
      the study for comparison.

      This study is a follow-up to a study conducted in Sweden with refugees. ClinicalTrials.gov
      Identifier: NCT03760601

      Our study is extending previous research to refugees and asylum seekers with a diagnosis of
      PTSD, accessing a secondary care mental health service and living in the United Kingdom (UK).
    
  