
    
      Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberance (DFSP) is a rare soft tissue sarcoma of intermediate
      malignant potential. Treatment relies on a wide local excision with negative margin and with
      frequent need of reconstructive surgery. A translocation between chromosomes 17 and 22 that
      places the platelet-derived growth factor-B (PDGFB) under the control of the collagen 1A1
      promoter is present in > 90 % of the cases leading to an up regulation of PDGF-β expression
      and activation of the tyrosinase kinase PDGFRβ. Imatinib mesylate has been approved in
      unresectable and metastatic DFSP due to its activity on PDGFR. This study will evaluate the
      benefit of pazopanib, a multikinase inhibitor in advanced DFSP. Administration of pazopanib
      per os 800mg/ qd during 6 months until stable response according to primary endpoint , and
      for a period of study not exceeding one year.In case of progression evaluated according to
      the primary endpoint after a period of treatment superior to one month, or in the absence of
      response at 3 months, the patient will be withdrawn from study, in order to get alternative
      therapeutics. These patients will be considered as failures for analysis. After a 6-month
      treatment period, and reaching a stable response, treatment continuation decision will be
      based on the operability of patients.

      Administration of pazopanib per os 800mg/ qd during 6 months until stable response according
      to primary endpoint, with 3 monthly successive examinations, and for a period of study not
      exceeding 18 months.In case of progression evaluated according to the primary endpoint after
      a period of treatment superior to one month, or in the absence of response at 3 months, the
      patient will be withdrawn from study, in order to get alternative therapeutics. These
      patients will be considered as failures for analysis. After a 6-month treatment period, and
      reaching a stable response, treatment continuation decision will be based on the operability
      of patients Statistical analysis : The trial has been planned using a one-stage design
      (Fleming TR. Et al) Analysis of the main endpoint will rely on a one-sided binomial test
      comparing the observed response rate to the expected response rate under the null hypothesis
      . The type I error rate is fixed at 0.025.For the main endpoint, a point estimate and a
      two-sided 90% confidence interval will be presented, which will be consistent with the
      one-sided test at a 0.025 level. For secondary endpoints, point estimates and 95% confidence
      intervals will be presented.We intend to estimate the probability of tumour size reduction of
      at least 30%. The sample size was calculated by FLEMMING method : Ho will be defined by a RR
      ≤20% (decrease in tumour size of at least 30%) , H1 , response rate, 26 patients must be
      included in order to demonstrate an efficacy as defined by a RR≥50%, with a 90% power and
      alfa 2.5% one side.
    
  