
    
      Traditional Chinese medicine is one of the important part of complementary and alternative
      medicine in the world, and it plays increasingly important role in the international medical
      practice. Treatment based on syndrome differentiation is the essence of traditional Chinese
      Medicine (TCM) and forms the individualized treatment. However, this individualized TCM
      intervention often makes it difficult for population-based RCTs to carry out a standard form.
      N-of-1 trials may be a good clinical effect evaluation method for the individualized
      treatment of TCM.

      The key hypothesis of this study is that: (1) the efficacy of syndrome
      differentiation(individualized decoction) will be better than placebo in patients with stable
      bronchiectasis through N-of-1 trials. (2) the efficacy of syndrome
      differentiation(individualized decoction) will be better than the same prescription minus
      heat-clearing Chinese herbs in patients with stable bronchiectasis through N-of-1 trials. The
      difference of efficacy may be various according to the individual severity of phlegm-heat.

      In this study, We will conduct a single center N-of-1 trials in 36 patients with stable
      bronchiectasis without hemoptysis and respiratory failure. These N-of-1 trials will be
      randomized, double-blind, crossover comparisons of individualized herbal decoction with
      control decoction within individual patients. Each n-of-1 trial has 3 pairs of treatment
      periods. The duration of each treatment period will be 4 weeks. We will compare :(1) the
      efficacy of syndrome differentiation(individualized decoction) with placebo, (2) the efficacy
      of syndrome differentiation(individualized decoction) with the same prescription minus
      heat-clearing Chinese herbs, in patients with stable bronchiectasis through N-of-1 trials.
      The primary outcome is patient self-reported symptoms(such as cough, expectoration, shortness
      of breath, chest pain, and fatigue) scores on a 7 point visual analogue scale. Secondary
      outcomes are 24-hour sputum volume and CAT（The COPD Assessment Test） scores. We use paired t
      test for single case. Mixed effects model taking account of "Carryover Effects" and
      meta-analysis will be used for a series of N-of-1 trials as a group.
    
  