
    
      Investigators aim to use data from both the able-bodied and non able-bodied samples to create
      a normative database for this technology. The primary objective of populating a normative
      database will be to construct a reliable and valid normative database representative of the
      North American population for use with a discriminative analysis tool which will
      differentiate abnormal musculoskeletal function from normal musculoskeletal function.

      Study Population: The study population will be composed of 480 asymptomatic participants
      (able-bodied individuals) and symptomatic (non able-bodied individuals: individuals with
      musculoskeletal, non-surgical injuries of the neck and back) selected first on the basis of a
      screening questionnaire.

      Upon signing an informed consent to participate in the study, participants will complete
      screening questionnaires. They will be independently evaluated by two clinicians, well
      experienced in the field of musculoskeletal medicine, who obtain a detailed medical history
      with particular attention to the strict inclusion/exclusion criteria and perform a
      standardized physical examination. This standardized clinical examination consists of the
      most current "Gold Standard".

      Most patients presenting with musculoskeletal complaints of the back or neck and are
      frequently given this diagnosis solely on the basis of the "first line" healthcare providers'
      history and physical examinations.

      To ensure the statistical strength of the history and physical selection process for further
      inclusion into the study, participants will undergo two separate clinical examinations. Each
      will be performed independently by physicians who are specialists in two different fields of
      practice that commonly see neck and back pain patients and who must agree if a subject is
      clinically normal or not.

      If selected for continued participation, each participant will undergo Magnetic Resonance
      Imaging (MRI) of the spine (sagittal views of the entire spine), plain X-rays of the entire
      spine (A/P and Lateral views), blood studies (CBC, Sedimentation Rate, CPK, Calcium,
      Phosphorous, Pregnancy test, drug screen) and MPR testing.

      A total of 480 clinically and lab normal able-bodied/not-able bodied individuals will be
      selected and examined over a period of twelve months at 4 different centers.

      Able-Bodied Participants:

      A total of approximately 240 able-bodied participants will be divided by gender (male,
      female) and by age classes: specifically [18-30 years], [31-45 years], and [46-62 years].
      This sample size was selected, in part, because Edgerton et al. reported that recruitment
      patterns of the neck or back differ dependent upon gender and our goal is to have a
      population of approximately 120 males and 120 females.

      At the close of the study, investigators will segment the population into the three age
      groups mentioned, the proposed sample sizes are thought to be appropriate for statistical
      analysis while still capturing a variety of subject types. The overall age range was chosen
      to represent the main working population in North America, but to not exceed an upper age
      range where muscle recruitment patterns may vary on a natural evolutionary basis.

      The total number of normal/able-bodied participants will be collected from 4 independent
      research centers in the U.S. and Canada with an expected maximum of approximately 60
      individuals per center. A sub-group of 32 randomly assigned able-bodied volunteers will be
      scheduled for a second MPR test approximately 7 days after their initial testing to examine
      the reliability of the MPR evaluation tool. In the selection process, every effort will be
      made to avoid bias toward a non-working population (i.e. testing only in the morning or
      afternoon) and to obtain representative proportions of the age and race classes existing in
      North America.

      Not Able-Bodied Participants:

      Investigators aim to construct a valid and reliable profile of clinically not normal
      individuals diagnosed as suffering from musculoskeletal neck or back pain that will be used
      to confirm our hypothesis and the ability of the MPR evaluation to provide valid, reliable,
      and objective information for the clinician.

      These 240 not able-bodied volunteers will be selected using the same inclusion/exclusion
      criteria and standardized medical histories and physical examinations as above. One exception
      to the exclusion criteria is that if a not-normal participant uses ongoing medications for
      control of discomfort, it will be left to the discretion of each investigator as to how that
      individual's medication profile may affect their pain reporting, physical performance, or
      compliance with the protocol steps. A 3-day medication "wash-out" will be allowed (and
      encouraged) if there is any concern about a participant's performance.

      In order to conduct an appropriate discriminate analysis, half of the recruited participants
      will be an able-bodied sample of participants. Half of the participants will fall into the
      not able-bodied participant sample. Every effort will be made in the selection process to
      avoid bias toward a non-working population (i.e. testing only in the morning or afternoon)
      and obtain representative proportions of the age and race classes existing in North America.

      During the data collection process, other clinical categories could be defined for additional
      statistical analysis such as the loci of symptoms (i.e. lumbar, thoracic, cervical), the
      level of symptoms (lower, mid, or upper back) and the laterality of symptoms (left or right).
      Upon analysis of the laboratory and image findings (MRI, X-ray, blood tests) other anatomic
      findings or variations such as degenerative disc disease, size of possible disc protrusions,
      Sedimentation Rate or CPK values, Schmorld's nodes, etc. may also be discussed.

      Not able-bodied volunteers may have long standing back or neck pain or pain symptoms as
      recently as several days after a date of injury. This more immediate window of pain will be
      allowed to include acute events but not until or unless the individual is able to perform the
      nine movements necessary for the MPR testing procedure. The outer time duration of pain was
      chosen to include individuals with more chronic complaints, but not if other compensatory or
      secondary gain issues appear present such as may occur with Worker's Compensation claims,
      disability claims, or litigation. It is the desire of investigators to include appropriate
      acute, sub-acute, and chronic neck or back pain sufferers.

      We believe that the design of this study will prove that the evaluation provided by the MPR
      testing modality should be the tool of choice for the objective evaluation and case
      management of patients presenting with musculoskeletal, non-surgical neck and back pain as it
      will differentiate "normal" (asymptomatic, able-bodied) individuals from those individuals
      ("not normal") with underlying biomechanical dysfunctions.
    
  