
    
      In 2016, the World Health Organization designated the Zika virus (ZIKV) epidemic as a Public
      Health Emergency of International Concern because of the emerging association between
      microcephaly and ZIKV infection during pregnancy. Although many studies have evaluated the
      biochemical pathways for congenital ZIKV infection and related severe neurodevelopmental
      fetal and neonatal outcomes, research on health outcomes related to postnatally acquired ZIKV
      infection in children is lacking. The few existing epidemiological reports describe incidence
      rates of acquired ZIKV infection among symptomatic children only, and they predominantly
      include probable cases based on clinical signs and symptoms. Case reports and surveillance of
      acute central nervous system disease in adults and adolescents secondary to ZIKV infection
      suggest that ZIKV may have a broader impact on neurological health beyond that observed in
      congenitally exposed newborns, including neuropsychological deficits, long-term fatigue, and
      spinal cord lesions with unilateral paresthesia and muscle weakness. The neurotropic
      properties of ZIKV and its impact on developing neural cells in postnatally infected mice and
      nonhuman primates also raise concerns about the potential neurological sequelae of postnatal
      ZIKV infection, particularly in children. However, the extent to which acquired ZIKV
      infection can negatively affect the nervous systems and cause long-term neurological damage
      or cognitive effects is currently unknown. Although the existing evidence is limited, it
      provides the scientific premise for the hypothesis that ZIKV-infected children are at greater
      risk for developing neurological sequelae (e.g., cognitive, behavioral, sensory, motor
      deficits) compared to uninfected children. The researchers will conduct a longitudinal study
      of approximately 450 Nicaraguan children in the Pediatric Dengue Cohort Study (PDCS) who were
      ages 2- 12 during January 2016-January 2017, with and without acquired ZIKV infection, to
      accomplish the following aims:

      Aim 1: Evaluate the presence and persistence of neurological symptoms among children with
      acquired ZIKV infection. Children from the PDCS who presented to a local clinic with
      ZIKV-like symptoms from January 2016 through January 2017 were tested for ZIKV and given a
      baseline symptoms questionnaire that included neurological symptoms (e.g., seizures,
      headaches, muscle weakness, fatigue). The researchers will enroll 225 symptomatic
      ZIKV-infected children who were ages 2-12 during that time period and give them the same
      symptoms questionnaire at a follow-up visit in 2019. The researchers will analyze the
      baseline and follow-up symptoms data to evaluate ZIKV-associated neurological symptom
      severity and persistence.

      Aim 2: Test for associations between neurological sequelae and acquired ZIKV infection.

      Hypothesis: ZIKV-infected children are at greater risk for developing neurological sequelae
      (e.g., cognitive, behavioral, sensory, and motor deficits) compared to uninfected children.
      The researchers will enroll an equal number of ZIKV-uninfected PDCS children matched by age
      and sex to the ZIKV-infected children described in Aim 1 to provide a comparison group. For
      both ZIKV-infected and uninfected children, at the 2019/2020 study visit, the researchers
      will assess (1) clinical indicators of neurological impairment (e.g., vision, hearing, motor,
      and sensory functioning) by direct observation; (2) functioning across a wide range of
      domains (e.g., executive function, visual-spatial thinking, processing speed, attention,
      adaptive behavior) by administering a comprehensive neuropsychological assessment battery;
      and (3) factors related to neurological functioning (e.g., mood and sleep disorders).

      The researchers will use regression models to calculate relative risks and 95% confidence
      intervals for the relationship between ZIKV status, clinical indicators of neurological
      impairment, and neuropsychological functioning across a wide range of domains. Additionally,
      we the researchers will assess the role of sex as a biological variable in stratified
      analyses. By leveraging the existing PDCS cohort and locally tested neurodevelopmental
      assessment tools, our cost-effective the study will provide invaluable information for
      determining the merit of conducting a larger and more in-depth study of the neurological
      impacts of acquired ZIKV infection that could be used to inform clinical practice and support
      the establishment of school-based educational interventions for affected children.
    
  