
    
      Rationale: The novel coronavirus disease of 2019 (COVID-19) is a rapidly evolving pandemic,
      which poses a major and ongoing threat to health and the health system both globally and
      locally. While there have been country-specific case series that have offered some guidance
      on interventions that may be effective; applying them to local settings is problematic, given
      differences in population density, demographics (including vulnerable sub-populations),
      economic and political capacity. To this end, local data is needed to better inform on the
      timing and implementation of specific and targeted interventions to mitigate the spread and
      impact of the virus immediately, and thereafter. Near real-time information can greatly
      inform efforts and decisions needed to address resource allocation in response to the dynamic
      pandemic.

      Objectives: The Investigators' aim is to collect data on the impact and burden of COVID-19
      that can inform and support real-time local clinical and policy decisions. Specifically, the
      objectives are to: 1) Create a COVID-19 admission case registry as a local research and
      quality improvement platform for the COVID-19 pandemic; and 2) Collect data that can inform
      local pandemic decisions and evaluation, including incidence, vulnerability, complications,
      and clinical course of COVID-19 patients.

      Methods: The investigators have established the McMaster Coronavirus (COVID-19) Registry
      (COREG), an ISARIC-WHO compatible, comprehensive platform that facilitates uniform data
      collection of COVID-19. COREG is an extension of the ISARIC-WHO case report form (CRF)
      designed to capture local information on transmission, disease- burden, course, and outcomes
      of COVID-19 cases from all COVID-19 charting hospitals in the Waterloo, Hamilton, and Niagara
      Regions of Ontario, Canada (Population > 1,500,000). COREG is a comprehensive patient
      registry based retrospective data collection on all suspected and confirmed COVID-19 cases
      (according to the ISARIC definition) admitted to St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton (SJHH),
      Hamilton Health Sciences (HHS), Grand River Hospital, St. Mary's General Hospital, and the
      Niagara Health System. The registry includes data abstracted from existing chart data
      generated during routine clinical care. A waiver of informed consent is granted. Data
      categories to be collected follow the ISARIC-WHO CRF
      (https://isaric.tghn.org/covid-19-clinical-research-resources/) and include demographics,
      co-morbidities, pre-admission medications, signs and symptoms, diagnostic results,
      in-hospital interventions and health outcomes (medical complications during hospitalization
      including ICU and death). Cases are identified by the Infection Prevention and Control (IPAC)
      at each site and records will be accessed remotely and securely by research and medical
      staff. Extracted data are stored in a secure McMaster hosted REDCap and data server. Data
      collectors undergo a standardized training. Weekly governance meetings occur between the data
      collectors, operational leads and clinical site lead at each site to discuss, address and
      resolve any barriers and inconsistences in data collection and advance the scientific agenda.

      Impact: COREG ensures that COVID-19 data collected are standardized and robust and will have
      a meaningful impact on local decision-making, while also being comparable internationally.
      COREG will shape consensus recommendations on inpatient management of hospitalized patients
      with COVID-19. It will be invaluable to local and global research efforts, since linkage to
      tissue biobanks and other administrative databases can be easily performed to address
      questions on pathophysiology, long-term outcomes and healthcare burden.
    
  