
    
      Although Zambia has a generalized HIV epidemic, with approximately 13.3% of adults aged 15 to
      49 living with HIV, the epidemic remains even more highly concentrated in key populations,
      including female sex workers (FSW). A particular concern for FSW is access to healthcare
      services, including HIV testing services. FSW face significant barriers to accessing
      healthcare. In other settings, evidence has suggested that stigma is a significant barrier to
      FSW seeking HIV testing. It is likely that similar mechanisms exist in Zambia. Evidence from
      Zambia has indicated that complex multilevel factors, such as stigmatization and harassment,
      contribute to vulnerability among FSW. User-controlled HIV prevention interventions that lead
      to empowerment of FSW may therefore be a powerful way to address the HIV epidemic in this key
      population.

      Oral HIV self-testing consists of an oral swab kit that allows individuals to test for HIV in
      the privacy of their own homes whenever they want. The ease of use of HIV self-testing, that
      it can be done at any time, and that is completely private may make it an attractive
      alternative to currently-available HIV testing mechanisms for FSW in Zambia. HIV self-testing
      has generally been shown to be acceptable in a variety of populations, however evidence
      related to its uptake and acceptability remain sparse, especially among key populations and
      in Sub-Saharan Africa. This research will provide rigorous evidence of the uptake and
      efficacy of HIV self-testing for this population.

      ZEST was designed to determine whether either direct distribution of HIV self-test kits via
      peer educators or distribution of HIV self-tests via coupons that participants can use to
      collect kits at collection points such as drug stores or health posts leads to better
      coverage of HIV testing and better awareness of HIV status. ZEST is a cluster-randomized
      trial in which peer educators recruit a small group of FSW participants, and the peer
      educator group is randomized to one of three study arms: 1) direct distribution of test kits,
      2) fixed distribution of test kits, or 3) referral to standard of care HIV testing. The
      primary outcome is HIV testing in the past month measured at one and four months after the
      first peer educator visit (when the test kits or coupons are distributed in the intervention
      arms).
    
  