
    
      Objectives : The objectives of this study are to assess the feasibility, to determine the
      maximum tolerated dose, and to assess the toxicities of intraperitoneally administered CPT-11
      in gastric cancer patients with peritoneal seeding.

      Methods : This is open-labeled, non-randomized phase I study in the patients eligible for the
      following criteria. Patients more than 18 years old with gastric adenocarcinoma,
      histologically proven, will be enrolled at the time of surgery, and the signed informed
      consent will be obtained prior to surgery. Preoperative studies should have resectable
      advanced disease. The operative finding and biopsy of suspected peritoneum must show
      peritoneal involvement of adenocarcinoma. The subjects should not have any previous
      chemotherapy, immunotherapy or radiotherapy and any major biological abnormalities. Prior to
      the initiation of study, patient will receive palliative gastrectomy(total or subtotal) and
      has a CAPD catheter. Postoperative day 1, IP chemotherapy will be given by CAPD catheter. For
      dose level 1, CPT-11(provided by CJ Pharmaceutical Company) 50mg/m2 in 1L of normal saline,
      prewarmed to 37°C will be given intraperitoneally. Plasma samples will be collected prior IP
      chemotherapy, and samples of plasma, peritoneal fluid and urine will be obtained at 0.5, 1.5,
      2, 3.5, 8, 12, and 25.5, 49, 56 hours following chemotherapy. Three patients will be accrued
      to each dose level. If none of these three patients experienced a dose-limiting toxicity
      (DLT), the dose will be increased in a subsequent group of three patients to 100 mg/m2.If one
      of the first three patients experienced DLT, three more patients will be accrued to that dose
      level. If none of these additional three patients experienced DLT, then the dose will be
      escalated. If one of the additional three patients experienced DLT, then either an additional
      cohort of patients could be added or escalation terminated. If two or more of the second
      group of three patients experienced DLT, then accrual is stopped. If two of the first three
      patients experienced DLT, then an additional three patients could be accrued at that dose
      level, but dose escalation could take place only if none of the additional cohort experienced
      DLT. The last planned dose escalation is to 300 mg/m2. Cohorts of at least 3 patients will be
      entered at each dose level and monitored for at least 4 weeks after treatment before dose
      escalation. Intrapatient dose escalation is not permitted.

      Dose level Dose of IP CPT-11(mg/m2)

        1. 50

        2. 100

        3. 150

        4. 200

        5. 300

      In this study, DLT is defined as follows: any grade 4 non-hematologic toxicity or as noted
      below; ≥ grade 3 diarrhea or stomatitis lasting ≥ 7 days despite optimal supportive care;
      hematologic dose-limiting toxicity is defined grade 4 neutropenia complicated by fever ≥
      38°C; grade 4 hemorrhage or thrombocytopenia; failure to recover neutrophils (≥ 1500/ mm3) or
      platelets (≥ 100 000/ mm3) by day 28. The maximal tolerated dose is defined as that dose
      level that produced dose-limiting toxicity in ≥ 50% of patients. The recommended dose is one
      level below that. During the study, the evaluation of toxicities will be done daily of
      postoperative 6 days then weekly using National Cancer Institute-Common Toxicity Criteria
      (NCI-CTC). Physical examination, complete blood count, and blood chemistry, and serum
      electrolytes will be measured. Pharmacokinetic study : Plasma, peritoneal fluid and urine
      samples will be assayed for irinotecan and its metabolites: SN-38,
      7-ethyl-10-[4-N-(5-aminopentanoic acid)-1-piperidino] carbonyl camptothecin (APC), and SN-38
      glucuronide(SN-38G).
    
  