
    
      BACKGROUND / RATIONALE: Implementing collaborative care for depression in small rural Primary
      Care (PC) practices without on-site mental health specialists presents unique challenges. We
      adapted the collaborative care model using telemedicine (e.g., telephone, interactive video,
      electronic medical records) to support antidepressant therapy initiated by PC providers in
      small rural practices. The Telemedicine Enhanced Antidepressant Management (TEAM)
      collaborative care intervention was implemented by offsite personnel and all intervention
      components were implemented using telemedicine technologies. OBJECTIVE(S): Specific Aim 1:
      Determine whether the TEAM intervention improves quality and outcomes compared to usual care.
      Specific Aim 2: Determine whether the TEAM intervention will be cost-effective in routine
      practice settings. METHODS: Seven VISN 16 CBOCs participated in the study. CBOCs were
      included if they 1) treated >1,000 and <5,000 unique veterans, 2) had no on-site
      psychiatrists, and 3) had interactive video equipment. Matched CBOCs were randomized to
      receive the intervention or usual care. Of the 24,882 clinic patients, 73.6% (n=18,306) were
      successfully screened and 6.9% screened positive for depression (PHQ9 =12). Of those eligible
      for the study, 91.3% agreed to participate, and 91.9% of those attended their appointment and
      were consented. Over an 18-month period, 395 patients were enrolled, and 91.1% (n=360) were
      followed-up at six months. Telephone research interviews were conducted at baseline, six and
      twelve months. Effectiveness was tested using an intent-to-treat analysis. Cost-effectiveness
      analysis was assessed from the perspective of the VA. Costs included intervention costs,
      encounter costs, and medication costs. Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) were calculated
      using the Quality of Well Being Scale.
    
  