
    
      PURPOSE

      The drug Lapatinib has been shown to inhibit both epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and
      erbB2 tyrosine kinases resulting in an effective slowing of disease progression in breast
      cancer. It has also been demonstrated that erbB is overexpressed in human pituitary adenomas.
      The investigators are therefore assessing tumor size stabilization and pituitary tumor
      secretory profiles during the course of a six month therapy of lapatinib. The purpose of this
      trial will be to estimate the activity of lapatinib in slowing the growth rate of pituitary
      tumors. Lapatinib is an FDA approved drug used to treat breast cancer. However, in this
      study, the drug will be used to treat pituitary cancer.

      STUDY POPULATION

      This study will recruit patients from the Pituitary Center at CSMC who are over the age of 18
      that have a recurrent nonfunctioning adenoma after at least one surgical resection as well as
      patients with prolactinomas who are resistant to dopamine agonist therapy and patients with
      recurrent Cushing's disease.

      PARTICIPANT'S JOURNEY THROUGH THE RESEARCH

      The principal investigator (PI) or co-investigator will determine patients' potential
      eligibility for the study based on inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      The PI or the co-investigator will then approach subjects with recurrent nonfunctioning
      adenomas or prolactinomas resistant to dopamine agonist therapy or recurrent Cushing's
      disease during a visit in the clinic office and ask if these subjects would be interested in
      participating in this study. If the subjects express interest, they will be given the consent
      form to review. They will be encouraged to review it with family, friends, and/or other
      physicians. The PI, co-investigators, or research nurse will be available for any questions
      the subjects might have. If the subjects are still interested, they will be asked to sign and
      return the consent form to the office and a study visit will be scheduled.

      The PI, co-investigator, or member of study staff may also attempt to contact current
      patients by phone to assess interest in participating in the study. The purpose and overall
      structure of the study will be discussed with the possible participant. They will be reminded
      that the study is strictly voluntary and that their involvement or disinterest in the study
      will not affect their ongoing care. If the patient is interested they will be mailed a
      consent to review and will be asked to call the center to schedule an appointment to further
      discuss the study if they decide they are interested.

      Each participant will undergo 8 visits of the course of the study. Each participant will have
      a baseline visit where a medical history will be taken, a physical, visual field test,
      electrocardiogram (ECG), echocardiogram (ECHO), and blood draw will be performed. At this
      point lapatinib therapy will begin and the patients will be asked to take the drug daily for
      the next six months. Patients will take Lapatinib 1250 mg daily (orally), which is the
      standardized dose used to treat breast cancer patients. Visit 2 will be 1 month after the
      participant has started lapatinib. At visit 2 all participants will receive a physical exam,
      a history will be taken, an ECG will be performed, and a blood draw will occur. Visit 3 will
      be 2 months after starting lapatinib. A physical exam and history will be performed along
      with an ECG and echocardiogram and blood draw. Visit 4 will be 3 months after starting
      lapatinib. A physical, history, blood draw, ECG, visual field test, and a magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) of the pituitary will be performed. Visit 5 will occur 4 months after starting
      lapatinib. A physical exam and history along with a blood draw and ECG and echocardiogram
      will occur. Visit 6 will be 5 months after starting lapatinib. A physical exam, history, ECG,
      and a blood draw will occur. Visit 7 will occur 6 months after the start of lapatinib. A
      physical exam, history, blood draw, visual field test, ECG, echocardiogram and MRI of the
      pituitary will occur. At this point lapatinib will be discontinued. Visit 8 will occur 1
      month after visit 7 and a physical exam, history, blood draw, and ECG and and echocardiogram
      will occur.
    
  