
    
      Screening Tests:

      During the "screening" visit, you will be asked 4 questions about your memory and
      concentration abilities. Based on how you score on this screening questionnaire, you may not
      be eligible to participate in the study even if you have already signed the informed consent
      form.

      If you are found to be eligible for the study based on the screening questionnaire, you will
      complete some tests during the screening visit to check your memory and concentration. For
      example, you will be asked to remember a list of words and then be asked to recall them
      later. You will also complete questionnaires asking about your mood, quality of life, and
      other things like sleep, nervousness, and your experience with cancer. All together, the
      tests and questionnaires should take about 90 minutes to complete.

      Study Groups:

      You will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups. People in Group 1
      will take part in a Tibetan meditation program. People in Group 2 will be placed on a waiting
      list. They may participate in the meditation program 3 months after being enrolled in the
      study (when Group 1 has finished the follow-up visit).

      Meditation Sessions:

      If you are Group 1, you have 12 sessions of Tibetan meditation (2 times a week), over a
      6-week period. You will be asked to complete a form asking about your satisfaction with the
      program at the start of each week. The form will take 1-2 minutes to complete.

      The meditation sessions will take place at M. D. Anderson. During the meditation sessions,
      you will do deep breathing and visualization exercises and produce some sounds like "Ah."
      Each session will last about 60 minutes. One (1) or more of these meditation sessions may be
      videotaped by the study staff for check the quality of the sessions. Only the study staff
      will be able to view this videotape. All videos will be destroyed after the data is
      collected.

      Participants in both groups will be mailed a questionnaire packet to fill out and send back
      (return postage will be included in the packets) at 1 month and then at the end of the
      meditation sessions (2 months). The questionnaires will ask about your mood, quality of life,
      and other things like sleeping habits and nervousness. The packet will take about 45 minutes
      to fill out. If you are in Group 2, you will receive packets at about the same time.

      Your responses on these questionnaires will not be shared with your doctor. If you feel you
      need a doctor's opinion about anything that is asked in these questionnaires (for example, if
      you feel depressed or distressed), please contact your doctor.

      Follow-up Visit:

      One (1) month after the last meditation session (or at a similar time, for participants in
      Group 2), you will be asked to return to the clinic. You will take some tests to check your
      memory and concentration, similar to the tests you took at your screening visit. You will
      complete questionnaires asking about your mood, quality of life, and other things like sleep,
      nervousness, and your experience with cancer. All together, the questionnaires and tests
      should take about 90 minutes to complete.

      Once the follow-up visit is complete, the study is over. After Group 1 has completed the
      follow-up visit, Group 2 will be given the option to take the meditation classes.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 60 participants will be enrolled in this study. All
      will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  