
    
      Serious Mental Illness (SMI) is a stigmatized and disabling health condition that reduces
      average life expectancy by 25 years. SMI is also a prevalent public health problem affecting
      25% of jail populations. Re-entry to the community following incarceration is a vulnerable
      time for justice-involved individuals with SMI, and SMI requires prompt and ongoing access to
      mental health and other healthcare services. Individuals with SMI who are re-entering the
      community following jail experience multiple barriers to access to community mental health,
      medical care (preventive and curative) and social services due to their debilitating
      symptoms, practical challenges accessing community services, and the stigma associated with
      being diagnosed with SMI. Peer navigation has been found to improve access to the mental
      health and medical care among individuals with SMI in the community. However, no peer support
      interventions for SMI have been tested to assist with mental health service linkage during
      re-entry to the community after incarceration. This study will develop and pilot test a peer
      navigator intervention for individuals with SMI re-entering the community after jail stay,
      providing formative work for a larger randomized controlled clinical trial evaluating the
      effectiveness of peer navigator intervention for justice-involved individuals with SMI. The
      intervention is based on social support theory. The project will: (a) develop a peer
      navigation intervention and evaluate its feasibility, acceptability, and potential engagement
      of target mechanisms for enrollment in mental health, medical care and substance use services
      among individuals with SMI re-entering the community after jail release and (b) conduct a
      randomized pilot trial in a sample of 40 individuals with SMI re-entering the community after
      jail release. Proposed target mechanisms include increased instrumental, informational, and
      emotional support for treatment engagement and recovery, as well as increased perception of
      social norms promoting treatment engagement and recovery. The control condition will be
      Standard Of Care (SOC). In addition to feasibility and acceptability, other outcomes include:
      (1) health service outcomes (primary) including enrollment/engagement/utilization of
      community mental health (primary), medical care and substance use services; and shorter days
      between release and first contact with healthcare provider; (2) Clinical outcomes: reduced
      psychiatric symptoms, increased functioning, adherence to psychiatric medications, fewer
      substance using days, fewer hospitalizations and suicide attempts; (3) Life context outcomes:
      nights unstably housed, and time until rearrest and (4) Potential target mechanisms that
      include instrumental, informational, and emotional support for treatment engagement and
      social norms about treatment engagement and recovery. Addressing the needs of re-entering
      individuals with SMI is a pressing priority for both the mental health and criminal justice
      systems. Peer navigators could play a critical role in continuing recovery and successful
      reintegration, reducing the impact of criminal justice involvement and mental health
      challenges.
    
  