
    
      1. Introduction Intracytoplasmic sperm microinjection (ICSI) produces 70% of fertilized
           oocytes and zygotes which mostly develop normally. To perform ICSI, a spermatozoon is
           taken from a sperm suspension after gradient migration. It is then immobilized by
           breaking its flagellum using a micropipette, and introduced into the oocyte cytoplasm.

           The rate of spontaneous acrosome reaction in humans is less than 20 %. Two studies on
           the percentage of acrosome reacted and immobilized sperm showed that 95% of them have a
           destabilization of the membrane but only 17.8% of them had made a full RA. In other
           words, when we microinjected 10 spermatozoa, only 2 of them are completely rid of their
           acrosome material. All others are introduced into the oocyte with acrosomal material.
           But this material does not normally enter the oocyte since the acrosome reaction is a
           prerequisite to the passage of the zona pellucida that surrounds the egg .

           The importance of using an acrosome-reacted spermatozoon for the success of ICSI has
           been previously highlighted in several animal species. It has been demonstrated that the
           induction of the acrosome reaction in mice lead to higher fertilization rates (from 30%
           to about 60 % ) . It is similar, in the rabbit and horses . Kimura et al. also reported
           that mouse oocytes injected with acrosome-intact rabbit and hamster sperm exhibited a
           nuclear activation and cessation of embryonic development without reaching the two-cell
           stage. This "cytotoxicity" of the same sperm disappears when they are released from
           their acrosomes before injection. In another study, the detrimental effect on oocyte
           survival of the presence of the acrosome during the injection of sperm heads was
           demonstrated in the golden hamster. All oocytes microinjected with acrosome-intact sperm
           were dead, while only those injected with acrosome reacted sperm have not only survived,
           but have also developed to the stage of two pronucleus in 79 % of cases and helped to
           get live births ( 19%).

           The team of Yanagimachi reported a study on the potentially dangerous effect of the
           incorporation of the sperm acrosome of different species within mouse oocytes. According
           to these authors, harmful components would probably be the enzymes such as trypsin-like
           acrosine and hyaluronidase, since their injection mimicked the effects of ICSI with
           acrosome-intact sperm. In the same study, it was confirmed that the toxic effects were
           correlated with the size of the acrosome and therefore the contents of protease enzymes.

           The toxic effects of the acrosome and its contents have been described explicitly by
           Morozumi and Yanagimachi. It induces deformation of the oocyte with an irregular
           appearance, edema or cytolysis with a pseudo-vacuolated cytoplasm appearance.
           Furthermore, it has been established that the damage caused by exogenous or acrosomales
           enzymes were correlated with oocyte cytoskeleton disruption through an aberrant
           accumulation of microtubules in the cortex of the oocyte.

           In addition to the morphological and ultrastructural alterations in the oocyte, the
           incorporation of the acrosome may result in a lack of nuclear activation of the oocyte.
           Kasai et al. reported that the completion of oocyte meiosis occur faster if the sperm
           was released from the acrosome. Similarly, an increase in fertilization rate after ICSI
           with acrosome reacted sperm was observed in pigs. The study by Morozumi et al. also
           demonstrated that the induction of the acrosome reaction of sperm from several species
           prior to ICSI resulted in an acceleration of oocyte activation, which was manifest in
           human spermatozoa. This was evidenced by the significant differences between the
           profiles of calcium oscillations after ICSI with acrosome-intact or acrosome-reacted
           sperm. Calcium waves recorded in oocytes injected with acrosome-reacted spermatozoa were
           characterized by an early onset and amplitude and a higher frequency. In contrast, the
           calcium response was abnormally delayed in oocytes injected with acrosome-intact sperm.

           Thus, altered calcium oscillations, the "key" oocyte activation signals during ICSI, is
           the cause of abnormal pre-implantation embryo development to the blastocyst stage.
           Indeed, the proportion of live healthy mice births is increased from 40% to 71%, when
           intact or acrosome-reacted sperm are microinjected, respectively .

           These same studies have also shown two things:

             -  The introduction of acrosomal material is more harmful when the quantity is large
                compared to the oocyte volume. There is therefore interest in systematically
                reducing the amount of material introduced into the oocyte cytoplasm to improve
                embryonic development.

             -  The second thing is that the induction of the acrosome reaction before ICSI greatly
                improves embryonic development and therefore the number of babies born from embryo
                transfer.

           Although ICSI in human gives very satisfactory results, the rate of infants obtained by
           embryo is lower than after IVF embryos transfer. Hence, there is a possibility of
           improving the results of ICSI by induction of the acrosome reaction prior to
           microinjection.

           After several studies we used incubation of spermatozoa with the follicular fluid (FF)
           of the partner to induce the spermatozoa acrosome reaction (Karim Rahal, 2011 Master
           Thesis 2). FF is indeed a potent inducer of the AR. There is no problem of traceability
           since the FF of the patient is used only for the sperm of her husband. This technic can
           be applied to the poorest semen. Finally, the technique is used in a very easy routine,
           since the follicular fluid is always recovered during oocyte retrieval and thus
           available.

        2. Hypothesis A preliminary study was run in human on microinjection of spermatozoa that
           were selected for their acrosomal status by birefringence microscopy. It showed that it
           improves the implantation rate from 24,4 % to 39 % . We therefore hypothesize that the
           improvement in the implantation rate of embryos obtained by ICSI after acrosomal
           induction as well as the reduction of miscarriage rate may result in improved clinical
           pregnancy outcome and birth rates of about 10 %.
    
  