
    
      To compare analgesia and orthopedic rehabilitation milestones in patients receiving either
      spinal anesthesia (local anesthetic plus opioid) or general endotracheal anesthesia with
      lumbar plexus block.

      : Total hip arthroplasty (THA) is a common surgery worldwide. Despite the prevalence of this
      procedure, there is no "gold standard" anesthetic. Several different techniques are utilized.
      The two most common anesthesia modalities are: 1) spinal anesthesia 2) general anesthesia
      (with or without a peripheral nerve block). The choice of anesthetic technique is often based
      on the training and experience of the anesthesia provider, as well as the culture of the
      institution. Both spinal anesthesia (consisting of local anesthetic and opioid) and general
      anesthesia (combined with lumbar plexus nerve block) can provide adequate intra-operative
      anesthesia as well as prolonged post-operative analgesia. The goal of this study is to
      determine if the choice of one of these two anesthetic techniques influences postoperative
      pain scores and orthopedic rehabilitation markers in patients undergoing primary THA.

      Several studies have compared spinal versus general anesthesia in terms of post-operative
      pain relief, nausea and vomiting, blood loss, and deep venous thrombosis. Most of these
      studies did not utilize a lumbar plexus nerve block for postoperative analgesia in the
      general anesthesia subjects. The investigators are not aware of any randomized, controlled
      studies examining differences in orthopedic outcomes when THA is performed under spinal
      anesthesia or general anesthesia with lumbar plexus nerve block. These two anesthetic
      techniques result in different degrees of intraoperative muscle relaxation which may affect
      post-operative range of motion. Analgesic differences between the two techniques may also
      affect range of motion and post-operative ambulation.

      The investigators propose to compare post-operative pain scores as a primary outcome in
      patients receiving either spinal anesthesia (bupivicaine with morphine) or general anesthesia
      with lumbar plexus block for THA. Orthopedic outcomes, including distance of first
      ambulation, physical therapy range of motion, and limb length discrepancies will be measured
      as secondary outcomes. Continuous pulse oximetry and capnograpahy data will be recorded for
      24 hours postoperatively on all patients. The incidence of urinary tract infections and
      post-operative nausea and vomiting between groups will be additional measured outcomes.
    
  