
    
      Diarrheal diseases are some of the most common causes of morbidity and mortality in the world
      today. Unfortunately, effective vaccines for most of the infectious causes of diarrhea are
      not yet available. Vibrio cholerae (V cholerae) is an important infectious cause of severe
      secretory diarrhea in humans. The purpose of this study is to assess the duration of immune
      responses in a group of 250 individuals, aged 2-60 years, presenting to the International
      Centre for Diarrheal Diseases Research, Bangladesh (ICDDR,B) hospital who are admitted with
      acute cholera. Fifty of these participants will be enrolled in a substudy of mucosal immunity
      involving duodenal biopsy. This protocol focuses exclusively on the subset of 50 study
      participants (healthy 18-45 year old non pregnant subjects) enrolled in the substudy of
      mucosal immunity involving duodenal biopsy. This study is linked to DMID protocol 06-0045.
      The remainder of the study is observational, involving collection of stool, vomit, and blood
      samples only (DMID protocol 06-0045). A duodenal biopsy will be performed on enrollment or
      the next day and at Day 30. Twenty five subjects will undergo a third duodenal biopsy after 6
      months of follow-up and 25 subjects will undergo a third duodenal biopsy after 12 months
      follow-up. The objectives of this study are as follows: to measure immune responses directed
      against Vibrio cholerae antigens and evaluate the development of anti-V cholerae memory B
      cells in study participants with cholera; to assess the duration of the immune responses
      following an episode of cholera; and to correlate the duration of antigen-specific,
      antibody-secreting cells for various cholera antigens in duodenal tissue with measurements of
      the duration of immunity based on antibody responses in serum, as well as circulating
      antigen-specific memory B cells. This is a single site study with a 5 year duration requiring
      three years of patient participation.
    
  