
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine a safe and tolerated dose of flavopiridol (alvocidib) in combination with
      standard dose rituximab and fludarabine (fludarabine phosphate) in patients with indolent
      B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders and mantle cell lymphoma.

      II. To assess the toxicity of the combination regimen of flavopiridol, rituximab and
      fludarabine in patients with indolent B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders and mantle cell
      lymphoma.

      III. To determine the safety, toxicity and efficacy of administering flavopiridol as a
      30-minute bolus followed by 4-hour infusion, in combination with rituximab and fludarabine in
      patients with indolent B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders and mantle cell lymphoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine pharmacokinetics of the combination regimen of flavopiridol, rituximab and
      fludarabine in patients with indolent B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders and mantle cell
      lymphoma.

      II. To determine pharmacodynamics of the combination regimen of flavopiridol, rituximab and
      fludarabine in patients with indolent B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders and mantle cell
      lymphoma.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of alvocidib.

      Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) over 15-30 minutes on days 1-5 and
      rituximab IV over 3-4 hours on day 1. Alvocidib is administered IV over 60 minutes on day 1
      in cohort 1; on days 1 and 2 in cohort 2; and on days 1, 2, and 3 in cohort 3. In cohorts 4
      and 5, patients receive fludarabine phosphate and rituximab as above and alvocidib IV over 30
      minutes and then IV over 4 hours on day 1 of courses 2-6. Treatment repeats every 28 days for
      up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 37 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  