
    
      In this clinical trial we will determine whether commercially available lens tints that are
      normally used for cosmetic purposes or for blocking sunlight have a beneficial effect of
      slowing axial eye growth in children with myopia when used alone or in conjunction with a
      holographic diffuser that blurs the image slightly.

      The following procedures will be performed on a total of 240 children from 8 to 13 years of
      age:

        1. Color vision tests (Richmond Hardy-Rand-Rittler pseudoisochromatic plate test and/or the
           Rayleigh match test and/or the Neitz Test of Color Vision), and machine-based vision
           tests using the Titmus tester (color vision, binocularity, acuity, and heterophoria
           tests);

        2. each subject will provide a blood sample or a buccal swab for genetic analysis of the
           long and middle wavelength cone photopigment genes in order to determine the
           relationship between the cone opsins and myopia;

        3. eye measurements including axial length and corneal curvature will be performed using
           the Zeiss Intraocular Lens Master;

        4. cycloplegic autorefraction will be doe at the beginning of the study before participants
           start wearing the study spectacles, after 18 months if wearing the study spectacles, and
           6 months after participants stop wearing the study spectacles.

      4) subjects will be randomly assigned to one of four groups, consisting of 60 subjects each,
      each group will be assigned one of four study spectacles.

      The study spectacles for all participants will have the optimal lens corrections for both
      eyes.

      Group 1 participants will wear spectacles with lenses tinted to blocks red light.

      Group 2 participants will wear spectacles with lenses that have a holographic diffuser on
      surface of and that are tinted to reduce the light intensity by the same amount that the
      red-blocking tint does.

      Group 3 participants will wear spectacles that are tinted to block red light and that have a
      holographic diffuser.

      Group 4 participants will wear spectacles that are tinted to reduces the light intensity by
      the same amount that the red-blocking tint does.

      Participants will wear the study glasses for 18 months. Axial length measurements will be
      taken twice prior to when subjects begin wearing the glasses and once every three month
      thereafter.
    
  