
    
      Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) was introduced more than a decade ago and the
      therapy has decreased mortality and morbidity of HIV patients dramatically. The first HAART
      regimens were combined of nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), non-nucleoside
      reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) and protease inhibitors (PIs). Especially the early
      regimes carried a substantial risk of failure and subsequent development of resistance to the
      three drug classes. Thus there has been a need for development of new drugs with activity
      against viruses resistant to the classical HAART regimens either as new drugs from the old
      classes without (or with limited) cross resistance to the older compounds or drugs from new
      classes with new antiretroviral mechanisms. The optimal choice for salvage therapy for HIV
      infected patients has been shown to require at least two, and preferably three, fully active
      drugs. Until recently, salvage regimens used to treat patients harbouring multidrug-resistant
      HIV generally included only one new agent from the classic drug classes added to an optimized
      background therapy which did not contain any fully active agents. This approach, conditioned
      by limited drug options, put patients at high risk of virological failure and resistance to
      the new agent, as well as to other agents in the same drug classes. A breakthrough has been
      the resent development of integrase inhibitors, which is a new class of antiretroviral drugs.
      One of these drugs - raltegravir - has demonstrated its activity in patients with virological
      failure on classical antiretroviral drugs. In the BENCHMARK randomized clinical trials, which
      were conducted in HIV-infected patients with limited treatment options, 62% of patients
      taking raltegravir plus optimized background treatment achieved plasma HIV RNA levels <50
      copies/mL at week 48. Although the drug - often used together with other new drugs - has been
      proved effective in clinical trials and recently in "real life" clinical settings, the
      long-term efficacy is not described and the effect compared to treatment in HAART naive
      patients remains to be established. In a nationwide cohort of HIV infected patients, we
      identified the patients, who initiated raltegravir due to virological failure and a matched
      control cohort of patients initiating HAART for the first time. We compared these two cohorts
      with respect to virological suppression, gain in CD4 count and time to first change of
      initial regimen.
    
  