
    
      Pancreatic malignancies are the second highest incident gastrointestinal malignancy in
      Canada. From cancer mortality statistics in 2014, there were 4,700 new cases of pancreatic
      malignancies second only to colorectal cancer, representing 2.4% of all cancers . Even with
      chemotherapy, the median survival for patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma is 6 to 10
      months. Few of the patients are diagnosed at a resectable stage (12%-20%) so many patients
      are candidates for palliation only.In this context, one of the most important symptoms is
      pain because it often affects both quality of life and survival.70 to 80 % of patients with
      Pancreatic cancer had abdominal pain at the time of diagnosis . Adequate pain control is
      therefore an essential component of care in these patients. In the initial phase, the pain is
      visceral, but with disease progression, somatic pain may occur, especially due to the
      peripancreatic invasion of neural structures or muscles. Standard analgesics such as
      Acetaminophen are ineffective and administration of opioids is frequently limited by side
      effects such as nausea, constipation, somnolence, addiction, confusion or respiratory
      depression, and failure in achieving adequate analgesia. In these situations,
      neurodestructive methods of celiac plexus with Absolute Alcohol associated to Bupivacaine
      involving the main pancreatic pain pathways, seem efficient. Alcohol causes the immediate
      precipitation of endoneural lipoproteins and mucoproteins within the celiac plexus, leading
      to the extraction of cholesterol and phospholipids from the neural membrane. To prevent
      severe transient pain after the procedure, Bupivacaine was injected before the Alcohol
      injection. Interest and importance of EUS-CPN is well established (safe, more effective than
      percutaneous or CT guided celiac plexus Neurolysis, significant reduction in pain and
      significant reduction of narcotics requirements) however the role and effect of Bupivacaine
      on the effectiveness of Neurolysis and lytic power of Alcohol has never been studied . Is it
      a synergistic effect ? Or an antagonistic effect by diluting Alcohol ? The Centre hospitalier
      de l'université de Montréal (CHUM) is currently the busiest EUS center in the world and has
      the largest experience with EUS-guided CPN. The CHUM also probably see more pancreatic
      cancers annually than any other center (more than 300 proven cases/year). There are no
      published reports of serious adverse events associated with this procedure and this has been
      the investigators experience as well. Patients may however experience some mild to moderate
      discomfort during the initial injection of the absolute ethanol solution, but this is usually
      short lived (less than 30 minutes in our experience). Therefore, Bupivacaine is currently
      injected before the Ethanol injection, however, local anesthetic was not used before the
      Phenol injection for example because it has been reported that Phenol has an immediate local
      anesthetic effect.

      The investigators believe that, Bupivacaine has no effect and instead it dilutes the alcohol
      and then reduces the lytic power of Ethanol. This study was designed to test this hypothesis
      prospectively.

      The goal of this project is to determine if EUS-CPN without Bupivacaine (versus EUS-CPN with
      Bupivacaine) can reduce pain scores and improve quality of life in patients with inoperable
      pancreatic cancer by reducing the morbidity due to narcotic side effects (e.g. nausea,
      excessive sedation, constipation).
    
  