
    
      Pressure ulcers are prevalent in nursing homes. They heal slowly, cause pain, impair quality
      of life, and are expensive to treat. Dehydration is a problem in some nursing home residents
      and under-perfusion a problem in others. Theoretically, providing supplemental fluid to
      under-hydrated residents should increase fluid in the various fluid compartments of the body,
      increase subcutaneous oxygen, support skin integrity, enhance pressure ulcer blood flow and
      pressure ulcer healing, including collagen production. This proposition has not been examined
      in nursing home residents with pressure ulcers.

      The purpose of this randomized clinical trial (RCT) in which subjects serve as their own
      control is to determine whether administration of supplemental fluid to nursing home
      residents with or at risk for pressure ulcers enhances collagen deposition. Specifically,
      this study will determine whether oral administration of supplemental fluid given daily for
      five days to persons with or at risk for pressure ulcers enhances collagen deposition,
      increases total body water, augments subcutaneous tissue oxygen, increases pressure ulcer
      oxygenation, and is safe.

      The sample will be nursing home residents at risk for or with pressure ulcers. After consent,
      baseline measures of collagen deposition, pressure ulcer oxygen, fluid intake, and body water
      in the various fluid compartments are measured. Expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE)
      tubes are used to measure collagen deposition. Bioelectrical impedance is used to measure
      body water. In the treatment phase, subjects are randomized to one of the two supplemental
      fluid regimes. Supplemental fluid is administered for five days and collagen deposition,
      subcutaneous tissue oxygen, pressure ulcer oxygen, and body water in the various compartments
      again measured. Subjects are monitored for fluid overload. Data are analyzed with RMANOVA and
      logistic regression techniques.
    
  