
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To demonstrate an improvement in progression free survival (PFS) at four months in
      patients with relapsed sensitive or refractory small cell lung cancer (SCLC) receiving
      ABT-888 (veliparib) and temozolomide compared to placebo and temozolomide.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the objective response rate (ORR) (based on Response Evaluation Criteria in
      Solid Tumors [RECIST] 1.1 criteria) in both arms of the study: ABT-888 and temozolomide and
      placebo and temozolomide.

      II. Determine the overall survival (OS) of patients in both arms of the study. III. Determine
      the ORR, PFS and OS of ABT-888 and temozolomide and placebo and temozolomide, in the
      following patient groups: sensitive disease vs. refractory disease; second-line treatment vs.
      third-line treatment; brain metastases vs. no brain metastases.

      IV. Determine the safety and tolerability of ABT-888 and temozolomide in patients with SCLC.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate available tumor samples for methylated O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase
      (MGMT) promoter by the EpiTyper assay, as well as MGMT expression by immunohistochemistry and
      determine if these correlate with PFS, ORR, and OS.

      II. Evaluate available tumor samples for poly (ADP ribose) polymerase (PARP)-1, breast cancer
      1 (BRCA-1) and RAD51 recombinase (RAD51) expression by immunohistochemistry and determine if
      they correlate with PFS, ORR, and OS.

      III. Evaluate available tumor samples for messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) BRCA-1 expression
      and determine if it correlates PFS, ORR, and OS.

      IV. Evaluate available tumor samples for phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) expression by
      immunohistochemistry and determine if it correlates PFS, ORR, and OS.

      V. Identify and enumerate circulating tumor cells (CTCs) using the Cell Search System in
      these patients with SCLC at baseline and at the time of repeat imaging.

      VI. Correlate the number of CTCs with PFS and OS at each time point. VII. Correlate the
      change in CTCs with radiographic response. VIII. Correlate the number of CTCs at baseline
      with patient characteristics (disease burden, location of metastases, progression at existing
      sites or new sites of disease).

      IX. Evaluate gamma H2A histone family, member X (H2AX)-positive CTCs using the CellSearch.

      X. Assess the percentage increase in DNA fragments during treatment and correlate with
      outcome in each of the treatment groups.

      XI. Evaluate plasma markers for apoptosis and angiogenesis. XII. Assess changes in plasma
      markers for apoptosis and angiogenesis, including caspase-cleaved cytokeratin 18 fragment
      (M30), soluble cytokeratin 18 (M65), pro-gastrin-releasing peptide (pro-GRP), soluble
      vascular endothelial growth factor (sVEGF), sVEGF receptor 2 (sVEGFR2), and soluble v-kit
      Hardy-Zuckerman 4 feline sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (sKIT), and correlate these markers
      with outcome in the two treatment arms.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-7 and temozolomide
      PO on days 1-5.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO BID on days 1-7 and temozolomide as in Arm I.

      In both arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 8-12 weeks.
    
  