
    
      The following potential issues have been identified:

        1. This feasibility study is being carried out in older adults living in care homes. Older
           adults are considered to be vulnerable population by the definition of the World Health
           Organisation.

        2. This study involves residents with cognitive impairment who may not be able to give
           consent for themselves to take part in the study. To overcome these issues, the research
           team is very mindful not to exclude residents with cognitive impairment who otherwise
           are able to participate in the Wellness activities. Th investigators will strictly adopt
           the Dewing process of gaining consent for older adults with cognitive impairment which
           involves ongoing consent monitoring. The investigators have followed the guidelines of
           Mental Capacity Act 2005 and designed participant information sheets and consulted
           declaration form who could consent on the participant's behalf (consultee). If consent
           is not obtained, the participant will not be recruited into the study. The consultee
           will be able to withdraw consent at any time in the study. Any visible distress observed
           during participation (eg. use of handgrip dynamometer & accelerometer) will be recorded
           and the participant will be withdrawn from the study.

           Participants will also be regularly reminded that they can choose to withdraw from the
           study at any point, without any explanation and that care received would not be affected
           or compromised due to this study.

        3. All data collected will be stored on password protected computers and/or the BU secure
           server and will be handled in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation
           2018 and Data Protection Act 2018. Data will only be accessed by the investigator and
           the supervisor, and the participant's identity will be anonymised using a coding system.

           Conflict of Interest:

        4. There will be no conflict of interest in the study.
    
  