
    
      This is a pilot proposal to understand the changes in physiology in patients undergoing
      scheduled therapy with Darbepoetin as part of their normal NHS care. It is therefore an
      observational pilot study of changes in physiology before and after Darbepoetin. Conventional
      erythropoiesis stimulating agents (ESAs) are widely used to improve haemoglobin production
      and reduce anaemia in subjects with chronic kidney disease (CKD). However, ESAs are
      associated with the development of hypertension and increased cardiovascular morbidity and
      mortality. A number of potential underlying pathophysiological mechanisms have been
      postulated, mostly concerning around altered sensitivity to, or circulating levels of,
      endogenous vasoactive mediators. However, the existing data are inconsistent. Hand et al.
      found that short-term therapy with recombinant erythropoietin was associated with a rise in
      blood pressure, and an increase in vasoconstrictor responsiveness to infused noradrenaline,
      but not to endothelin-1. Serum endothelin-1 levels were elevated compared to controls at
      baseline, but did not change after erythropoietin therapy. Other groups have reported that
      ESA administration increases plasma levels of endothelin-1, and that this is strongly
      correlated with the increase in mean arterial pressure (MAP). Human endothelial cells
      incubated in ESAs show decreased eNOS expression and endothelial nitric oxide (NO)
      production. Ex-vivo studies in resistance vessels of subjects with CKD found impaired
      endothelial function, as assessed by acetylcholine mediated vasodilatation, which was
      partially reversed by blockade of the endothelin receptor (ET-A). In vivo acute and chronic
      ESA administration also impairs endothelial function, which is often considered as a
      surrogate of nitric oxide bioavailability.

      Recently, newer agents have been postulated as a novel alternative to ESAs for treating renal
      anaemia. However, cardiovascular effects are incompletely characterised. Studies elucidating
      the mechanisms for ESA induced vasoconstriction and possible effects that promote
      cardiovascular disease are necessary and it would be imperative to study whether the use of
      these novel agents avoids these effects, potentially making them a better alternative to
      ESAs.

      This pilot study aims to determine the putative mechanisms which may be involved in the BP
      response to ESA use in patients with anaemia associated with CKD who are EPO naïve within the
      last 12 months. Information gained from this study will inform a larger clinical trial that
      is being planned. Healthy volunteers will be recruited to provide a baseline of normal
      responses to compare against.
    
  