
    
      The LEVL device (Medamonitor, Seattle, WA) provides users a method for assessing their own
      rate of fat metabolism. The LEVL device measures the concentration acetone in breath that the
      scientific literature has shown to correlate to the rate of fat metabolism.

      Typically, the body uses glucose to meet its metabolic energy requirements. If needed, the
      body can shift from using glucose to using fat. Many different scenarios can cause this
      shift. Exercise can deplete accessible carbohydrate stores causing the body to use fats for
      energy production. Dietary changes that cause fat intake to increase and carbohydrate intake
      to decrease will alter metabolism to efficiently utilize the change in nutrients. In all of
      these scenarios, the body reduces it utilization of carbohydrates and, thus, shifts to using
      fats for energy production.

      When the body uses fats as an energy substrate, some of these fat molecules are converted by
      the liver into acetoacetate, a ketone body. By enzymatic action, acetoacetate (AcAc) can be
      converted into beta-hydroxybutyrate (BOHB). The same enzyme can generate AcAc from BOHB.
      Additionally, acetoacetate can convert spontaneously into acetone which, due to its small
      size and highly water solubility, can readily appear in the breath.

      Currently, measurement of BOHB in blood is the gold standard for assessing ketone body
      concentration, also known as ketosis. BOHB measurement requires an invasive finger puncture
      to obtain blood and a costly (~$5 / test) assay. Because acetone (BrAce) is a sister ketone
      body to BOHB, breath acetone may be used to assess ketosis and replace the measurement of
      BOHB. Data in the scientific literature has shown BrAce to correlate with BOHB. Inferring
      BOHB concentrations from measurement of BrAce using LEVL is less invasive and is potentially
      less costly.

      Reports have suggested that breath acetone is inversely correlated to blood sugar. However,
      others have suggested no relationship between the two species. If a relationship does exist,
      measurement of breath acetone could be used as a surrogate measure for blood sugar, a common
      assay used by individuals with diabetes.

      In this study, subjects will provide blood and breath samples evaluate the relationship
      between breath acetone and two blood-bound species: BOHB and glucose. Subjects may be asked
      to provide breath and blood samples at two different times (i.e., visits) spaced
      approximately 3 hours apart. The second visit is not required for participation in the study
      (i.e., optional).
    
  