
    
      At the present time, education about symptom management for patients and treatments,
      including exercise, are primarily provided within structured and episodic pulmonary
      rehabilitation (PR) programs. These PR programs are of short duration, are available for only
      a small percentage of people because they are expensive and not covered by all third party
      payers, and often require travel by patients who are disabled. Given estimates of 10 to 24
      million U.S. adults with COPD,most of who would benefit from PR, only less than 0.1% can be
      accommodated at any given time. In the US the maintenance or exercise programs following PR
      are not reimbursed and, therefore, not available for most patients.

      A number of self-management programs have been tested in multiple chronic diseases,but there
      has been less study of self-management programs for patients with COPD. The few
      self-management programs for COPD that include only education and limited skills training
      have not significantly improved symptoms. Home-based PR and self-management programs with
      nurse home visits have been studied and provide a less costly and accessible alternative.
      Clearly there is a growing need for more accessible and alternative avenues for providing
      ongoing support and therapy for COPD patients.

      The Internet provides a new exciting delivery channel that offers patients with disabilities
      an opportunity for greater involvement in health care decision-making and unparalleled
      opportunities to learn, inform, and communicate with one another and for health care
      providers to support patients' self-management efforts. Several Internet-based studies for
      other chronic illnesses have increased self-efficacy for symptom management, perception of
      available support, and patients' involvement in health care decision making, while reducing
      symptoms and health care costs. The only published study evaluating the use of the internet
      to support self-management in COPD patients was our pilot study for this proposal. Our study
      demonstrated an improvement in both self-efficacy and dyspnea with daily activities measures.
      This study will expand on the findings of our pilot study.
    
  