
    
      A significant proportion of patients considered for this study will be retrieved from
      previous observational prospective clinical studies. Data on clinical presentation, treatment
      and follow-up will be obtained from the existing dataset of the previous protocols. For the
      additional cases identified from clinical practice data will be collected from patient chart.
      A unique study CRF will be prepared to collect all the required details.

      Patients with histologically confirmed marginal zone lymphomas according to the current WHO
      classification are registered in the study. Moreover, patients characteristics (PS, systemic
      symptoms), Ann Arbor stage, laboratory parameters, serology for hepatitis C, B and human
      immunodeficiency virus, bone marrow aspirate and biopsy data, data on treatment start and
      end, chemotherapy details, final response defined according to Cheson 2014 and Matutes
      criteria, date of last follow-up ,occurrence of any event (relapse, progression, death) with
      date will be collected.

      PET response will be initially coded according to local interpretation of scan report. All
      FDG-PET, will be then centralized to perform a blinded independent review of staging and
      response. Images will be centralized and examined by a panel of 3 nuclear medicine physicians
      that will independently review the scans. Each case will be evaluated by two reviewers. In
      case of discordant results a third reviewer will adjudicate the case.

      Each patient enrolled in the study will be anonymized by assigning a unique identification
      numerical code upon registration in the study. The unique identification code will be used to
      record health-related data.

      Anonymized PET data will be uploaded into the DICOM system by the responsible person of the
      site.

      Anonymized health-related data will be collected in the e-CRF. At each site, the responsible
      of the research or a delegated person will complete the e-CRF.

      Only the Study Chair and the Sponsor will have access rights for the health-related data and
      will be responsible for protection of the data.
    
  