
    
      Many international centers now regard exercise testing as highly important with many
      measuring maximal exercise capacity annually to monitor disease progression, identify
      physical status and to drive changes in medical, physiotherapy or nutritional management
      (14,15).

      Cardiopulmonary Exercise Testing (CPET):

      The current best practice for assessing VO2max in adults with CF is a CPET using the Godfrey
      Protocol, a progressive and incremental maximal test performed on a cycle ergometer
      (13,14,15). Exercise testing should aim to achieve a maximal response within a time frame of
      8-12 min and incremental protocols with stage duration of 1 minute are considered more
      efficient in eliciting the desired response within this time frame (14). During CPET, VO2max
      is determined while breath-by-breath gas analysis allows for a comprehensive assessment of
      exercise ventilation and circulation. This information can identify reasons for low exercise
      capacity and whether exercise limitation is due to deconditioning, or primarily within the
      respiratory, cardiovascular or peripheral systems. CPET is performed using a specialist
      ergometer, and requires specialist clinical expertise, monitoring and reporting equipment for
      interpretation of the test. The cost, space and expertise to carry out CPET in CF units
      around the world may limit its use for the regular assessment of exercise capacity in adults
      with CF (16).

      Field Tests:

      Field tests generally cannot determine absolute maximal exercise capacity, but do provide
      valuable information about the patient's functional abilities and limitations and compared to
      laboratory tests are inexpensive and easy to administer.

      Field tests that use a single step for assessment of exercise tolerance in patients with
      chronic lung disease include:

      3-Minute Step Test (3MST):

      The 3MST is a feasible and acceptable measure of sub-maximal exercise performance in children
      and adults and a useful tool in the assessment of oxygen desaturation (17,18). The test is
      short in duration, simple to carry out, and has low cost and minimal space and equipment
      requirements however the sub-maximal nature and ceiling effect of the 3MST limits its
      usefulness clinically across the age spectrum (18,19).

      The Chester Step Test (CST):

      The CST is a 10-minute sub-maximal standardized multistage test and like the 3MST has minimal
      space and equipment requirements. The CST was originally designed for workplace screening and
      is now widely used for exercise prescription in the UK cardiac population (20). In healthy
      individuals one study reported a ceiling effect and a positive relationship between predicted
      VO2max using the CST and measured VO2max (21) however a subsequent study questioned this
      prediction validity (22). The CST has been found to be highly reproducible in patients with
      chronic obstructive lung disease (COPD) and reliable in patients with Bronchiectasis, but too
      challenging for both groups (23,24).

      The Modified Incremental Step Test (MIST):

      The MIST was designed to be more suitable for COPD patients and modeled from the CST(25). A
      reduction in work rate was not found to result in a difference in cardiopulmonary stress and
      exertion effort at peak exercise but did result in a higher exercise tolerance in patients
      with COPD. The MIST is reliable and better tolerated than the CST in patients with
      Bronchiectasis (23,24).

      The CST and CF:

      One study (published in abstract form) has shown the CST to be a useful field test when
      compared to the 3MST and 6MWT for those with mild to moderate CF. The authors commented this
      was likely due to the progressive nature being more representative of adult physical activity
      (26).

      The main vision is to develop a standardized incremental step test protocol suitable for
      adults with Cystic Fibrosis (CF), all ages, levels of fitness and disease state that is in
      line with current exercise testing recommendations (15). The test should be a more useful
      than the already available field tests and more "user friendly" test than the currently
      available laboratory exercise test to assess exercise tolerance and allow for early detection
      of decline in physical function in the day-to-day clinical setting. To date no studies have
      been published in adults with CF where an incremental exercise step test has been
      investigated to assess exercise tolerance or determine VO2max.

        1. To design a standardized externally paced incremental step test that is portable, easy
           to administer, simple to perform, time, cost and space efficient (A-STEP).

           Study A:

        2. To assess feasibility and reliability of the A-STEP to objectively assess exercise
           tolerance.

        3. To determine if the A-STEP is a more useful tool than the 3-Minute Step Test.

           Study B:

        4. To develop an alternative tool to determine maximum oxygen uptake (VO2max) to the "gold
           standard" CPET that is feasible across the whole spectrum of lung disease.

        5. To determine if the A-STEPmax is a valid tool when compared to the VO2max achieved from
           a CPET performed on a cycle ergometer using the Godfrey Protocol.

      The principle investigator hypothesizes that the A-STEP will be a feasible tool to assess
      exercise capacity; and the A-STEP max will be a valid tool for the assessment of VO2max
      across the age range and disease spectrum in adults with CF.
    
  