
    
      Background: Childhood obesity is a global "public health crisis" with increasing prevalence
      rate in all racial, ethnic and gender groups, as well as across socioeconomic strata.
      Research findings indicate that over the past 30 years, the prevalence of chronic conditions
      in children and youths has increased. Childhood obesity impacts physical, psychological and
      social well-being, and also impacts the economy as well.

      Purpose: The purpose of this study is to explore the healthy status, healthy lifestyles among
      school-age obese children of chronic conditions, then to examine the contextual factors
      affecting their healthy lifestyles, in order to develop a theory-informed and evidence-based
      intervention of school-based and family-involved intervention for obese children, and
      evaluate the effectiveness of interventions by using mixed methods (MM) research approach.

      Methods: This study will be a three-year mixed methods study, including the identification of
      obesity issues among children with chronic conditions in the first phase study
      (2013/10/01-2014/07/31), development of an intervention protocol in the second phase study
      (2014/08/01-2015/07/31), and conduction/evaluation of an intervention of lifestyle
      intervention in the third phase study (2015/08/01-2016/07/31). Firstly, anthropometry,
      healthy lifestyles questionnaire survey on children aged 7-12 and school environment audit
      will be conducted. By using the literature review, meta-analysis and focus-research
      approaches to develop a healthy lifestyle intervention protocol in the second year program.
      The protocol will be tested on a sample of school-age children with asthma, to develop a
      school-based and family-involved healthy lifestyle intervention. Finally, the protocol will
      be undertaken on children with asthma aged 10-15, by using an experimental (pretest-posttest)
      design with repeated follow-ups. The research subjects will be randomly assign to condition
      of receiving intervention or control; the measurement of the outcome across 4 observations,
      to assess both group differences (experimental comparison), and changes within groups. The
      interventions consist of healthy diet (X1), regular exercise (X2), and booster energy
      balance-related behaviors (BEBRB) (X3). The observations start from baseline (O1), then have
      three observations (O2, O3, O4) at 3-month interval respectively. Outcome indicators include
      height, body weight, waist circumference as well as healthy life style modification present
      by diet record, exercise diary, healthy life environments. The research subjects will consist
      of randomly sampled school-age children and their fathers (or mothers), school teachers and
      school nurses. The approximate sample size is estimated by power analysis and dropout rate,
      the eligible sample size will be 200 and 160 pairs of children with their parents, school
      teachers and nurses in the first and third year respectively.

      Expected outcomes: To recognize the risk factors and determinants, have an evidence-based
      development of school-based and family-involved lifestyle modification to better health
      outcomes for children with chronic conditions.
    
  