
    
      Objective The objective of the proposed study is to determine the impact of VRT, in
      comparison with conventional drug-eluting stenting, on endothelium dependent vasodilation and
      maximal hyperemic myocardial perfusion using H215O PET.

      Study design The study is designed as a single center single-blind randomized clinical trial
      and will be conducted at the VU University Medical Center in Amsterdam.

      Summary of the study design It is hypothesized that VRT will result in augmented endothelium
      dependent coronary vasodilation and maximal myocardial perfusion as compared with
      conventional stenting of a coronary lesion. Within one year sixty patients (age 18-65) with
      documented single vessel CAD (type A or B1 lesion) accepted for PCI based on clinical grounds
      and according to current international guidelines, will be asked to participate in this
      trial. Patients will be randomized to implantation of a drug-eluted stent (Xience Prime) or
      BRS (Absorb). The patients will be blinded to the nature of the implanted device. H2 15O PET
      will be performed one month (reference scan), one year, and three years after the PCI
      procedure (resolution of BRS is generally complete within a three year period). The PET
      protocol will consist of three MBF measurements: resting MBF, during endothelial dependent
      vasodilation provoked by coldpressor-testing (CPT), and during (endothelial dependent and
      independent) maximal vasodilation by infusion of adenosine intravenously. After three years a
      control invasive coronary angiogram will document any potential obstructive coronary lesions
      that may affect the MBF measurements.

      Primary study parameters/outcome of the study MBF measurements: resting MBF, during
      endothelial dependent vasodilation provoked by cold-pressor-testing (CPT), and during
      (endothelial dependent and independent) maximal vasodilation by infusion of adenosine
      intravenously

      Secondary study parameters/outcome of the study Obstructive coronary lesions on control
      invasive coronary angiogram that may affect the MBF measurements.
    
  