
    
      Latinos are less likely than non-Hispanic whites to have access to healthcare, to have
      knowledge of existing smoking cessation resources, to receive advice to stop smoking, and to
      utilize pharmacotherapy to stop smoking. Despite these marked tobacco-related disparities,
      there is a lack of effective interventions designed for the Latino community. Mobile
      technology provides a promising method for overcoming barriers and providing culturally
      congruent treatment to Latino smokers. Implementation of mobile interventions among Latinos
      remains minimal despite the fact that Latinos are the fastest adopters of mobile technology,
      utilizing smartphones and text messaging at a higher rate than non-Hispanic whites do. An
      effective, culturally appropriate intervention using mobile technologies methods with the
      potential for widespread adoption by clinic and community-based service providers could
      dramatically increase reach and impact on Latino health.

      Decídetext is a culturally congruent method for increasing access to cessation services for
      Latino smokers and helping them develop, implement, and follow a personalized quit plan. If
      successful, this intervention could be readily implemented in different settings including
      community settings, clinics, pharmacies, emergency rooms, and clinic waiting areas and reduce
      treatment disparities, reduce tobacco-related morbidity and mortality, and improve the health
      and quality of life for approximately 9 million of Latino smokers in the United States.

      Aim 1. To evaluate the impact of the culturally accommodated Decídetext program versus
      standard care on smoking abstinence at Month 6 among Latino smokers. At Month 6, smokers in
      Decídetext will have significantly higher cotinine-verified 7-day point prevalence abstinence
      (no cigarettes in the past 7 days) than smokers in the control arm. Program efficacy also
      will be examined at Week 12 (end of treatment) to assess mechanisms of change, and Month 12
      to provide extended outcome data.

      Aim 2. To assess therapeutic alliance, pharmacotherapy utilization, and self-efficacy as
      mediators of the presumed treatment effect on cotinine-verified 7-day smoking abstinence at
      Month 6 among Latino smokers. Our hypothesis is that Decídetext will have greater efficacy
      for smoking cessation than standard care by increasing therapeutic alliance, utilization of
      pharmacotherapy, and self-efficacy to quit.

      Aim 3. To conduct a process evaluation that can inform findings and future improvements. The
      evaluation of Decídetext includes: 1) satisfaction with the program and its components; 2)
      text-message system utilization patterns and common content themes in text message
      interactions among participants.
    
  