
    
      This study will be the skin tissue for the virtual slice object, the study intends to the
      following research:

      The number of people enrolled in the Court is 170.

      Between 20 and 90 years old, meet the following conditions, suitable for participation in
      this test:

        1. Healthy subjects of different ages (20 persons): to study the optical imaging of the
           skin and nerve endings: the control of healthy subjects and peripheral neuropathy
           patients skin observed by the optical images of the shoots.

        2. Abandoned extra digit specimen of polydactyly(10 persons): to study the optical imaging
           of the normal skin and nerve endings in extra digit : collect abandoned digit specimen
           after surgical removal in polydactyly.

        3. has been diagnosed with peripheral neuropathy (90 persons):to study the diagnosis of
           peripheral neuropathy of the skin nerve endings of the optical image observation and
           quantitative sensory nerve examination

        4. clinically must be diagnosed by the skin slices of diabetic neuropathy patients have
           been removed after the completion of clinical diagnosis of the specimen,And then the
           skin slices of the nerve endings of the optical image observation (20 persons):study the
           technical observation of diabetic patients with skin sections of the nerve endings of
           the optical image observation: the clinical must be skin slices for the diagnosis of
           diabetic neuropathy, patients has been taken out after the completion of clinical
           diagnosis, and then the skin slices of the nerve endings of the light learning image
           observation.

        5. because of chemotherapy during chemotherapy, is expected to have peripheral neuropathy:
           before the occurrence of peripheral neuropathy , Peripheral nerve lesions were cured
           after subcutaneous nerve optical observation (30 persons):for different periods of
           peripheral neuropathy subcutaneous nerve optical observation: in the peripheral
           neuropathy occurred before the occurrence of peripheral neuropathic symptoms, peripheral
           neuropathy after cure for subcutaneous nerve optical observation.

      This test can not be attended if:

      Those who suffer from systemic infection or have been infected with the site by the physician
      assessment is not suitable for examination.
    
  