
    
      AIM:

        1. To assess the role of maintaining Apical Patency on success of primary Non-Surgical Root
           Canal Treatment (NSRCT) in Non-Vital teeth.

        2. To evaluate the incidence of post-operative complications such as pain, flare-up etc
           with and without maintaining apical patency.

      Study subjects were recruited from the pool of patients referred for the initial non-surgical
      root canal treatment to the post graduate department Of Conservative Dentistry & Endodontics
      at PGIDS, Rohtak (Haryana). Patients requiring Root Canal Treatment following the diagnosis
      pulpal necrosis in mature mandibular first molar were selected for the study.

      Clinical procedure:

      Subjects were randomly allocated to one of the two study groups (patency or non-patency). It
      was ensured that neither the patient, nor the primary investigator was aware of the treatment
      protocol before completing the consent process. After administration of local anesthesia,
      rubber dam isolation of the involved tooth was done. Caries excavation was done and access
      cavity prepared using carbide burs in high speed handpiece with copious irrigation.
      Debridement of the pulp chamber was done and all canal orifices identified. Working length
      was obtained with the help of electronic apex locator (Root ZX) and confirmed
      radiographically. ProTaper S1 and Sx were used to flare coronal thirds and WL was reconfirmed
      with apex locator. Hand files No. 10, 15 and 20 were used till working length (WL) to prepare
      a smooth reproducible glide path. ProTaper S1 and S2 were used till WL, followed by the use
      of ProTaper finishing files (F1/F2/F3) to prepare the canal to desired size as determined by
      the operator. Copious irrigation with 3% Sodium Hypochlorite was carried out throughout the
      procedure with the use of 27-gauge side vented needle.

      In patency group, a #10 K- file was passed 1mm beyond the WL between each instrument change,
      while in non-patency group it was carried till the WL. In patency group, a final radiograph
      was taken after completion of preparation, with a #10 file placed 1mm beyond the WL to
      confirm patency.

      After enlargement, the canals were irrigated with 5ml 17% EDTA for 1 min followed by
      irrigation with 5ml 3% NaOCl. Canals were dried with absorbent paper points and filled with a
      paste made by mixing Calcium hydroxide powder with 2% Chlorhexidine liquid; and the access
      cavity restored with intermediate restorative material (IRM). The patient was recalled after
      1 week. At the next appointment, the paste was removed with H- files and copious irrigation
      with 3% NaOCl. Canals were examined under operating microscpe. A final rinse of 5ml 17% EDTA
      and 5ml 3% NaOCl was done and canals dried with paper points. Canals were obturated with the
      GuttaPercha and Zinc Oxide- Eugenol based sealer. After obturation, the cavity was restored
      with Silver Amalgam/Composite/Full coverage crown. Immediate post-operative radiograph was
      then taken using preset exposure parameters with Rinn paralleling device; and processed
      manually. Follow up clinical and radiographic examination was carried out every 3 months,
      till a 12 month period.

      Data Gathering Details:

      Preoperative and intraoperative data were obtained from patient records. Diagnostic and
      treatment information was meticulously recorded on a custom designed endodontic treatment
      form by the operator. Diagnostic and treatment details for each patient were extracted from
      the records by the principal investigator.

      Assessment of treatment outcome:

      Treatment outcome was judged on the basis of clinical and radiographic findings recorded at
      the follow up visit and comparison of the radiographs obtained at post obturation and the
      follow-up visit

      Radiographic success:

      Change in Periapical Index (PAI) scores (Orstaviket al) observed at 12-months was noted.
      Scoring of each tooth was done according to the following five point scale (PAI):

      PAI Score Description of radiographic findings

        1. Normal periapical structures

        2. Small changes in bone structure

        3. Changes in bone structure with some mineral loss

        4. Periodontitis with well-defined radiolucent area

        5. Severe periodontitis with exacerbating features

      Three experienced observers with no knowledge of the treatment protocol independently
      examined immediate post obturation and follow-up radiographs, mounted side by side, under
      controlled conditions. The treatment was considered successful only when both clinical and
      radiographic criteria were met. In multirooted teeth, the worst outcome by root decided the
      overall outcome for the tooth. In the event of disagreement, the three observers met to
      discuss their findings and came to an agreement. In the absence of unanimity, the majority
      decision was taken.

      Clinical Success:

      Absence of pain and tenderness to palpation/ percussion, absence of sinus or any associated
      soft tissue swelling, tooth mobility of grade-I or less, and no deterioration in periodontal
      probing depth as compared with baseline measurements comprised the criteria for clinical
      success.
    
  