
    
      Idiopathic infantile hypercalcemia(IIH) is a rare,genetic disorder of mineral metabolism
      characterized by severe hypercalcemia and/or hypercalciuria, suppressed serum levels of
      parathyroid hormone (PTH), elevated levels of the active vitamin D metabolite, 1,25(OH)2D,
      and nephrocalcinosis. Biallelic loss of functions mutations of CYP24A1, the gene encoding the
      24-hydroxylase enzyme that represents the principal pathway for inactivation of vitamin D
      metabolites, cause the most common and severe form of IIH.

      Investigators have preliminary data supporting a novel therapeutic approach to suggest
      rifampin as an investigational drug to induce over-expression of CYP3A4, an important P450
      microsomal enzyme that is expressed in the liver and intestine. When CYP3A4 is induced, the
      increased enzyme activity provides an alternative catabolic pathway for inactivation of
      vitamin D metabolites. The purpose of this study is to obtain results and support for an open
      label, escalating dose study to assess the effect, safety, and tolerability of once daily
      oral rifampin for two months in participants with IIH due to inactivating mutations in
      CYP24A1.

      In this study, Investigators will recruit 5 patients with biallelic inactivating mutations of
      CYP24A1. Participants will be followed prospectively for a total 6-11 months. This will
      include 2 months of observation, 2 months of receiving the starting dose of rifampin,
      followed by 2 month washout phase. Efficacy of the starting dose of rifampin will be
      determined prior to proceeding only in non responders to the escalation dose of rifampin
      10mg/kg/day. In addition to determining if this treatment is efficacious in reducing elevated
      serum and urinary calcium in patients, it will be determined if there is a dose effect of
      rifampin. As well, detailed measurements of vitamin D metabolites will determine if rifampin
      reduces hypercalcemia through increased CYP3A4 activity.
    
  