
    
      The onset of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) in the first months of 2020 had a huge
      impact on Italian population and Healthcare System, with more than 150.000 total confirmed
      cases. SARS-CoV-2 is a highly contagious new virus, causing an influenza like illness and
      respiratory tract infection demonstrating fever (89%), cough (68%), fatigue (38%), sputum
      production (34%) and/or shortness of breath (19%). The spectrum of disease severity ranges
      from an asymptomatic infection or mild upper respiratory tract illness (80% of cases), to 15%
      of cases with severe infection with fever, cough, fatigue and shortness of breath, requiring
      oxygen, and 5% are severe viral pneumonia with respiratory failure requiring ventilation and
      life support and/or death. At present, clinicians do not know the real impact of Coronavirus
      Disease on patients' performances, functional status and QoL. Patients admitted to hospital
      experience fever, cough, dyspnea, muscle soreness and/or acute respiratory distress syndrome
      but healthcare professionals observe also anxiety, depression and important functional
      limitations during hospital stay. This situation is expected to have a significant negative
      impact in the short term, mainly for patients affected by other medical conditions and it may
      lead to deconditioning, fatigue, isolation, poor functional status and QoL.

      In the first months after COVID-19 outbreak, researchers focused their studies on infection
      epidemiology, transmission, COVID-19 diagnosis and medical treatments. As the epidemic
      progresses, a large part of patients is expected to come out of the acute phase, and they may
      need adequate rehabilitation to face functional limitations and return to previous levels of
      participation.

      To date, the very few studies published on the rehabilitation of positive and symptomatic
      patients with COVID-19 focused on pulmonary rehabilitation guidelines or on implications for
      rehabilitation services. To our knowledge, no clinical trial on rehabilitation intervention
      for patients after COVID-19 is ongoing. Our research group set up an observational study to
      detect patients' rehabilitation needs after COVID-19, collecting data on symptoms,
      impairments, functional abilities and participations to social life in the first months after
      hospital discharge.

      The aim of this observational study is to detect symptoms, disabilities, participation and
      the lived experience of the disease in individuals affected by COVID-19 two months after the
      hospital discharge.
    
  