
    
      Antiretroviral therapy in HIV-infected patients has progressed significantly over the past
      two decades.

      Viral replication in patients who are complicit in their treatment regimen is greatly reduced
      below detection limits (quantification) by current and approved laboratory tests. However,
      the persistence of residual (plasma) replication of the virus creates an inflammatory state
      associated with certain pathologies, accelerated aging and premature mortality. If treatment
      is discontinued for any reason, viral replication resumes within a few weeks in almost all
      patients.

      Alternative infections of inflammatory pathways in HIV can also play a critical role in the
      inflammatory process suppressed by treatment. Members of the phospholipase A2 family can
      hydrolyze phospholipid molecules at the sn-2 position, making it a question about lipid
      moieties. One of the members, the phospholipase A2 group1B (PLA2G1B), is found in the plasma
      of HIV-infected patients who are not receiving antiretroviral therapy. Ex vivo, this enzyme
      is able to induce a purified CD4 lymphocyte energy from donors, as well as by inducing the
      lack of response to IL-7 (interleukin-7). In the long term, loss of response to IL-7 induces
      CD4 lymphopenia. Therefore, PLA2G1B must play an important role in the mechanism leading to
      HIV-infected patients becoming immunodeficient.

      At the clinical level, we found that PLA2G1B activity increases in all HIV-infected patients
      and decreases after ARV treatment. On the other hand, for patients who are able to eliminate
      the HIV virus on therapy but whose immunological response remains low, PLA2G1B activity
      remains high. More interestingly, in "HIV Elite Controller" patients, PLA2G1B activity is not
      found in their plasma. Overall, there is a correlation between the different clinical groups
      (viremic not on therapy, ARV and virus removal with robust CD4+ T-cell response, virus
      removal with suboptimal CD4+ T-cell response and "HIV Elite Controller") and the activity
      level of PLA2G1B in their plasma.

      The purpose of this study, more generally, is to study the role of PLA2G1B in CD4 lymphocytes
      and to analyze the reversion of its effects in the immunopathogenicity of HIV infection.

      In the main study, 15 patients will be included. The analysis of the first 7 patients will in
      addition meet the objectives of the study, to determine the test that will allow the
      follow-up of the 8 other patients after ARV treatment. The participation of the 7 patients in
      the study is limited to 1 (one) day.

      In the sub-study, the last 8 patients following their inclusion in the main study will enter
      a follow-up phase of 12 months after they are put on ARV treatment. The total duration of
      participation for the 8 patients will be 13 months.

      The main study is carried out by taking 50 mL of total blood and in the sub-study, 30mL of
      blood sample will be taken during the follow-up visit (at M1, M3, M6, M9 and 12 Months) after
      ARV treatment.
    
  