
    
      Every year three hundred patients undergo hysterectomy at the department of obstetric and
      gynaecologic surgery at Zealand University Hospital, University of Copenhagen. The most
      common procedure is Total Laparoscopic Hysterectomy (TLH), which is the preferred technique
      in about four out of five hysterectomies at our facility. Multimodal analgesia consists of
      Paracetamol 1 g, Ibuprofen 400 mg and Dexamethasone 8 mg and Sufentanil 0.2 micrograms/kg for
      emergence if no contraindications are present. Standard general anaesthesia is total
      intravenous anaesthesia (TIVA) with an induction consisting of Remifentanil and Propofol
      infusions, a bolus of Propofol followed by muscle relaxation with Rocuronium. Patients are
      intubated in the trachea. Anaesthesia is maintained with Remifentanil and Propofol infusions
      and boluses of Rocuronium are administered whenever the surgeon requires it. Patients are
      always in Trendelenburg's position. Thirty minutes prior to emergence a bolus of Sufentanil
      0.2 microg/kg is administered, as mentioned previously. Of interest: two other different
      opioid based regimens are currently used in the other two hospitals in Region Zealand where
      this procedure is performed. There is no national standards defined for dosages used for this
      kind of surgery. Additionally, no regional techniques are defined for this surgical
      procedure.

      Our research group at Zealand University Hospital has conducted a thorough retrospective
      one-year survey for this patient group in order to define the quantity of the research
      problem. The electronic anaesthesia files, PACU files and ward files were meticulously
      reviewed. The survey revealed an accumulated morphine consumption in the first 12
      postoperative hours of 44.1±30.8 mg of oral morphine equivalents in TLH patients. This dosage
      should be evaluated in relation to the standardized multimodal regimen described above.

      Anaesthesiologists have primarily used either epidural catheters or long-lasting opioids as
      the basis for the postoperative pain management of expected or manifest moderate to severe
      pain. An epidural blockade can be contraindicated for some patients, and might cause bladder
      paralysis, lower extremity paralysis, hypotension etc. In addition, the epidural technique is
      labour-intensive in application as well as in its requirements for monitoring. Thus, the
      continuous epidural blockade is not a possibility of interest to the gynaecologists at our
      hospital. Therefore, until recently, opioids have been the sole treatment of pain, when
      over-the-counter medicine does not suffice. This presents a problem for the patients due to
      the well-known adverse effects of morphine including postoperative nausea and vomiting
      (PONV), itching, fatigue, constipation, confusion, respiratory depression and delayed
      mobilization.

      Postoperative complications to surgery are more frequent in patients experiencing
      postoperative pain, and besides reducing the immediate postoperative pain perception, the
      investigators consider reduction of the total morphine consumption and the potential of
      reducing development of chronic pain through better treatment of the acute pain, as very
      interesting and promising for the patients in our study.

      The investigators have the technical capability to improve perioperative pain management by
      taking advantage of USG peripheral nerve blocks (PNBs). The investigators' group of
      researchers have described the transmuscular quadratus lumborum (TQL) block and the mechanism
      by which the TQL block works has been proven in a major cadaveric study and some case
      reports.

      The TQL block is applied with the patient in the lateral position, with the side to be
      blocked turned upwards. The ultrasound transducer is placed in the transverse position at the
      posterior axillary line, just above the iliac crest, and adjusted to visualize the QL and
      psoas major (PM) muscles and the transverse process of vertebrae L3 or L4. The needle is
      subsequently inserted at the posterolateral end of the transducer and advanced in plane. The
      needle is advanced through the QL muscle until the tip of the needle penetrates the investing
      fascia of the QL muscle. The local anaesthetic is then injected in the interfascial plane,
      but posterior to the transversalis fascia (TF) and between the QL and PM muscles.
      Confirmation of correct application can subsequently be visualized when the two muscles are
      seen to spread apart on the ultrasound image.

      The investigators want to perform evidence-based research using the USG TQL for patients
      undergoing TLH. The hypothesis is that the USG TQL block administered bilaterally and applied
      pre-operatively in the PACU or in the theatre for the TLH patients can reduce the
      postoperative morphine consumption by 50 % during the first 12 postoperative hours. It is
      considered a block with very little discomfort for the patient.

      All patients scheduled for a TLH will be screened according to the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria. The suitable candidates will be asked prior to surgery, whether they want to
      participate in the trial. If so, before elective TLH, the patient will receive the block,
      allocated in a randomised fashion to either active LA or placebo. The block will be performed
      under standard perioperative monitoring by a trained and skilled physician from the
      department of anaesthesia. The active treatment will be a bilateral TQL block with 30 mL
      Ropivacaine 0.375% on each side, whereas the placebo group will receive the same volume of
      isotonic Saline, applied in the exact same way. The patients will all receive the same
      multimodal analgesic regimens, consisting of 1 g Acetaminophen, 400 mg Ibuprofen and 8 mg of
      Dexamethasone prior to surgery, and a regimen of 3 x Ibuprofen and 4 x Acetaminophen a day
      until discharge. An IV Morphine Patient-Controlled Analgesia (PCA) - pump will be used for 24
      hours after instructions are given and the pump is set to begin in the PACU. In order to keep
      the pooled administration of local anaesthetic below the accepted maximum recommended dosage,
      neither local anaesthetic infiltration performed by the surgeon nor supplemental rescue
      regional techniques will be performed. Whenever pain exceeds an NRS of three despite the
      primary use of the PCA pump, the PACU nurses will administer additional Morphine or
      Sufentanil as they already do by the present standards.

      Aim:

      The aim with this study is to investigate the efficacy of the USG TQL block vs. Placebo in
      patients undergoing TLH.

      The hypothesis is that the bilateral TQL block will significantly reduce the opioid
      consumption during the first 12 postoperative hours and significantly reduce the Numerical
      Rating Scale (NRS) pain score (0-10/10) and opioid related side effects.

      Outcome:

      Primary outcome:

      The primary outcome of the study will be:

      Morphine consumption in the first 12 postoperative hours (data from PCA pump and the
      patient's medical record).

      The secondary outcomes will be:

      (A) Pain intensity (NRS 0-10/10) in the study period at T0 (arrival in the PACU), after 15,
      30 and 45 minutes. And again at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, 15, 18, 21 and 24 hours
      postoperatively. In addition, NRS score will be recorded electronically in relation to all
      morphine administrations, since all patients must enter their NRS pain score on the PCA pump
      display in relation to administration of the PCA boluses.

      (B) Total morphine consumption. Morphine consumption at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18 and 24 postoperative
      hours.

      (C) Duration of block (time to first opioid). (D) Patient satisfaction with application of
      the block. (E) The degree of morphine-related side effects (PONV, itching, fatigue, etc.).
      (F) Time from operation to ambulation. The investigators regard these outcome parameters as
      essential for the selected patient group, and it is the investigators' hope that this could
      lead to a better amelioration of postoperative pain and reduced morphine consumption
      postoperatively.
    
  