
    
      Acute compartment syndrome (ACS) after revascularization for acute limb ischemia is a
      potentially limb-threatening condition and requires urgent fasciotomy. It occurs when the
      tissue pressure within a closed muscle compartment exceeds the perfusion pressure and results
      in muscle and nerve ischemia.

      If clinically suspected, intra- compartmental pressure (ICP) is measured by inserting a
      needle into the area of ACS, usually the anterior tibial muscle compartment, while an
      attached pressure monitor records the pressure. This invasive diagnostic method is widely
      used as a standard with a sensitivity of 94% and specificity of 98%.

      Compression ultrasound (CU) is an established method for measuring intravenous pressure in
      superficial veins and, for example, can determine central venous pressure in critically ill
      patients. An ultrasound translucent probe measures the pressure applied on the skin surface
      with the ultrasound transducer. In cadaver studies, compression ultrasound has been proven to
      correlate with invasive ICP measurements. The elasticity ratio (ER, compartment diameter with
      and without external pressure) validated in a recently published animal model has a
      sensitivity of 94.4% and a specificity of 88.9% to diagnose a compartment syndrome properly.
      The first results in six trauma patients showed that the ER less than 10,5% of the anterior
      tibial compartment had a sensitivity of 95,8% and a specificity of 87,5% to an appropriate
      diagnosis of ACS. Thus, this non-invasive, low-cost, and secure diagnostic technique has not
      been validated in patients with ACS after revascularisation for acute lower limb ischemia yet
      has the potential to discriminate clinically suspected ACS sensitively.

      This study aims to determine CU's added diagnostic value compared to ICP in detecting ACS
      after revascularisation.
    
  