
    
      Provider-parent communication during ARTI visits often drives unwarranted antibiotic
      prescribing. Dr. Mangione-Smith (proposed principal investigator) and colleagues developed a
      quality improvement (QI) intervention for pediatric providers called the Dialogue Around
      Respiratory Illness Treatment (DART) program. The DART QI program is a multifaceted,
      web-based intervention that is delivered asynchronously over a 9-month period and takes a
      total of 2 hours to complete. DART's content is based on over a decade of observational
      research conducted by Mangione-Smith et al focused on optimizing provider-parent
      communication during pediatric ARTI visits in order to reduce unnecessary antibiotic
      prescribing while still maintaining parent satisfaction with care.[cites] The DART program
      also includes content related to evidence-based antibiotic prescribing with a particular
      focus on reducing the use of second-line, broad-spectrum antibiotics for bacterial ARTIs.

      Under funding from the Eunice Kennedy National Institute for Child Health and Human
      Development (NICHD), the investigators recently conducted a trial of the DART QI program with
      55 providers from 20 practices belonging to one of two pediatric practice-based research
      networks: the Pediatric Research in Office Settings (PROS) and NorthShore University Health
      System networks. Exposure to the DART QI program resulted in an proportional decrease from
      for overall antibiotic prescribing rates for ARTIs and a proportional decrease from for the
      use of second-line antibiotics for bacterial ARTIs comparing the baseline to the
      post-intervention periods.

      The DART QI Program represents a new, innovative tool to address antibiotic over-use for
      ARTIs in the pediatric outpatient setting. However, it is unclear whether the program will be
      effective when disseminated to the family practice clinical setting where 23% of children
      receive their acute illness care nationally. It is also unclear how exposure to the
      communication strategies outlined in the DART QI program may influence provider-patient
      communication during adult encounters for ARTI.
    
  