
    
      Study Design

      This was a randomized, controlled, split-mouth cross-over design clinical trial. Subjects
      were randomized into two groups depending on the control and intervention arches:

        -  Group 1: The maxillary arch was the control arch (only bleaching) while the mandibular
           arch (MN) was intervention arch (bleaching and MI Paste).

        -  Group 2: The MN arch was the control arch (only bleaching) while the MX arch was the
           intervention arch (bleaching and MI Paste).

      Ethical permission for the study was obtained from the University Intuitional Review Board
      (No. 200604706). The study was conducted in full accordance with the Helsinki Declaration and
      reported using CONSORT guidelines. Informed consents were obtained from the subjects prior to
      enrolment in the study.

      Participants Forty-six participants were recruited at the Oral Health Center. Participants
      were included if they age between 18 and 55 years old with no prior history of bleaching, not
      using any desensitizing agents, and with anterior teeth of shade A2 or higher. Participants
      allergic to milk protein, pregnant, and/or on daily NSAIDs were excluded. They were also
      excluded if they have had an anterior crown or composite restoration, scaling or periodontal
      surgery performed in the past six months, and/or had a history of bleaching.

      Intervention Both the bleaching gel (TiON whitening gel (GC America Inc) and MI paste
      (PROSPECTM MI paste) were delivered using custom trays with reservoir made for participants
      at the beginning of the study. To avoid contamination, the control arch was always bleached
      first. Group 1 subjects were instructed to use 15% carbamide peroxide on maxillary arch while
      group 2 were instructed to use it on the mandibular arch. Subjects stopped bleaching on their
      respective arches after 2 weeks. Subjects were then given bleach and MI paste to be used on
      the opposing arch (Group 1 used it on the mandibular arch and Group 2 used it on maxillary
      arch).

      For bleaching only arch, participants were instructed to wear the trays each night for 6-8
      hours for two weeks. Subjects were given a VAS daily log to document the sensitivity for two
      weeks. For bleach and MI Paste arch, participants were instructed to brush and floss their
      teeth, load the non-scalloped tray with MI Paste, wear it for 5 minutes, remove the tray,
      spit out the excess, and not to eat or drink for one hour. They were instructed to bleach
      after that for 6-8 hours for the next two weeks. Participants were instructed not to bleach
      the first arch anymore. Participants were given a VAS daily log to document the sensitivity
      score for each day for two weeks.

      Measurements Measurements were made at baseline (Time 0), 2 weeks after initiation of
      bleaching (Time 1) and 2 weeks after the end of treatment (i.e., 4 weeks after initiation of
      bleaching; Time 2) for each arch. Longitudinal VAS scores were to be assessed at baseline
      (Day 0) and daily during the two weeks of bleaching (Days 1 through 14).

      Sensitivity Sensitivity was measured using thermal sensitivity scale (VAS) of 0-10, with 0
      being "no pain" and 10 being "severe pain." Subjects were asked to pick a number. Thermal
      sensitivity was measured by using a 1-second air blast at 70oF from dental unit air syringe
      as per American Dental Association (ADA) guidelines. A Scale of 0-3 was used to measure the
      pain response with 0 indicating "no pain" and 3 indicating the "severe pain" which lasted for
      more than 10 seconds12.

      Shade Value-oriented Vita classical shade guide was used to determine the shade of the teeth
      under standardized conditions for color corrected light. Shade scores were ordered from 1 to
      16 according to the brightness grouping recommended by the manufactures. A hand held
      coloriometer "Shade Vision" (X-rite, Inc) was used to measure shade digitally. Shade Vision
      identifies color difference using three dimensional CIE L*a*b* values system.

      Participants' Survey Participants were given a survey at the end of the study examining their
      perception on the ease of application of MI Paste as well as the impact of MI Paste on
      sensitivity and gingival inflammation.
    
  