
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the pathologic response of nivolumab monotherapy and nivolumab and ipilimumab
      dual therapy administered in the neoadjuvant setting in patients with high-risk resectable
      melanoma. Pathologic response will be assessed by percent viable tumor cells, percent tumor
      necrosis, presence of fibrosis and melanoma proliferation as assessed by phosphohistone H3
      from baseline, to on-treatment and surgical specimens. (Arm A and Arm B) II. To assess the
      pathologic response rate of combination relatlimab with nivolumab in the neoadjuvant setting
      in patients with high-risk resectable Stage IIIB/C or oligometastatic Stage IV melanoma.
      Pathologic response will be assessed by percent viable tumor cells, percent tumor necrosis,
      presence of fibrosis and melanoma proliferation as assessed by phosphohistone H3 from
      baseline, to on- treatment and surgical specimens. (Arm C)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the immunologic response of neoadjuvant nivolumab monotherapy and neoadjuvant
      nivolumab and ipilimumab dual therapy in patients with high-risk resectable melanoma.
      Immunologic response will be determined by change in T cell infiltrate from baseline to
      on-treatment and surgical specimens in response to therapy. (Arm A and Arm B) II. To assess
      the objective response rate (ORR) of nivolumab monotherapy and nivolumab and ipilimumab dual
      therapy administered in the neoadjuvant setting as assessed by imaging (Response Evaluation
      Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] 1.1 criteria) in patients with high-risk resectable
      melanoma. (Arm A and Arm B) III. To assess the 12-month recurrence-free survival (RFS) and
      overall survival (OS) of patients with high-risk resectable melanoma treated with neoadjuvant
      nivolumab monotherapy or nivolumab and ipilimumab dual therapy followed by adjuvant
      nivolumab. (Arm A and Arm B) IV. To evaluate the safety of nivolumab monotherapy and dual
      ipilimumab and nivolumab in the neoadjuvant setting and peri-operatively as well as assess
      the safety of adjuvant nivolumab. (Arm A and Arm B) V. To evaluate safety and feasibility of
      relatlimab with nivolumab delivered in the neoadjuvant setting. (Arm C) VI. To assess the
      objective response rate (ORR) of relatlimab with nivolumab administered in the neoadjuvant
      setting as assessed by imaging (RECIST 1.1 criteria) in patients with high-risk resectable
      melanoma. (Arm C) VII. To assess the 12-month recurrence-free survival (RFS) and overall
      survival (OS) of patients with high-risk resectable melanoma treated with neoadjuvant and
      adjuvant relatlimab with nivolumab. (Arm C) VIII. To evaluate immunologic and molecular
      mechanisms of response and resistance to relatlimab with nivolumab. (Arm C)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Identification of immunologic and genomic markers correlating with clinical response or
      resistance to nivolumab monotherapy and ipilimumab with nivolumab combination therapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 15, 29, and
      43. Patients then undergo surgery on day 57. After surgery, patients receive nivolumab IV
      over 30 minutes every 2 weeks for 13 doses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. (CLOSED TO ENROLLMENT AS OF 10/3/2018)

      ARM B: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 1 hour and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on days 1,
      22, and 43. Patients then undergo surgery on day 57. After surgery, patients receive
      nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every 2 weeks for 13 doses in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity. (CLOSED TO ENROLLMENT AS OF 10/3/2018)

      ARM C: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 1 hour and relatlimab IV over 1 hour on days 1 and
      29. Patients then undergo surgery on day 57. After surgery, patients receive nivolumab IV
      over 1 hour and relatlimab IV over 1 hour every 4 weeks for 10 doses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for 2 years.
    
  