
    
      This research study will test a problem-solving intervention for Spanish-speaking stroke
      caregivers that will be delivered over the telephone and online via the previously developed
      and nationally available Spanish version of the RESCUE website. The investigators will adapt
      their previously pilot-tested problem-solving intervention and make it culturally-relevant
      for Hispanic caregivers. The investigators' main goal is to test the efficacy of a brief,
      telephone and online problem-solving intervention. The objectives are: 1) reduce caregiver
      burden and depression, 2) improve caregivers' problem-solving abilities, self-efficacy, and
      quality of life, 3) improve Veterans' functional abilities and determine the intervention's
      impact on Veterans' healthcare utilization, 4) determine budgetary impact, and 5) determine
      caregivers' perceptions of the intervention.

      The investigators will conduct a two-arm (8-session intervention vs. standard care), ,
      randomized controlled trial to test a problem-solving intervention for Spanish-speaking
      stroke caregivers that will be delivered over the telephone and online via the previously
      developed and nationally available Spanish version of the RESCUE website. A sample of 290
      stroke caregivers will be randomly assigned to either an intervention or a standard care
      group. Eligibility criteria: Hispanic caregivers of Veterans with a primary diagnosis of
      stroke are eligible for participation if they meet the following criteria: 1) are the primary
      caregiver and provide the majority of care for a Veteran who has a diagnosis of stroke (ICD9
      codes for stroke: 430-438 or ICD 10 codes 160.0 through 169.998) within the last year and who
      has at least two activity of daily living (ADL) deficits or a new or worsening neurological
      problem, 2) have Internet access and ability, (either themselves or via a relative or friend)
      3) are reachable by cell or home phone, 4) Spanish is their preferred language, 5) have
      moderate to severe stress, and 6) ) identify self as Hispanic, and 7) agree to random
      assignment to the intervention or standard care group. We will determine caregiver status.

      Baseline measurements will be conducted with the caregivers prior to the intervention.
      Post-test assessments will be collected at 1 and 12 weeks post-intervention. In addition, the
      investigators will obtain pre- and post-test measures of Veteran-related variables via CPRS
      electronic health records. Qualitative interviews will be conducted to assess caregivers'
      perceptions of the intervention. A general linear mixed model for repeated measures will be
      used to examine the relationship between treatment assignment and each outcome over time. The
      investigators will measure the budgetary impact of providing intervention by comparing the
      costs of the intervention group to the costs of the control group.
    
  