
    
      Early detection of language development disorders and a timely delivery of appropriate
      measures derived from it, can prevent secondary consequences of language learning disorders.
      In particular, phonologically delayed disorders can have an impact on the development of
      literacy and place the child at risk of dyslexia. With this knowledge, that early detection
      and the appropriate measures derived from it can prevent the secondary consequences of a
      speech sound disorder, speech and language therapists strive to carry out an effective
      therapeutic process based on the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and
      Health (ICF). In the field of effectiveness research, there is consensus that the objective,
      which is tailored to the disorder, is closely linked to the chosen therapeutic method.
      Therapeutic ICF-oriented measures should be adapted to the needs of the child. Based on the
      current knowledge, no therapy concept can offer this, if it is used exclusively.

      In effectiveness research, disagreement prevails in the area of treatment intensity and the
      intervention period. The therapy intensity is determined by three factors: number of properly
      implemented teaching episodes per session (dose), task or activity within which the teaching
      episodes are delivered (dose form) and the number of sessions per unit of time (e.g. once a
      week/once a month), It should be noted that the threshold at which speech therapy is still
      effective and where the intervention period is too short has mostly been derived from
      observations. It seems that a certain amount of developmental time is required for the
      consolidation of new skills. It has so far only been stated that the duration of intervention
      cannot be generalized for each child and that an improvement in the functional capacity of
      the linguistic output may be between 12 and 20 hours of intervention. In addition to the
      uncertainty of how high the intensity of therapy must be in order to achieve generalization
      effects, there is no information in science to date as to which baseline level has to be
      achieved for it.

      Therefore the desire for systematic studies on the question: Which baseline level does a
      child have to reach in order to transfer the treated phonological process to the spontaneous
      speech during the therapy break? prevails.

      Aim 1 will determine whether a 12-week intervention break in children between the ages of
      five and six with phonologically delayed development of one phonological process will lead to
      significant improvements in the transfer of the target phoneme / target consonant cluster in
      spontaneous speech. On the condition that the threshold of 70-80% correct pronunciation of
      the target phoneme / target consonant cluster was attained.

      Aim 2 will determine whether children, who at the end of the therapy, do not demonstrate 100
      percent correct pronunciation of the targeted phoneme / the target consonant cluster in
      spontaneous speech by acquiring the grapheme/graphemes (the affected treated phoneme / the
      affected treated consonant cluster) see an improvement of the target phoneme / target
      consonant cluster in spontaneous speech?
    
  