
    
      A prospective cohort study was performed to validate the explicit criteria developed by the
      RAM. Other goals for the cohort study were: to predict mortality, ICU or IRCU admission,
      hospital length of stay, changes in symptoms and to evaluate variability among hospitals in
      the appropriateness of hospital admission of patients experiencing COPD exacerbations and to
      study variability in access to care and outcomes. Sixteen hospitals belonging to the Spanish
      National Health Service agreed to participate: Hospital Costa del Sol, Hospital Valme,
      Hospital de Motril, Corporació Sanitaria Parc Taulí, Hospital del Mar, Hospital Universitario
      de La Princesa, Hospital Universitario Gregorio Marañón, Hospital Universitario La Paz,
      Hospital de Móstoles, Hospital Marqués de Valdecilla, Hospital Santa Marina, Hospital San
      Eloy, Hospital Galdakao-Usansolo, Hospital Txagorritxu, Complejo Hospitalario Donostia, and
      Hospital Cruces.

      Patients attending the EDs of any of the 16 hospitals with an exacerbation of COPD were
      informed of the goals of the study and invited to voluntarily participate in it. All
      information was kept confidential. The Institutional Review Boards of the participating
      hospitals approved this project. Recruitment started in June 2008 and ended in September
      2010.

      Patients were candidates for the study if they presented to the ED of any of the
      participating hospitals with symptoms consistent of an exacerbation of COPD. Exacerbation was
      defined as an event in the natural course of the disease characterized by a change in the
      patient's baseline dyspnea, cough, and/or sputum that was beyond normal day-to-day
      variations, was acute in onset, and may have warranted a change in regular medication in a
      patient with underlying COPD. Two possible presentations were considered:

      Existing COPD. Patients were considered to have been previously diagnosed with COPD if they
      had a FEV1/forced vital capacity (FVC) quotient <70%, and a negative bronchodilation test
      with FEV1 change <200 mL and under 15% of the baseline value.

      New COPD. Patients not previously diagnosed with COPD but in whom the disease was suspected
      were also eligible for inclusion in the study. This included smokers or former smokers of
      more than 15 packs per year with dyspnea, cough, or expectoration for more than three months
      per year, and experiencing symptoms resembling a clinical manifestation compatible with COPD
      exacerbation. The diagnosis had to be confirmed by spirometry within 60 days after the index
      episode at a time when the patient was stable, i.e., the absence of any increase in symptoms
      or changes in background therapy. If a diagnosis of COPD was not confirmed, the patient was
      excluded from the study.

      Patients were excluded from the study if they had COPD complicated by a comorbidity such as
      pneumonia, pneumothorax, or pulmonary embolism; lung cancer; or left cardiac insufficiency.
      Other exclusion criteria included a diagnosis of asthma, extensive bronchiectasis, sequelae
      of tuberculosis, pleural thickening, or restrictive diseases. Patients who did not wish to
      participate were also excluded.

      Data collected for the cohort study A substantial amount of clinical and other data were
      needed to meet the objectives of the IRYSS-CAS. Data from several time points were needed:
      during the patient's evaluation in the ED; at the time the decision was made to hospitalize
      the patient or discharge him or her to home; in the medical ward (if needed); and during
      post-hospitalization or post-discharge follow-up. It must be noted that ED physicians were
      not asked to gather any information other than what they would usually collect for a patient
      experiencing an exacerbation of COPD. Instead, trained data managers gathered data from
      hospital and primary care medical records using a manual of instructions that aimed to
      standardize data collection.

      Some of the information required a review of the patient's medical records. Patients admitted
      to the hospital were interviewed at 1 and 7 days after admission. Patients discharged from
      the ED to home were interviewed by telephone at, around, 1 and 7 days after discharge. All
      patients were interviewed by telephone 60 days after the index event.

      In the ED. As is true for almost any encounter in the ED, substantial information is gathered
      for a patient experiencing an exacerbation of COPD. The main data collected were those
      related to the patient's respiratory function (gasometry, respiratory rate, dyspnea),
      consciousness level measured by the Glasgow Coma scale, background, and presence of other
      pathologies as those recorded in the Charlson Comorbidity Index.

      At the time of decision making. Data collected at the ED decision time was related to the
      patient's respiratory status at that moment as well as variables needed to create the
      appropriateness scenarios, determine the severity of the exacerbation, and evaluate other
      study criteria .

      In the hospital. For patients admitted to the hospital, we collected data directly from the
      patient's medical record and from a direct interview with him or her from the first day after
      admission until discharge. Patients were interviewed about their general health status
      (response to question 1 of the Short Form 36 (SF-36) questionnaire[16]), degree of dyspnea,
      based on the Medical Research Council Dyspnea Index[17], physical activity level (based on a
      scale employed previously in various studies and also completed the EuroQol-5D. Patients were
      also asked about social support and level of functional dependency. This information was
      recorded in the first 24 hours after arrival to the ED and at discharge.

      Following discharge to home from the ED. Among patients discharged to home from the ED,
      telephone interviews were conducted around 1 day, 7 days, and 60 days after discharge to
      assess the level of dyspnea, physical activity, and general health (see previous
      description), the use of and response to medications, need for supplemental oxygen, the need
      for visits to the patient's primary care physician, subsequent ED visits or hospital
      readmissions, vital status, presence of other symptoms, social support, and level of
      functional dependency.

      During follow-up. Data collected during follow-up included general health status (SF-36
      question), degree of dyspnea, physical activity level, and quality of life, all as previously
      described. Readmission within 30 days of the index exacerbation for the same reason, or
      readmission for any reason between 31 and 60 days after the index exacerbation was recorded,
      as were complications, including all signs, symptoms, syndromes or diseases, which appeared
      or worsened during the 60-day observation period attributable to COPD or its treatment. For
      all patients with known COPD, additional variables collected from medical records include
      baseline severity of COPD as measured by FEV1; hospital admissions during the previous 12
      months; baseline therapy (inhaled long-acting beta agonist, long-acting anticholinergics,
      inhaled corticosteroid and/or supplemental oxygen), the presence of associated diseases such
      as diabetes, hypertension, ischemic heart disease and/or valve disease, cor pulmonale, peptic
      ulcer disease, psychiatric disorders, rheumatic disease, history of stroke or deep vein
      thrombosis, and others needed to determine the Charlson Comorbidity Index.

      Mortality information at one year was also recorded for all patients.
    
  