
    
      The investigators will recruit 60 adults with typical language (TD) and 40 LI participants
      through a variety of community and university related contacts. 40 TD adults and 20 LI
      participants will be enrolled in Experiment 1. 20 TD adults and 20 LI participants will be
      enrolled in Experiment 2.

      Both experiments will take place over 3 Sessions.

      During Session 1, the investigators will administer various measures in order to validate
      study eligibility, classify participants into groups, and other measures in order to further
      characterize our samples. To that end, participants will be administered a pure tone
      audiometric screening, and complete an interview questionnaire asking for background
      information such as handedness, language background, language and reading development, and
      development of motor skills. Trained research personnel will then administer an approximately
      2-hour testing battery that includes measures of nonverbal cognition, language ability,
      reading ability, attention, executive function, and phonological processing. Participants
      will also complete questionnaires to assess their habitual sleep quality, sleepiness, and
      individual chronotpyes.

      All testing will be completed by a student clinician, and will be supervised by a certified
      speech-language pathologist. 100% of administrations will be re-scored by a trained student
      for accuracy. To account for attrition and non-qualifiers, we anticipate enrolling/screening
      up to 200 individuals in Session 1 in order to arrive at the enrollment targets for
      Experiments 1 and 2.

      In both experiments, Sessions 2 and 3 takes place on two consecutive days. Session 2 will
      take place in the late evening, and Session 3 will take place in the morning. We have
      intentionally chosen not to employ a wake-state (AM-PM) control. This is done in order to
      limit the potential variability in the amount of English exposure between sessions.
      Between-session sleep duration will be monitored with an Actigraph wGT3X-BT accelerometer
      (Actigraph, corp) worn on the non-dominant wrist. Actigraphs will be set to collect data in
      60-second epochs via a validated algorithm (Cain & Geremia,2011). This method of recording
      sleep/wake activity has been independently validated to agree with lab polysomnography at 85%
      accuracy (Slater et al.,2015).

      Experiment 1: behavioral measures During Session 2, participants will complete the three
      learning tasks, declarative learning, procedural learning, nonnative speech learning (in that
      order), and immediate post-learning assessments. During Session 3, participants will be
      re-assessed in nonnative speech learning, declarative learning, and procedural learning (in
      that order).

        -  Declarative memory will be assessed using an object recognition task following
           incidental encoding.

        -  A version of the Serial Reaction Time task will be used to measure procedural learning.

        -  Perceptual learning of speech will be measured through performance on identification and
           discrimination tasks on the dental and retroflex contrast.

      Experiment 2: neuroimaging measures During Session 2, participants will complete the
      nonnative contrast training in the late evening. Then they will enter a magnetic resonance
      imagine (MRI) scanner, where their blood oxygen-level dependent signals will be recorded
      while they complete the post-training identification and discrimination assessments. The
      participants will complete the same in-scanner assessments of the perception of the nonnative
      contrast during Session 3.
    
  