
    
      This is a prospective randomized double-blind sham-controlled study. After enrollment (T-0),
      patients are randomly placed into the vibration group (VG) or the control group (CG), by
      using a computer-generated randomization list. VG patients receive rMV treatment while those
      of CG receive the sham one. Both treatments are carried out during the 1st, 2nd and 3rd day
      after enrollment. Physiokinesitherapy (PT) is carried out in all patients every day, starting
      soon after T-0 clinical evaluation. Patients are re-evaluated after 4 ± 1 days (T-1), at the
      end of treatment.

      Upon admission, all participants' demographic details and medical history are recorded. All
      patients undergo a clinical examination, performed at all time-points by an experienced
      investigator, blinded to group assignment and different from the recruiting one. Clinical
      evaluation consists of stroke severity evaluation, by means of NIH Stroke Scale; motor and
      functional limbs abilities are evaluated by using both the Fugl-Meyer scale and the Motricity
      Index; post-stroke spasticity is assessed with Ashworth scale, modified by Bohannon and
      Smith.

      All participants undergo a daily rehabilitation program. The physical therapist is instructed
      about duration, frequency, and content of therapy in order to ensure uniformity in treatment
      procedures, and blinded to patients' treatment allocation.

      Low-amplitude rMV (frequency 100 Hz; amplitude range 0.2-0.5 mm) is applied over the flexor
      carpi radialis and the biceps brachii for the upper limb treatment, and/or over the
      quadriceps femoris for the lower limb treatment, by means of a specific commercial device
      (Cro®System, NEMOCOsrl).

      The rMV treatment is carried out for three consecutive days by 2 trained physiatrists; each
      daily session consists of three 10-minute treatment (for each treated limb), interspersed
      with a 5-minute break.

      During the rMV, subjects are required to make a voluntary isometric contraction of the
      treated muscle.

      Otherwise, the CG participants undergo the sham rMV by positioning the vibrator close to the
      tendon but without touching the skin. In this condition, patients are only subject to the
      faint buzzing sound of the vibrator
    
  