
    
      Objective:

      Ghrelin is a 28-amino acid peptide that stimulates appetite and food intake. It is an
      endogenous ligand for the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHSR1a). Preclinical studies
      suggest that ghrelin modulates alcohol reward processing. Previous work from our research
      team, indicated that intravenous (IV) ghrelin administration, compared to placebo, results in
      an acute increase in alcohol craving during a cue-reactivity experiment in alcoholic
      individuals. Therefore, an oral bioavailable, ghrelin receptor antagonist that is able to
      pass through the blood brain barrier holds particular promise as a treatment for alcohol use
      disorder (AUD). This protocol is part of a grant project funded by National Center for
      Advancing Translational Sciences (NCATS) aimed to generate preliminary evidence in AUD on the
      safety and efficacy of a ghrelin receptor (GHSR1a) antagonist, PF-05190457, an existing
      molecule available under the NIH-Industry Pilot Program at NCATS. Completed preclinical and
      clinical (Protocol #14-AA-0042) work has demonstrated the safety of PF-05190457/alcohol
      interaction. The goal of this protocol is to conduct a proof-of-concept human laboratory
      study to assess an early-signal of efficacy of PF-05190457 in AUD.

      Study population:

      The study population will be AUD individuals (n = 55).

      Study Design:

      A within-subject, counterbalanced, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.

      Outcome measures:

      The primary aim will be to determine whether PF-05190457, compared to placebo, reduces
      alcohol cue-elicited craving. The main secondary aim will be to determine whether
      PF-05190457, compared to placebo, reduces brain blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) response
      during exposure to alcohol cues, during a task-based fMRI scan. We will also investigate the
      effects of PF-05190457 on food craving as well as on food choices using a virtual buffet
      experimental procedure. All these outcomes will be assessed in the inpatient Unit at the NIH
      CC. After the inpatient portion of the protocol, patients will be followed-up as outpatients.
      During the outpatient phase, patients will be offered motivational interviewing and video
      feedback to explore the effects of this intervention, compared to supportive counseling, on
      maintaining motivation for alcohol abstinence and inform future studies where medications
      like PF-05190457 and behavioral treatments may be combined. The outpatient phase is optional
      for treatment seeking and nontreatment seeking participants.
    
  