
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Asthma is a result of a dysregulated immune response to inhaled antigens. The development of
      an immune response dominated by T cells (Th2) that secrete interleukin 4 (IL-4) and IL-5
      results in the constellation of findings associated with asthma, including elevated IgE and
      increased blood eosinophilia. Epidemiological studies indicate that there are several
      predisposing factors that may dictate whether asthma may develop in certain individuals
      including genetic, environmental, and age-related factors. Any one factor alone may not
      determine whether an inappropriate immune response develops with subsequent development of
      asthma; rather, asthma likely results from a combination of factors. However, once a Th2
      response in the lung has occurred, the hypothesis is that it dominates and results in the
      development of Th2 response to inhaled neoantigens. Further, the acquired predisposition to a
      Th2 response may override other preexisting predisposing factors and therefore becomes the
      prime target for asthma therapy.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study was a subproject in a Specialized Center of Research (SCOR) in Fibrotic Lung
      Disease from 1997 through 2001. Both normal and asthmatic subjects were immunized with a
      neoantigen, keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH), via intrapulmonary and subcutaneous routes and
      observed for the type of antibody and T cell response that developed. Furthermore, the effect
      of inhaled anti-inflammatory medications on primary immune responses to KLH was assessed.
      Additional studies examined the effect of regional pulmonary Th2 responses on peripheral
      blood asthma-associated effector cells, basophils and eosinophils. Finally, the investigators
      determined whether chronic therapy of asthmatic children with either nedocromil or budesonide
      modulated their immune response to a systemically administered neoantigen, hepatitis B
      vaccine. These studies were designed to provide important information on the regulation of
      immune responses in humans with asthma. Furthermore, they helped to determine whether
      anti-inflammatory medications could inhibit development of a Th2 responses or only prevent
      inflammatory events downstream from Th2 development.

      The subproject had three specific aims. The first was to test the hypothesis that the lower
      respiratory tracts of asthmatics would respond differently to a neo-antigen. In part A of
      specific aim 1, the lower respiratory tracts of asthmatics were challenged with KLH.
      Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) was repeated after 12 days and blood samples collected after a
      number of time points. Immunoglobulins were measured in blood and BAL, and lymphocytes were
      collected from the BAL and assayed for response to antigen in an in vitro test. In part B,
      individuals were treated with six weeks of anti-inflammatory therapy after which responses to
      intrapulmonary antigen were assessed.

      Specific aim 2 assessed the role of acute challenge of the lung with antigen on eosinophil
      and basophil responsiveness. The lung was challenged by intrapulmonary installation of
      antigen through the bronchoscope and samples were collected from the peripheral blood at
      various time points. An allergen challenge was performed after six weeks of therapy with
      nedocromil budesonide or placebo.

      In specific aim 3, asthmatic children were tested in two stages. In stage one, a preliminary
      study was performed in children with relatively mild asthma who were immunized with hepatitis
      vaccine. Samples were collected at various time points and assayed for antigen-specific
      antibody. The hypothesis that asthmatic children would have a Th2 type response rather than
      the Th1 type response in normal children was evaluated by determining times at which samples
      could be collected from the larger Childhood Asthma Management Program (CAMP) study.
    
  