
    
      Amyloidosis is a multi-organ syndrome, which usually presents as a restrictive cardiomyopathy
      (RCM). Transthyretin (TTR) amyloidosis is a subtype of amyloidosis, further subdivided into
      familial type and senile type. Its pathophysiology consists primarily of abnormal
      precipitation of transthyretin - a protein that normally acts as transporter for thyroid
      hormone and retinoids - in tissues. TTR amyloidosis frequently involves heart, bringing about
      the same clinical and pathophysiological picture of RCM. Another presentation of TTR
      Amyloidosis can be atrio-ventricular block or bundle-branch block [1].

      There is evidence that the cardiac TTR amyloidosis, though infrequently diagnosed during the
      lifetime, may represent a widespread cause of restrictive cardiomyopathy especially in
      elderly. An autopsy study in octogenarians having suffered of heart failure with preserved
      left ventricular ejection fraction (HFpEF) suggested that up to 25% of them had TTR amyloid
      deposit in myocardium, though a negligible minority of them had been diagnosed with TTR
      amyloidosis during their lifetime [2-3]. HFpEF is a very widespread diagnosis, which
      represents a considerable burden of morbidity, and usually harbours populations of patients
      poorly responding to treatment. Most of patients with the diagnosis of HFpEF have little or
      no explanation concerning the aetiology of their disease, especially if they do not respond
      to conventional treatment. Most of them can benefit only from symptomatic treatment which
      does not alter the course of the disease. Thus a more widespread diagnosis of TTR amyloidosis
      could have been very promising as to a better management of this hard-to-treat patient
      population.

      Several medications that can limit progression of TTR amyloidosis are currently under
      investigation. Until now, the golden standard for diagnosis of the disease was endomyocardial
      biopsy (EMB) which may entail several adverse complications and thus limit widespread
      diagnosis. Since amyloidosis is a multi-organ disease, extra-cardiac biopsy was proposed as a
      surrogate tissue diagnosis, though in TTR amyloidosis its sensitivity is below 50% [4].

      Recently several papers support the evidence that Tc99m-labeled pyrophosphate (PYP) and
      bisphosphonates when injected intravenously localize to myocardial deposits of TTR amyloid.
      It was thus suggested that Tc99m scintigraphy might be a highly sensitive and specific
      diagnostic tool for cardiac TTR amyloidosis [5-9]. It was shown that almost the only source
      of false positive Tc99m scintigraphy is primary amyloidosis, which is a different entity,
      with worse prognosis, different treatment, although frequently involves heart as well [10].
      Primary amyloidosis can be diagnosed by means of demonstration of monoclonal immunoglobulin
      peak in serum and immunoglobulin light chains in serum and urine [11]. Therefore, the
      specificity of Tc99m scan for TTR amyloidosis can be brought to an extraordinary level, with
      virtually negligible false positive rate, if primary amyloidosis is excluded prior to
      referral to Tc99m scan. The other entity where false positive uptake of Tc99m in myocardium
      can be observed is acute myocardial infarction. Currently the Tc99m-PYP scan is utilised as
      bone scan according to guidelines in order to diagnose wide spectrum of diseases such as
      stress fractures or metastatic bone disease.

      At present the mentioned hypothesis that TTR amyloidosis might be a widespread cause of HFpEF
      has not been established in a clinical trial due to the fact that until now the most accurate
      diagnosis of TTR amyloidosis required an invasive procedure with possible adverse outcomes
      while the extra-cardiac biopsy had low diagnostic yield. Advent of a novel, possibly as
      accurate, yet non-invasive diagnostic tool opens new opportunities to set such study.

      The incidence of both familial type and senile type TTR amyloidosis among patients with
      diagnosis of otherwise unexplained heart failure or heart block will be evaluated in this
      study by means of Tc99m scan using SPECT technology as described above. The hypothesis is
      that if the incidence of TTR amyloidosis within the population of patients suffering of HFpEF
      is as high as it was demonstrated by the autopsy studies, then we will be able to establish
      the diagnosis in a larger cohort of patients. This will make new developments in the research
      of the disease, such as treatment and outcome driven trials, possible.

      Establishing the diagnosis of TTR amyloidosis in patients with HFpEF will improve our
      decision-making ability regarding the patients' treatment, for example preventing unnecessary
      invasive measures in patients with comorbidities demanding such measures, the alternative
      diagnoses being unrevealed.
    
  