
    
      Ancillary procedures in patients of refractory facial palsy. Patients selection and
      evaluation of the outcomes.

      Introduction:

      There are numerous causes of facial palsy (FP), though hemifacial weakness is often generally
      termed Bell's palsy, named after the Scottish neurologist Charles Bell, who described sudden
      onset unilateral facial paralysis in 1821.

      Virally triggered, acute FP, to which the term Bell's palsy (BP) refers, is one of the most
      common, and fortunately the most likely condition to result in eventual return to premorbid
      status; 70% to 90% of patients recover spontaneously. Other causes of FP routinely result in
      poorer recovery, and the clinician must discern among these to formulate a treatment plan.

      In facial palsy, paralysis of muscles on the affected side of the face results in loss of
      forehead creases, loss of the nasolabial fold, lagophthalmos, brow droop, and drooping of the
      corner of the mouth. In contrast, muscles on the unaffected side of the face no longer have
      opposing forces.

      This may cause difficulty in articulation, eating, drinking, and is often cosmetically
      unacceptable to patients because of asymmetry, especially when speaking, smiling, and
      laughing. There are significant psychological effects as patients lack the confidence to
      carry out many daily activities in public, such as appearing in photographs.

      Although management is difficult, there are a range of reanimation options available. These
      include nerve grafts, muscle transfers, myofunctional approaches, and microsurgical patches
      usually for the more severe facial palsies (House-Brackmann grades 4 to 6). However, despite
      these procedures, facial symmetry may not improve.

      Refractory Facial Palsy:

      Facial paralysis is a rare disorder, but it has significant effects on an individual, both
      physical and emotional. While most patients fully recover from acute facial paralysis, a
      small population is left with chronic lingering symptoms. Refractory patients are those who
      had the maximum benefit of a performed procedure and need some fine touches and also those
      who did not recover well of the initial condition.

      Aim of the Work:

      This study is aimed to evaluate the outcome of ancillary procedures in refractory cases of
      facial palsy and to introduce both simple and sophisticated techniques to those patients
      presented to the investigator's department.

      Inclusion Criteria:

      Patients with refractory Facial Palsy who did not respond well to other concerned
      interferences and those who presented the maximum benefit possible of a performed procedure.

      Patients & Methods:

      This study will be conducted on 20 patients attendance outpatient clinic of plastic surgery
      department - Assiut University Hospital.

      Patients could be divided into three groups according to the anatomical site of
      interferences:

        -  Group 1: Upper third interferences

        -  Group 2: Mid third interferences

        -  Group 3: Lower third interferences Methodology

        -  Botulinum toxin A (BTXA) has been used since the 1970s to treat a variety of conditions
           resulting in abnormal muscle contraction or spasm. It works by preventing the release of
           acetylcholine into the neuromuscular junction thereby inhibiting muscle contraction.2
           Its benefits in synkinesis in facial palsy (aberrant neural regeneration of the
           paralysed muscles) are well recognized.

      BTXA was injected into the contralateral lower facial muscles complex to weaken the unopposed
      normal muscles to improve symmetry, both active and passive.

      • Gold/Platinum weight implants Implantable devices have been used to restore dynamic lid
      closure in cases of severe, symptomatic lagophthalmos. These procedures are best for patients
      with poor Bell phenomenon and decreased corneal sensation. Gold or platinum weights, a
      weight-adjustable magnet, or palpebral springs can be inserted into the eyelids. Pretarsal
      gold-weight implantation is most commonly performed.

      The implants are inert and composed of 99.99% pure gold or platinum. Sizes range from 0.6-1.8
      g. The weight allows the upper eyelid to close with gravity when the levator palpebrae are
      relaxed. Therefore, patients must sleep with their head slightly elevated.

      The implants are easily removed if nerve function returns. Complications include migration of
      the implant, inflammation, allergic reaction, and extrusion.

      • Tarsorrhaphy Tarsorrhaphy decreases horizontal lid opening by fusing the eyelid margins
      together, increasing support of the precorneal lack of tears and improving coverage of the
      eye during sleep. The procedure can be done in the office and is particularly suitable for
      patients who are unable or unwilling to undergo other surgery.

      Tarsorrhaphy can be performed laterally, centrally, or medially. The lateral procedure is the
      most common; however, it can restrict the monocular temporal visual field.

        -  Brow lifting Brow ptosis is repaired with a direct brow lift. Care should be taken in
           the presence of corneal decompensation because lifting the brow can cause worsening of
           lagophthalmos, especially if lid closure is poor. A gold-weight implant can be placed or
           lower-lid resuspension can be performed simultaneously to prevent this complication

        -  Suspension suture Static facial suspension procedures stabilise the muscles of mid-face
           paralysis and provide facial symmetry, a better aesthetic appearance, improved chewing
           and speech production in patients with facial paralysis. The new generation of
           Silhouette wires for tissue suspension is a significant improvement with respect to gold
           threads or Russian threads. They provide a new method of anchoring since they are made
           of polypropylene with absorbable cones of polylactic acid and glycolic acid. This suture
           allows tissue growth in and around the cones and therefore a strangerhood.

      They were approved by the FDA in November 2006 and by the EEC in March 2007. They have been
      used in over 6,000 mid-face facial aesthetic surgery interventions in the U.S. and Europe and
      have recently begun to be used to treat facial paralysis.

        -  Fat injection Fat transfer to the face uses the patient's own adipose tissue (collected
           with a minor liposuction procedure from the belly or back), which gives volume and shape
           to the affected parts of the face, as well as impart glow and sheen to the skin

        -  Lateral Canthoplasty:

      canthoplasty may be considered as one of the most valuable oculoplastic surgical procedures
      to correct lid abnormalities. The indications include ectropion, entropion, lateral canthal
      dystopia, horizontal lid laxity, lid margin eversion.

      Evaluation of outcome:

      -Subjective:- 3 Plastic surgeon will be commenting on the pre and post photography regarding
      to normal side .

      -Objective:- measurement between normal and effected side of the position eye brow ,Palpebral
      fissure, and angle of the mouth
    
  