
    
      Restrictive scar contracture (a condition where tissue thickens and tightens, pulling the
      surrounding healthy skin toward the damaged area) due to a serious burn injury can result in
      long term aesthetic and physical consequences.

      Skin contractures adjacent to a joint lead to joint deformities that severely restrict range
      of motion (ROM) of the affected joint. Skin contractures are also often accompanied by
      crippling levels of chronic pain resulting in a high level of dependency on pain medications.
      These isolated or combined factors can lead to a significant disruption in both social and
      professional life, leading to a marked impact on an individual's quality of life.

      The current standard of care for restrictive scar contracture involves the surgical excision
      of the contracture itself and/ or skin grafting. These standard therapies require extensive
      and often repeated surgeries. Physicians are continually seeking less invasive therapies to
      treat patients with burn contractures.

      ICX-RHY-013 is an investigational medicinal product comprised of viable allogeneic human
      dermal fibroblast (HDFs) cells suspended in HypoThermosol®-FRS. HDFs are isolated from
      neonatal foreskin, cryopreserved, thawed and expanded in culture under good manufacturing
      practice at Intercytex Ltd., United Kingdom. The drug formulation will be 20 million cells
      per 1 milliliter of HypoThermosol® and will be administered to subjects via intradermal
      injections at a maximum dose of 0.25 ml (or 5 million cells) per cm² of tissue.

      If determined to be safe and effective, it is believed this therapy could, in the future, be
      delivered in a series of superficial injections and can be carried out in a doctor's office.
      This treatment could represent a new less invasive therapy of choice for patients with burn
      contractures, where current recourse would be to surgery. This advance could have significant
      positive benefits to the patient in terms of:

        -  no side-effects of surgery

        -  treatment given in an outpatient environment without the need for expensive
           hospitalization

        -  enhanced quality of life

        -  lower costs

      Cohort 1 will consist of 4 participants who are scheduled to have elective body contouring
      surgery which will consist of the removal of an abdominal incision scar. The investigational
      drug will be injected into the existing surgical incision (scar) with the investigational
      drug, ICX-RHY-013. The purpose of this cohort is to evaluate the initial safety of the
      investigational drug (ICX-RHY-013) in a series of doses on your surgical scar that will then
      be surgically removed.

      Cohorts 2 through 5 will consist of 4 participants each who have burn scars with restrictive
      scar contractures. The purpose of these cohorts is to evaluate the ongoing safety of the
      investigational drug (ICX-RHY-013) in post burn scars with restrictive scar contractures. The
      investigational drug will be injected directly into these scar contractures. Each cohort is
      unique in that the dose and frequency of the investigational drug received will be different.
      We will evaluate the safety of the drug between each cohort by assessing all side effects
      that the participants may experience.
    
  