
    
      Effective interventions to address uncontrolled hypertension (HTN), particularly in
      underrepresented populations that use the emergency department (ED) for primary care, are
      critically needed. Uncontrolled HTN, which contributes significantly to cardiovascular
      morbidity and mortality, is more frequently encountered among patients presenting to the ED.
      EDs serve as the point of entry into the health care system for many high-risk patient
      populations, particularly minority and low-income individuals. Our preliminary data from a
      largely minority patient population presenting to the ED shows significant rates of
      subclinical heart disease (diastolic dysfunction and left ventricular hypertrophy) in
      patients with elevated blood pressure (BP). These early echocardiogram changes are reversible
      with existing strategies for improving BP control.

      The proposed project underscores that 1) The prevalence of uncontrolled/undiagnosed HTN among
      ED patients from underrepresented groups who do not have a primary care physician (PCP) is
      alarmingly high, and 2) ED engagement and early risk assessment/stratification with
      facilitated PCP follow-up is a novel and feasible innovation to help address health disparity
      gaps in HTN. The central hypothesis of the proposal is that an ED-based screening, brief
      intervention, and referral for treatment program for HTN (SBIRT-HTN) using existing ED
      resources, coupled with a follow-up visit to an ED pharmacist-initiated Post-Acute Care
      Hypertension Transition Clinic (PACHT-c), will improve BP control through patient
      empowerment, facilitating PCP follow-up rates, and consequently improving treatment
      compliance in a predominately underrepresented hypertensive population. This proposal is
      strengthened by the existing partnership between an academic urban ED and a Federally
      Qualified Health Center (FQHC) as a model for integrating secondary cardiovascular prevention
      in a population at high risk for complications due to uncontrolled/undiagnosed HTN. Moreover,
      this proposal is innovative as a prospective randomized controlled trial in a high-risk ED
      patient population with no established PCP and persistent elevated BPs.

      Eligible patients are those with elevated BP and no established PCP (or no PCP contact in the
      past year) who present to the University of Illinois Hospital & Health Sciences System (UI
      Health) ED. The three arms are: 1) usual care (current practice of passive outpatient
      referral for follow-up care), 2) an ED-based SBIRT-HTN program (patient empowerment tool)
      using existing ED resources followed by assisted referral for usual care, and 3) the ED based
      SBIRT-HTN coupled with a 48-hour follow-up visit to an ED pharmacist-initiated Post-Acute
      Care Hypertension Transition Clinic (PACHT-c) followed by assisted referral for primary care.

      The aims evaluate the effectiveness of the interventions (SBIRT-HTN & PACHTC-c) on
      uncontrolled BP at 6 months. The primary outcome will be BP improvement. Based on the
      demographics of the ED population at the study site (70% of the current UI Health ED
      population are ethnic minorities), the majority of participants will be underrepresented
      minorities (African-American and Hispanic/Latino) and low-income individuals. The
      investigators propose the following specific aims and hypotheses:

      Aim 1: Evaluate the effectiveness of an ED-initiated SBIRT-HTN program on BP control at 6
      months post intervention compared to usual care.

      H1: Early identification and initiation of a risk stratification algorithm that involves
      non-invasive assessment (limited echocardiogram) for early subclinical cardiovascular disease
      (combined with patient education regarding HTN & cardiovascular complications (patient
      empowerment) at the point-of contact in the ED (arm 2) will result in greater BP control at 6
      months compared to the usual care group (arm 1).

      Aim 2: Evaluate the impact of the PACHT-c component with the ED-based SBIRT-HTN program on BP
      control at 6 months post intervention compared to usual care and ED-SBIRT-HTN alone.

      H2: The PACHT-c component (arm 3) will result in greater BP control compared to those
      randomized to usual care (arm 1) or ED-based SBIRT-HTN alone (arm 2).
    
  