
    
      Experimental and clinical data suggest that sustained elevation of heart rate contributes to
      the pathogenesis of vascular disease (1, 2). In animal studies accelerated heart rate is
      associated with signalling events leading to vascular oxidative stress, endothelial
      dysfunction and acceleration of atherogenesis (3). The underlying mechanisms are only
      partially understood and appear to correlate with mechanic properties such as reduction of
      vascular compliance. Heart rate reduction by I(f)-channel inhibition with ivabradine
      (Procoralan®, Servier, France) attenuates oxidative stress, improves endothelial function and
      reduces the formation of atherosclerotic plaques in mice models of lipid-induced
      atherosclerosis (1, 4).

      Aortic stiffness is a consequence of arterial aging and vascular risk factors and
      determinates cardiovascular mortality (5). Heart rate depending repetitive pulsations appear
      to induce fatigue and fracture of elastin lamellae of central arteries. As a result the
      vessel stiffens and pulse wave reflections return earlier to the heart. In consequence aortic
      pressure rises and pulsations of flow extend further into smaller vessels of organs (notably
      the brain and kidney). Stiffening leads to increased left ventricular (LV) load with
      hypertrophy, decreased capacity for myocardial perfusion, and increased hemodynamic stresses
      on small arterial vessels.

      Several experimental investigations revealed an interaction between heart rate and vascular
      compliance demonstrating a positive association between increased heart rate and arterial
      stiffness (6). Recent experimental data suggest that heart rate reduction by ivabradine
      (Procoralan®, Servier, France) significantly improves aortic distensibility in cholesterol
      fed ApoE -/- mice measured by MRI technique (7). While a benefit of pharmacological heart
      rate reduction on vascular outcomes was observed in animal studies, prospective clinical data
      are limited and evidence determining whether chronic modulation of heart rate can improve
      vascular function and compliance in patients with chronic stable coronary artery disease is
      needed.
    
  