
    
      Macular edema is the most common structural complication and leading cause of visual loss in
      patients with uveitis. Regional injections of corticosteroids are the most frequently used
      treatments specifically for uveitic macular edema but there is a lack of high quality
      evidence to guide choice of drug (e.g., triamcinolone acetonide, dexamethasone) and route of
      administration (e.g. periocular, intravitreal). The question of how to approach regional
      treatment of uveitic macular edema is a key question for ophthalmologists treating these
      patients. The Periocular and Intravitreal Corticosteroids for Uveitic Macular Edema (POINT)
      Trial is a randomized trial designed to compare the relative efficacy of three regional
      corticosteroids commonly utilized for the initial regional treatment of uveitic macular
      edema, periocular triamcinolone (Kenalog® , Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ),
      intravitreal triamcinolone (Triesence™, Alcon Pharmaceuticals, Fort Worth, TX), and the
      intravitreal dexamethasone implant (Ozurdex®, Allergan, Irvine CA) will be conducted by the
      MUST Research Group clinical centers throughout the U.S. and one each in Australia and the
      UK. After signing informed consent and undergoing eligibility evaluation, eligible patients
      will be randomized to one of the three study treatments to be administered at the first study
      visit. Randomization is by participant, if both eyes meet eligibility requirements then both
      eyes receive assigned treatment. The design outcome is the percent change in central subfield
      macular thickness on OCT from baseline to the 8 week visit. After assessment of the primary
      outcome at 8 weeks, second injections and best medical judgment will be used if macular edema
      has not improved as follows:

      Eye(s) meeting trial eligibility criteria receive initial injection of assigned treatment at
      P01 visit.

      Second injection of assigned treatment permitted at 8 week visit for periocular triamcinolone
      and intravitreal triamcinolone and at 12 week visit for intravitreal dexamethasone if

        -  Eye does not meet the improvement definition (a 20% decrease in central subfield
           thickness of the macula) or

        -  Eye has a normal central subfield thickness but has cystoid spaces in the 1 mm central
           subfield or

        -  ME is worse after initial improvement

      And the following repeat injection criterion are met:

      • IOP of ≤21 or mm Hg and treatment with ≤3 IOP-lowering agents;

      Eyes demonstrating no improvement or worsening of ME as measured by the central submacular
      thickness on OCT (at week 12 for periocular and intravitreal triamcinolone arms and at week
      20 for intravitreal dexamethasone arm) are considered primary treatment non-responders.
    
  