
    
      This study was a retrospective evaluation of patients who have received cardiac surgery with
      Maze-operation from March 2008 to November 2013.

      Patients who have atrial fibrillation undergoing cardiac surgery with Maze-operation were
      included.

      The following exclusion criteria are applied:

        1. Patients who have taken medicine related to coagulation (such as antiplatelets like
           aspirin and clopidogrel) except warfarin or bridged heparin

        2. Patients whose laboratory values could not be confirmed by medical records review.

      Patients were categorized by two groups.

        1. W group: patients on atrial fibrillation who have taken warfarin for p.o medication.

        2. C group: patients on atrial fibrillation who have not taken warfarin for p.o medication.

      Using blood sample, authors examined as follows:

        1. Preoperative (maximum 5days before operation) and postoperative (30min after ICU
           admission) coagulation values with haematologic values: PT/aPTT, INR, Hb, Hct, platelet
           levels.

        2. ROTEM values at 30min after anaesthetic induction and 30min after ICU admission:
           Clotting time (CT), clot formation time (CFT), maximum clot firmness (MCF), maximum
           lysis (ML)

        3. Intraoperative (during operation) and postoperative (during admission, an expected
           average of 5 weeks) total transfusion amount: RBC, FFP, PC, cryoprecipitate.

        4. Post operative 24 hr bleeding amount in the chest tube drain bottle.

        5. The duration (maximum 2 weeks) of warfarin discontinuation. (in W group)

      Statistical analysis was performed using unpaired t-test and chi-square test to compare
      patients demographic data and other parameters. To determine the relationship of INR and
      ROTEM parameters with bleeding amount and transfusion amount, multiple linear regression
      model that accounted for all confounder variables was used. For each factor in the multiple
      regression model, variables with a p value of less than 0.10 were kept in the final model.
      The data was analyzed using the program Statistical Package for the Social Sciences ver. 18.0
      (SPSS Inc, Chicago, USA). A value of p < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
    
  