
    
      BASELINE VISIT: After obtaining written informed consent, research staff will administer a
      baseline survey to assess ACP readiness as well as participant physical and emotional health.
      The participant will then be randomized to one of the study arms: intervention or control.
      Research staff will provide participants in both study arms with the advance care planning
      educational materials and instruct them that they are encouraged to discuss their thoughts
      and questions with the nephrologist, at their own initiation. Participants will be further
      encouraged to bring their advance directives (ADs) to the clinic to be scanned into the
      electronic health record (EHR) if they currently have ADs or complete them in the future.

      ADVANCE CARE PLANNING COACHING SESSION (intervention arm only): Participants in the
      intervention arm will receive a 60-minute in-person coaching session. The advance care
      planning coach, trained in motivational interviewing, will use a flexible script and
      checklist to assess the participant's readiness to engage in advance care planning and guide
      the participant forward in the process, proceeding at the participant's pace. Some
      participants may complete advance directives while others will not get that far. The coach
      will document the clinical aspects of the discussion in the participant's medical chart
      according to clinic protocol and the research aspects in the participant tracking
      instruments. The ACP coach may arrange for one or more follow-up sessions as needed,
      typically conducted by telephone.

      FOLLOW-UP ASSESSMENT SURVEY (both study arms): Approximately 14 weeks after the baseline
      visit, research staff will contact the participant to administer a follow-up assessment
      survey.

      FOLLOW-UP CHART REVIEW: Approximately 16 weeks after the baseline visit, research staff will
      review the participant's medical chart to assess documentation of advance care planning
      activities, medical and health outcomes, and use of medical and palliative care services.
    
  