
    
      On day 2 or on day 3 of the cycle, blood sampling for estradiol (E2), progesterone (P),
      follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinising hormone (LH) and human chorionic gonadotropin
      (hCG) levels, will be per-formed prior to the administration of corifollitropin alfa.

      All the blood samples taken during the stimulation for the hormonal profile, starting from
      day 2, will be performed in a double tube, one for a central assessment and one for the local
      assessment in order to be used during the monitoring of the cycle. AMH will also be assess on
      day 2 of the stimulation with a blood sample that will be sent for central assessment.

      Administration of the GnRH antagonist ganirelix (Orgalutran®, MSD) will be initiated on day 6
      of stimula-tion in all treatment arms at a daily dose of 0.25 mg to prevent a premature LH
      surge. Suppression with the GnRH antagonist will be continued until the day of final oocyte
      maturation. Endocrine monitoring and ultrasound scan will be carried out on day 8 of
      stimulation and repeated every two days until trigger, de-pending on the patients' response.
      Triggering for final oocyte maturation is performed as soon as 3 follicles of ≥17 mm will be
      observed.

      Cycles will be cancelled if less than 3 follicles of 12 mm are observed on day 8 day of
      stimulation, nonethe-less, blood test for hormonal evaluation will be performed in any case
      on day 8.

      Oocyte maturation will be triggered with a single subcutaneous injection of hCG (Pregnyl®:
      5000UI/sc, MSD, or 10000UI/sc if body weight exceeds 80 kg) as soon as 3 follicles of ≥17 mm
      will be observed. Ap-proximately 34-36 hours after trigger, oocyte retrieval will be
      performed. An embryo transfer will be per-formed on day 3 or on day 5 of embryonic
      development; one or 2 embryos will be replaced.

      The luteal phase will be supported by vaginal administration of micronized progesterone 600
      mg/day (Utrogestan®) from the day after ovarian puncture until the day of pregnancy test. In
      case of pregnancy, progesterone administration will be extended until week 7. In case of risk
      of OHSS, namely the presence of >18 follicles of 11 mm or more, final oocyte maturation will
      be triggered with a GnRH agonist (Gonapep-tyl, 0.2 mg) and a freeze-all strategy will be
      applied (Papanikolaou et al., 2006, Griesinger et al., 2016). A freeze -all strategy will
      also be applied in case of P>1.5 ng/mL on the day of hCG and per clinician prefer-ence.

      All the patients will be asked to inject CFA and rFSH between 6-10 PM; the antagonist
      injection (ganirelix) will be performed between 7-11 AM and the endocrine profile
      measurements, alias blood tests, will be done between 7 and 11 AM.
    
  