
    
      Aicardi syndrome is a sporadic X-linked dominant, presumably male-lethal, neurodevelopmental
      disorder. It was initially characterized by agenesis of the corpus callosum, neuronal
      migration defects, eye abnormalities (chorioretinal lacunae, colobomas of the optic nerve and
      microphthalmia) and severe early-onset seizures and neurodevelopmental delay. It is now well
      recognized that other brain abnormalities, such as polymicrogyria, agyria, cysts and
      heterotopias are common features of Aicardi syndrome. We previously hypothesized that the
      gene causing Aicardi syndrome and possibly additional phenotypically similar disorders with
      X-linked inheritance, such as Goltz syndrome or Focal Dermal Hypoplasia, are in or near the
      region on chromosome Xp22 that is deleted in another condition named microphthalmia with
      linear skin defects syndrome (MLS), because all three have some clinical similarities.
      However, interim studies have shown that this is likely not the case because no mutations
      were found in Aicardi syndrome in human holocytochrome c-type synthetase (HCCS) , the gene
      that is deleted or mutated in MLS. In addition, a mouse model for MLS has no features of
      Aicardi syndrome. Furthermore, we identified mutations in PORCN (Xp11.3) in Goltz syndrome
      patients, but not in Aicardi syndrome patients. Therefore, it is likely that the mutated gene
      is elsewhere on the X-chromosome.

      For this study we are collecting information on patients with clinical findings suggesting a
      diagnosis of Aicardi syndrome, MLS syndrome or a condition that phenotypically overlaps with
      these disorders. A detailed family history will be obtained, when indicated, and additional
      family members will be evaluated after appropriately obtained written voluntary consent. A
      detailed report of the history or physical findings will be obtained from referring
      physicians for patients identified at outside facilities, or the participants may be
      evaluated by the study collaborators. Blood and skin biopsy will be obtained from affected
      individuals, unaffected parents and from other affected or unaffected family members where
      indicated. It is anticipated that some severely affected patients will expire; in that case,
      (post mortem) pathological specimens may be obtained. Occasionally, affected individuals may
      undergo surgical procedures with removal of tissues; in this case we may obtain tissues that
      would be otherwise discarded or that are not essential for further diagnostic studies or
      clinical care of the patient. It is anticipated that these specimens will be extremely
      valuable for understanding the pathogenesis of the investigated conditions. DNA, RNA or
      protein will be prepared from leukocytes and from tissues and used for mutation analysis and
      other molecular studies of the identified genes. Permanent lymphoblastoid cell lines will be
      prepared and stored in the laboratory as a permanent source of DNA for the molecular studies.
    
  