
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the effects of 2 dietary regimens on levels of prostate-specific
      antigen (PSA) in patients with prostate cancer. II. Determine the compliance of these
      patients with the dietary regimen. III. Evaluate the effects of the dietary regimen on
      quality of life in these patients. IV. Evaluate the effects of the dietary regimen on PSA
      anxiety in these patients. V. Evaluate the effects of the dietary regimen on obesity, high
      blood pressure, and serum cholesterol in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to previous treatment
      (prostatectomy vs radiotherapy) and prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level (less than 5 mg/mL
      vs 5 or greater mg/mL). All patients complete quality of life, dietary, and other
      questionnaires before, during, and at the conclusion of the study. Patients are randomized to
      one of two dietary intervention regimens: Arm I (Intensive Nutritional Intervention):
      Patients are assigned to follow a low fat, high fiber diet that is also high in soy, fruits
      and vegetables, green tea, and vitamin E. Patients meet with a nutritionist for nutrition
      education and dietary counseling weekly for 8 weeks, then every 2 weeks for 2 months, and
      then monthly for 14 months. Sessions include dietary counseling, meal planning, and
      instruction in skills necessary to maintain dietary lifestyle changes. Patients record their
      dietary intake on a regular basis. Arm II (General Nutritional Instruction): Patients are
      assigned to follow dietary guidelines established by the National Cancer Institute. Patients
      meet with a nutritionist for dietary counseling and monitoring every 2 months for 18 months.
      Patients on both arms have PSA levels tested before the study, 1 and 3 months into the study,
      and then every 3 months thereafter for up to 18 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 154 patients will be accrued for this study over 2 years.
    
  