
    
      Following the few studies performed on this topic, children affected by tic disorder show a
      rate of Group A Streptococcus (GAS) colonization similar or slightly higher than that
      reported in the normal population.

      However, several studies have documented high rates of elevated anti-streptolysin O titers
      (ASOT) in children affected by tic disorders. One study reported a significantly higher ASOT
      in 150 children with tics compared to 150 healthy children, documenting a direct relationship
      between ASOT and tic severity. In this study, however, throat swab culture analyses on a
      subsample of patients failed to detect a predominant GAS serotype associated with tics. An
      American cohort of 81 patients with TS also exhibited higher ASOT than age-matched healthy
      volunteers and a mixed group of patients with autoimmune diseases. Increased ASOT,
      anti-deoxyribonuclease B (DNAse B), anti- streptococcal M12 and M19 titres were also observed
      in a smaller German sample of patients with TS. In a British cohort of 100 patients with TS
      (50% children), ASOT was raised in 64% of children and in 68% of adults with TS; this was
      significantly higher than in neurological disease and healthy control subjects. Two other
      reports from British and Italian cohorts confirmed these findings. However, a subsequent
      study failed to find a significant association with ASOT and anti-DNAse B titres using the
      same cross-sectional approach. More recently, a study on a large service-based cohort of TS
      patients confirmed the significant elevated rate of the high ASOT, but evidenced also that,
      on prospective analysis, ASOT were persistently elevated in 57% of patients with TS.
      Moreover, in tic patients the enhanced immune response is not limited to ASOT but it involves
      a broad range of GAS antigens.

      Taken together, these observations lead to hypothesize that TS patients colonized by GAS are
      not merely carriers and that this colonization may promote a sustained anti-streptococcal
      immune response contributing to the persistence of tic symptoms.

      If this hypothesis is true, the antibiotic treatment of GAS colonization in patients affected
      by a chronic tic disorder could modify their symptoms in term of severity and number of
      exacerbations.

      Up to now, only tic patients diagnosed as Pediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders
      Associated with Streptococcal infection (PANDAS) underwent a controlled antibiotic treatment:
      two trials, aimed to study the efficacy of different preventive regimens on number of tic
      exacerbations, obtained however mixed results, mainly due to poor compliance.

      Investigators here designed a placebo-controlled trial with amoxicilline/clavulanic acid in
      tic patients showing GAS colonization. This drug is the first line therapy for streptococcal
      pharyngo-tonsillitis. Some previous studies have shown a superiority of amoxicillin versus
      penicillin in the treatment of GAS infections. A 10-day course of amoxicillin is considered
      sufficient and efficient in the treatment of GAS tonsillo-pharyngitis. Moreover, oral
      amoxicillin/clavulanic acid and oral clindamycin for 10 days achieved comparable rates of
      bacteriologic eradication at 12 days and 3 months. Furthermore, amoxicilline/clavulanic acid
      has been demonstrated to be efficacious in the treatment of GAS colonization. A few
      antibiotic regimens - evaluated prospectively in randomized, controlled trials- have
      demonstrated efficacy for termination of GAS carriage: among these, a regimen of 10 days of
      amoxicillin/ clavulanic acid was more effective than repeat penicillin in patients with
      treatment failure. Thus, the 10-days regimen of amoxicilline/clavulanic acid should be
      efficient in GAS eradication and, on the other hand, the shortness of the treatment should
      avert problems in patient's compliance.
    
  