
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To set up a population-based gastric and esophageal cancer cohort with comprehensive
           epidemiological, clinical, and pathological data in order to identify novel genetic and
           environmental risk factors for these cancers using an association study design.

        -  To establish a blood-based epidemiological resource with parallel tumor samples on a
           population-based series of gastric and esophageal cancer cases.

        -  Compare any differences in genetic susceptibility genes according to the site of
           esophago-gastric cancer (e.g., distal gastric, proximal gastric, or junctional and
           esophageal tumors) and the histopathological sub-type.

        -  Test existing molecular hypotheses and determine whether common genetic variants in
           candidate genes predispose to gastric and esophageal cancer by comparing the frequency
           of variants in cancer patients with that in controls.

        -  Generate new hypotheses of genetic and certain environmental determinants, explore the
           potential impact on cancer disease risk of a range of environmental factors that can be
           measured in plasma (e.g., antibodies to various infective agents, markers of systemic
           inflammation, markers of oxidation), and examine gene-environment interactions.

        -  Refine our understanding of risk factors that are identified (e.g.,chronic Helicobacter
           pylori infection and smoking) and examine how these interact with genetic determinants
           of disease.

        -  Define the proportion of gastric cancer incidence attributable to mutations in known
           predisposing genes, such as E-cadherin.

        -  Obtain data on molecular profiles of tumors (mostly paraffin-embedded, rarely frozen)
           using dense array technologies, therefore enabling studies of the interaction between
           germline polymorphisms and tumor somatic genotype upon tumor behavior, response to
           treatment, and patient outcome.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients and healthy controls complete an epidemiological questionnaire, provide a blood
      sample for plasma and genetic analyses, and may also provide a saliva sample. Tumor samples
      (in the form of paraffin block material or, in rare cases, frozen) may also be obtained from
      the hospital where the patient underwent surgery.

      White blood cells are assayed for DNA/RNA isolation to look at genetic variants. DNA is
      extracted from saliva to look at genetic variants. Plasma/serum samples are analyzed to look
      at proteins and serological markers. Tumor samples are used to review the histology type.
      Nucleic acids are extracted from tumor sample sections; retrieval of a small (0.6 mm) core
      from each section is used to construct a tissue microarray which are be analyzed by
      immunohistochemistry and FISH.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,000 patients per cancer (gastric and esophageal) and 2,000
      controls will be accrued for this study.
    
  