
    
      This randomized controlled trial was carried in the period between May 2018 and April 2019,
      on 70 patients undergoing fistulotomy for treatment of simple perianal fistula. Patients were
      randomly allocated into two equal groups each 35 patients, group A; underwent fistulotomy
      without marsupialization of the edges of fistulotomy wound. And group B; underwent
      fistulotomy with marsupialization of the wound edges.

      Patients included in this study are those suffering simple non recurrent perianal fistula
      with ASA I and II.

      the investigator excluded patients with secondary anal fistula, complex fistula, anal
      incontinence, previous anal surgery and any disease or drug that affects wound healing.

      All patients were subjected to thorough history taking and careful anal examination to assess
      the sphincter integrity, define the fistulous track and internal opening, endo anal
      ultrasound or magnetic resonance imaging was ordered when needed.

      Fistulotomy was done under spinal anesthesia in the lithotomy position after skin preparation
      and patient draping; anal examination under anesthesia was done, identification of the
      internal opening carried out using palpation and inspection using proctoscope, injection of
      hydrogen peroxide in the external opening done if internal opening couldn't be defined
      easily, then the fistulous track was probed, it was laid open using diathermy, in group B the
      wounds was marsupialized by suturing the skin edges to the edges of the track floor using
      absorbable sutures (polygalactin) 3\0. Figures (1) and (2) shows the probed fistulous track
      and its' wound after marsupialization.

      Postoperative non adherent dressing impregnated with local anesthetic cream was applied to
      the wound.

      Nonsteroidal analgesic injection was given in injection form as per need. Follow up was
      carried out in outpatient clinic by the study surgeons, patients who agreed for participation
      in the study was instructed to visit the clinic every week for the first three post-operative
      months then every month for the next 3 months and lastly two visits after 3 and 6 months, the
      attending surgeon records follow up data including status of wound healing, anal continence
      and fistula recurrence.

      An informed written consent was taken from all study participants. Randomization was done
      using computer program. The study was approved from institutional review board and the
      ethical committee from our university.

      Demographic data, operative data, and postoperative data including pain, post-operative
      complications and time taken for complete wound healing were collected, properly analyzed
      using the paired t test and Z test using SPSS program.
    
  