
    
      Systemic sclerosis is a fibrotic and inflammatory chronic autoimmune disorder with no disease
      modifiying drug available to date. JAK inhibitors may represent a relevant therapeutic
      candidate for this disease;

      The primary objective of this study is to characterize the impact of Ruxolitinib (a JAK ½
      inhibitor) on the prof-fibrotic properties of MDM from SSc patients in vitro.

      The primary outcome will be the concentration of CCL18 evaluate by ELISA in the condition
      media of MDM from SSc patients pre treated or not in vitro by ruxolitinib.

      The secondary objectives :

        1. To characterize the impact of ruxolitinib on other pro-inflammatory or pro-fibrotic
           cytokines

        2. To characterize the impact of ruxolitinib on membrane expression of macrophagic
           polarization markers of MDM from SSc patients

        3. To evaluate the impact of ruxolitinib on the phenotype of MDM from healthy donors
           exposed in vitro to the serum of SSc patients.

        4. To determine the variability of the effects of ruxolitinib on MDM of SSc patients
           depending on key clinical characteristics (diffuse versus limited SSc, patients with or
           without Interstitial Lung disease ILD)

      The secondary outcomes :

        1. ELISA of the following cytokine evaluated in the condition media of SSc MDM pre-treated
           or not with ruxolitinib : PDGFbb, IL-6, CXCL10, CXCL4

        2. Membrane expression (flow cytometry) of the following markers expressed by SSc MDM
           pre-treated or not with ruxoltinib : CD204, CD206, CD163, CD86, CMHII, TLR4.

        3. Evaluation of the same cytokines and membrane markers in MDM from HD exposed to serum
           media of SSc patients.

        4. Variation of the effect of ruxolitinib on the primary outcome (CCL18 secreted in the
           condition media of MDM from SSc patients) in sub groups depending on the following
           characteristics :

             -  Auto antibodies (anticentromere, antitopoisomerase, anti RNA polymerase III or
                none)

             -  modified Rodnan skin score

             -  Digital ulcers (current or past)

             -  Pulmonary involvement (Interstitial Lung disease on CT scan)

             -  Heart involvement (Pulmonary arterial hypertension on echocardiography)
    
  