
    
      The overall aim of the study is to determine whether point-of-care (bedside) Activated
      Partial Thromboplastin Time (APTT) testing would be better than laboratory APTT testing in
      the PICU population (restricted to children under 16 years of age). To do this the
      investigators need to compare both forms of testing in the following areas:

        1. Accuracy - using laboratory results as our control the investigators want to ascertain
           how reliable Point-of-care (bedside) testing with the Hemochron Signature Elite is by
           comparing paired samples. The Hemochron Signature Elite Whole Blood Microcoagulation
           System is a battery-operated, hand-held instrument that performs individual
           point-of-care coagulation tests, including APTT, on fresh or citrated whole blood. The
           Hemochron Signature Elite instrument is CE marked and complies with multiple safety
           standard requirements and directives. The investigators know that the Hemochron
           Signature Elite is not 100% accurate compared to the laboratory but the degree of
           inaccuracy, particularly in the paediatric population is not clear, if within acceptable
           & predictable limits the investigators would still be able to use this in clinical
           practice.

        2. Time efficiency - in view of the fact the Hemochron Signature Elite is on PICU, results
           from this will be almost immediately available. The investigators then want to measure
           exactly how long it takes from the moment the laboratory sample is taken for the results
           to be available.

        3. Cost-effectiveness - the investigators want to compare the costs of these two types of
           testing in detail, including costs for the Hemochron Signature Elite machine, Hemochron
           Signature Elite cuvettes, laboratory Clotting Screen bottles, laboratory Clotting Screen
           analysis, and maintaining the two different types of equipment. The investigators will
           also take into account any other regular costs (e.g. porters to take samples to the
           laboratory when the pod system is down). The investigators plan on seeking assistance
           from senior paediatric colleagues with more experience of health economics in doing a
           costs minimisation analysis
    
  