
    
      Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is one of the most common neurological diseases, which is a cause of
      disability in young adults. Approximately 60% of the patients will not be able to walk at
      some point in the disease course. This brings important implications for patients' and family
      members' quality of life and financial cost to the society. In spite of the clinical
      significance of MS, its pathophysiology is not completely understood. Many researches have
      been investigating the role of B and T lymphocytes, the extension of central nervous system
      lesions and brain activation through neuroimage, separately. A multidimensional approach is
      necessary for the understanding of MS mechanisms and to verify the effects of therapies,
      including non-conventional ones, such as yoga. Yoga has been reported as a safe and low coast
      practice which may be more accessible to MS patients than other types of exercises. In
      patients with MS there are few well controlled studies, which indicate for example,
      improvements in fatigue, mobility, gait and humor.

      Objectives: To evaluate the effects of yoga practice in MS patients with different EDSS
      (Expanded Disability Status Scale) scores and healthy controls in aspects such as fatigue,
      quality of life, movement, cognition, brain activity, self-efficacy, stress, anxiety,
      depression, affective states and immune response through the analysis of cytokines and B
      lymphocytes antibody production.

      Method: the investigators will apply a multidimensional approach which involves
      neuropsychological, quality of life and affective aspects evaluation, structural and
      functional magnetic resonance imaging, near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) combined with
      movement analysis (gait, strength, balance etc.), measurements of cytokines and B cells
      antibody production, comparing MS patients with different scores in the EDSS and healthy
      controls before and after receiving yoga training delivered by a yoga instructor or through a
      smartphone application.
    
  