
    
      This will be an open-label, uncontrolled two-arm, multi-center study in patients with
      metastatic melanoma with BRAFV600 oncogene mutations. Patients will initially receive
      treatment with vemurafenib interspersed with two courses of High Dose IL-2 (HD IL-2).
      Patients are eligible for the study if they have melanoma positive for the BRAFV600 mutation,
      have been on vemurafenib therapy for 0-18 weeks, have responding or stable disease if on
      vemurafenib, and meet the requirements for dosing with HD IL-2 and all protocol inclusion and
      exclusion criteria.

      Two Cohorts will be enrolled, differing only in how they are characterized prior to HD IL-2
      treatment:

      Cohort 1: will consist of 135 patients naïve to vemurafenib and HD IL-2 therapy. Patients in
      Cohort 1 will have an initial evaluation and receive a defined 6 (± 1) week course of
      vemurafenib before beginning HD IL-2. This Cohort will be used to define study size and
      statistical validity with the comparator being historic controls (using data from the BRAF
      positive patients from the Melanoma SELECT study Protocol IIT10PLK06).

      Cohort 2: will consist of up to 50 patients who have been on vemurafenib therapy for >7 to 18
      weeks with stable or responding disease before starting HD IL-2. Patients in Cohort 2 will
      have an initial evaluation and will begin HD IL-2 treatment after >7 to 18 weeks of treatment
      with vemurafenib. This Cohort is designed to evaluate whether additive or synergistic
      clinical benefit or toxicity is observed in BRAFV600 mutation positive metastatic melanoma
      patients treated with vemurafenib as a single agent for >7 to18 weeks prior to the first
      course of HD IL-2 therapy in conjunction with continued vemurafenib.

      Patients in both cohorts will discontinue dosing vemurafenib prior to each treatment with HD
      IL-2 and resume dosing after each discharge. Patients will receive up to two courses (four
      cycles) of HD IL-2 and will be evaluated for their disease responses at 10 weeks (±3 weeks)
      from the start of HD IL-2 dosing, and 26 weeks (±3 weeks) from the start of HD IL-2 dosing.
      QTc intervals will be reviewed daily for changes during each cycle of HD IL-2 dosing.

      Administration of vemurafenib and HD IL-2 will be according to the respective Package Inserts
      and according to the Institution's standard of care. The investigator will determine the
      number of HD IL-2 cycles each patient will receive, according to the investigator's
      discretion and medical judgment.
    
  