
    
      Cancer affects nearly 50% of individuals in the UK, and accounts for around 30% of all
      deaths. For almost all cancers, both prognosis and treatment fundamentally depend on the
      degree of spread at diagnosis i.e. tumour stage. For example, early stage bowel (colorectal)
      cancer confined to the bowel wall has a cure rate of nearly 95% whereas it is lower than 50%
      by the time it has spread to the lymph nodes (LNs). Similarly, patients with LN involvement
      from breast cancer may require more extensive surgery to remove the affected node, and have
      poorer long-term survival than patients without LN disease, even with small volumes of nodal
      tumour. The same is true for most other solid organ malignancies. So, as a general
      oncological principle, patients with advanced disease often require more aggressive treatment
      such as pre-operative (neo-adjuvant) chemotherapy, radiotherapy or both; and usually need
      more extensive surgery / radiotherapy when definitive treatment is instituted.

      Such therapeutic decision-making depends fundamentally on the advance knowledge of whether or
      not a particular patient has disease spread. This, in turn, requires a battery of tests
      designed to accurately pinpoint the extent and anatomical location of cancer dissemination
      throughout the body. This is typically achieved via a combination of medical imaging tests
      (such as ultrasound, computed tomography [CT], magnetic resonance imaging [MRI] and nuclear
      medicine techniques e.g. positron emission tomography [PET]) and tissue sampling (biopsy).
      Unfortunately, these techniques are imperfect, both for local staging of the primary cancer
      and its spread to local LNs. For example, in some cancers, over 50% of malignant LNs measure
      less than 10mm, the most commonly-used cut-off to define an abnormal lymph node using
      conventional medical imaging[9]. Therefore, for many tumours it is common practice to treat
      the entire regional LN group, either by surgical removal or radiotherapy. This strategy risks
      overtreatment for many and introduces the adverse effects associated with such extensive
      tissue damage. Regarding primary tumours, the precise extent of local tumour spread can
      determine whether or not a limited, local resection can be achieved rather than a more
      radical excision. A rapid, non-invasive, well-tolerated test that could improve local and
      regional nodal cancer staging would be of great clinical value, since it would immediately
      permit more accurate individualized treatment strategies.

      Photoacoustic tomography (PAT) is a relatively novel technology that may be able to help
      address this urgent clinical need. PAT relies upon the absorption of laser-generated light of
      specific wavelengths (often in the infra-red spectrum) by intrinsic components of the imaged
      tissue. Such absorption results in emission of sound waves, which are ultrasonic (i.e. very
      high frequency). Images can then be reconstructed in a similar manner to that employed by a
      clinical ultrasound scanner. By imaging at multiple wavelengths, tissue distribution of
      water, lipid (fat) and haemoglobin (in red blood cells and therefore blood vessels) can be
      mapped with extremely high resolution (~100 microns), raising the possibility that PAT can
      depict the small volume tumour that existing techniques cannot.
    
  