
    
      The prevalence of heart failure in Canada is high, affecting 1-3% of total population,
      representing one of the health care system's most expensive diagnoses. Type 2 diabetes is a
      significant risk factor for heart disease, and the presence of both type 2 diabetes and heart
      disease increases the risk of other major health complications including death. A
      translational study is fundamental in understanding of the potential mechanistic basis of
      empagliflozin's cardiac benefit.

      The study drug, empagliflozin (marketed as Jardiance), belongs to a class of medications that
      lowers blood glucose (sugar) by preventing glucose from entering back into blood circulation
      and ensures it is eliminated in urine. It is approved by the FDA and Health Canada for the
      treatment of type 2 diabetes.

      This is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group phase IV study of
      empagliflozin vs. placebo in patients with type 2 diabetes with inadequate glycemic control
      and at high cardiovascular risk. The purpose is to better understand how empagliflozin could
      potentially improve heart function with the use of CMRI. Patients who have given informed
      consent will undergo a baseline CMRI and will then be randomly assigned in a 1:1 basis to
      either empagliflozin 10 mg once daily (OD) or matching placebo. The aim of the study is to
      consent 90 eligible subjects, who will be followed for 26 weeks. An end of study CMRI will be
      performed at 26 weeks.

      The study is comprised of 6 study visits and enrolled subjects will be followed for 6 months.
      The patients will be assessed using CMRI, which is considered the "gold standard" for
      measuring left ventricular (LV) volume, mass, and ejection fraction. Patients will undergo
      two CMRI examinations: at baseline and 6 months after surgery.

      In addition, the investigators will be investigating changes from baseline in LV
      end-diastolic volume, end-systolic volume, LV ejection fraction, regional LV diastolic and
      systolic function, aortic pulse wave velocity and distensibility (as measures of arterial
      stiffness) via CMR imaging in patients with type 2 diabetes treated with empagliflozin
      compared to those who receive placebo. Also, changes from baseline on a panel of biomarkers
      involved in the pathophysiology of heart will be evaluated at baseline, 1 months and 6
      months, in patients with type 2 diabetes treated with empagliflozin.

      Study assessments and potential adverse events reporting will be undertaken at each study
      visit.
    
  