
    
      This study is made up of two standalone projects (described as work packages), the results of
      which will be combined to describe feeding and swallowing difficulties seen in children born
      with OA/TOF.

      Work package one: Prospective cohort study This study will follow a group of children (a
      cohort) born with OA/TOF through their first year of life. At Great Ormond Street Hospital
      all children with OA/TOF have swallow assessments but not all have the same assessments at
      the same time. Therefore, using information from hospital records is not a reliable or useful
      way of learning about swallowing in this group. Children taking part in the cohort study will
      have two assessments; one at 2-4 months and one at 8-10 months of age. They will be followed
      up when they are 12 months old to see what and how they are eating and drinking. This will
      provide detailed information about how swallowing works and how it relates to what a child
      eats and drinks.

      Although the planned cohort is small, the data collected will be the first of its kind. The
      investigators will use a new type of swallow assessment, called high resolution impedance
      manometry (HRIM). The study will also allow us to explore how useful and feasible this test
      is. Results of this study can be used to help design future, larger studies of swallowing in
      TOF/OA.

      What will participating involve? For each swallow assessment children will have a half day
      hospital visit. The assessment will involve our current 'gold standard' test called a
      videofluoroscopy/barium swallow and the new test, HRIM. There will be a telephone review at
      one year of age.

      High resolution impedance manometry will compare the swallowing of the OA/TOF cohort with
      data that has already been collected from children with 'normal' swallowing. This will give
      new information about:

        -  Differences in swallow muscle pressures.

        -  Differences in the coordination of muscle movements.

        -  How these differences effect the movement of food and fluid through the throat and food
           pipe.

      HRIM will be carried out alongside a videofluoroscopy/barium swallow. Videofluoroscopy/barium
      swallow is the most commonly used swallow assessment in children. It will be used to:

        -  Assess the timing and coordination of swallowing.

        -  Identify any anatomical differences that may be causing swallowing difficulties.

        -  Give information from our current 'gold standard' swallow assessment to compare with the
           new information available from HRIM. This will help us understand whether both
           assessments are needed in the future.

      No previous research has investigated whether swallowing changes over time in children born
      with OA/TOF. By carrying out assessments at 2-4 months and 8-10 months the investigators
      will:

        -  Be able to assess milk drinking and weaning foods.

        -  Investigate whether swallow pressures change over time.

        -  Determine whether it is important to assess children more than once. The final part of
           this study will involve the family completing a food diary at home for three days when
           their child is one year old.

        -  This is a simple paper diary on which the parent notes what their child eats and drinks,
           how long the meal took and whether they had any difficulties.

        -  For example, breakfast: 1 weetabix with mashed banana and milk, ½ cup of water, took 25
           mins. Ate easily.

        -  The food diary is returned by post or through the MyGOSH app (parent portal of the
           hospital notes system) to the research team.

      Once completed a telephone call will be used to:

        -  Clarify the food diary entries to ensure they are understood by the research team.

        -  Get the most recent weight and height.

        -  Ask whether the child has had any chest infections since the last assessment.

        -  Ask whether the child has been admitted to hospital since the last assessment. The
           telephone call is expected to take up to 15-30 minutes. If the parent is in agreement,
           results of all the assessments will be shared with the appropriate hospital and
           community healthcare teams to inform clinical care and optimise the support given around
           eating and drinking.

      Analysis of the swallow assessments Videofluoroscopy data will be analysed using a protocol
      that has been used in previous research (McGrattan et al, 2018; McGrattan et al, 2019). It
      involves detailed analysis of 11 components of the child's swallow. High resolution impedance
      manometry data will be analysed using online software called 'swallow gateway'. The data are
      uploaded anonymously. The software is free to use. This will provide information on 17
      components of the upper part of the swallow (mouth and throat) and 14 components of the lower
      part of the swallow (food pipe).

      All the swallowing data will be summarised using averages, counts and percentages. Given the
      number of children in the study the investigators will not carry out statistical analysis
      that would infer the results are applicable to all children with OA/TOF.

      Work package two: a mixed methods study of parent experience This study will investigate the
      impact that establishing feeding has on parents. The first part of the study will use an
      online forum (via Facebook) to understand the issues parents face when they are helping their
      child learn to feed. This will include breast or bottle feeding, moving on to pureed or
      weaning foods and then moving on to family foods. The information gained from the forum will
      be used to design a questionnaire. The questionnaire will give a deeper understanding of how
      common these issues are, whether there are factors that make the impact on parents more or
      less significant and whether there are time points that are particularly challenging.

      The online forum

      In recent years online social networks have become increasingly important sources of support
      for parents of children with and without health needs. They provide a quick and easy means of
      asking questions and sharing opinions and ideas. Previous research has found that carrying
      out an online forum is a successful way of understanding parents experiences (Wray et al,
      2018). It is good for parents of children with health needs for a number of reasons:

        -  Parents can participate at a time and in a place convenient to them.

        -  Participants do not have to answer every question. Therefore, parents can give as much
           or as little time as they wish or are able.

        -  Parents do not have to travel anywhere to take part. This means that people in
           geographically remote places can participate.

        -  Parents do not need additional childcare to take part.

        -  It is a familiar format. Many parents are used to asking or responding to questions in
           this way. Previous research has found participants find an online forum a comfortable
           place to share information.

        -  Participants to influence the direction of discussion, arguably ensuring that the issues
           explored are those most important to those taking part, reducing the risk of researcher
           bias.

      The online forum will be conducted using a method described by Wray et al (2018). It will be
      carried out in conjunction with the 'TOFS', the UK support group for OA/TOF via their
      existing Facebook page. A separate 'closed' group will be created specifically for the
      purposes of the research project. The forum will be moderated by the 'TOFS' administration
      team for an agreed fee of £750. This administrator will be responsible for all day-to-day
      running and moderation of the forum in line with a standard operating procedure developed in
      collaboration with the research team. This will include processes for managing inappropriate
      or offensive messaging and distressed users as well as procedures for running the forum.

      Questions and a probing guide will be generated from available literature, topics raised by
      public involvement activities and with the study steering group, comprising three parents, a
      Dietitian, a Speech and Language Therapist, a Surgeon and a specialist Nurse.

      Questions will be put to the forum one at a time with the order and probing determined by the
      responses received.

      Data analysis Each week a full transcript will be sent by the forum moderator to the research
      team. They will ensure the responses are anonymous by replacing names with a study number.

      Once the forum is complete the data will be analysed using a process called thematic
      analysis. This involves:

        1. Data familiarisation: identification of interesting or significant points

        2. Data coding: a summary of the point being made

        3. Integration of similar codes into categories

        4. Integration of categories into over-arching themes

        5. Consensus discussion to reach agreed themes This process will be conducted by three
           members of the research team and a parent representative to ensure the influence of
           researcher bias is minimised. These themes will be used to develop a questionnaire to
           explore the prevalence of the issues raised.

      The questionnaire A questionnaire will be developed from the themes identified in the online
      forum to understand how common these issues are in parents of children aged 0-5 years and
      whether there are critical time points. It will target a larger number of parents than the
      online forum. Questionnaire development requires results from the online forum, therefore an
      amendment will be submitted in the future for approval.

      The investigators aim to use questionnaires that capture the themes within the online forum
      that have already been developed and validated. For example, questionnaires about parental
      anxiety or mealtime behaviours. The project steering group will review the possible
      questionnaires. Discussion of relevance and importance will be combined with ease of
      completion to inform final questionnaire selection. In the absence of a suitable
      questionnaire to capture an important theme, specific questions will be developed. The
      questionnaires will be piloted to make sure they are readable, not too lengthy and as easy to
      complete as possible. Following advice from parents questionnaires will be online and mobile
      optimised. A paper version will be made available if needed.

      Information regarding the child's age, medical conditions, feeding method (oral or tube),
      household members and access to formal and informal support services accessed will be
      collected. Names will not be collected.

      How will the information be analysed? Analysis will be finalised once the questionnaires are
      selected. Statistical analysis to understand the importance of a child's age, diagnosis and
      access to support is expected.
    
  