
    
      Dementia is a disease that presents with deterioration in memory, thinking, behaviour and the
      ability to perform everyday activities. Worldwide 47.5 million people are affected and
      incidence of dementia is increasing. Dementia leads to disability and dependency among older
      people worldwide and thereby has a huge physical, psychological, social and economic impact
      on caregivers, families and society. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of
      dementia accounting for 60-70% of the cases; other forms include Lewy body dementia,
      frontotemporal dementia, vascular dementia and Parkinson's disease with dementia. In AD,
      pathologic protein aggregates of amyloid beta and hyperphosphorylated tangles of tau-protein
      which deposit as neurofibrillary tangles are typical features. This leads to
      neuroinflammation, mainly mediated by the innate immune system. The most important cells in
      this process are microglia cells, which represent the resident macrophages of the brain.
      Although microglia is able to remove extracellular amyloid beta, in later stages of the
      disease cells remain in a dystrophic state and cannot exert their beneficial functions.
      Microglia maturation and function is critically dependent on short-chain fatty acids produced
      by the gut microbiome and therefore highlights the microbiome as a potential diagnostic and
      therapeutic target in dementia.

      The role of the commensal microbial population of the human body - especially the intestinal
      microbiome - in various diseases is emerging due to the development of advanced analysis
      techniques. Recently the concept of the gut brain-axis has been established. Several pathways
      including the autonomic nervous system, the enteric nervous system, the neuroendocrine system
      and the immune system allow a communication between gut and brain but may also be involved in
      disease development.

      During ageing, the gut microbiome composition undergoes changes. A decrease in diversity, a
      loss of beneficial taxa and an increase of facultative pathogens has been described. Diet and
      the place of residence play an important role in the shaping of the microbiome. Aging is also
      associated with inflammation - often termed as "inflammaging" associated with an increase in
      gut permeability, mucosal inflammation and bacterial translocation.

      Since the main risk factor for developing dementia, especially AD, is aging, it is very
      likely that the gut-brain axis is critically involved in dementia development.

      Animal studies so far suggest that AD is associated with changes in the gut microbiome
      composition with a decrease in beneficial, anti-inflammatory genera. Furthermore, genetic
      alterations in amyloid genes can influence microbiome composition in mice, pointing towards a
      vicious cycle in AD development.

      In humans, so far only limited evidence on the microbiome composition in patients with
      dementia is available. There is evidence that the composition of the microbiome in
      subgingival plaques is altered in dementia and associated with cognitive function. Recently
      the first human study identified phylum- through genus-wide differences in bacterial
      abundance including decreased Firmicutes, increased Bacteroidetes, and decreased
      Bifidobacterium in the stool of AD patients.
    
  