
    
      The goal of this research is to improve depression treatment and outcomes among elderly home
      healthcare patients. Homecare nursing is a major source of health care for a large and
      growing number of medically ill or injured older adults who are homebound by illness or
      disability. Clinically significant depression is twice as prevalent in this patient
      population compared to similarly aged primary care patients. Depression can be effectively
      treated in older adults, and treatment guidelines have been developed to help physicians make
      treatment decisions for their depressed older patients. However, medical home healthcare
      patients rarely receive guideline-consistent treatment for depression. This research tests
      the effectiveness of an intervention, Depression Care for Patients at Home" (CAREPATH), on
      two outcomes: 1. Depression treatment (i.e., initiate treatment or have a change in treatment
      that is consistent with guidelines), and 2. Depressive symptoms (i.e., reduction in
      depressive symptoms over time). The CAREPATH protocol was designed in partnership with home
      healthcare providers. It includes the major elements of depression care management models
      that have proven effective in primary care but restructures these elements to fit the
      clinical needs of home healthcare patients and for consistency with home healthcare practice.
      The intervention itself is designed to be ecologically sensitive to maximize the feasibility
      and generalizability of the program. The CAREPATH Intervention is being tested within six
      home healthcare agencies located in Vermont/New Hampshire, New York, Pennsylvania, Michigan,
      Florida, and Arkansas. The design includes randomization of ~20 teams of nurses to CAREPATH
      or usual care. The impact of CAREPATH on depression treatment is tested with all eligible
      patients (N~600) using data collected routinely by all agencies as these are the kinds of
      data that agencies typically use for quality assurance. Depressive symptoms outcomes are
      tested using the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS) collected by researcher staff from
      (N=300) patients who consent to in-person baseline and telephone follow-up interviews at 12,
      24, and 52 weeks.

      Data Plan: H1 Depression Treatment : Patients of CAREPATH home nurses with clinically
      significant depressive symptoms will be more likely to receive a "guideline-based step" in
      their treatment of depression than patients of nurses providing usual care. This analysis
      will be tested using the merged administrative data set. A mixed-effects logistic regression
      analyses will compare patients in the intervention and usual care groups on change in
      depression treatment received. The primary independent variable (a fixed effect) is group and
      the dependent variable is change (from start-of-care to discharge to guideline consistent
      treatment received (yes/no). The structure of these data from this cluster randomized trial
      involves three level mixed-effects models in which patients are nested within nurse and nurse
      within team supervisor. These analyses will be preceded by mixed-effects models that compare
      groups on sociodemographic and clinical variables. Those variables that differ significantly
      will be included as covariates in the primary analysis that examines the intervention effect
      (described above).

      H2 Depressive Symptoms: Patients of CAREPATH home nurses with clinically significant
      depressive symptoms will have greater reduction in depressive symptomatology (HDRS change
      from baseline) by 3, 6 and 12 months of the baseline interview than patients receiving usual
      care. This analysis will be tested using data collected from patient research interviews. A
      mixed-effects linear regression analyses will compare patients in the intervention and usual
      care groups on change in severity of depressive symptoms from baseline. Covariates in the
      model will be selected as described in H1.

      D9.3 Exploratory Analyses: . S1. Different Outcomes:. Whether the intervention reduces the
      risk of poor outcomes as measured by Medicare's "Outcome-Based Quality Indicators" (OBQI) and
      targeted adverse events, including: decline in activities of daily living, discharge to
      hospital, and/or falls. This analysis will be tested using the merged administrative data
      set. Mixed-effects analyses will be conducted on the following OBQI outcomes and adverse
      events. Mixed-effects linear regression will be used for the continuous measures (e.g., ADL
      decline) whereas mixed-effects logistic regression analyses will be used on binary outcomes
      (e.g., fall). The choice of covariates and the structure of the data will conform to that
      described for H1. We anticipate that some of these exploratory analyses will be sufficiently
      power for statistical tests (e.g., decline in ADL), yet others (e.g., adverse fall events)
      will be examined for the direction and magnitude of effects rather than statistical
      significance.

      S2 Patient Characteristics as Moderators: Whether the effects of the intervention on patient
      outcomes and quality of care differ by depression severity, patient location (e.g., rural vs.
      urban), race/ethnicity (White, Black, Hispanic, Native American), availability of social
      support (caregiver), health status, or cognitive impairment. Separate models will examine
      each patient characteristic as a moderator using mixed-effects linear or logistic regression
      analyses. The independent variables will include intervention and the respective hypothesized
      mediating (from post baseline) or moderating (from baseline) effects (described below).
      Initially the main effects will be tested. Then subsequent models will examine the
      incremental contribution of the interaction of intervention with each of the hypothesized
      moderating effects.

      D10 POWER ANALYSIS Power analyses for the primary hypotheses were conducted based on the
      following assumptions about sample size: 5 agencies; 4 nurse teams per agency, 5 nurses per
      team, and 5 patients subjects per nurse. These assumptions result in a patient sample size of
      500 patients (5*4*5*5). We estimate that the number of patients who consent to research
      interviews will be about half of the patients who are eligible based in the agency's database
      data (i.e., 60% participation at baseline; 85% of baseline patients eligible for follow-up).
      Thus the number of patients in the agency's database that could be included in analyses using
      the this source of data will be at least 1,000.

      Other assumptions for the power analyses included a two-tailed alpha = 0.05, 12 and 24 week
      follow-up assessments for each subject, and an attrition rate of 15%. This rate is based on
      our six month follow-up rates as well as our experience with other samples of
      community-dwelling frail elders (e.g., home care patients), where we have found that
      obtaining the first interview is far more difficult than following older adults overtime once
      they have met and talked with us. Because computer algorithms are not readily available for
      conducting power analyses for three-level mixed-effects models, power estimates for testing
      H1 and H2 are based on simulations described below, that involved 1000 simulation runs for
      each combination of specifications.

      H1 Depression Treatment: The simulations considered two intraclass correlations reflecting
      variations in level 1 (subject-level intraclass correlation within nurse) and level 2
      (nurse-level intraclass correlation within team). Statistical power to detect the
      hypothesized effects with the anticipated sample size, will exceed >80%.

      H2 Depressive Symptoms: Power analyses was conducted based on simulation using Mixed-effects
      models for level 1 and level 2 level random intercepts 3-level linear mixed effects
      regression model. We hypothesized medium intervention effects (Cohen's d) with a standardized
      group mean difference in HDRS change from the baseline: 0.5 and 0.6. (These correspond to
      differences in HDRS changes = 3.43, and 4.11 based on an estimated residual standard
      deviation = 6.85 of HAM-D changes from the TRIAD study.) The table shows that power to detect
      effect size > 0.5 is adequate (>80%).
    
  