
    
      Heart failure (HF) is an increasing epidemic and a major public health priority, affecting
      more than 6 million patients in the United States of America (1). Specially, acutely
      decompensated HF (ADHF) is the most common cause of hospitalization in adults older than 65
      years, and is associated with high rates of morbidity and mortality. Despite advances in
      pharmacological treatment and early follow-up programs in HF patients, readmission rates
      remain unacceptably high (2).

      Fluid overload is a key feature in the pathophysiology of ADHF and residual congestion at the
      time of hospital discharge is one of the main contributors into readmission risk (3-5).
      Typically, fluid overload has been assessed through symptoms and signs, as well as other
      tools such as chest X-ray, plasma biomarkers, and echocardiography (6). However, these
      methods are subject to significant inter-observer variability and can be unreliable for
      various reasons. Furthermore, recent studies have shown that overt signs of clinical
      congestion correlate poorly with hemodynamic congestion assessed by invasive means. In recent
      years, invasive hemodynamic measurements to inform medical management of congestion
      facilitated by implantable pulmonary artery pressure sensors have been shown to reduce HF
      readmissions (7). Unfortunately, due to its invasive nature as well as reimbursement and
      insurance coverage issues, its widespread adoption has been limited.

      Thus, the use of a non-invasive assessment of volume status to guide HF management and
      identify a state of "euvolemia" is an attractive tool, particularly during admission and
      early phase after discharge, which is a vulnerable period for recurrent congestion (8). The
      Remote dielectric sensing (ReDS) system is a novel electromagnetic energy-based technology
      that can accurately quantify changes in lung fluid concentration noninvasively (9). Though
      limited experience from non-randomized studies suggest that ReDS-guided management has the
      potential to reduce readmissions in ADHF patients recently discharged from the hospital (10,
      11), nevertheless data to substantiate the employment of such as strategy is lacking. The
      study team hypothesizes that a ReDS-guided strategy to measure the percent of lung water
      volume as a surrogate of congestion during HF hospitalization will help to determine the
      appropriate timing of discharge and will accordingly be associated with a better short-term
      prognosis.
    
  