
    
      PCOS is a highly prevalent reproductive disorder characterized by hyperandrogenism (HA) and
      oligo/anovulation. PCOS is also associated with metabolic syndrome, obesity and insulin
      resistance. In young women with PCOS, several factors contribute to HA: a) excess LH
      secretion, b) abnormal ovarian steroidogenesis, c) abnormal adrenal steroidogenesis, and d)
      hyperinsulinemia/ insulin resistance. Of interest, HA (and menstrual function) improves with
      age in PCOS. However, the relative contributions of the aforementioned HA-related factors in
      young adult vs. late reproductive-aged women with PCOS are not known. Identifying the most
      important predictor(s) of HA in older women with PCOS will be critically important for
      devising the most relevant therapeutic strategies for older women with PCOS. The
      investigators propose to determine the relative contributions of four established predictors
      of HA (LH secretion, ovarian response to r-hCG administration, adrenal response to ACTH
      administration, and hyperinsulinemia) in older vs. young women with PCOS in a physiological
      study. The investigators hypothesize that hyperinsulinemia is a stronger independent
      predictor of free testosterone (T) in older reproductive aged (vs. young) women with PCOS. In
      addition, the investigators hypothesize that, in older vs. young women with PCOS: a) ovarian
      response to r-hCG will be a weaker independent predictor of free T; b) mean LH will be a
      stronger independent predictor of free T; and c) the predictive ability of adrenal response
      to ACTH will be similar. This will be a cross-sectional physiological study. Ordinary Least
      Square (OLS) regression will be utilized to determine the relative contributions of 4
      established predictors of HA in older vs. young women with PCOS. Statistical plans include
      intra-age group hypothesis testing, inter-age group hypothesis testing, and a ranking of the
      importance of predictors in each age group.
    
  