
    
      Cardiac rehabilitation is a multidisciplinary framework which focuses on improving the
      functioning of heart disease patients to facilitate and optimize the return to a regular
      routine as early as possible. The rehabilitation program provides the tools for the
      maintenance of a healthy lifestyle, encouraging participants to take part in recreational
      activities and includes extending their daily functioning. (IADL- Instrumental Activities of
      Daily Living). A sedentary lifestyle is a major risk factor for heart disease. Increased
      levels of physical activity and an active lifestyle have a beneficial effect on most of the
      risk factors for the heart and blood vessels, including lipid profile, blood pressure and
      body composition.

      In addition to the purely physical component, active participation in managing the household,
      returning to work and leisure activities in the community, have a positive impact on the
      mental state and contribute to the quality of life of cardiac patients.

      Few studies address the return to a normal social life, most focus on the return to work.
      Since most cardiac rehabilitation program participants are pensioners, it is important to
      examine other aspects of their participation in society and everyday life in order to measure
      the effectiveness of a cardiac rehabilitation program.

      The setting up of an initial interview and approval in principle to take part in the study
      will be arranged with a telephone call to the potential participant and a date will be
      determined for the meeting..

      The interview will be conducted in the subject's home. The interviewer will make sure that
      the participant understands and agrees to the terms of the research. The participant then
      will fill in and sign a consent form giving the hospital authorization to use his personal
      details and medical data (gender, age, religion, place of residence).
    
  