
    
      The burden of chronic adult diseases is surging worldwide, particularly type 2 diabetes, the
      prevalence of which is expected to double by 2030. The diabetes epidemic will primarily
      impact developing countries, with 80% of adult cases occurring in low- and middle-income
      countries (LMICs). Because many LMICs currently face a shortage of health professionals, the
      increasing burden of noncommunicable diseases, like type 2 diabetes, will tax already
      strained health systems. Furthermore, because many LMIC health care systems were developed to
      target acute illnesses and communicable disease, they are ill-prepared to treat and manage
      chronic adult disease. The divergence between the growing burden of chronic disease and the
      development of the health systems necessary to treat these diseases indicate the potential
      for a grave health, economic, and human crisis in the following decades. The WHO has
      consequently demanded that physicians designs systems providing "Innovative Care for Chronic
      Conditions" to meet this challenge4.

      However, existing tools may provide a foundation for solutions to this growing crisis.
      Community Health Workers (CHWs, as known as health promoters) have become central to global
      health strategies since the Alma Ata Declaration of 1978, particularly in regions with
      physician shortages. In recent years, CHWs have had notable success in targeting childhood
      disease, particularly malnutrition and diarrhea, and offer a growing variety of primary care
      services. The success of these programs in providing consistent, sustainable care at the
      local level implies that longitudinal treatment for chronic adult diseases could be provided
      through parallel structures. While the treatment of chronic disease has become increasingly
      complex, the proliferation of smartphone and tablets across the globe have raised hopes that
      mobile health technology (mHealth) platforms can provide CHWs with algorithmic guidance on
      assessing and treating a broader set of diseases. The potential use of mHealth is a
      burgeoning field of global health research. The combination of CHWs and mHealth guidance may
      provide a solution to the rise of chronic disease in regions with physician shortages and
      weak health systems.

      While many mHealth applications have been developed for Diabetes (over 1,000 are commercially
      available), only a small percentage (7.6%) are targeted to providers - and even fewer to
      providers in LMICs. Instead, these tools most commonly serve as tools for patient
      self-management, patient education, and medication adherence. A handful of programs have
      utilized smartphone technology to connect remote patients to health care workers in LMICs as
      well as to provide clinical guidance to providers, but such programs have been minimal and
      publications have been process oriented. In addition to improving diabetes care in the target
      population, the project also seeks to add to the evidence for this approach by designing an
      application-based algorithm that can assist CHWs in providing long-term diabetes care,
      titrating first- and second-line oral diabetes medications, and identifying dangerous
      diabetes complications in a setting of a lower middle-income country with a low physician
      density.

      To test this delivery approach,the investigators focused on developing a diabetes treatment
      program in San Lucas Tolimán, Guatemala. This program seeks to provide treatment to diabetics
      living in the group of 19 rural villages with a combined population of 17,000, which surround
      San Lucas. San Lucas is an ideal community for studying these topics because it is facing a
      heavy burden of untreated Type II Diabetes, has medical personnel with mHealth experience,
      and has a well-developed CHW program. This CHW program is sponsored by the San Lucas Mission
      (SLM), an NGO providing health services in the area and a University of Wisconsin and
      Stanford University partner organization. Local health workers describe the increase in Type
      II Diabetes as an epidemic and there are few systems in place to provide community members
      with diabetes screening or effective and consistent treatment. Startling regional data on
      Type II Diabetes supports this concern: in Guatemala, the prevalence of diabetes has been
      estimated at 9.1-9.4%, with over 40% of cases undiagnosed22-24. The prevalence of diabetes
      has doubled over the past 30 years25. Fortunately, San Lucas has already developed a strong
      CHW program, including a tablet-based mHealth application that targets early childhood
      malnutrition, through a collaboration between the San Lucas Mission and Stanford School of
      Medicine. This application has enhanced the successful malnutrition program, allowing CHWs to
      more easily identify and manage malnutrition and decreasing training requirements for CHWs26.
      Utilizing the existence of the CHW program infrastructure and the established mHealth
      platform, the project seeks to develop and implement a CHW-led diabetes treatment program in
      San Lucas that is assisted by a smartphone application.

      In order to inform the development of the smartphone application and program protocols, the
      investigators conducted a community needs assessment during the summer of 2016. Clinical data
      was used to provide a baseline estimate of diabetes prevalence and distribution in the
      communities as well as demographic risk factors. Interviews were conducted with local
      physicians, CHWs, and managers of the CHW system to understand current methods of diabetes
      treatment and define the limitations of these systems. Out of the 119 patients currently
      diagnosed with diabetes in the rural communities, 31 were interviewed to illuminate how the
      disease is currently diagnosed and treated, the effect the disease has on patient lifestyles,
      and patients' desired attributes for a diabetes treatment program. Finally,the investigators
      visited local diabetes clinics to determine the current state of diabetes treatment, the
      availability of medications and resources, and the level of care provided to patients.

      Key findings of the community needs assessment were as follows:

        1. Patients with diabetes in the rural communities have poor access to quality diabetes
           care. Only 58% of patients are taking medication on a regular basis and only 13% have
           achieved good glycemic control

        2. Outreach clinics run by CHWs are disorganized, undersupplied, sporadic, and ineffective

        3. CHWs lack the experience and training to effectively titrate oral diabetes medications,
           assess for possible complications, and provide health education for patients

        4. Patients lack basic diabetes knowledge, particularly regarding self-management

      Utilizing the knowledge gained with this needs assessment, established treatment guidelines
      for diabetes, and the expertise of SLM medical director Dr. Rafael Tun and the coordinators
      the SLM CHW program, the investigators developed protocols for the diabetes program,
      including a smartphone application to allow for algorithmic management. This process was
      iterative and collaborative and involved local partners at every step.

      The investigators then trained a group of 10 CHWs, including 5 CHW coordinators (who have
      more clinical experience and take on a supervisory and training role for less-experienced
      CHWs) in the basics of diabetes management, program protocols, and the use of the smartphone
      application the investigators had developed. With close physician supervision, the
      investigators have beta-tested the use of the application with a small group of patients.
      Based on this experience, the investigators have further refined the application and program
      protocols. The investigators now endeavor to implement this program on a wide scale in the
      San Lucas area to both improve access to care for patients with diabetes and to establish the
      efficacy, feasibility, and safety of CHW-led, smartphone application-guided diabetes
      treatment.

      An overview of study activities is as follows:

        -  The investigators will train additional CHWs in basic diabetes care, use of
           point-of-care (POC) testing technology, and use of the smartphone application that will
           guide their management of patients with diabetes.

        -  CHWs will recruit patients with diabetes in the rural villages outside of San Lucas to
           participate in the program.

        -  At the enrollment visit, CHWs will use the smartphone application to screen patients for
           appropriate inclusion in the program, establish glycemic targets, assess current
           glycemic control with hemoglobin A1c and blood glucose, measure height, weight, blood
           pressure, and waist circumference, assess for the presence of diabetes complications
           (diabetic ulcers, angina, diabetic eye disease), administer oral medications (metformin
           and/or glyburide, known locally by its alternate name glibenclamide) based on a
           medication dosing algorithm, and provide diabetes self-management education.

        -  CHWs will meet with patients on a monthly basis to assess medication adherence and for
           adverse effects, glycemic control (with blood glucose), screen for diabetic
           complications, refill medications with titration as needed (if experiencing medication
           adverse effects or blood glucose is significantly above or below treatment goals), and
           provide further diabetes education. Again, these activities will be guided by the
           smartphone application. Every 3 months, the monthly visit will also include A1c
           measurement for a more definitive measurement of diabetes control and to allow for
           titration of medications. Patients who are identified as having complications or who are
           not meeting treatment goals despite maximal dosing of metformin and glibenclamide
           allowed by the algorithm will be referred to SLM medical director Dr. Rafael Tun for
           definitive management.

        -  After all visits, including enrollment and monthly visits, Dr. Tun, in addition to the
           study investigators, will review data for all patients seen, including treatment
           recommendations made by the application and carried out by the CHWs, and make any
           changes to the treatment plan as needed based on his clinical judgement.

        -  Mean hemoglobin A1c and proportion of patients meeting treatment goals (primary
           endpoints) will be assessed at 6 months and compared to baseline, in addition to a
           number of secondary endpoints and safety measures as described in the relevant sections
           of this protocol. If possible, patients will also be followed out to 12 months with
           reassessment of primary and secondary endpoints.

        -  SLM hopes to continue this rural diabetes treatment program indefinitely, with the
           results of this study informing a quality improvement process to ensure the provision of
           high quality care.

      The investigators believe that the novel aspect of this intervention, the use of a smartphone
      application to guide treatment decisions, improves on previous protocol-driven approaches in
      several ways. The use of a mobile computer-based algorithm as opposed to a paper algorithm
      allows for greater complexity and the incorporation of additional factors relevant to patient
      safety, such as the patient's current dose of medication, medication adherence, and
      medication side effects, in order to provide more specific recommendations. In this way, it
      decreases the cognitive burden placed on CHWs and the potential for human error. Rather than
      having to follow a complicated paper flowchart, CHWs will input information into the
      smartphone application, which will process the data and present the CHW with a concrete
      recommendation. Additionally, a computer-based system allows for easier review by the
      supervising physician and auditing and analysis of both program process measures and
      outcomes.

      While CHWs will be acting on recommendations from the smartphone application without direct
      physician supervision at that moment, they will in essence be acting on "standing orders"
      from the physician because the treatment algorithms were designed by physicians and approved
      by the SLM medical director. CHWs will also be able to obtain point-of-care treatment
      recommendations from the medical director via telephone if there are questions about
      application recommendations or if a situation arises that falls outside the scope of the
      protocols.
    
  