
    
      In this study, patient inclusion and sample collection are multicentric. Sample analysis will
      be carried out at Life Length's laboratories at the Madrid Science Park in Canto Blanco
      university campus.

      The study will be initiated immediately after approval by the IRB and has an overall length
      of 12 months (recruiting time).

      The main purpose of the present study is to determine the efficacy of the PROSTAV test as a
      prostate cancer biomarker developed by Life Length and which has been subject to internal
      validation in a previous study (LL-HURS-ONC001). For this purpose, the risk-prediction
      algorithm based on telomere and clinical variables will be used. This allows to back medical
      decisions in patients with uncertain PC diagnosis based on their PSA levels and the need to
      perform a prostate biopsy. The standard of care of the participating hospitals and following
      the European Urology Association recommendations, patients with PSA >3 (prostate-specific
      antigen) and/or positive digital rectal examination (DRE) are considered at risk for
      developing PC.

      This study includes only one group of patients defined by inclusion criteria and who will be
      classified in different groups after a biopsy is performed: 1) patients with a positive
      biopsy result (diagnosed with significant prostate cancer) (Gleason score >6), and without
      significant prostate cancer (Gleason score ≤6) or no cancer. Before knowing the
      histopathological results of the biopsy, the PROSTAV test will be performed. Depending on the
      results of the PROSTAV test, the physician will write down which decision he or she would
      have made as to performing or not a biopsy: zero (0) for a low-risk result in the PROSTAV
      test, in which case no biopsy would have been performed; and one (1) for a PC risk result in
      the PROSTAV test, in which case a biopsy would have been performed. Regardless of what the
      result of the PROSTAV test is, all patients will undergo a biopsy since the result in PROSTAV
      test will not influence the standard of care in this study.

      A 10 ml. sample is required from all subjects included in the study for telomere analysis.
      This sample is obtained from blood drawn before performing the diagnostic prostate biopsy.
      The sample must be drawn within a 90-day period prior to biopsy.

      The design of the present project allows for one single study phase. This study is a clinical
      efficacy validation study in patients in whom the results of potential biopsy sparing are
      compared after evaluating medical decisions based on the use of the PROSTAV test.

      The point of origin of the samples are the different participating centers that will use the
      samples for application of the telomere biology evaluation techniques.

      Mononuclear cells in peripheral blood from all samples will be isolated and analyzed to
      determine values of Telomere Associated Variables (TAVs).

      For the calculation of the telomere variables, the Sponsor will use the High-Throughput
      Quantitative Fluorescent in Situ Hybridization technique (HT-Q-FISH).

      Data resulting from each biological sample will be analyzed to obtain a defined risk
      assessment based on the algorithm of the PROSTAV test. The purpose of the analysis is the
      integration of the data resulting from telomere measurements (average, median, percentage of
      short telomeres, ratio of short and long telomeres, etc.) and PSA and free PSA levels, age
      and the DRE results of the patient's medical record to determine whether they are low-risk
      patients, in which a biopsy would not be necessary to confirm presence of prostate cancer. By
      doing this, it is intending to demonstrate the efficacy of the PROSTAV test, since biopsies
      would be performed in any case and also show the test's sensitivity and specificity values in
      clinical practice.
    
  