
    
      This is a multi-centre, open label, phase II randomized clinical trial evaluating SBRT as
      upfront cytoreductive therapy to the primary renal mass along with combination I/N therapy in
      patients with intermediate/poor risk mRCC who are not candidates for cytoreductive
      nephrectomy. Eligible and consenting, newly diagnosed and histologically confirmed
      intermediate/poor risk mRCC patients based on IMDC criteria with primary disease in-situ will
      be randomized in a 2:1 fashion to either induction I/N followed by SBRT prior to the second
      cycle (experimental arm) versus I/N alone (standard arm). Patients will be stratified based
      on IMDC criteria (intermediate 1-2 versus poor 3-6).

        -  Standard Arm: induction ipilimumab 1 mg/kg combined with nivolumab 3 mg/kg (I/N) every 3
           weeks for cycles 1-4 followed by maintenance treatment with nivolumab 240mg every 2
           weeks or 480mg every 4 weeks until disease progression (as determined by RECIST 1.1),
           intolerance, or patient/physician decision to stop treatment.

        -  Experimental Arm: induction ipilimumab 1 mg/kg combined with nivolumab 3 mg/kg (I/N)
           every 3 weeks for one cycle, followed by SBRT to the primary disease in-situ, prior to
           cycle 2-4 of I/N. Patients randomized to SBRT will undergo radiation planning during the
           first cycle of I/N to their primary kidney mass, and then the radiation will be
           delivered between cycles 1 and 2 to a dose of 30-40 Gy in 5 fractions every other day
           over 1.5 weeks. Approximately one week following completion of SBRT, patients will start
           cycle 2 of I/N as per standard of care. The total time elapsed between the start of
           cycle 1 and 2 of I/N should be no more than 6 weeks. After completion of up to four
           cycles of I/N, patients will proceed to standard of care maintenance treatment with
           nivolumab 240mg every 2 weeks or 480mg every 4 weeks until disease progression (as
           determined by RECIST 1.1), intolerance, or patient/physician decision to stop treatment.

      During treatment (standard and experimental arm) participants will be assessed for radiation
      toxicity and the occurrence of adverse events. Following treatment, participants will be
      assessed at a clinic visit every 3 months, for a period of 1 year. Progression free survival
      will be assessed by CT scan (chest; abdomen and pelvis), which is performed after the final
      I/N treatment and every 3 months as per standard of care. Participants will be followed for
      one additional year, seen at 18 and 24 months to assess survival. The planned sample size is
      78 study participants.
    
  