
    
      An estimated 6.5 million adults in the U.S. have Heart Failure (HF) and the prevalence is
      increasing. HF is characterized by poor quality of life but this is amenable to
      self-management. However, the amount of support available from providers to help manage
      complications is far beyond what is feasible. The complex needs of these patients require a
      new vision for delivery of health care services, such as an mHealth management model. mHealth
      technologies such as blue-tooth enabled BP, heart rate, weight, and pulse oximetry remote
      monitoring permit sharing of immediate biometric data and video messages with providers and
      instantaneous feedback to patients before symptom crises, that is, when and where patients
      need it.

      This is a single-blinded comparative effectiveness randomized controlled trial conducted in a
      real-world setting. A sample of 400 dyads, that is older patients with HF (>55 years) and
      their caregivers, will be recruited from a large medical center and randomly assigned to one
      of two arms: 200 dyads to a provider-directed model or 200 dyads to the mHealth management
      model. The provider-directed management model is the current care standard for patients with
      HF; care delivery consists of office and emergency visits, with telephone or in person
      communications. The standard of care will be augmented by providing home equipment kits with
      weight scale, blood pressure, pulse oximetry devices and a Log to record data. The mHealth
      care management model consists of real time bio-monitoring kits and telemedicine visits using
      a secure wireless gateway with a cloud-based clinician portal connected to a Bluetooth-paired
      Android Tablet. Daily readings are transmitted to a 24-hour RN call center and triaged per
      protocols. Outcomes informed a prior by community stakeholders to be most important at the
      patient, caregiver, and health systems-levels will be collected and compared at baseline, 3-
      and 6- months: 1) For the patient: self-care of HF; confidence and self-efficacy to manage
      care, symptoms, medications and treatments; HF knowledge; mental and physical health, health
      distress, informational support, equipment usability, and quality of life. 2) For the
      caregiver: caregiver burden and health. 3) For the Health System: patient satisfaction,
      hospital, emergency & provider visits, and mortality. Differential benefits for subsets of
      participants will be evaluated according to patient characteristics (socio-demographical,
      rurality, etc.). Evaluation of mediation variables will enhance our understanding of
      underlying processes. This research has the potential to revolutionize care for high-cost and
      high-need patients such as those with HF.
    
  