
    
      Depressive symptoms are highly prevalent in older populations, is one of the most serious
      public health problems faced by modern societies. The problems caused by depression, such as
      functional impairments, lead to decreased quality of life, poor recovery from illnesses and
      increased mortality in the elderly. Researchers have found that there are many possible
      connections between personal or physical variables and the risk of developing depression; it
      can be caused by sociodemographic factors, or cognitive and functional impairment,
      nutritional status is also related to development of depression.

      Recent studies have suggested that depressive symptoms are more prevalent in individuals with
      impaired nutritional status. The intestinal microbial population (microbiota), known
      influenced by several factors including nutrition, age, and stress.

      The microbiota is essential to human health, changes in composition microbiota play a role in
      metabolic, nutritional, physiological and immunological processes in the human body, recently
      reported also behavioral changes associated with anxiety and depression. The aging process is
      characterized by a decrease intestinal transit time, as a result of dental problems, decrease
      in saliva activity, and efficiency of digestion and absorption leading to changes in the
      microbiota composition, which causes an increase in sensitivity to the development of chronic
      and inflammatory diseases. Although other factors undoubtedly contribute to mental health
      decline in the elderly, the association of the intestinal microbiota of older people with
      inflammation, the clear association between diet and microbiota and the recent report on the
      correlation between changes in microbiota and depression have led us to hypothesize that diet
      can shape microbiota, which then affect mood status in older people and decreased depressive
      symptoms.

      The purpose of the study is to examine the effect of a custom diet based on the composition
      of the intestinal bacterial population (compared with a diet for a healthy lifestyle that is
      not based on a microbiotic profile), on moods and depression among the elderly.

      Before and after the intervention, several tests will be carried out, using stool sample for
      microbiota analysis, salivary cortisol measurement and clinical information (GDS, life style
      habits, CEBQ, FFQ), These measures will indicate participants' clinical, nutritional and
      mental situation before and after in order to probe the diet intervention impact on
      microbiota and its correlation to mental health.

      The infrastructure of this research includes several aspects - mood, health and nutrition
      status that are main parameters in life quality of the third age, and the research is based
      on the complementary cooperation of social and behavior sciences and nutrition and life
      sciences experts.
    
  