
    
      Implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICD) are used in the treatment of life-threatening
      heart arrhythmia and the prevention of sudden cardiac death (SCD). The ICD terminates
      arrhythmia by delivering therapy in the form of electrical impulses to the heart. Patients
      have described the high energy shock administered by the devise as feeling like a painful
      kick in the chest.

      Patients, who receive an ICD are very much protected against SCD and it is assumed that they
      are less worried and effected by their heart disease than others. That is not correct though.
      Studies have shown, that living with an ICD can lead to anxiety, fear of shock and avoidance
      of situations, places and objects that are associated to shock. It often leads to social
      isolation, avoidance of physical activity and mood-disturbances.

      The purpose of this study is to describe the effect and meaning of an outpatient-nursing
      programme including physical activity for patients with ICD.

      Hypothesis: see above

      Intervention: The outpatient nursing programme has a duration of 1 year and is directed
      towards parameters that ICD reportedly affect. The focus is prevention of the known risks and
      problems. The content is partly information and education in managing an ICD, partly
      emotional reactions and further discussion of handling life with ICD. 3-month into the
      program physical training lead by a physical therapist is started. It is optimal whether to
      carry out the twice-weekly physical training program at home or at the hospital.

      180 patients, who get an ICD transplanted at Copenhagen university Hospital, Rigshospitalet,
      are included in the study prior to discharge. 90 patients in the intervention group and 90
      controls.

      Using questionnaires, qualitative interviews, work-test, 6 MWT and decoding ICD the effect
      and meaning of the programme is evaluated.
    
  