
    
      Aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage continues to have very high morbidity and mortality rates,
      despite the years elapsed and repeated attempts to reduce it.

      Stabilizing the aneurysm by embolization or surgical clipping leaves unresolved the
      vasospasm, responsible for ischemic brain damage, causing neurological sequelae and cognitive
      impairment.

      It has long been known that the deoxyhemoglobin liberated from the extravasated red blood
      cells retained in the subarachnoid clot is the leading cause of vasospasm. Different routes
      have been tried to minimize its deleterious effects, such as copious lavage of the skull base
      cisterns, lysing the subarachnoid clot with urokinase or rtPA, administration of vitamin C,
      iron chelators, or superoxydodismutase-like drugs.

      The volume of subarachnoid hemorrhage was soon correlated with the vasospasm severity. Once
      this fact was known in the 1980s and 1990s, cisternal lavage was used extensively during
      aneurysms' surgical clipping. Clots located in the subarachnoid space were lysed with
      urokinase or rtPA (recombinant tissue plasminogen activator), showing positive effects,
      particularly evident for the most severe bleeds, those with Fisher's grades of 3 or higher.

      However, the introduction of embolization changed the treatment paradigm. As the craniotomy
      is not carried out, the cisterns are not usually washed, which controls the rebleeding but
      not the vasospasm. To date, we are not aware of any study that compares the effect on
      vasospasm of embolization versus clipping of aneurysms with lavage of the cisterns using
      thrombolytic agents.

      In the Neurosurgery Department of our Hospital, two periods can be identified in which the
      treatment of brain aneurysms has been carried out differently. In the first period between
      2007 and 2011, the aneurysms were primarily subjected to embolization, and only if there was
      no indication for endovascular treatment, surgical clipping was performed. In the second
      period, between 2012 and 2018, they were operated on an emergency basis with clip application
      and the skull base cisterns washed with urokinase. Embolization was considered if the
      surgical clipping was judged too risky.

      The aim is to analyze these two periods and compare the mortality, morbidity, and vasospasm
      rates, the need for a cerebrospinal fluid diversion (temporary and definitive), and the final
      neurological and cognitive status for the different therapeutic approaches.
    
  