
    
      This study will examine whether hesperidin, a major component of citrus fruits, affects how
      the body responds to insulin in healthy and obese people. Insulin is not as effective in
      people who are overweight, have high blood pressure or diabetes. This condition is known as
      insulin resistance. Laboratory studies suggest that hesperidin treatment lowers blood
      pressure, lowers blood sugar and increases blood flow. This study will see if hesperidin
      improves insulin resistance or insulin's effects on blood flow in people with insulin
      resistance.

      Healthy normal weight or overweight people between 21 and 65 years of age may be eligible for
      this study. Participants are randomly assigned to take hesperidin or a placebo (inactive
      dummy pill ) for a 4-week treatment phase. In addition to treatment, participants undergo the
      following procedures during the study period:

      Screening, including medical history, physical examination and blood and urine tests.

      Complete a dietary and physical activity questionnaire and consult with a dietitian

      Blood and urine tests

      At-home and clinic blood pressure monitoring

      Glucose clamp test to measure how the body responds to insulin. This test is done two times
      during the study. A needle is placed in a vein in each of the subject's arms, one for
      sampling blood and the other for infusing insulin, glucose and potassium. Glucose and insulin
      levels, electrolytes, lipids, fatty acids, cytokines and hesperidin levels are measured. We
      will also use tracer-labeled glucose to determine how much glucose the body produces in the
      fasting state and during the clamp. This type of glucose has low levels of radiation.

      Forearm blood flow measurement with finger plethysmography device. Before beginning the
      glucose clamp test, a test of how well the blood vessels relax is done. A device that
      measures the blood flow in the vessels of the forefingers is used. The test is performed at
      the before the glucose clamp test and again 2 hours after the beginning of the clamp.
    
  