
    
      Patients with this disease are born with it and have a fragility of the genes (chromosomes)
      in all the cells of the body. The fragility of the chromosomes puts patients with FA at high
      risk for certain cancers. Patients with FA are especially at risk of having diseases of the
      blood and marrow systems. These include (1) aplastic anemia, a disease where there is a
      failure of the bone marrow to make blood cells and (2) myelodysplastic syndrome which is
      represented by a clone of cells of the marrow that becomes "malignant" and stops making
      adequate numbers of blood cells (it is also called preleukemia.) The progression of the
      myelodysplastic syndrome will lead to (3) acute leukemia.

      If you have Fanconi anemia and suffer from aplastic anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, or
      leukemia standard treatment with medications or chemotherapy alone is not likely to cure
      these problems.

      An allogeneic blood or bone marrow (hematopoietic stem cell) transplant can be done to
      provide you with marrow or blood stem cells from a healthy donor that can develop a normal
      blood forming system. An allogeneic stem cell transplant can cure the problems of the marrow
      and blood system. It cannot cure the chromosome fragility of the whole body. When allogeneic
      stem cell transplants have been done for the treatment of FA using stem cells from donors
      other than matched siblings, they have been associated with a high risk of rejection of the
      transplant and of a complication called graft-versus-host disease.

      In order for the stem cells to grow and to kill leukemia cells, patients must receive
      chemotherapy and radiation therapy. This preparation is called cytoreduction. For patients
      with Fanconi anemia, the standard preparation for stem cell transplantation has been the use
      of total body irradiation (at a lower dose because of the high risk of side-effects) and a
      chemotherapy agent called cyclophosphamide (or Cytoxan) also at lower dose. While this has
      worked well with transplants from matched siblings, it was not enough in transplants from
      unrelated or cord blood donors and led to a high risk of rejection. In the last few years a
      medication called fludarabine was used successfully in transplants to give more
      immunosuppression and kill T-cells. Fludarabine allowed transplants to be done with low risks
      of rejection, and probably as importantly little risks of added side-effects. The addition of
      antithymocyte globulin to Total Body Irradiation, cyclophosphamide and fludarabine has made
      the chances of rejection very low.
    
  