
    
      Approximately fifty percent of patients seeking help in outpatient orthopedic clinics and
      roughly thirty percent of people will experience some low back pain (LBP) at some time in
      their life.(1) LBP is the second leading cause of missed days of work per year and results in
      around ninety billion dollars per year in medical costs. (1) Physical therapy interventions
      for LBP could include manual therapy, exercise, traction, range of motion, modalities,
      postural education, or a combination of these interventions.(2-5) Medical treatment for LBP
      could include medications, imaging, laboratory studies, injections, surgery, or counseling
      through pain psychology.(6-7) Many research studies are inconclusive regarding effective
      treatment.

      In 1995 a treatment based classification system for patients with acute low back pain was
      published.(8) Patients were categorized into one of four categories: manipulation,
      directional exercises (flexion, extension, lateral shift correction), immobilization, or
      traction. (8)This classification system led to further validation of the categories and
      clinical prediction rules (CPR) related to best treatment outcomes.(9-11) In 2005, Hicks
      built upon the initial classification system for immobilization when he published a
      preliminary CPR identifying which patients were most likely to benefit from lumbar
      stabilization.(10) Hicks identified the following predictors for patient response to
      stabilization exercises: individuals younger than age forty, straight leg raise greater than
      ninety-one degrees, and aberrant motions or a positive prone instability test.(10) Hicks
      reported a presence of three or more of these variables had a positive likelihood ratio of
      4.0 for a 95% confidence interval.(10) However, no studies to date have confirmed such
      results nor validated this clinical prediction rule.

      Home program prescription background Evidence for using video for home program prescription
      is limited. However, video based home programs have been successfully used for patients with
      Huntington's disease, traumatic brain injury (TBI), spinal cord injury, brachial plexus
      injuries, and general shoulder strengthening.(12-15) Medical studies demonstrate that
      patients comprehend information better when communicated via educational videos as opposed to
      educational pamphlets about various disorders.(16-18)

      Problem Statement:

      Currently, there is no literature evaluating the use of video home programs for patients with
      LBP or identifying who may benefit from this form of clinical education. Home program
      handouts frequently depict photographs or figures with incorrect form or instructions. Video
      based home programs demonstrating the stabilization techniques for patients may provide
      correct form and accurate instructions. With such programs, patient comprehension and
      technical reproduction of the exercises may improve. Video-based home programs could lead to
      fewer clinic visits and decreased cost per episode of care.

      Given the numerous factors that contribute to limited clinic visits in LBP patients, more
      effective communication should be beneficial during treatment. We do not know if patient
      learning styles may influence compliance with varying modes of home exercise program
      prescriptions. Video based home exercise programs may also be a better fit for patients who
      are more auditory or visual learners as defined by the Visual, Auditory, Reading, Kinesthetic
      (VARK) learning inventory. (19) Auditory learners prefer information being transferred by
      listening. Visual learners prefer maps, charts, and perhaps videos over written charts or
      instructions.
    
  