
    
      This is a prospective cohort study that aims at comparing the proportion of incident
      cardiovascular events after a first stroke, first transient ischemic attack (TIA) or
      recurrent TIA, between sleep-disordered breathing patients (SDB, defined as an apnea-hypopnea
      index > 15 events/hour) and non-SDB patients, one year after SDB diagnosis performed by
      polysomnography 3 months after the cerebrovascular event.

      The primary outcome is a composite endpoint composed of cardiac or cerebrovascular events
      (Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events, MACCEs), regrouping: death from any cardiac or
      cerebrovascular cause, non-fatal stroke, non-fatal acute coronary event. Secondary outcomes
      include secondary cardiac and cerebrovascular events; stroke-related functional criteria;
      lesion-related criteria obtained from morphological MRI; scores on questionnaires assessing
      the quality of life, depression and sleep; functional, cognitive and sensorimotor
      evaluations; locomotion tests; and sleep-related criteria.

      1620 patients, aged 18 to 85 years, in the acute phase (<72h) of a first stroke, first or
      recurrent TIA, and with a score on the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) ≤1 before stroke onset,
      will be included in the cohort. All patients included in the study will be followed for 5
      years. The schedule of follow-up will be as follow :

        -  Selection visit (Days 0 to 3): verification of eligibility criteria, patients' or
           relatives' information, informed consent signature.

        -  Inclusion visit (Days 4 to 7): clinical history and treatments, clinical evaluation and
           anthropometrical parameters, stroke-related criteria (including score on the National
           Institute of Health Stroke Scale), functional, cognitive, and sensorimotor evaluation,
           walking and locomotion tests, questionnaires, stroke imagery by magnetic resonance
           imagery, blood sampling.

        -  SDB diagnosis (Month 3): the same clinical, MRI and biological parameters will be
           collected and the same questionnaires will be fulfilled by the patients. In addition,
           they will undergo polysomnography to assess their SDB status. Patients will be assigned
           to the SDB group if the AHI > 15 events/hour; otherwise they will be assigned to the
           control group. Patients assigned to the SDB group will be proposed a treatment for their
           SDB according to standard care procedures.

        -  Clinical follow-up: sleep and neurological; (initial 3 months and then annually after
           SDB diagnosis up to 5 years after SDB diagnosis): retrieval of new cardiac or
           cerebrovascular events (primary study outcome (MACCEs)), stroke-related parameters,
           questionnaires, functional, cognitive, and sensorimotor evaluations, locomotion tests,
           sleep follow-up (adherence to SDB treatment, tolerance, efficacy). Biological sampling
           will also be done at 1, 2 and 5 years after SDB diagnosis.

      Ancillary study - CAtSS (Carotid, Atherosclerosis, Stroke and Sleep apnea) Conjointly to the
      previously described ASCENT protocol, an ancillary study will be proposed to the subgroup of
      patients eligible for carotid surgery (endarterectomy) following their cerebrovascular event.

      The purpose of this ancillary study is to evaluate the impact of SDB and SDB treatment on the
      evolution of the carotid plaque after surgery. For the patients who accepted to participate
      to this ancillary study, the degree of carotid stenosis and the artery wall thickness
      (intima-media thickness, assessed by echo-Doppler) will be measured during the inclusion
      visit, at 3 months, 6 months, and at each annual visit. During surgery, a fragment of carotid
      plaque will be kept for morphologic and histologic analyses as well as miRNAs dosing, miARNs
      being recognized as indicators of carotid plaque instability. Plasmatic and urine samples
      will also be collected for miRNA analyses.
    
  