
    
      Background & Significance

      Assessment of functional loss in glaucoma has been traditionally made with standard automated
      perimetry (SAP). Despite the significant progress achieved with the development of SAP,
      assessment of visual field loss still has significant drawbacks. SAP testing is limited by
      subjectivity of patient responses and high test-retest variability, frequently requiring many
      tests for effective detection of change over time. Moreover, as these tests are generally
      conducted in clinic-based settings, limited patient availability and health care resources
      often result in an insufficient number of tests acquired over time, with delayed diagnosis
      and detection of disease progression. The requirement for highly trained technicians, cost,
      complexity, and lack of portability of SAP also preclude its use for screening of visual
      field loss in underserved populations. Furthermore, current SAP testing as performed in
      clinical practice frequently results in delayed detection of progression, with potential late
      initiation/escalation of treatment and irreversible functional damage.

      As a part of a funded Phase I project, the nGoggle (nGoggle Inc., San Diego, CA), the first
      device of its kind, allowed a portable and objective brain-based assessment of visual
      function deficits in glaucoma. The nGoggle integrates a wearable, wireless, no-prep EEG
      system and a head-mounted display (HMD) to allow users to routinely monitor electrical brain
      activities associated with visual field stimulation. A recent study comparing the diagnostic
      accuracies of an earlier version of the nGoggle and SAP in discriminating patients with
      glaucoma from healthy subjects found that the nGoggle performed at least as well, if not
      better than, SAP with the additional advantage of portability and objectivity.

      The overall goal of this proposal is to test the nGoggle's accuracy and repeatability in
      detecting visual function loss. In addition, its ability to stage glaucomatous damage, by
      discriminating patients at different stages of the disease will be evaluated. Finally, the
      relationship between nGoggle metrics and neural damage in glaucoma as detected by other
      objective techniques such as optical coherence tomography will also be investigated. Patients
      with other diseases affecting the visual system will also be included in order to assess
      whether the nGoggle can differentiate glaucoma from them.

      Study Design & Procedures

      This will be a longitudinal study in which patients will be examined approximately
      biannually. The following patients will be recruited:

        1. Glaucoma;

        2. Suspicion of having glaucoma;

        3. Non-glaucomatous optic neuropathies;

        4. Age-related macular degeneration (AMD);

        5. Retinal degenerations;

        6. Other diseases involving the visual pathways such as optic neuritis, tumors or ischemic
           neuropathy.

        7. Healthy subjects

      General evaluation:

      As part of the study all participants will undergo the following general evaluation:

        1. Review of medical history;

        2. Comprehensive ophthalmologic examination

        3. Questionnaires: a. Cognitive function using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA); b.
           A short structured interview to obtain vision-related quality of life information using
           the National Eye Institute 25-Item Visual Functioning Questionnaire (NEI VFQ-25); c. A
           questionnaire to assess patient's satisfaction with the nGoggle testing, including
           easiness of placement, comfort, and user-interface.

        4. Electroencephalogram (EEG) and Visual Evoked Potentials (VEP): Visual evoked potentials
           (VEP) will be evaluated with Diopsys NOVA (Diopsys, Inc.), which is a well-established
           conventional multifocal VEP device to assess brain functioning following visual stimuli
           from a computer screen. Subjects will also be monitored with an EEG system integrated
           with a head-mounted display (nGoggle, Inc.). The nGoggle is a portable visual evoked
           potential system that uses an EEG to acquire visual evoked potentials in response to
           visual stimuli presented on a virtual reality goggle.

      Risk/Benefit Assessment

      Risks:

      Risks from participating in the study are very low. The primary risks for all participants
      are some discomforts, which are similar to those encountered in any complete eye examination.
      Participants will undergo non-invasive procedures used for diagnostic purposes that are used
      in standard clinical care. Eventually, it will be necessary to use numbing or dilating drops
      for fundus examination, as is done in standard clinical care. Some risks of those drops
      include: dry eye, mild headache, blurred vision, drowsiness, burning eyes, tearing, light
      sensitivity, redness, and allergy reactions. The only non-FDA approved device used in this
      study is the nGoggle (nGoggle Inc.), which is an investigational diagnostic device qualified
      as a non-significant risk device. The subject may experience mild discomfort due to drying of
      the eye during the study. Should a patient note drying, a drop of artificial tears will be
      placed over the eye by the study key personnel. In very rare cases, artificial eye tear drops
      may cause irritation or allergy. There are no known risks associated with the EEG test other
      than discomfort and fatigue. Subjects might become bored, fatigued or distressed while
      participating. To minimize these potential effects, the tasks will be kept short and subjects
      will be instructed that they may request to interrupt the test anytime. All assessments,
      software, instruments that are not FDA approved will be used as tools to assess disability
      and device efficacy, and will not be used as a diagnostic procedure without confirmation of
      the diagnosis by another, medically established diagnostic product or procedure. There is,
      however, the potential risk of loss of confidentiality. Every effort will be made to keep the
      information confidential; however, this cannot be guaranteed. Some of the questions that will
      be asked as part of this study may make the patients feel uncomfortable. Patients may refuse
      to answer any of the questions and may take a break at any time during the study. Patient may
      stop their participation in this study at any time.

      Unknown/unforeseeable risks

      In addition to the risks and discomforts listed here, there may be other risks that are
      currently not known. Subjects will be informed if any other potential risk becomes known
      through the duration of the study. Also, the risks and discomforts may occur more often or be
      more severe than have been seen before and written in this form.

      Benefits:

      Subjects will be referred from the Duke Eye Center care providers after a comprehensive
      clinical eye examination from a routine visit. If the last clinical eye examination is not
      within 6 months of the study visit, the participant will be examined by the PI, with no
      additional cost to the patient.

      Participants will also undergo tests that will allow the validation and development of a
      transformative device for diagnosing and monitoring ocular diseases, and could be suited for
      home-based testing of visual function in the future, which could benefit patients with eye
      diseases.
    
  