
    
      Participants will be invited to an interview guided by open-ended questions, focused on
      collecting information related to the usual lifestyle, the motivation to undertake healthy
      changes and the perceived barriers to adopting an healthy lifestyle. In particular, the
      interview is focused on collecting the following information:

        1. the level of PE: type, frequency and intensity;

        2. the presence of health risk factors such as smoking, eating and drinking habits;

        3. the presence of cognitive disorders, investigated through the Mini Mental State
           Examination and through some questions aimed at catching the subjective perception of
           one's cognitive state;

        4. the stage of motivation to the adoption of healthy lifestyle that includes regular PE;

        5. the perceived barriers to one's ability to change one's lifestyle by adopting a regular
           habit of PE.

      During the interview, all patients will receive information about the importance of adopting
      a healthy lifestyle for the prevention of various diseases and even more to counteract the
      negative effects of PCa care. By adopting the Transtheoretical Model of Change (by Prochaska
      and DiClemente), will be identified the stage of motivation to change the risk factor
      identified through the interview. Consequently, these patients will receive a personalized
      message, with the aim of promoting change to healthy behavior. All patients will be informed
      about the existence and purpose of the Life Style Service in collaboration with LILT (Italian
      League for the Fight against Cancer) of the Health Information Service, active at CORE, at
      the Santa Maria Nuova Hospital in Reggio Emilia. In particular, patients in the
      "contemplation stage" will be informed about the possibility of contacting the clinic
      spontaneously at any time.The researcher will send the request to the public health clinic.
    
  