
    
      Methods

      o Study design

      A prospective, mono-centric, interrupted time series interventional study will be carried out
      starting in August 2015. Patients will be recruited hospital wide, except for patients
      admitted at the ICU or pediatric wards. The study protocol will be send for approval to the
      Clinical Trial Centre and Ethics Committee. Based on the NIH, Code of Federal Regulations
      Chapter 45-46, an exemption on informed consent is requested at Ethics Committee in order to
      prevent bias by informing physicians and/or patients; as there's only a suggestion to alter
      therapy to the treating physician and no clinical intervention is planned and data are
      processed anonymously and retrospectively, patient safety and patient rights are guaranteed.
      The study protocol will be registered in the public registry ClinicalTrials.gov.

      o Inclusion and exclusion criteria and general assessment process

      All prescriptions for levofloxacin (J01MA12), moxifloxacin (J01MA14), clarithromycin
      (J01FA09), fluconazole (J02AC01), clindamycin (J01FF01), acetaminophen (N02BE01), rifampicin
      (J04AB02), ornidazole (J01XD03) and metronidazole (J01XD01) in the hospitals CPOE from
      01-08-2015 until 30-11-2015 for all hospitalized patients will be included.

      The following prescription-related information will be requested from the HIS: unique
      hospitalisation number, patient name (needed for contact with prescriber), date of
      prescription, identification of prescriber, ward number, discipline, medication, route of
      administration, dose.

      The sample size of the dataset is not limited in order to provide the maximum power to the
      study. The number of patients is estimated at 4000 per month.

      o Building the dataset

      A daily stored query, as presented in Figure 1, will the CPOE for therapies with at least one
      of the nine bio-equivalent drugs and fulfillment of the other criteria, such as presence of
      an order of a meal or prescription for other oral solid drugs and absence of a prescription
      of parenteral nutrition or an order for enteral feeding . The working procedure and the
      stored query are validated by 3 senior staff hospital pharmacists with expertise in the
      domain and approved by the Pharmacy&Therapeutics Committee (MFC).

      The time scheme of the study is presented in Figure 2, and consists of the following blocks:

        -  Baseline monitoring periods: During month 1 and 3, the query will be run without
           intervention. The results of the query are captured in a database in order to have
           baseline data before starting both the intervention periods.

        -  Intervention period 1: During month 2, a team of trained staff pharmacists, who are
           assisted under close supervision by master students of the Faculty of Pharmaceutical
           Sciences, contact the prescribers by telephone, guided by the suggestions and
           information of the operating procedure. The number of contacted prescribers and their
           responses (acceptance or not) are recorded in the database. To do so, a standard
           operating procedure for telephone contact with the prescribers will be available for the
           co-investigators.

        -  Intervention period 2: During month 4, a computer algorithm will leave an electronic
           follow-up note suggesting the potential IV to oral switch, along with the argument to do
           so, in the medical record.

      Due to dispensing of the medication and his interdisciplinary task in optimizing therapy the
      hospital pharmacist is related to the patient and has access to the necessary data; the
      pharmaceutical record is part of the patients' medical record. Nevertheless the access to the
      medical records is, as always, subject to approval by the medical council. Use of data is
      subject to a confidentiality agreement, an official confidentiality agreement between
      hospital and each co-investigator will be signed.

      The solely intend of the access to the medical record is to gather data on the potential
      IV/PO switch and possible contra-indications. There will be no intervention in any way in the
      therapy nor the patient - physicians relationship. Reporting will be anonymous, never on an
      individual patient or physician.

      Impact of initiation time of the study At the University Hospitals Leuven, August is the
      moment where most new prescribers enter the hospital. To avoid bias from this prescriber
      switch, the switch period is excluded from the timing. Therefore, in concrete, baseline
      monitoring period 1 will be started up in September 2015.

      Avoidance of potential bias To avoid learning bias from the prescribers, a wash-out period is
      included before each intervention period. A poster on possible IV-PO switch will distributed
      in the hospital and published on the intranet webpage at the start of each period of the
      study.

      o Analysis of database

      General analysis of the database will be done in Microsoft Access 2013. More in detail,
      descriptive statistics will be carried out using appropriate parametric or non- parametric
      tests (Student t-test, Mann-Whitney U-test or Chi square, based on distribution of data) to
      describe the demographics of the included patients.

      Statistical analysis will be carried out in SPSS or SAS by the investigator in collaboration
      with L-Biostat (KU Leuven).

      o Pharmacoeconomic analysis

      Based on the dataset (time-to-switch and price of medication) the potential cost-saving from
      a healthcare payer perspective will be calculated using the list price at 01-11-2015 of the
      involved medication. Cost-avoidance due to lesser infections or lesser length of stay cannot
      be calculated with this dataset.
    
  