
    
      A significant proportion of manic patients either do not respond adequately to conventional
      treatment (lithium, valproate or carbamazepine (with or without antipsychotic drugs), or
      cannot tolerate the adverse effects associated with therapeutic doses of these agents. Thus,
      a need exists for additional effective treatments. Preliminary studies by our group suggest
      that clozapine may have antimanic actions and be effective in treatment-resistant bipolar
      disorder. However, the efficacy of clozapine as an alternative therapy in treatment-resistant
      mania has never been subjected to definitive study with an adequate number of subjects. Thus,
      we propose to conduct the largest and only double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to date, of
      clozapine, in bipolar manic patients who were unresponsive or intolerant to six weeks of
      treatment with lithium, valproate, carbamazepine and at least one antipsychotic drug. The
      specific aims of this investigation are to 1) assess the acute treatment efficacy of
      clozapine in treatment-resistant mania, 2) to investigate the functional anatomical
      correlates of mania, and 3) to investigate the effects of clozapine treatment on cerebral
      glucose metabolism and metabolic correlates of effective antimanic, clozapine treatment.
      Forty-two subjects (two groups of 21 each) will be randomly assigned to treatment with
      clozapine or placebo for three weeks. We anticipate that a maximum of 33% of patients will be
      withdrawn from the acute phase of the study due to reasons such as intolerable adverse
      effects or withdrawal of consent. Thus, we expect the entered sample to yield 14 completed
      subjects per cell. This sample size will allow for adequate statistical power to test the
      hypotheses stated above. Patients, ages 18-65, with a diagnosis of bipolar I disorder manic
      or mixed (with or without psychotic features), will be randomized to double-blind treatment
      to receive either clozapine (200-550 mg/day) or placebo, for a period of 3 weeks. Following
      this acute period, the patients will receive either open-label clozapine or treatment as
      clinically indicated. If clozapine is found effective in treatment-resistant mania, it would
      be a significant step forward in the treatment of these patients and would have major health
      implications. In addition, it would establish a gold standard against which newer treatments
      can be compared to. Finally, glucose metabolism images will be obtained using PET and [F-18]
      FDG at baseline and following 3 weeks of clozapine treatment to investigate the functional
      anatomical correlates of mania and to compare drug-induced metabolic changes between
      responders and nonresponders.
    
  