
    
      A consequence of chronic kidney disease is anemia due to decreased production of
      erythropoietin. Anemia is associated with decreased oxygen delivery and utilization, and can
      result in fatigue, lethargy, decreased cognition and mental acuity, and cardiac
      complications.This study was designed to compare 2 dosing regimens, once every-2-weeks and
      once every-4-weeks with the once-weekly dosing regimen. Men and women who are diagnosed with
      anemia associated with chronic kidney disease will participate in this study. Approximately
      400 patients will be included. This is a randomized (patients are assigned different
      treatments based on chance), open-label, multicenter study of epoetin alfa in patients who
      are not on dialysis and who are already maintaining anemia with epoetin alfa administered
      once weekly. The study is 40 to 42 weeks in duration. All eligible patients will be treated
      with epoetin alfa according to one of the following 3 regimens: once-a-week injection (Group
      1), or once every-2-weeks injection (Group 2), or once every-4-weeks injection (Group 3). The
      maximum volume per injection will not be more than 1 mL, therefore some patients may receive
      more than one injection per dose. The study treatment includes a period to convert to the new
      dosing regimen, and a subsequent stable maintenance treatment period. After the initial dose,
      hemoglobin will be measured on a weekly basis and used to determine adjustments in dose for
      each patient. The primary hypothesis is that the average change in hemoglobin level in the
      groups that received epoetin alfa once every 2 weeks or once every 4 weeks is not lower than
      the change in hemoglobin level in the group that received epoetin alfa only once a week.
      Adverse events will be monitored throughout the study. Clinical laboratory examinations,
      vital signs, and physical examinations will be conducted routinely to ensure patient safety.
      Approximately 1 mL of epoetin alfa will be injected under the skin either once a week, once
      every 2 weeks, or once every 4 weeks (maximum doses of 20,000 IU once a week, 40, 000 IU
      every 2 weeks, or 80,000 IU every 4 weeks, respectively) for up to 36 weeks of treatment.
    
  