
    
      Plantar fasciopathy is a common cause of plantar heel pain, with reported lifetime prevalence
      up to 10%. The choice of best practice in these patients is debated. Two randomised studies
      reported that Radial Extracorporeal Shock Wave Therapy (rESWT) is effective, but a
      meta-analysis concluded that due to methological limitations the evidence is questioned.
      There are few studies reporting the effect on exercise programs with high-load strength
      training, despite widespread use. The usual care at our outpatient clinic is information on
      the pathogenesis, etiology and prognosis. We give advice on using proper footwear, including
      foot orthosis and to accept pain to a certain level during activity. To our knowledge there
      are no other previous trials comparing rESWT, sham-rESWT and exercises to usual care. This
      trial is designed in order to provide results important for future clinical practice.

      The patients who give their informed consent will be randomised into one of the four Groups;
      rESWT, sham-rESWT, standardized exercise or usual care. A computer generation randomisation
      schedule with blocks of 8, in a 1:1 ratio, will be performed by an external statistician and
      electronically concealed. All the patients regardless of group allocation will receive
      standardized information (oral and written) on the condition and get custom made foot
      orthosis made by an orthopedic technician at Sophies Minde AS.

      The patients are blinded for rESWT/sham-rESWT, whereas blinding of the exercise group and
      usual care group is not possible. To evaluate the blinding of the rESWT, the patients are
      asked after the last treatment whether they believe that they have received real rESWT,
      sham-rESWT or if they do not know.

      The patients will have follow-up at 3 months, 6 months and 12 months. The main outcome is
      change in heel pain (NRS) during activity at 6 months. Patient characteristics,
      anthropometric data and the duration of symptoms in the different groups will be registered
      at baseline, and presented as mean values (SD) for continuous variables or numbers (%) for
      categorical data. Pain and function scores will be presented as mean (SD). In addition to the
      two- group comparisons with t-tests, we will perform longitudinal data analysis and perform a
      mixed model analysis to compare differences between groups at follow- up with adjustment for
      scores at baseline and present mean differences (95% confidence intervals).

      We will perform analysis regarding secondary outcome as stated above. In addition we will
      apply multivariable logistic and linear regression analysis to identify predictive factors as
      demographics, clinical and ultrasound findings for primary and secondary outcomes. Model
      building will be done in a way that is appropriate for the given sample sizes, by restricting
      the number of potential predictive factors and considering shrinkage methods to stabilise
      predictions.

      Participants in the exercise group not attending 6 of 8 sessions with the physiotherapist or
      not completing 30 of 36 exercise sessions (3 sessions per week, 12 weeks) are regarded as
      non- adherence. In the rESWT and sham- rESWT group, participants not attending 2 of 3
      sessions are regarded as non- adherence. They will be included in the intention- to- treat
      analysis. There will also be a separate intention-to- treat analysis with only adherent
      patients.

      There will be performed a study evaluating the validity, reliability and responsiveness on
      the Foot Functional Index Revised Short Form.
    
  