
    
      Many service users experiencing psychosis are prescribed neuroleptic medication as the core
      component of treatment. However, discontinuations rates are high, which may be influenced by
      poor response rates and scepticism about the value of medication.

      Frequently people discontinue without professional involvement, which is associated with
      negative outcomes. It is a particularly high risk period for relapse, especially if
      withdrawal is done quickly. There is an urgent need to advance practices in helping
      service-users to make a decision regarding neuroleptic medication that can then be supported
      by clinicians.

      Current interventions regarding medication use predominantly focus on increasing adherence to
      medication regimes using, for example, financial incentives. This raises ethical concerns
      over the potential for service users' priorities and preferences to be disregarded, leading
      to increased coercion and reduced empowerment for service users. The recovery movement
      emphasises the need to understand personal priorities when considering treatment options and
      informed choice and shared-decision making is promoted by government initiatives and practice
      guidelines.

      Shared decision-making commonly occurs within physical health settings. Patient decision aids
      have been found to improve patients' knowledge of available options and help patients to have
      more accurate expectations of potential benefits and harms, reach choices that are more
      consistent with personal values and participate in decision making. Despite this,
      shared-decision making has not been adopted more widely and is particularly poor within
      mental health settings.

      The current study aims to explore the feasibility and acceptability of an intervention aimed
      at helping service users in mental health services think about their own personal priorities
      and decision-making around medication use. Current psychological interventions, such as
      cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) and motivational interviewing (MI), view decision-making
      in terms of individuals making cost-benefit analyses, which then informs their "planned"
      behaviour. Such interventions thus target the identification of desirable medication related
      behaviours and then help the individual to make those behaviours occur.

      Perceptual Control Theory (PCT) offers an alternative framework in which to understand
      medication related decision-making and behaviour. PCT regards all behaviour as goal directed
      but states that individuals control their experiences (or input) not their behaviour (or
      output). From this perspective, behaviour is understood as a means by which an individual
      resolves discrepancies between how they currently experience something (a current perception)
      and the way they want that experience to be. There is recognition that people are usually
      unaware of many of the different priorities (or goals) they hold, although these priorities/
      goals are often incompatible (in conflict). An intervention informed by PCT (Method of
      Levels; MOL) would, therefore, target increasing an individual's awareness of the different
      personal priorities/ goals they hold in relation to medication use. The intervention would
      focus on exploring conflict between personal priorities, as from a PCT perspective; conflict
      is what causes ambivalence or difficulties in being able to enact certain planned behaviours.
      The aim in the current study would be to use MOL to help people develop their awareness of
      what is important to them in relation to medication use, as opposed to focusing on planning
      specific behaviours.

      The aim in the current study would be to use MOL to help people explore their decision around
      the use of neuroleptic medication. Traditionally the focus of a MOL session is determined by
      the client and can vary from person to person, however, for this study the sessions will be
      specifically focused on neuroleptic medication use. The sessions will aim to help people
      explore a range of thoughts and feelings about decisions around medication use and how these
      relate to other important life values and goals. Another key aim of sessions will be to help
      people develop awareness of conflicts in their goals so that they might begin to find
      potential resolution. Due to the nature of the intervention being very patient-led and
      idiosyncratic, the outcome will vary from person to person. The intervention does not attempt
      to increase adherence or encourage discontinuation to the neuroleptic medication. It aims to
      help people develop awareness of how they feel about using neuroleptic medication and how
      medication might relate to other things that are important to them in life.

      If this is a feasible and acceptable approach to use then future research would explore
      whether prescribers could incorporate this approach to working in their consultations with
      service users.
    
  