
    
      Open abdomen treatment often results in difficulties in closing the abdomen. Highest closure
      rates are seen with the vacuum assisted wound closure (VAWC) technique. Failures with this
      technique is occasionally experienced, especially in cases with severe visceral swelling
      needing longer treatment periods with open abdomen. A novel combination of vacuum assisted
      wound closure and mesh mediated fascial traction for managing the open abdomen was therefore
      developed and initially tested in a small pilot-like study with encouraging results with late
      primary closure of the abdomens in all seven patients.

      In this multicenter study we prospectively evaluate the technique.

      Inclusion criteria:

      All patients treated with open abdomen at the 4 participating hospitals are registered, and
      only those patients who have commenced therapy with VAWC and mesh mediated fascial traction
      will be included in the study in an intention to treat model.

      Exclusion criteria:

      Treatment of open abdomen with other techniques.

      Method:

        -  The first period of 2-5 days only the abdominal VAWC dressing is applied.

        -  On day 3-10 a polypropylene mesh is sutured to the fascial edges, between the two layers
           of the VAWC system, and tightened.

        -  The VAWC dressing is changed and the mesh tightened every 2-3 days, resulting in gradual
           approximation of the fascial edges.

        -  Finally the mesh is removed and the fascia is closed.

        -  At closure the wound to suture length is registered.

      Primary endpoint:

      Frequency of primary fascial closure.

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  study of factors associated with failure of fascial closure and in-hospital mortality,

        -  abdominal pressure variation attributable to the use of the technique,

        -  duration of treatment with open abdomen,

        -  frequency of incisional hernia after one and five years.

      Duration of the study:

      3-5 years. Enrollment of open abdomen cases.

      Follow-up schedule for patients:

        -  Clinical evaluation at 1 and 5 years.

        -  CT-examination at 1 year.
    
  