
    
      Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (HBOC) is an inherited condition that is most
      commonly associated with mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. Mutation carriers have
      lifetime risks of breast and ovarian cancer of 60-80% and 20-40%, respectively. Risk
      management options include intensive breast cancer screening, risk-reducing surgeries, and
      chemoprevention, which have been shown to improve early detection and reduce cancer incidence
      and mortality. In particular, prophylactic bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy has been
      associated with a 60-77%reduction in all-cause mortality among BRCA mutation carriers. Based
      upon U.S. Preventive Services Task Force guidelines, an estimated 5%-10% of women unaffected
      with breast cancer are eligible for genetic testing for HBOC, but only 14% of those eligible
      were referred and 4% had BRCA genetic testing. Many women may be unaware of their high-risk
      status due to our inability to adequately screen them in the primary care setting. Other
      reasons for low uptake include inadequate time for counseling and insufficient knowledge
      about risk-reducing strategies. Women from racial/ethnic minorities are less likely to seek
      genetic testing for HBOC, contributing to poorer clinical outcomes in these populations
      compared to non-Hispanic whites. Alternatively, decreasing inappropriate genetics referrals
      is also important for reducing anxiety and allowing genetic services to be used more
      efficiently. More research is needed to develop optimal strategies for engaging high-risk
      women in informed decision-making about genetic testing for HBOC.

      The objective of this study is to expand genetic testing for hereditary breast and ovarian
      cancer syndrome to a broader population of high-risk women by prompting appropriate referrals
      from the primary care setting with the use of an electronic health record-embedded breast
      cancer risk navigation (BNAV) tool. To address patient-related barriers to genetic testing,
      the investigators developed a web-based decision aid, RealRisks, which is designed to improve
      genetic testing knowledge, accuracy of breast cancer risk perceptions, and self-efficacy to
      engage in a collaborative dialogue about genetic testing.

      The study design is a randomized controlled trial of patient educational materials and
      provider EHR notice alone (control arm) or in combination with RealRisks and BNAV
      (intervention arm). The investigators hypothesize that combining the patient-centered
      RealRisks with the provider-centered BNAV will increase appropriate uptake of genetic
      counseling. The investigators also hypothesize that genetic counseling decisions will be more
      informed, and result in less decision conflict and improved shared decision making.
    
  