
    
      In the US, the burden of very low birth weight (VLBW; <1500 g) birth is borne
      disproportionately by black (non-Hispanic black/African American) mothers who are 2.2-2.6
      times more likely than nonblack mothers to deliver VLBW infants. This disparity is amplified
      because black VLBW infants are significantly less likely to receive mother's own milk (MOM)
      feedings from birth until neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) discharge than nonblack
      infants, which adds to the lifelong burden of VLBW birth with increased risk of morbidities
      and greater costs. Even though black mothers of VLBW infants initiate MOM provision at rates
      similar to nonblack mothers and have similar goals to sustain MOM provision through to NICU
      discharge, there is a significant disparity in MOM feedings at NICU discharge. Only the
      mother can mitigate the disparity in MOM feedings at NICU discharge for the VLBW infant by:
      1) sustaining breast pump use (6-8 times/day) for the entire NICU hospitalization (average =
      73 days), and 2) transporting the MOM that is pumped in the home to the NICU for infant
      feedings. Pumping is associated with out-of-pocket and opportunity costs that are borne by
      mothers, unlike donor human milk and formula, which are paid for by NICUs.

      The ReDiMOM randomized controlled trial will implement and evaluate an intervention (NICU
      acquires MOM) developed to offset the aforementioned costs that serve as barriers to
      sustaining MOM feedings. The intervention includes free hospital-grade electric breast pump,
      pickup of MOM, and payment for opportunity costs. The intervention will be evaluated in
      comparison to the current standard of care (mother provides MOM). Data will be collected from
      several sources including REDCap surveys, data extraction from the electronic medical record
      and hospital decision support/financial cost accounting system, smart breast pump data and
      measurement of pumped MOM volume.

      This innovative trial will determine the effectiveness of the intervention in reducing the
      disparity in MOM feedings and provide an economic analysis of the interventions, yielding
      critical data impacting generalizability and likelihood of implementation of results. The
      investigators hypothesize that mothers who receive intervention will have greater pumping
      volume and duration and their infants will be more likely to receive MOM at NICU discharge
      compared to mothers who receive standard of care lactation care and their infants.
    
  