
    
      DESIGN AND ASSESSMENT SCHEDULE Study participants will take their medication, including the
      study drug, as prescribed by their ordinary physician. Study participant will note what they
      had for breakfast.

      The study-timespan for the individual study participant is estimated to maximum 8 hours.

      Blood samples will be drawn from a subcutaneous venous port if available. If not available,
      subjects will be receive a peripheral venous catheter that is to be used for repeated blood
      sampling. If usage of such a catheter fails during the study day, blood samples will be drawn
      from repeated venipunctures.

      VARIABLES STUDIED

      The following variables will be studied:

      Plasma-MMF-concentration: Will be measured by approved laboratory, Skåne UniversityHospital,
      using high performance liquid chromatography. AUC 0_12 will be calculated as suggested by de
      Winter, Neumann, van Hest et. al., Ther Drug Mon 2009;31(3):382-390.

      Kidney and liver function: Serum samples will be analysed regarding kidney function and eGFR
      will be calculated from creatinin and cystatin C. Liver function will be assessed by AST,
      ALT, GT and ALP. Hematological characteristics will be noted.

      GI manifestations of SSc: Fecal calprotectin, will be assayed by ELISA (Calpro, Lysaker,
      Norway) at University Hospital Lund. Malnutrition will evaluated in reference to the
      validated Malnutrition Universal Screening Tool (MUST). S-transthyretin, vitamin B12, folic
      acid, iron and zink and S-albumin will be assessed as markers of malnutrition. The intestinal
      flora will be assessed by microbiological analysis of fecal sampling (Genetic Analysis AS,
      Oslo, Norway).

      Pregnancy: Will be evaluated by urine test.

      Questionnaire: Regarding concomitant medication and the UCLA SCTC GIT 2.0 (Swedish version)
      will be given to each study participant.
    
  