
    
      Patients with moderate to advanced COPD are known to have static hyperinflation (at rest) as
      a consequence of expiratory flow limitation. Hyperinflation is easily detected by measuring
      lung volumes during standard pulmonary function testing.

      Decreased Inspiratory Capacity (IC) secondary to hyperinflation has been described as a
      predictor of mortality in COPD, and as a limiting factor for the maximal tidal volume
      attained during exercise. Hyperinflation has been linked to a low cardiac output in part by
      limiting left ventricular ejection fraction during exercise.

      Treatment with inhaled anticholinergic agents or long-acting beta agonists (LABA) and
      combination of the LABA formoterol and budesonide has been shown to improve IC and decrease
      lung hyperinflation. Bronchodilators have been shown to improve exercise endurance in COPD
      when combined with pulmonary rehabilitation, however the exact mechanism: improvement of lung
      mechanics and /or improvement in cardiac function is not well known.

      Impedance cardiography (ICG) has emerged as a method to measure cardiac output without the
      need for invasive devices. Cardiac output measurement by impedance cardiography (CO-ICG) is a
      valid and reproducible method. It has been shown to have good correlation with thermodilution
      and the direct Fick method for the measurement of stroke volume and cardiac output.

      In addition, the oxygen pulse, easily obtained by dividing the measured oxygen uptake by the
      heart rate (VO2/HR) provides an adequate reflection of cardiac stroke volume when the
      systemic extraction of oxygen is stable.

      This method has been used to evaluate the effect of static and dynamic hyperinflation on
      cardiac function.

      This pilot study is designed to be a single center (Brigham and Women's Hospital),
      randomized, placebo-controlled, double blind, crossover study of 14 patients (male and female
      40 to 80 years old) with COPD and static hyperinflation.

      The primary endpoint is the measurement of stroke volume, cardiac output and oxygen pulse at
      rest before and after the administration of budesonide/formoterol compared to placebo.
    
  