
    
      What is this study about? The Miami Heart Study is a long term observational research study
      which is designed to identify new and novel relationships between risk factors, genetics,
      lifestyle behaviors and cardiovascular disease in the greater Miami area. Miami is uniquely
      situated to capture a diverse, multi-ethnic population. As an employee of Baptist Health and
      a very important stakeholder in Baptist Health's mission, you are being asked to take part in
      this research study. The investigators expect approximately 4,000 members of the South
      Florida community and/or employees of Baptist Health to participate in this study over the
      next 5 years.

      The research study aims to better understand heart disease and what causes it. Heart disease
      often starts many years before a person has a heart attack or develops symptoms of heart
      disease. This is called subclinical disease - and it refers to heart disease and the body
      processes causing heart disease, at a stage before any symptoms are experienced. Although
      doctors and researchers have a good understanding of heart disease in some areas, subclinical
      disease is not very well understood.

      Better understanding subclinical disease can allow doctors and healthcare staff to intervene
      and prevent the process from developing further and causing symptomatic (with symptoms) heart
      disease. Progression refers to the process by which subclinical (without symptoms) heart
      disease develops into clinical (with symptoms) disease.

      Therefore, the purpose of this research study is to:

        -  To examine the presence and severity of subclinical disease in the South Florida
           community.

        -  To examine what unique factors contribute to development of subclinical disease and
           appearance of clinical symptoms.

      In the future, the investigators hope this information will allow us to better predict and
      prevent the development heart disease in diverse populations. Participants will be asked to
      come to the Miami Heart Study clinic for an examination that may take 4 to 6 hours to
      complete. During the examination, information about the participant's health will be
      collected and standard procedures routinely done a physician's office such as height, weight,
      and blood pressure will be performed.
    
  