
    
      All study participants had blood in the morning on fasting after 8-12 hours of fasting from
      the cubital vein. Determination of the level of cytokines TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-4 and IL-10
      (pg/ml) in blood serum by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).

      Sample preparation: before testing, 1 part of the plasma is diluted 30-50 times with Tris
      buffer, depending on the test system and the kit manufacturer's instructions.

      Definition progress:

        1. preparation of microtiter strips;

        2. add the material diluted with buffer to the well of the microtiter strip and incubate
           for 1 hour at room temperature;

        3. washing;

        4. add immunoconjugates to the well of the microtiter strip and incubate for 1 hour at room
           temperature;

        5. washing;

        6. add the o-phenyldiamine / H2O2 substrate solution;

        7. after exactly 3 minutes of hydrochloric acid (1 mol / l);

        8. reading the results on an ELISA analyzer after 10-120 minutes. 2.4. Collection of blood
           samples to determine the level of uric acid All participants in the study had blood
           drawn in the morning on fasting after 8-12 hours of fasting from the cubital vein. The
           level of uric acid was determined on the CYAN Start apparatus using a unified method.

      2.5. Method for determining anxiety-depressive syndrome. When examining patients with
      unstable angina pectoris were used: Hospital scale [Kozlova S.N. 2013]. And also the
      Spielberger-Khanin scale [Psychiatry - Hoffman A.G. 2010], developed by Spielberger Ch.D. and
      adapted by Yu.L. Khanin. to assess cognitive functions [Psychiatry - Gofman A.G. 2010].

      Description of the hospital scale This questionnaire is intended for self-completion by the
      patient [Kozlova S.N. 2013]. The questionnaire consists of 14 statements, "serving" 2
      subscales: the subscale "alarm" marked in red, consists of odd items - 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13
      and the subscale "depression" marked in blue consists of even items - 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14.

      Each statement corresponds to 4 answer options, reflecting gradations of the severity of the
      sign and coded according to the increase in the severity of the symptom from 0 (no) to 3
      (maximum severity). The final scores for the two subscales are obtained by summing the
      numerical values of the answers. When interpreting the results, the total indicator for each
      subscale is taken into account, while there are 3 areas of its values:

        -  0-7 - normal (no reliably pronounced symptoms of anxiety and depression);

        -  8-10 - subclinical anxiety and / or depression;

        -  11 and above - clinically significant anxiety and / or depression. The filling of the
           scale was carried out by patients under standard conditions, after a short instruction
           for filling, within a clear time frame.

      Description of the Spielberger-Hanin scale The Spielberger Anxiety Scale is an informative
      way to self-assess the level of anxiety at a given moment (reactive anxiety as a state) and
      personal anxiety (as a stable characteristic of a person). Developed by Ch.D.Spielberger and
      adapted by Yu.L. Khanin [Psychiatry - Gofman A.G. 2010].

      This scale consists of two subscales: judgments from 1 to 20 determine the presence of
      situational anxiety, judgments from 21 to 40 determine the presence of personal anxiety.

      When analyzing the results of self-assessment, it should be borne in mind that the overall
      final indicator for each of the subscales can range from 20 to 80 points. Moreover, the
      higher the final indicator, the higher the level of anxiety (situational or personal).

      When interpreting indicators, you can use the following rough estimates of anxiety:

        -  up to 40 points - low,

        -  41 - 54 points - moderate;

        -  55 and more - high. 2.6. Treatment All patients with unstable angina pectoris offer
           conventional therapy, which includes intravenous infusion of nitrates for 12-24 hours,
           followed by prolonged nitrates, beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors or sartans, antiplatelet
           agents, anticoagulants, clopidogrel, statins. Patients have elevated levels of uric acid
           according to the traditional immedia Febuxostat (not a purine blocker of xanthine oxide,
           manufactured by Berlin Chemie, Germany) at a dose of 0.04-0.08 g / day per day. Patients
           who had anxiety-depressive syndrome Divase syndrome (antibodies to the brain-specific
           protein S-100, manufacturer MATERIA MEDICA HOLDING, LLC (Russia)) in a fixed dose of 0.6
           mg / day, which has a neurotropic and antioxidant effect.
    
  