
    
      The PhINEST study is designed to assess the effects of Pharyngeal Electrical Stimulation
      (PES) (using Phagenyx®) for treatment of oropharyngeal dysphagia after invasive mechanical
      ventilation (of any duration) by means of naso or oro-tracheal tube in critically ill
      intensive care unit (ICU) patients.

      The main clinical outcomes assessing unsafe swallows and dysphagia severity will be measured
      using the gold standard, i.e. Fiberoptic Endoscopic Evaluation of Swallowing (FEES) and
      bedside swallowing assessments on day 2* after completion of final PES treatment.

      Randomisation will be on a 1:1 basis at each site stratified for neurological vs.
      non-neurological reason for admission (Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation
      (APACHE) IV diagnostic group). Patients will receive either PES/sham treatment in addition to
      standard supportive ICU care and standard of care treatments for dysphagia (i.e.
      physiotherapeutic treatment). Administration of all protocol-specific assessments will be
      conducted by personnel blinded to treatment assignment.

      The study will follow an adaptive population enrichment and sample size re-estimation (SSR)
      design with one interim look. The study will start with a planned sample size of 200 patients
      and a maximum (evaluable) sample size of 360. Interim analysis after completion of
      approximately 140 (evaluable) patients will determine:

      I. futility stopping; OR II. sample size increase for the overall sampled population; OR III.
      Enrichment based on the composite primary endpoint by pre-defined subgroups (neurological vs.
      non-neurological reason for admission according to APACHE IV diagnostic groups). Thus
      enrollment of patients in the non-performing sub-group will be stopped at the interim while a
      sample-size re-estimation based on conditional power will be carried out for the other
      sub-group.

      All interim decisions will be based on conditional power which for the Finkelstein-Schoenfeld
      (FS)-statistic will need to be computed via Monte-Carlo simulations.

      Up to six (6) investigational sites across Europe are planned to participate in this study
      which is expected to last 48 months from first patient first visit to last patient last
      visit. Patients will be assessed at the following intervals: screening, baseline, on day 2*
      after completion of final study treatment, 7 ± 1 days after final study treatment and 14 ± 1
      days after final study treatment (or hospital discharge if earlier). 30-day and 90-day
      mortality data will also be collected from the patients medical notes/electronic heath
      records/telephone call (no additional visit required).

      *The day two (FU1) visit is to be conducted on the second day (~24hrs) following final PES
      treatment but may, under certain circumstances, be conducted upon/by the fourth day (~60 hrs)
      following final study treatment in instances where the final study treatment is delivered on
      late Friday and where FEES assessment is only possible early on Monday as no weekend FEES
      service is available at the investigation site.
    
  