
    
      A prospective multicentre pilot study which includes patients ≤ 70 years-old diagnosed of
      unresectable hilar cholangiocarcinoma (hCCA) ≤3cm in radial diameter, without evidence of
      lymph node or distant metastases.

      The number of subjects necessary is 34 patients to achieve a power of 82% with a significance
      level of 0.05 to detect a 40% difference between the estimated 50% survival of those patients
      who are transplanted and 10% of those patients with hCCA unresectable who are not
      transplanted. This corresponds to a hazard ratio of 3.3219. Estimated loss to follow-up of
      10% of patients.

      RADIOLOGICAL EVALUATION

      It will be considered unresectable those lesions Bismuth IV with the following criteria
      (Jarnagin WR, et al. Ann Surg 2001; 234:507; Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Hilar
      Cholangiocarcinoma Classification):

        -  Bilateral extension to second order biliary

        -  Unilateral extension to second-order biliary radicals AND contralateral portal vein
           involvement OR contralateral hepatic lobar atrophy

        -  Main or bilateral portal vein involvement

        -  Insufficient future liver remnant even after portal embolization

      It will be performed the tumoral marker (CA 19.9), multiphase chest-abdomen CT scan, magnetic
      resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) as well as positon emission tomography (PET)-scan
      if there is doubts of distant disease and upper endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in order to rule
      out any obvious lymph node metastases. A biliary drainage will be placed by percutaneous
      transhepatic biliary drainage (PTBD) or endoscopic biliary drainage (EBD).

      NEOADJUVANT TREATMENT

      Patients will receive neoadjuvant radiotherapy (External - 50-54 grays) following by
      concomitant oral capecitabine (1,330mg/m2).Thereafter, gemcitabine iv (1000mg/m2) plus
      cisplatin iv will be administered the day 1 and 8 every 21 days until transplant.

      A staging laparotomy/laparoscopy is recommended before including the patient in waiting list
      for transplant to confirm the abscence of extra-hepatic disease, especially peritoneal
      seeding and lymph nodes involvement.

      A score exception will be allowed to optimized the treatment received and to be transplanted
      during the first 6 months.

      LIVER TRANSPLANT AND FOLLOW UP

      Regarding liver transplant technique, hepatic artery should be avoided for arterial
      reconstruction using the splenic artery or an iliac conduit.

      The patient will be monitored post-operatively at the clinical, biological and morphological
      levels every 3 months during the first 2 years and every 6 months thereafter in order to
      detect any recurrence and in the context of standard clinical care.
    
  