
    
      Deep venous thrombosis (DVT) is a serious disorder with an annual incidence of approximately
      0.1% and increasing with age to 1% in the elderly. Deep venous thrombosis of the upper
      extremity (UEDVT) is estimated to constitute 1-5% of all cases of DVT.

      The therapy of UEDVT has not been standardized.Therapeutic options include anticoagulation
      with unfractionated heparin followed by warfarin, treatment with a thrombolytic agent, or a
      thrombectomy. Recently, treatment with low molecular weight heparin has been shown to be a
      safe and effective treatment for patients with verified UEDVT.

      In patients with cancer, treatment of UEDVT associated with central venous catheters is even
      less standardized. Some groups advocate removal of the catheter as the sole treatment for the
      DVT, others remove the catheter and treat the DVT. A major disadvantage to removing the line
      is that often re-insertion in the opposite limb is then required to avoid disruption of
      chemotherapeutic treatment. This reinsertion again puts the patient at risk for thrombosis
      and pulmonary embolism. Another therapy is treatment only with systemic thrombolytic therapy.
      The disadvantage of thrombolytic therapy in persons with cancer is that there is a high risk
      for major bleeding at the doses used.

      A treatment regimen that has been adopted by the London Health Sciences Centre, and others
      across Canada, is to leave the catheter in place and treat the DVT with low molecular weight
      heparin and warfarin. This regimen is believed to halt the progression of thrombi, prevent
      embolism and allow natural thrombolytic mechanisms to work effectively. By leaving the
      central line in situ and appropriately treating the thrombosis there is no disruption in the
      delivery of life-prolonging or life-saving treatment in the form of chemotherapy.

      Preliminary data has been collected over the past 24 months at the London Health Sciences
      Centre; the results suggest that this approach to treatment will prove to be beneficial to
      the patient. Thirteen (13) patients with cancer and an UEDVT associated with a central venous
      catheter were treated with dalteparin and warfarin with an intention to leave the central
      line in situ. Of the 13, 1 patient had the line removed after 3 days at a peripheral hospital
      against recommendation. The UEDVT was treated successfully and without the need for line
      removal in 9 (75%) of the remaining 12 patients. Two (2) of the 12 had lines removed at 1
      week and 1 had the line removed at 4 weeks due to worsening symptoms of UEDVT.

      Therefore, UEDVT is a more common and less benign disease than previously reported and
      generally arises in the presence of recognizable risk factors such as central venous
      catheters and cancer. Treatment of the UEDVT with dalteparin and warfarin will treat the
      thrombosis while preserving the central venous access for continued use. Hence, the need for
      additional catheters and subsequent risk of bilateral UEDVT will be minimized.

      Result of the CLOT (Clot in Cancer) Trial have shown the superiority of treatment with
      dalteparin for 6 months as compared to the conventional treatment with short-term dalteparin
      and extended warfarin for cancer patients with acute symptomatic DVT or PE. Extended
      anticoagulant therapy may be beneficial in patients with UEDVT as well, however, there are
      currently no estimates of clinical outcomes for either conventional (dalteparin followed by
      warfarin) or extended therapy with dalteparin in this patient population.
    
  