
    
      Background:

      Cardiac surgery is associated with pain in the post-operative period. Recently the ability to
      infuse local anesthetic drugs into the area of the sternal wound has become available. The
      studies that have been done thus far have shown efficacy in controlling pain but have been
      too small to show clinically significant patient outcome differences.

      Specific Aim:

      We plan to conduct a phase II/III study of local anesthetic infusion into the sternal wound
      in adult patients undergoing cardiac surgery.

      In the Phase II study, 40 patients will be enrolled in a prospective observational open
      label, dose escalation study of safety and efficacy of local anesthetic infusion into the
      sternal wound. Outcome measures for efficacy will be visual analog pain (VAP) scores and
      opioid consumption. Outcome measures for safety will be plasma ropivacaine concentrations and
      adverse events.

      The dose determined in the phase II study will be used in the Phase III study. In this study,
      200 patients will be enrolled in a double blind prospective, randomized, double blind;
      placebo controlled trial of local anesthetic infusion into the sternal wound. Outcome
      measures for efficacy will be visual analog pain (VAP) scores, opioid consumption, time to
      extubation, pulmonary function tests, duration of ICU and hospital stay, all cause morbidity
      and mortality. Outcome measure for safety will be adverse events.

      Hypothesis:

      Local anesthetic infusion into the sternal wound will be safe and result in improved pain
      control and reduced time to extubation, duration of ICU and hospital stay.

      Significance:

      This will be the first large randomized controlled clinical trial assessing outcomes with the
      use of local anesthetic infusion into the sternal wound in patients undergoing open-heart
      surgery.
    
  