
    
      The prevalence of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus is increasing year by year in the world, causing
      harm to patients' health and making a huge consumption of medical expenses. Obesity is one of
      the most obvious risk factors for Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus. There are also many positive
      studies on nutritional intervention for the treatment of obese patients with Type 2 Diabetes
      Mellitus at home and abroad. The effect of nutritional meal replacement to relieve the
      disease has also been widely recognized.

      Light-Fat Rice® is a new type of nutritious staple food taking rice, konjac, marine fish
      oligopeptide powder, inulin and yeast as raw material. Also,there is a protein solid
      beverage,Active Peptide®,containing soy protein isolate, soy peptide powder,
      oligofructose,water-soluble dietary fiber and other ingredients,such as multi-vitamin. When
      used together, it can provide balanced nutrition for the human body while satisfying low fat
      and high protein. In this study, a 4-week, randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical
      trial will be conducted to investigate the effects of Light-Fat Rice® combined with Active
      Peptide® intervention on insulin resistance in overweight/obese diabetic patients and their
      effects on prognosis,further explaining its intervention mechanism theoretically. Based on a
      previous review of similar literature studies, 60 of these patients will be enrolled and
      randomly assigned to the intervention and control groups at 1:1. Among them, the intervention
      group will be given 80g of Light-Fat Rice® staple food meal as an independent staple food or
      mixed in the staple food combined with 2 packs Active Peptide®, and the control group was
      given the same energy-equivalent staple food produced by the same manufacturer daily with 2
      packs maltodextrin. Both groups are provided with a same lifestyle guidance by professional
      physicians based on the "Guidelines for the Prevention and Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes in
      China 2017", including reasonable diet, exercise guidance, and organization of health
      education.
    
  