
    
      Each subjects will receive each of up to 10 experimental diets for the Barley Study (4
      reference protein diets providing, 3 Barley diets using dry cooking method, and 3 Barley
      diets using moist heat cooking method) in random order over a series of up to 10 experimental
      periods. The reference protein diet will be patterned after the AA pattern of egg protein
      using crystalline AA as the protein source. Three of the 4 lysine levels will be replaced by
      lysine provided in Barley each cooked using two different cooking methods ( dry and
      moist-heat).Each experiment will be conducted over 3 days.

      Adaptation days:

      During days 1 and 2 the subjects will be adapted to the level of lysine being studied,
      consuming the same diet as they will receive on day 3 (IAAO study day). The adaptation diet
      will be consumed as 4 equal meals.Meals will be divided into 4 equal parts to be spread
      evenly throughout the day and consumed in their usual environment on their usual activities
      of daily living.

      IAAO study day/isotope delivery and sample collection day:

      On the oxidation study day 3, following a 12-h overnight fast, subjects will come to the
      Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON for a period of 5.5 h. On the oxidation study day,
      the diet is consumed as 9 iso-nitrogenous and iso-energetic hourly meals. Between meals,
      subjects are allowed to rest on bed, watch television or use a computer. Study days for each
      participant will be separated by ≥ 1 week. For the duration of all experiments, subjects will
      consume a daily multivitamin (Centrum Forte, Whitehall Robins) and 500 mg choline supplement
      (Nature's Way or equivalent), to ensure adequate vitamin intake. The multi vitamin supplement
      is provided to ensure that no vitamin cofactors are limiting in the diet which could alter
      metabolic pathways and functioning.
    
  