
    
      The study will be conducted in Conservative Dentistry Department, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo
      University; The operator in charge will be Mahmoud Magdy Eldamanhory

      Patients will be selected from the outpatient clinic of the department Conservative Dentistry
      Department, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University

        -  Local anesthesia will be applied to patients complaining about pain or sensitivity to
           prevent discomfort during restorative procedures.

        -  Conservative cavity design will be used according to the principals of minimal invasive
           dentistry.

        -  All the cavities will be performed by the main author using #57 straight plain carbide
           fissure bur held in high speed contra-angled hand piece with water cooling system.

        -  All internal line angles will be slightly rounded.

        -  Each bur will be discarded after 5 preparations

        -  If deep caries will be found, it will be removed with large round bur at low speed and a
           thin layer of calcium hydroxide will be placed on the deep portion of the cavity.

        -  Isolation will be maintained by using Rubber Dam.

        -  The dentin and enamel of cavities will be conditioned with 20% polyacrylic acid for 20
           seconds (Cavity Conditioner, GC), washed, and briefly dried.

        -  The restorations will inject into the cavity.

        -  After the passage of the manufacturer's recommended setting time of 2.5 minutes, the
           restoration will be trimmed and polished wet using high-speed fine diamonds.

      In control group ketac molar with coating:

      -After the restoration will briefly dry, Ketac Coat will be applied and photocured for 20
      seconds using a photo-curing light.

      In study group " Ketac Universal Aplicap 3M without coating":

      -The newest addition to glass ionomer family, Ketac Universal Aplicap glass ionomer
      restorative is a self-cure, one-step placement material designed to help to finish faster.
      There's no need for conditioning, coating or light-curing steps.
    
  