
    
      Background: Juvenile-onset type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes is associated with a 15 year
      reduction in life expectancy, primarily due to cardiovascular disease (CVD). Poor blood
      glucose (glycemic) control, reflected in elevated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) is a major risk
      factor for diabetes complications; each 1% absolute reduction in HbA1c leads to a 15-20%
      reduction in risk of a major cardiovascular event, and a 25-37% reduction in risk of
      microvascular disease. Exercise is appealing as a potential non-pharmacological intervention
      to improve glycemic control. However, while aerobic exercise (e.g. walking, running) improves
      insulin sensitivity, most published studies found that aerobic exercise did not improve
      glycemic control in type 1 diabetes. This paradoxical finding is likely due to the tendency
      of type 1 diabetic individuals to decrease their insulin doses and/or increase carbohydrate
      intake more than necessary in order to avoid exercise-induced hypoglycemia. In comparison to
      aerobic exercise, the smaller acute rise in glucose uptake associated with resistance
      exercise may offer the metabolic benefits of exercise while minimizing risk of
      exercise-induced hypoglycemia. Only two small published studies (n=8 and 10; men only)
      evaluated resistance exercise (weight lifting or exercises with weight machines) in type 1
      diabetes, but their results were promising. In a crossover trial, glycemic control was
      significantly better during resistance training than during non-exercise control (HbA1c 5.8%
      versus 6.9%; absolute difference 1.1%). In a before-after study, combined aerobic and
      resistance exercise reduced absolute HbA1c by 0.96%. People with type 1 diabetes who already
      do regular aerobic exercise would likely be open to starting an additional form of exercise
      if it were proven to improve glycemic control. We therefore wish to evaluate the incremental
      effect of resistance training on HbA1c in already-aerobically-active type 1 diabetic
      individuals in a randomized, controlled trial.

      Primary research question: In type 1 diabetic individuals who already engage in regular
      aerobic exercise, does adding a 6-month resistance training program result in improved
      glycemic control as reflected in reduced HbA1c compared to aerobic training alone?

      Secondary research questions: In type 1 diabetic individuals who already do regular aerobic
      exercise, does adding a 6-month resistance training program have favourable effects on body
      composition, non-traditional and traditional CVD risk factors, and quality of life vs.
      aerobic exercise alone?

      Exploratory research questions: What is the incremental effect of resistance training on
      insulin requirements and frequency of hypoglycemia? Do changes in glycemic control, body
      composition, or quality of life during the resistance training intervention predict exercise
      participation during the subsequent 6 months? How cost-effective is it to add the resistance
      training program?

      Methods: Type 1 diabetic subjects aged &#8805;16 yr who perform aerobic exercise &#8805;3
      times per week but not resistance exercise, will be recruited at three centres (Ottawa,
      Toronto and Calgary). They will first enter a 5-week run-in period, including 3X/week
      supervised low-intensity resistance exercise training in weeks 2-5. During run-in, in
      addition to verifying adherence to the exercise program, intense efforts will be made to
      optimize diabetes care including frequent interaction with the study diabetes nurse/educator
      and dietitian, intensification and adjustment of insulin therapy. Subjects attending
      &#8805;80% of the exercise sessions and demonstrating good compliance with diabetes care
      during run-in will then be randomized to either resistance training or waiting list control
      for weeks 6-26; in either case they will continue aerobic exercise at their usual volume and
      intensity with support from an Exercise Specialist, use pedometers and report exercise in
      activity logs. Resistance exercise training in the intervention group will progress to 3 sets
      of 8 reps of 8 exercises at 8RM (maximum weight that can be lifted 8 times while maintaining
      proper form). Background diabetes care will be provided throughout, in a protocolized manner
      for both exercise and control subjects, with all insulin adjustments done by study research
      staff.

      Significance: Reduced risk of long-term complications of type 1diabetes is tightly linked to
      better glycemic control, which is often difficult to achieve. This study will provide
      valuable information regarding the extent to which resistance exercise can improve glycemic
      control and other important risk factors for complications in people with type 1 diabetes who
      are already aerobically active.
    
  