
    
      Our research hypothesis is that the practice of walking on a secure treadmill is possible at
      home and allows the patient to increase the work of training of walking in everyday life
      compared to a conventional care. In addition, we believe that this practice should be
      supervised by a caregiver trained by the physiotherapist / APA investigator, in order to
      increase the use of the device.

      The people concerned by this protocol are those who have a partial disability of walking
      whatever the pathology and the underlying deficiencies.

      Main objective: To evaluate the feasibility of using EzyGain at home.

      Main Evaluation Criteria: Number of sessions performed on the device during the duration of
      the study, compared to the number of scheduled sessions.

      Secondary objectives

      Secondary objective 1: make a partial transfer of the supervision of the physiotherapist /
      APA investigator's sessions to the caregiver.

      Secondary Objective 2: To evaluate whether the exercise period on the device increases the
      amount of spontaneous physical activity of the patient after the end of the period compared
      to the average spontaneous physical activity prior to the exercise period.

      Population concerned:

      Population over 60 years of age with partial walking disability regardless of etiology and
      pathology leading to walking disability.

      Population coming into consultation in the services of Dr. Teixeira and Pr. Yelnik of GH
      Saint Louis Lariboisière Fernand Widal.

      Partial incapacity of walking. Availability at home during their participation period (weeks
      of walking exercise + weeks of evaluation of physical activity).

      Ethnicity indifferent Indifferent sex Patient with a close volunteer caregiver to participate
      in the study and receive training from the investigator / APA investigator and then manage
      sessions autonomously.

      Anyone who would like to train more regularly on the walk and at home because unable to go
      out.

      Who uses or does not use technical assistance to walk or move Patient who falls or is at risk
      of falling and, as a result, limits his progress.

      Possibility of installation of the device in the patient's home. Patient affiliated to a
      social security scheme

      Practical sequence:

      Selection and medical inclusion of the patient by one of the investigating physicians and
      delivery of consent. During this visit, the doctor judges the eligibility criteria, explains
      the research to the patient, gives him the informed consent that is signed on the spot.

      Among the eligibility criteria, there must be a caregiver close to the patient, who is
      willing to participate in the research. If he is present during this visit, he signs his
      consent to participate in the research. If he is absent during this visit, the patient gives
      his coordinates, the doctor calls him to explain the research, and sends his consent by mail,
      which the caregiver returns signed by mail to the doctor. It only remains to verify that the
      apartment can accommodate the device EzyGain.

      Evaluation of the accessibility of the home by the EzyGain team. If the apartment can
      accommodate the device, then the patient is included in the search. If the apartment can not
      accommodate the device, then the patient is not included.

      The first visit takes place on site with the investigator / APA investigator and an
      investigator. Laying the Actigraph ©.

      Evaluation of the spontaneous physical activity of the patient by actimetry for seven days +
      QAPPA (questionnaire of physical activity for old person).

      Beginning of the training phase on the device. The dosage of the activity (frequency of
      sessions and practical content) and the possibility of supervising additional sessions by a
      family caregiver is determined by the investigating physiotherapist / APA investigator.

      Each patient performs a minimum of 3 sessions per week with the investigator / APA
      investigator, for 4 weeks, each walk for a few minutes (<60 min).

      Evaluation of the spontaneous physical activity of the patient by actimetry for seven days
      QAPPA (questionnaire of physical activity for elderly person) a week and a month after the
      training phase of four weeks
    
  