
    
      This study will take place at Texas Woman's University (TWU)-Houston campus and include two
      phases: Phase I involves a single-intervention study and Phase II involves a four-week
      intervention study. After enrolling to the study, participants can choose to only participate
      in the Phase I study or choose to participate in both Phase I and Phase II studies.

      Phase I Study - participants will be asked to complete two visits, 1-14 days apart. It will
      take about a total of 6.5 hours of their time to complete all tests (3.5 hours for the first
      visit and 3 hours for the second visit, two visits). Participants will need to wear
      short-sleeve t-shirt, shorts, and a pair of sneakers for testing. During the first visit, the
      investigators will measure how well the nervous system works and how well the individual
      walks (see details as follows). If participants have had a stroke before, on the first visit
      the investigators will do some tests on to make sure participants have good feeling, balance,
      and motor responses in their legs. If all tests are good, participants will fill out a form
      asking about their medical history. If participants have not had a stroke, the investigators
      will ask a few questions to make sure participants do not have any medical issues.

      Next, the investigators will ask participants to learn a leg movement task at each visit. The
      task is to control and move a computer cursor from a start location to one of three targets
      displayed on the computer monitor. Participants will need to make forward, rightward or
      leftward foot movements to guide the cursor to one of the targets. The task itself is similar
      to the daily computer task performed by a hand mouse. In each visit, it will take
      approximately a total of 45 minutes to complete a set of leg reaching task. Several
      one-minute rest breaks will be provided as needed during test. Participants will then be
      asked to come back for the second visit within 1-14 days later to repeat the same task.
      Throughout practice, participants will learn how to control the cursor using their feet. So
      the investigators can compare the learning capacity over two visits to best indicate the
      change in the learning capacity over time.

      The investigators also want to know if participants can learn this motor skill faster with
      cutaneous brain stimulation. Participants will receive weak electrical brain stimulation for
      20 minutes during leg skill learning. The brain stimulation device that the investigators
      used is similar to the commercial product seen in the TV/magazine, called "transcutaneous
      electrical Nerve stimulation" in which electrical current is delivered by electrodes for pain
      relief and muscle stimulation. In this study, two electrodes, one placed on the top of the
      scalp and one placed on the forehead, will deliver weak electrical current for 20 minutes.
      Because the investigators set the current intensity at a very low level, it will not cause
      any muscle twitches and participants may only feel little tingling sensation in the first 10
      seconds. Most of the time, participants likely become accustomed to the stimulation and no
      longer feel the stimulation throughout the rest of the session.

      Phase II Study - This study is an expanded version of Phase I study. Participants will be
      asked to complete 12 visits of exercise training paired with brain stimulation over a
      four-week period. It will take about a total of 18 hours of the time to complete all training
      sessions (1.5 hour for each visit/training for a total of 12 visits). Participants will need
      to wear short-sleeve t-shirt, shorts, and a pair of sneakers for training. Before and after
      four-week training, the investigators will measure how well the nervous system works and how
      well the participant walks (see details as follows). One week after completion of four-week
      training, participants will be asked to come back to repeat the same tests. The investigators
      will compare changes in the learning capacity and motor function before and after four-week
      training, and at one week after completion of training to best indicate permanent changes in
      the learning capacity and motor function over time.

      During each visit, the investigators will ask participants to continue learning a leg
      movement task same as the Phase I study. The investigators will also ask participants to
      learn a similar leg task, call stepping task during standing. This stepping task is very
      similar to the leg task in the Phase I study, but is a more advanced task that requires a
      good standing balance. The task is to control a computerized marker attached to the foot and
      move a computer cursor from a start location to one of three targets displayed on the
      computer monitor. Participants will need to make forward, rightward or leftward stepping
      movements to guide the cursor to one of the targets. The task itself is similar to stepping
      motion during walking. In each visit, it will take approximately a total of 1.5 hour to
      complete two sets of leg task training during sitting and standing. Same brain stimulation
      used in the Phase I study (see above) will be delivered during the middle of the exercise
      training. Several one-minute rest breaks will be provided as needed during training.
      Participants will then be asked to come to the laboratory three times per week for four weeks
      in order to complete 12 training sessions.

      Outcome measures - For the measurement of brain activity, the investigators will put a
      recording electrode on the calf muscle in one leg. Five low-intensity brain stimulation will
      be delivered to the scalp to trigger the motor responses. Most of the time, participants will
      feel single muscle twitch due to the stimulation. It would take a total of 10 minutes to
      finish data collection. For the measurement of nerve activity, the investigators will put a
      recording electrode on the calf muscle in one leg. Low-intensity electrical stimulation will
      be delivered to a nerve behind the knee to trigger motor responses. A series of small tendon
      vibration stimuli will be delivered during electrical stimulation to determine the
      sensitivity of the nerve. Most of the time, participants will feel nothing or just light
      tingling sensation in the stimulated area. It would take a total of 40 minutes to finish data
      collection. Several one-minute rest breaks will be provided as needed during test. For the
      measurement of walking, the investigators will put sticky markers on both legs and ask
      participants to walk normally across a 10-meter walkway for five trials. It would take
      approximately a total of 30 minutes to finish data collection. Several one-minute rest breaks
      will be provided as needed during test. For the stepping reaction time test, subjects will
      stand on the force plates and will be instructed to step forward onto a target marked on the
      floor as soon as they sense electrical stimulation delivered to the posterior of the leg. It
      would take approximately a total of 40 minutes to finish data collection. Several one-minute
      rest breaks will be provided as needed during test.
    
  