
    
      Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) is a cardiopulmonary bypass device that provides
      life-saving, complete respiratory and cardiac support for children who suffer refractory
      heart or lung failure. While on ECMO, children are at increased risk of infection, including
      fungal infection. Antifungal prophylaxis can potentially reduce the burden of disease in
      children on ECMO. Because fungal infections can result in biofilms that are difficult to
      treat, treatment includes not only antifungal medications but also removal of any large
      intravenous lines. However, catheter removal for children on ECMO is impossible; therefore,
      therapy relies upon optimal antifungal management alone.

      Micafungin is an antifungal medication that works well against the most common fungal
      infections and has been shown to be safe in children. Micafungin may be particularly
      efficacious in children on ECMO because of the drug's ability to penetrate biofilms. However,
      the ECMO circuit is known to substantially alter drug levels for many drugs, resulting in
      important dosing changes. Appropriate micafungin dosing in this setting is unknown and
      sub-optimal dosing might result in therapeutic and prophylactic failure.

      Standard dosing of micafungin are 4 and 2 mg per kilogram of body weight given intravenously
      once daily for treatment and prophylaxis, respectively. Based on preliminary data and
      modeling from other studies, investigators hypothesize that 8 and 4 mg per kilogram given
      once daily will achieve proper drug levels to respectively treat and prevent fungal
      infections in children under 2 years of age who are supported by ECMO. Because the ECMO
      circuit should have less of an impact on volume of distribution in larger children,
      investigators hypothesize that in children from 2 to 18 years old, standard dosing of
      micafungin will achieve proper drug concentrations.

      Investigators hold the FDA investigational new drug application (IND #115255) to give
      micafungin to children on ECMO at the doses described above. Blood samples will be collected
      at specific times around the first and fourth micafungin doses to describe the
      pharmacokinetics and drug extraction by the ECMO circuit.
    
  