
    
      LGCP is a procedure in which the stomach is folded inwards to that its capacity to hold
      amounts of food is decreased. This is done under general anesthesia. The operation takes
      about an hour and is done laparoscopically. Laparoscopic approach entails placing 4-5 small
      incisions in the abdomen around the umbilicus and filling the abdomen with CO2 through the
      small tubes called Trocars. this helps life the abdominal wall and create space so that the
      surgeon can carry out his/her work using long instruments with thickness similar to a regular
      lead pencil.

      The attachments of the stomach to the spleen are freed up and the outside is folded inside
      and stitched up to keep it from folding in. To ensure that the surgeon has not obstructed the
      passage in or out of the stomach, a tube is placed in the stomach at the time of the creation
      of the fold and checked again at the end of the procedure with a camera in the stomach which
      is placed through the mouth to ensure the desired outcome is achieved. At the conclusion of
      the procedure, the skin is closed with absorbable sutures and adhesive tapes are applied to
      the skin. The patient recovers in the recovery room for about an hour and a half prior to
      coming to their room in the hospital.

      The post operative visit will be up to 7 days after the procedure. During this visit, medical
      information will be obtained including information about medications.

      There will be follows 3-10 after the surgery. These visits may include:

        -  obtaining medical information about the patient, including the medical conditions and
           medications

        -  Checking the patient's weight

        -  Blood tests

        -  Endoscopic evaluation of the stomach if necessary.

      The timing of the visits is as follows:

      Visit 3: 1 month after surgery Visit 4: 3 months after surgery Visit 5: 6 months after
      surgery Visit 6: 12 months after surgery Visit 7: 18 months after surgery Visit 8: 24 months
      after surgery Visit 9: 30 months after surgery Visit 10: 36 months after surgery

      The study is three (3) years (36 months) including following up visits.
    
  