
    
      Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the airways characterized by recurrent episodes
      of dyspnea, wheeze and chest tightness and is associated with variable airway obstruction.
      Exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) is a feature specific to asthma. Exercise testing
      protocols have been developed to identify the presence of asthma as well as to assess asthma
      therapy. Airway narrowing following exercise in persons with asthma is thought to result from
      dry air hyperpnoea-induced dehydration of the airway surface, leading to the release of
      mediators from inflammatory cells residing in the airway. Regular treatment with inhaled
      corticosteroids inhibits the airway response to exercise by decreasing the number of
      inflammatory cells and thus the source of bronchoconstricting mediators. Therefore, a
      decrease in the source of mediator may be the reason for this eventual inhibition of the
      airway response to exercise.

      It has recently been demonstrated that fish oil supplementation in capsule form, taken daily
      over three weeks, provides significant protection against EIB. This protection appears to be
      of equal or greater efficacy than inhaled corticosteroids treatment over a similar period.
      This may have positive implications in the treatment of asthma as inhaled corticosteroids are
      known to have some unwanted side effects. Fish oil supplementation in the high doses given in
      previous studies have not demonstrated any side effects and may lead to an alternative
      treatment, or a decrease in the dose of inhaled steroids required in the treatment of asthma.

      A new bronchial provocation test using inhaled mannitol, derived from the mechanism of EIB,
      has been recently developed and is now registered in Australia and the European Union.
      Mannitol causes airway narrowing in a similar manner to exercise in persons with asthma and
      is effective in identifying responsiveness to inhaled corticosteroids. We wish to use inhaled
      mannitol as a model for EIB in an effort to further investigate the use of fish oil
      supplementation in the treatment of asthma. Our hypothesis is that daily orally administered
      encapsulated fish oil will attenuate the airway response to mannitol over a 3-week treatment
      period. We also wish to measure associated markers of inflammation in the blood, urine,
      sputum and exhaled condensate as well as monitor clinical outcomes such as symptoms and daily
      beta2 agonist use.
    
  