
    
      This study protocol will measure the efficacy of deep anesthesia, until burst suppression
      rate of 80% or more measured with Bi-spectral Index (BIS), with the volatile anesthetic
      Isoflurane. The investigators will select 30 subjects. The participants will be separated
      into 2 arms of 15 individuals. One arm called ISOAD will keep the oral treatment with
      antidepressants. The second arm, called ISO, will do a washout of any oral medications for
      depression. Both groups will go under six sessions, once per week, of deep anesthesia and
      will be followed up for 6 months to evaluate the survival of the antidepressant effect, if
      any effect happens. Before the anesthesia occurs, blood samples will be drawn to measure
      Brain-derived neurotrophic factor and investigators will apply depression rating scales such
      as MADRS and Hamilton - 17 , Young mania Scale, UKU scale for side effects,
      electroencephalogram will be recorder to be compared with the data shown on BIS. All the
      anesthesia procedure will be done with induction with propofol, fentanyl and muscular
      relaxant, to facilitate the tracheal intubation and compliance with the mechanical
      ventilator,based on body weight in standard dosages. Isoflurane will be set to 2,4% ( 2 cam)
      until Burst suppression rate >80% is achieve. Then the anesthesia will be maintained for 15
      minutes, then the flow of anesthetic gas will be ended and the patient will be allowed to
      awake and discharged home when the anesthesiologist decide based on Aldrete Kroulik scale.
      After the 6th session the participant will return in one week to final evaluation. All the
      patients that shows improvement in depression scores will enter the phase 2 with one visit
      every 15 days for 2 months and then once a month until the 6th month. The non responders of
      the ISO group will start oral antidepressant sertraline to evaluate any potentialization
      effect of the intervention and be allocated in ISOPOT group. Those from ISOAD group
      (Isoflurane plus oral antidepressants) that did not respond to the intervention will be
      discontinued from the study and their data used in the study as non-responders. Those from
      ISOPOT group that did not improve their depression scores after 4 weeks will be discontinued
      from the study and the data computed as non-responders.
    
  