
    
      The study will examine the number, characteristics and intensity of electronically reported
      symptoms and therapy side effects depending on treatment and characteristics of patients with
      cancer of breast, colon, prostate, lung and hematological malignancies during a three-month
      period from the initiation of therapy. This period frequently represents the duration of a
      therapeutic regimen.

      The level of agreement κ between the ECOG/CTCAE ratings by physicians at the time of the
      regular consultation, and the ratings derived from the daily PROs between consultations, will
      be analyzed in order to determine the reliability and utility of self-reported electronic
      symptom monitoring.

      The purpose is to evaluate different qualities of symptoms self-reported electronically
      between consultations with respect to the course of treatment application, out-patient
      settings, gender and age. In particular, outpatients with frequent (weekly) consultations
      will be compared to patients with infrequent consultations (3-weekly or less frequent).

      The study will also aim to identify the conditions and factors that might increase the
      likelihood of an unplanned consultation or emergency hospitalization.

      In particular, the proposed study design and associated primary and secondary endpoints will
      enable us to test the following hypotheses:

        1. In patient groups with infrequent outpatient visits (3-weekly or less) as is determined
           by the treatment schedule, the level of agreement κ between ePRO-derived ECOG/CTCAE
           ratings and physician-derived ECOG/CTCAE ratings (at time of consultation) is at least
           as high as in patient groups with weekly visits for symptoms having occurred within the
           week before the visit. However, κ is expected lower in the group with infrequent visits
           for symptoms having occurred more than 2 weeks prior to consultation, due to higher
           fidelity of ePRO-derived ratings for long-ago symptoms.

        2. Regular visits of outpatients undergoing infusion therapy (as determined by the
           treatment schedule) do not significantly decrease the number of unplanned and emergency
           consultations necessary.

        3. Young female and older male patient groups report significantly more severe and
           worsening symptoms and side effects.

      Patients with the most common types of cancer in the treatment center will be included:

      Breast, Colon, Prostate, Lung, Hematological malignancies
    
  