
    
      Ischemic heart disease is a heterogeneous condition with multiple etiologies that may
      contribute to an imbalance in myocardial oxygen supply and demand, resulting in depletion of
      myocardial cellular energy stores. Management of this disease state is aimed primarily at
      improving myocardial oxygen supply through revascularization of underlying obstructive
      atherosclerosis, in conjunction with interventions to reduce myocardial oxygen demand.
      Chronic treatment is directed at reducing recurrent ischemic symptoms. Despite advances in
      anti-thrombotic therapy, coronary revascularization, and other preventive therapies, the risk
      of recurrent events in this population remains substantial, in particular among those
      patients with indicators of higher risk (e.g. ST-segment depression, or arrhythmias).

      Ranolazine is a piperazine derivative that exerts anti-ischemic actions without a clinically
      significant effect on heart rate or blood pressure. At clinically relevant concentrations,
      ranolazine is an inhibitor of the slowly inactivating component of the cardiac sodium current
      (late INa), which may reduce the deleterious effects associated with the intracellular sodium
      and calcium overload that accompany and may promote myocardial ischemia. Ranolazine is
      available as an anti-anginal agent for patients with chronic angina. The Metabolic Efficiency
      With Ranolazine for Less Ischemia in Non-ST-Elevation Acute Coronary Syndromes (MERLIN)-TIMI
      36 trial demonstrated the safety of ranolazine in patients after ACS and also showed it's
      anti-arrhythmic properties. In addition to the safety properties of ranolazine, the study
      showed that ranolazine had a significant anti-ischemic effect and patient's on therapeutic
      dosing.

      In an analysis of the 6560 patients in MERLIN-TIMI 36, using a digital continuous
      electrocardiographic Holter monitor for ischemia (Lifecard CF, Delmar Reynolds was applied to
      patients at the time of randomization and remained in place for 7 days, including after
      hospital discharge). Findings showed that patients treated with ranolazine had significantly
      lower incidences of arrhythmias. Specifically, fewer patients had an episode of ventricular
      tachycardia lasting ≥8 beats, supraventricular tachycardia or new-onset atrial fibrillation.
      In addition, pauses ≥3 seconds were less frequent with ranolazine. Based on this report,
      further studies of the antiarrhythmic effects of ranolazine were warranted.

      Premature ventricular complexes (PVCs) are a frequent occurrence in the presence of ischemic
      heart disease. A very high PVC burden can be symptomatic or occasionally result in a
      cardiomyopathy. The mechanism by which PVCs cause cardiomyopathies or symptoms is not well
      understood, but may be related to an increase in myocardial strain or demand. Reduction in
      PVC burden has been associated with both improvement in ejection fraction and symptoms.
      Ranolazine has also been shown to reduce PVC burden in patients already on optimal medical
      therapy. The estimate of the minimal number of PVCs required to be associated with a
      cardiomyopathy is around 10%. In fact, subjects that had evidence for PVCs on baseline 12
      lead electrocardiogram were found to have a significantly higher risk of cardiovascular
      events.

      Current strategies for managing complex cardiomyopathies driven by arrhythmias have been
      complicated by intolerance to medical therapy as well as the requirement for frequent
      titration and the development of tolerance. Patients with ischemic heart disease have limited
      options for antiarrhythmic medical therapy. Prior trials of flecainide and eicainide in
      patients with ischemic heart disease for control of ventricular arrhythmias resulted in a
      significant and deleterious proarrhythmic effect current options for management line on
      amiodarone which has significant liver, thyroid, and lung toxicities or sotalol which can
      have significant bronchospastic effects as well as QT prolongation or tedious and which has
      to be carefully dose in the setting of renal insufficiency to avoid significant QT
      prolongation and the risk for proarrhythmia.

      While ICD therapy has been appropriate for patients with reduced ejection fraction and
      evidence for unstable ventricular arrhythmias/sudden cardiac death, frequent or low level
      ventricular arrhythmias such as nonsustained VT or frequent PVCs would not be treated by ICD
      therapy. Escalation of traditional nodal therapies such as beta blockers or calcium channel
      blockers is his often limited by marginal systolic blood pressures and/or symptoms.

      With the increasing prevalence of ischemic heart disease, it is critically important to
      identify therapies that have a neutral response to heart rate and blood pressure, good safety
      profile, and can reduce ischemia and the burden ventricular arrhythmias. Ultimately, the hope
      is that they will reduce strain induced ischemic heart changes. To that end, investigation of
      the effects of ranolazine in patients with ischemic heart disease and an elevated burden of
      PVCs is of great interest.
    
  