
    
      Asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are common chronic lung diseases that
      are diagnosed in more than 30 million adults in the United States. However, diagnostic error
      (DE), is considered one of the most common and harmful of patient-safety problems by the
      Institute of Medicine, occur frequently with asthma and/or COPD and disproportionately affect
      minorities and the under-served. DE leads to lost opportunities to identify other chronic
      conditions, avoidable morbidity and mortality, unnecessary costs to patients and health
      systems, and poor quality of care. Shortness of breath or dyspnea, which is a common symptom
      in asthma and COPD, is also common for many other chronic conditions such as cardiovascular
      disease and obesity. A better understanding of the impact of DE and interventions to improve
      diagnostic accuracy in asthma and COPD are of particular importance for minorities and the
      under-served that are disproportionately affected by conditions leading to dyspnea.

      Spirometry is a simple, mobile, and essential test that is recommended by all major national
      and international guidelines for the diagnosis of asthma and COPD. However it is well known
      that spirometry is not routinely used in the ambulatory primary care setting and minorities
      and the underserved population are less likely to have spirometry leading to greater
      prevalence of DE. It has been estimated that 30-50% of people with an existing diagnosis of
      asthma and COPD were found to be misdiagnosed. Many of these patients misdiagnosed with
      asthma and/or COPD receive unnecessary respiratory pharmacotherapy which can pose serious
      risks including pneumonia, cardiovascular events, and mortality. In the setting of DE, these
      are considered avoidable and unnecessary respiratory pharmacotherapy use in minorities and
      the underserved that are already disproportionately affected by cardiovascular disease
      increases the risk of poorer outcomes. There is also DE in the diagnosis of asthma versus
      COPD, as these are both clinically distinct respiratory disorders with nuances in treatment
      recommendations. It is reported that African-Americans are considered to have increasing COPD
      mortality and are disproportionately affected by asthma death rates. However, as spirometry
      is not routinely performed and DE is prevalent in asthma and COPD, a component of these poor
      outcomes may be attributable to missed or delayed diagnoses of other chronic conditions or
      misdiagnosis within asthma and COPD.

      Barriers to the use of spirometry in primary care exist at provider and health systems
      levels. Previous studies show that primary care providers (PCPs) lack knowledge in existing
      guidelines and in implementing spirometry into primary care clinics. Beyond these barriers,
      PCPs struggle with logistical challenges such as time and workflow constraints with clinic
      visits lasting 15 minutes or less in patients with multiple chronic medical conditions. These
      predisposing and enabling factors explain why prior studies that included interventions to
      educate PCPs and incorporate spirometry by training personnel in primary care clinics have
      had limited results.

      A new paradigm to improve guideline based care for asthma and COPD which includes spirometry
      is needed and can lead to a better understanding of DE and improved patient safety and
      patient-centered outcomes. Health Promoters or Community health workers (CHWs) have been
      supplementing medical care by disseminating appropriate health care practices for underserved
      minority populations. However, studies which include diagnostic evaluations with spirometry
      for asthma and COPD have not been performed. The REDEFINE program (Reducing Diagnostic Error
      to Improve PatieNt SafEty in COPD and Asthma) will incorporate health promoters working
      collaboratively with PCPs to address identified barriers to guideline based care which
      includes spirometry for the diagnosis of asthma and COPD for patients at risk for DE. We
      propose a comparative effectiveness study to better understand the epidemiology of DE and to
      evaluate the effectiveness and economic impact of providing the REDEFINE program to an
      underserved, predominantly minority population with a diagnosis of asthma and/or COPD at risk
      for DE.
    
  