
    
      OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study is to determine how the subjective sense of willing and
      initiating an action is altered in patients with Tourette Syndrome and Chronic Tic Disorder.
      Although many definitions of the disease include the characterization of tics as
      'involuntary', some patients claim that these movements are voluntarily made, or are unable
      to decide if they are voluntary or involuntary. Recent studies have shown that the time order
      in which someone wills a voluntary movement and begins that movement is central to the
      subjective sense of causality. We propose to examine tics as well as normal, voluntary
      movements in patients with Tourette Syndrome and Chronic Tic Disorder to identify the time
      course between the decision to move and the onset of movement. Using Libet's paradigm, we
      intend to have subjects watch a fast-rotating clock to report the times associated with
      willing (time W) and initiating (time M) movement; we will also determine
      electroencephalographic/electromyographic (EEG/EMG) measures of movement.

      STUDY POPULATION: We intend to study adult patients with a Diagnostic and Statistical Manual
      of Mental Disorders diagnosis of a tic disorder and frequent tics as well as normal, healthy
      volunteers as controls.

      DESIGN: We will ask tic patients to rate the "voluntariness" of their tics using a rating
      scale. We will ask tics patients to look at a fast-rotating clock on a computer screen and
      note when their movements were willed (time W) and were initiated (time M), for tics as well
      as normal voluntary movements. Patients will also report the time of a somatosensory
      stimulus. Surface EMG will determine the time of actual movement, and EEG will record brain
      potentials associated with movement. The design will be the same for the normal volunteers
      with the exception that the volunteers will not complete rating scales and will not be
      experiencing tics.

      OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome measure of this study is the latency of times W and M
      (before EMG onset) in tics patients as correlated with the voluntariness the patients
      associate with their tics, compared to the time W and M reported for normal voluntary
      movements in the normal volunteers.
    
  