
    
      Uterine fibroids are detected in many cases of excessive bleeding or consultation for primary
      or secondary infertility. When they are of the submucosal type, they require a surgical
      treatment by hysteroscopy. The hysteroscopic resection of submucosal fibroids described by
      Neuwirth and Amin in 1976 allowed to reduce the morbidity, the length of hospital stay and
      the cost of the therapeutic treatment, with a satisfactory rate of functional successes.

      The surgical hysteroscopic treatment of symptomatic submucosal myoma was performed initially
      by a monopolar endoscopic resection. This required a resection using glycine as a distension
      medium, essential for the conduction of monopolar current.

      Complications proper to the monopolar resection have been described and are now well known.
      The first specific complication is the TURP syndrome, linked to the reabsorption of the
      glycine byproducts of the distensium medium. It can cause hyponatremia and lead to a cerebral
      edema. This complication can be prevented by limiting the duration of the intervention to 45
      minutes and constantly monitoring the input-output balance.

      The second specific complication is related to the diffusion of heat that can damage to
      surrounding healthy tissue and increase the risk of uterine adhesions. These adhesions are
      the source of menstrual disorders like hypomenorrhea or amenorrhea, infertility or a
      recurrent miscarriages.

      For over 20 years, several approaches have been proposed to reduce the occurrence of
      postoperative adhesions. However, their results are either not convincing, either in need of
      confirmation.

      Since several years, the use of the bipolar energy for hysteroscopic resection has been
      developped.The advantage of this technique is to avoid glycine as distension medium and use
      saline instead, hereby significantly reducing the risk of hyponatremia. It especially gives a
      smaller heat diffusion, hereby limiting the damage to the healthy tissues nearby.

      Although hysteroscopic bipolar resection of submucosal fibroids is now a routine technique,
      there are to this date no studies in the literature comparing the use of monopolar and
      bipolar energy in the hysteroscopic myomectomy.

      The main objective of this study is to compare the rate of adhesions after resection of
      uterine myomas, with the use of bipolar versus monopolar current. The secondary objective is
      to evaluate the impact on subsequent fertility through the number of pregnancies and
      miscarriages.
    
  