
    
      To our knowledge, no study has compared a breath-enhanced nebulizer to a standard jet
      nebulizer for the treatment of acute asthma in children. The goal of this study is to
      determine whether a rapid albuterol delivery pathway with a breath-enhanced nebulizer can
      reduce ED LOS, while maintaining admission rates, repeat visits, adjunctive therapies, and
      side-effects, when compared to a traditional asthma pathway with a standard jet nebulizer.
      The Salter® Nebutech® HDN® was chosen because its breath-enhanced design and bolus delivery
      system may deliver greater amounts of albuterol to the small airways, in a shorter period of
      time, when compared with standard jet nebulizers and other nebulizers in its class.

      The study site will be a large, urban pediatric emergency department (ED) with approximately
      80,000 visits per year. The study protocol will be submitted to the hospital's Institutional
      Review Board (IRB) for approval. Children will be eligible for enrolment if they are between
      3 and 18 years of age and present to the ED with an acute asthma exacerbation of at least
      moderate severity. The lower age cutoff was chosen because asthma diagnosis and beta agonist
      response can be unreliable in younger children. The upper age cutoff was chosen to include
      only pediatric patients, as this is a pediatric asthma study. Children must have a history of
      physician-diagnosed asthma as reported by the parent or guardian. Children will be enrolled
      when a research team member is available to obtain informed consent (convenience sample).
      Children will be excluded from enrollment if the initial pediatric asthma score (PAS) is < 3,
      immediate resuscitation is required, they have a history of chronic lung disease or
      congenital heart disease, they have any neuromuscular disease, intrathoracic foreign body is
      suspected, they are or may be pregnant, they are currently breast feeding, they have received
      oral or parenteral steroids within the last week (inhaled steroids are allowed), or they have
      an allergy or other contraindication to one of the study medications.

      Potential subjects will be identified in triage and screened for enrolment if study personnel
      are available. If consented, the patient will be randomized to one of the two treatment arms.
      If there will be greater than a 15 minute delay in treatment due to the consent process, unit
      dose (2.5 mg) albuterol treatments will be given with a standard nebulizer up to 3 times as
      needed. That patient may still be enrolled provided he/she still meets inclusion/exclusion
      criteria.
    
  