
    
      OSAS is characterized by repetitive occlusion of the upper airway during sleep that results
      in hypoxemia, hypercapnia and arousal from sleep. Children with the obstructive sleep apnea
      syndrome (OSAS) have impaired behavior and cognition compared to normal controls. Previous
      studies in adults with OSAS have shown significant alterations of cerebral blood flow during
      wakefulness and sleep and our preliminary data showed blunted cerebral blood flow response to
      hypercapnia in children with OSAS during wakefulness. However, it is unknown whether children
      with OSAS also have impaired cerebral blood flow during sleep. It is also unknown whether the
      deficits in behavior and cognition in children are associated with cerebral blood flow
      dysregulation.

      This study will investigate whether the changes in cerebral blood flow during wakefulness and
      sleep elicited by hypercapneic challenge, differ in children with OSAS compared to normal
      controls. Additionally the study will evaluate the changes in cerebral blood flow during
      wakefulness and sleep elicited by hypercapneic challenge in children with OSAS before and
      after treatment (adenotonsillectomy, adenoidectomy, or tonsillectomy). Finally, the study
      will investigate whether the changes in cerebral blood flow elicited by the aforementioned
      testing correlate with neurocognitive outcomes.

      Children with OSAS aged 6-12 years will be recruited following a clinical polysomnogram.
      Normal age- and gender-matched controls will be recruited from the general community.

      The primary interventions of this study for the two groups (OSAS and controls) are: sleep
      studies, neurocognitive testing, measurement of cerebral blood flow by near-infrared
      spectroscopy during hypercapnic challenges conducted during wakefulness and sleep. In
      addition, OSAS subjects will be re-tested after clinical treatment of OSAS to evaluate for
      resolution of OSAS, and all subjects will be re-tested at two separate time points after
      baseline to compare changes due to the treatment of OSAS versus those occurring secondary to
      normal development.
    
  