
    
      Over-all Study Design

      This is a non-randomized, open-label treatment protocol for patients with advanced HCC.

      30 Patients will be treated with 400 mg oral sorafenib twice a day on a continuous basis with
      Gemcitabine 1000mg/m2 administered on day 1 & 8 of a 4 week cycle. Patients in this protocol
      may continue to be treated with this combination for a minimum of 4 cycles until any of the
      following criteria for protocol discontinuation is reached:

        1. Progression of disease.

        2. The patient is unlikely to benefit from further treatment as

           Judged by the Investigator.

        3. Intolerable toxicity of the drugs.

        4. Withdrawal of consent for any reason.

      Dosage, administration and duration

      Doses of study drugs may be delayed or reduced in case of clinically significant toxicities
      that are possibly, probably or definitely related to protocol therapy. Toxicities will be
      graded using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria Version 3.0 (see Appendix 10.6). If a
      patient experiences several toxicities and there are conflicting recommendations, the
      recommended dose adjustment that reduces the dose to the lowest level should be used. All
      dose modifications will follow pre-defined dose levels as indicated below for study drugs,
      respectively. The dose modifications of sorafenib will follow the following dose levels:

      Dose level 1 (starting dose): 400 mg (2 x 200 mg) p. o. twice daily Dose level 2: 400 mg (2 x
      200 mg) p. o. once daily Dose level 3: 400 mg (2 x 200 mg) p. o. once every other day If a
      dose reduction by more than two dose levels from the 400 mg twice daily schedule is required,
      the patient should be discontinued from the study treatment. Also, at the discretion of the
      Investigator, the dose may be re escalated to a higher dose level up to up to a maximum of
      400 mg twice daily following the resolution of the Adverse Event or an improvement in the
      Adverse Event to a level which permits the re-escalation of the study drug.

      For Gemcitabine the potentially dose limiting toxicity is myelosuppression, dose delays are
      allowed for Grade 3 and 4 toxicities. Growth factors will not be administered unless delay is
      more than 2 weeks in recovery of hematological toxicity.
    
  