
    
      Kidney transplantation remains the treatment of choice for patients suffering from end-stage
      renal disease. To combat the ever-increasing waiting list, higher risk organs, including
      those from donation after circulatory death (DCD) donors, and older donors are being
      transplanted more frequently. However, organs from these donors are more susceptible to
      damage during the transplant procedure known as ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) and show
      worse outcomes post-transplant such as increased rates of primary non-function, delayed graft
      function and early graft loss. Therefore, strategies to mitigate IRI are of great interest to
      improve transplant outcomes. One method of interest is modification of organ storage
      techniques during the transplant process.

      The current standard of care for organ preservation is static cold storage or hypoxic
      hypothermic pulsatile perfusion of the donor organ. Our pre-clinical studies in a porcine DCD
      transplant model indicate that perfusion at room temperature is capable of significantly
      reducing kidney inflammation and damage during the transplant process compared to cold
      storage and normothermic perfusion. While other trials have looked at hypothermic and
      normothermic perfusion, to the best of our knowledge there has not been a trial to evaluate
      subnormothermic perfusion of kidneys.

      The study intervention will consist of ex vivo perfusion of donor kidneys using a clinical
      pulsatile pump modified with an oxygen delivery unit developed by our laboratory. Once organs
      arrive at the transplant centre they will be attached to the pump by the transplant surgery
      team and/or perfusionist. Prior to placement on pump, a baseline tissue sample of the kidney
      will be taken via needle core biopsy. Kidneys will be perfused with a preservation solution
      composed of a bloodless oxygen carrier. Organs will be perfused for 1-10 hours depending on
      the clinical timeline of the transplant. The kidney will be transplanted into the recipient
      as per clinical standard. After reperfusion of the kidney in the recipient, another study
      tissue sample will be collected via needle core biopsy. Pre-implantation and post-perfusion
      baseline biopsies are performed as clinical standards, but a small sample of the biopsy
      specimen will be stored for analysis in our laboratory. Study participants (n=15) will be
      followed for 1 year post-transplant and their graft function will be assessed using standard
      clinical parameters.

      The goal of this study is to determine the feasibility and preliminary safety of
      subnormothermic perfusion. Feasibility will be assessed by ease of implementation of study
      procedures and recruitment rate. Safety will be determined from rate of graft discard
      attributed to study intervention, graft function and technical limitations of the study
      intervention.
    
  