
    
      Based on the investigator's previously successful gardening interventions that paired cancer
      survivors with Cooperative Extension Master Gardeners (MG) since 2011, now proposed; a sample
      of 150 older individuals living with chronic diseases in 15 counties in Alabama and
      Mississippi. The purpose of this larger study is to determine the efficacy of a gardening
      intervention that would pair older cancer survivors and individuals living with chronic
      disease (heart disease and diabetes) (≥ 65 years of age) with master gardeners. Vegetable
      gardens will be established at participants' homes, and a yearlong intervention involving
      bimonthly contact between participants and MGs to plan and plant gardens, check plant status,
      harvest, and rotate plantings will be conducted. It is hypothesized that this intervention
      will significantly improve fruit and vegetable consumption, physical activity, quality of
      life and physical functioning.

      Outcomes: Outcomes will be measured by the number of participants recruited, improvements in
      physical functioning, physical performance (senior fitness battery and grip strength),
      physical activity, health-related quality of life, reassurance of worth, and self-efficacy of
      gardening. Additional outcomes are blood pressure, BMI, waist circumference, lipid, glucose,
      and HbA1c.

      Background: There are roughly 15 million cancer survivors in the US, comprising 4% of the
      populace. The number of cancer survivors is skyrocketing due to a confluence of the following
      factors: 1) Americans are aging; 2) cancer is an age-related disease (>60% of cancer
      survivors are age 65+), and 3) improvements in early detection and treatment have resulted in
      many common cancers having 5-year cure rates that surpass 90%. Rising numbers of cancer
      survivors represent good news, but over $130 billion annually is needed to address their
      long-term health and psychosocial needs. Compared to others, cancer survivors are at higher
      risk for other cancers, cardiovascular disease, osteoporosis, and diabetes. The accelerated
      functional decline also is a major problem for cancer survivors, especially those who are
      older. Baker et al. found that compared to age-matched controls, cancer cases (n=45,494) had
      significantly lower physical and social functioning, vitality, mental health, and
      health-related quality of life (HRQoL) (p<0.001). The results of others are similar and
      suggest that cancer survivors face functional decline that threatens their ability to live
      independently, posing a burden to themselves, their families and the health care system.
      Thus, cancer survivorship is claimed as a national priority, and there is a call for
      interventions that target markedly vulnerable subsets.

      Prior interventions to improve physical activity (PA) and diet quality (DQ) has proven
      effective in improving functional status and other health outcomes in cancer survivors. The 2
      largest randomized controlled trials (RCTs) to date aimed at physical function, RENEW
      (Reach-out to ENhancE Wellness, n=641) and Project LEAD (Leading the way in Exercise and
      Diet, n=182), were led by Demark-Wahnefried (PI) and tested home-based interventions. Both
      RCTs resulted in significant improvements in DQ, PA and physical function, with few adverse
      events and low rates of attrition, but there was little capacity for dissemination once
      funding ended. Thus, the investigators have sought to develop interventions that build on
      existing programs and that have a high likelihood of translation into the community. The
      proposed intervention relies on (a) the extant infrastructure of the Alabama Cooperative
      Extension, (b) our collaborative pilot studies with Master Gardeners (MGs), (c) our data that
      show that gardening consists of low-to-moderate PA that combines aerobic and strength
      training activities associated with improved health, and (d) new observational data published
      in 2012 that show that gardeners have significantly better gait speed, balance, and
      significantly fewer chronic conditions, functional limitations and falls.

      MG Programs exist in land grant universities in all 50 United States. Certified MGs complete
      > 100 hrs. of instruction and community service (CS) and 25 hrs./year of CS to maintain
      active status. In surveying 184 MGs in AL, it was found that 71% were "extremely interested"
      in mentoring a cancer survivor on vegetable gardening for their CS, and an extra 26% stated
      that "they were interested and wanted to learn more." Thus, the project is of great interest
      and builds on an extant infrastructure for sustainability. Ultimately, this intervention
      could be disseminated to states with 3 growing seasons and adapted to colder weather in those
      with 2 growing seasons. The intervention also could be adapted for persons with other types
      of chronic diseases in which physical functioning and lifestyle behaviors are key. Finally,
      this project is significant because the intervention has great potential for sustainability
      since gardening: (a) involves many activities which prevent satiation common with other forms
      of exercise; (b) provides a sense of achievement and zest for life that come from nurturing
      and observing new life and growth, and (c) imparts natural prompts since plants require
      regular care (watering) and attention (harvesting) and serve as continual and dynamic
      behavioral cues.
    
  