
    
      A majority of obese asthmatic children report increased dyspnea on exertion (DOE) as their
      primary asthmatic symptom. DOE in obese asthmatic children is typically attributed to
      bronchoconstriction, which is a phenomenon of acute airway narrowing that typically occurs
      after exercise and responds to treatment with bronchodilators. However, obesity itself can
      alter breathing mechanics and increase mechanical ventilatory constraints during exercise,
      which can provoke DOE. Unfortunately the role of obesity in causing DOE is underappreciated
      during diagnosis/management of DOE in asthmatic children with obesity.

      The overall objective of this study is to better understand the respiratory mechanisms
      provoking DOE in obese asthmatic children to inform directive management for clinicians. Our
      overarching hypothesis is that low lung volume breathing predisposes obese asthmatic children
      to mechanical ventilatory constraints in the presence or absence of bronchoconstriction, and
      that DOE attributable to bronchoconstriction will respond to bronchodilators while DOE
      attributable to obesity-specific mechanical ventilatory constraints will not respond to
      bronchodilators.

      We will use an exercise-testing model to concurrently assess obesity-related respiratory
      limitations and asthma-related bronchoconstriction in 9-17-year-old asthmatic children with
      and without obesity. We will use a detailed and comprehensive physiological exercise-testing
      approach to uncover respiratory mechanisms for DOE in 9-17-year-old nonobese and obese
      asthmatic children who do and do not bronchoconstrict. Presence or absence of
      bronchoconstriction will be assessed using a comprehensive measure of airway function change
      during exercise (i.e., ≥10% reduction in forced expiratory volume in 1s, FEV1, ≥35% increase
      in total airway resistance, R5, or ≥40% increase in peripheral airway resistance, R5-20, will
      be indicative of bronchoconstriction). Since bronchodilators are a standard-of-care
      pre-exercise prescription to prevent asthma-related bronchoconstriction, we will also
      determine the extent to which bronchodilators like albuterol and ipratropium are effective in
      reducing DOE, bronchoconstriction, amd mechanical ventilatory constraints in asthmatic
      children with and without obesity.
    
  