
    
      Time optimized and well organized MR protocols for the cardiac and lung investigations are
      evaluated on normal subjects with special respect to following topics:

        1. Localization: Definition of standardized anatomic imaging planes with special respect to
           the right ventricle.

        2. Morphological imaging: Optimization of spin-echo and gradient-echo sequences for various
           heart frequencies and breath-hold abilities. Investigation of the effect of various
           preparation pulses. Optimization of the signal-to-noise ratio for morphological cardiac
           imaging. Evaluation and optimization of various breathing and breath-hold (with and
           without navigator) ECG and pulse triggered sequences.

        3. Cardiac and lung function: Optimization of gradient-echo sequences for various heart
           frequencies and breath-hold abilities. Evaluation of pulse-triggered function analysis
           and optimization of free breathing protocols. Optimization of tagging techniques.
           Evaluation of the pulsatile flow in lung vessels. Acquisition of age depended normal
           data of cardiac and lung function.

        4. Coronary imaging: Definition of standardized anatomic imaging planes to monitor coronary
           arteries (single oblique, volume targeted). Optimization of acquisition window with
           respect to various heart frequencies. Evaluation of the influence of the position of the
           navigator and tracking factor on image quality. Optimization of a pulse triggered
           protocol. Evaluation of black-blood coronary imaging and visualization of the lumen and
           wall of coronary arteries.

        5. Phase contrast techniques: Optimization of imaging planes, time resolution and spatial
           resolution of flow measurements in the heart, in the vessels around the heart, lung
           vessels and coronary arteries. Evaluation of retrospective and prospective gating with
           respect to the heart frequency. Evaluation of normal values in 1-dimensional,
           2-dimensional and 3-dimensional time resolved flow measurements.

        6. Single-Shot Imaging: Evaluation of signal intensity and stability of single shot
           techniques with and without preparation pulses. Optimization of real-time image
           acquisition.

        7. Parallel acquisition and breath-hold time optimization: Evaluation of impact of
           echo-sharing and parallel acquisition on image quality. Optimization of
           short-breath-hold protocols.
    
  