
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) is a common medical condition. Nasal
      continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is mainstay of treatment for OSAHS, but CPAP has
      some limitations. Patient who has bulbar dysfunction and poor consciousness are
      contraindications for CPAP. They are also not suitable for other therapy. There are still
      large number of patients could not accept CPAP. Alternative treatment method transnasal high
      flow was developed and previous study showed moderately reduce respiratory event. It is
      deliver 20 L/minute constant room air by nasal cannula. Because the technical limitation, the
      maximal flow rate is also 20 L/minute and it limit the effectiveness.

      Recently, new high flow nasal cannula(HFNC) is developed. This HFNC has already widely been
      used for respiratory disease. It can deliver air flow up to 60 L/mins. It is also can
      maintain high humidifier and adequate temperature. The every 10 L/min air flow could generate
      approximately 1 cmH2O positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP). The higher air flow could
      generate more high PEEP and may have better effect than previous HFNC, but there are no study
      to evaluate the efficacy in OSAHS patient. Thus, the purpose of our study is to compare the
      efficacy of HFNC with standard CPAP therapy.

      All of the participants were randomized into two groups for minimized first night effects.
      All of them would receive one-night HFNC therapy and another night for CPAP titration under
      PSG monitoring. The duration between these two treatments was approximately one week apart.
      The first group underwent CPAP titration on the first night and HFNC titration on the second
      night. Conversely, the second group was subjected to HFNC on the first night and CPAP
      titration on the second night. All of the participants were asked and recorded their side
      effects following completion of an HFNC or CPAP.
    
  