
    
      Rationale

      Infective endocarditis (IE) is a frequent and serious complication of implanted intracardiac
      prosthetic material, with a high morbidity and mortality. The number of procedures where
      prosthetic material is implanted in the heart increases, as do the age and comorbidity of
      treated subjects. In current clinical practice diagnosis of infected intracardiac prosthetic
      material is often difficult because of the lack of sensitivity of the available diagnostic
      armamentarium for IE.

      As a general rule, first line treatment of intracardiac prosthetic material related
      endocarditis consists of surgical prosthesis removal, combined with appropriate antimicrobial
      therapy. The exception encompasses uncomplicated prosthetic valve endocarditis (PVE). PVE
      actually has a fair chance of successful medical treatment alone (>50%), depending on the
      causative micro-organism. Although there is evidence and consensus with regard to the first
      line treatment, surgical removal is not always possible because of its associated high risk,
      technical limitations, or unwillingness of patients to undergo an invasive surgical
      procedure. Second and third line treatments do not include surgery, and consist of
      antimicrobial therapy with biofilm-penetrating agents during a predetermined timespan (second
      line) or as life-long suppressive antimicrobial therapy (third line). These treatments are
      the alternative in situations wherein first line treatment is not feasible or is unwanted.
      Although not extensively investigated, these treatments are considered suboptimal.

      Therefore further research is necessary. More research is needed to diagnose IE more accurate
      and prompt, as current diagnostic criteria (the modified Duke criteria) for IE are
      insufficient and as it is unclear how to best allocate non-invasive imaging techniques,
      especially for intracardiac prosthetic material. More research is also needed to verify the
      indications for and optimize the use of second and third line treatments in patients with
      intracardiac prosthetic material.

      Objectives

      Primary

      To define the diagnostic value of the combination of 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose
      fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18F-FDG PET) and electrocardiogram-gated
      multidetector computed tomography angiography (ECG-gated MD-CTA) in patients suspected of IE,
      in particular those with intracardiac prosthetic material, when added to the standard
      diagnostic work-up for IE.

      Secondary

        -  To define the predictive value of MD-CTA and 18F-FDG PET with regard to relapse rate and
           mortality of IE;

        -  To identify sources of false positive and false negative results in MD-CTA and 18F-FDG
           PET (e.g. the effect of the use of antimicrobial therapy on imaging findings);

        -  To identify the best MD-CTA and 18F-FDG PET scanning protocol;

        -  To define the role of 18F-FDG PET for finding other infectious lesions in the body;

        -  To assess and compare current clinical practices in patients with intracardiac
           prosthetic material related infection when the foreign material cannot be removed; to
           determine the outcomes of second and third line treatment as compared with first line
           treatment, and to determine predictors of outcome;

        -  To investigate the potential of therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) to improve the
           antimicrobial therapy in patients suspected of IE, in particular those with intracardiac
           prosthetic material:

             -  for which peak and through blood concentrations should be aimed at in IE for
                flucloxacillin, rifampicin, cefazolin, cefuroxime, ceftriaxone, amoxicillin,
                penicillin; fluconazole, flucytosine, amphotericin-B?

             -  for which peak blood concentrations should be aimed at for gentamicin in IE?

             -  for which peak and through blood concentrations should be aimed at for vancomycin
                in intracardiac prosthetic material related IE?

             -  for which through blood concentrations should be aimed at in IE for voriconazole?

        -  To investigate antimicrobial concentrations in resected cardiac tissue (e.g. heart valve
           or vegetation which has been removed based on medical indication) in patients with IE
           who have been treated medically with antimicrobials and who subsequently are operated
           upon.

      Study design

      Prospective multicentre observation study, with the University Medical Center Groningen
      (UMCG) in Groningen as the leading centre.

      Study population

      Patients (≥18 years) in which IE is suspected according to the britisch society for
      antimicrobial chemotherapy (BSAC) criteria 2012.

      Main study parameters/endpoints

      Number of clinically identified (prosthetic material related) endocarditis episodes,
      according to (multiple) constellation(s) of diagnostic criteria versus number of "true"
      (prosthetic material related) endocarditis episodes, according to our gold standard "expert
      opinion after 12 months (+/- 2 weeks) follow-up" (based on clinical reasoning, the modified
      Duke criteria, and findings during surgery and from pathology).
    
  