
    
      In the past decade, China has experienced fundamental decreases in the populations' physical
      activity levels, due to increasingly sedentary occupations and lifestyles. However, the
      transition to a Western lifestyle has not reached the entire Chinese population. The
      resulting wide range of between-person variation in physical activity provides an
      unparalleled opportunity for physical activity studies. Although physical activity
      measurement techniques have evolved considerably over the past years, the main obstacle in
      quantifying physical activity is the complexity of precisely measuring its individual
      components, particularly low to moderate-intensity activities.

      Recently, investigators at Vanderbilt University, the Shanghai Cancer Institute, and the DCEG
      initiated two prospective population-based cohort studies: the Shanghai Women's Cohort and
      the Shanghai Men's Cohort. The aim of these studies is to prospectively examine the relations
      of diet, lifestyle, occupational, and environmental risk factors, as well as genetic
      variation, to cancer incidence among 75,000 women and 73,000 men, aged 40 to 70 years old,
      and residing in Shanghai, China. We propose to conduct a study among 600 women and men
      participating in these two cohort studies. The specific objectives of the current study are
      to develop a comprehensive physical activity questionnaire and to assess the validity and
      reliability of this instrument in the Shanghai cohorts using objective measures of physical
      activity/physical fitness: activity monitors, and the Modified Canadian Aerobic Fitness Test.
      In addition, we intend to evaluate whether different types and parameters of physical
      activity are associated with circulating levels of specific inflammatory markers that have
      been linked to cancer risk. The specific markers are C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin 6
      (IL-6), and soluble tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a). The impact of potentially
      confounding variables of the association between physical activity and inflammatory markers,
      such as recent exercise, use of anti-inflammatory drugs, and current or recent infections,
      will be carefully accounted for in the analysis.
    
  