
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial which is being conducted in Pakistan Railway hospital
      enrolled total 40 participants diagnosed with lumbar spondylosis who fulfilled the inclusion
      criteria through sealed envelope method using purposive sampling technique into two groups
      I-e experimental (n=21) and control group(n=19).The treatment protocol administered to
      experimental group was Maitland entire spine mobilization along with other conventional
      treatments such as hot pack, soft tissue mobilization.

      and home-based exercises (Bridging, knee to chest, Hamstrings stretching and TA stretching).
      While the control group received segmental spine mobilization along with same conventional
      treatment as mentioned above for 8 sessions. Physical therapy along with pharmaceutical
      management is effective in improving pain on NPRS, ODI values in patients with lumbar
      stenosis. Based on evidence that manual therapy interventions when used in combination with
      exercise therapy in clinical practice has beneficial effect in the treatment of degenerated
      lumbar spinal stenosis.

      effects of 'specific segmental level 'spinal joint mobilization techniques in creating
      positive outcomes on pain NPRS measures and range of motion concluded that a single session
      of segmental joint mobilization can lead to pain reduction at both rest and with most painful
      offending movement.

      Manual therapy approaches such as Maitland mobilizations are more productive in the
      management of chronic low back pain, quality of function and lumbar spine range of motion in
      patients of lumbar spondylosis than traditional physical therapy interventions such as muscle
      stretching and spinal traction.

      Osteophytes were the most numerous radiographic feature detected in patients with lumbar
      spondylosis, with greater occurrence in men. Intervertebral disc space narrowing was more
      prevalent in women than men. Both distinctive radiographic features presence increased with
      increasing age. Disc space reduction seemed more strongly related with chronic low back pain
      than osteophytosis, especially in men and disc space narrowing at 2 or more segments appeared
      more powerfully associated with low back pain than disc space reduction at only 1
      intervertebral segment.

      Maitland posteroanterior spinal mobilizations are performed by a therapist on symptomatic
      segments after assessment compared with mobilization treatment given on any random spinal
      segment in patients suffering with chronic low back pain. The results were greater degree of
      immediate reduction of pain in patients receiving posteroanterior mobilization on symptomatic
      segment rather than any random segments in offending movement direction.
    
  