
    
      Degenerative adult scoliosis results from age related changes leading to segmental
      instability, deformity and stenosis. Although the etiology is unclear, degenerative adult
      scoliosis is associated with progressive and asymmetric degeneration of the disc and facet
      joints, which typically lead to stenosis. By virtue of the narrowed spinal canal associated
      with the degeneration these patients frequently develop back pain, as well as leg pain,
      weakness, and numbness. With an aging population in the USA and an increased attention to
      quality of life versus cost issues in the current healthcare environment, degenerative adult
      scoliosis has become a considerable healthcare concern.

      Patients with scoliosis demonstrate an altered gait pattern. Such differences include
      decreased step length and reduced range of motion in the upper and lower extremities,
      asymmetry of trunk rotation and ground reaction force in three-dimensions. Mahaudens et al.
      found a decrease in the muscular mechanical work associated with an increase of energy cost
      and a decrease in the muscular efficiency in a scoliosis population compared to healthy
      controls. Furthermore, scoliosis patients exert 30% more physical effort than healthy
      subjects to ensure habitual locomotion, and this additional effort requires a reciprocal
      increase of oxygen consumption. This altered gait pattern demonstrated by subjects with
      scoliosis may be due to changes in global postural control strategies caused by spinal
      deformity.

      Previous research showed that scoliosis patients do not have impaired postural balance when
      compared to healthy controls, while several others did find an effect of scoliosis on
      postural balance. This discrepancy in findings may be due to differences in curve
      characteristics included and their effects on postural balance, curve types (single or
      double), number of different curve types, location of curves (thoracic and lumbar), and/or
      Cobb angles. Furthermore, Schimmel et al. found that postural balance one year after surgery
      did not improve as a result of the better spinal alignment, neither did the reduced range of
      trunk motion inherent to fusion negatively affect postural balance.

      While medicinal interventions may assist with some of the associated co-morbid conditions,
      surgical interventions may be indicated for those patients with intractable and debilitating
      low back and leg pain. These surgeries have proven to be extremely successful in a majority
      of patients. The surgeries may involve decompression and instrumentation to stabilize the
      spine to achieve arthrodesis.

      Surgical intervention may provide pain relief and improvement in function but one area of
      significant clinical interest is the restoration/improvement in gait and functional balance.
      Based on the investigators knowledge, there is limited literature on biomechanics and
      neuromuscular control of the lower extremities and spine as assessed by objective gait
      analysis and balance strategies in adult degenerative scoliosis patients, pre and post
      surgical intervention. The purpose of this study is to determine the impact of spinal
      deformity on the biomechanics and neuromuscular control of the lower and upper extremities,
      and also investigate the impact of surgery on these functions as evaluated by gait and
      balance analyses using dynamic Electromyograph (EMG), video motion capture and force plate
      analysis and also to compare these patients with healthy controls to better evaluate the
      extent of limitations before and after surgery.
    
  