
    
      Aim: to determine the feasibility of a cluster randomised trial to evaluate the
      implementation and outcomes of Anticipatory Care Planning (ACP) in primary care to assist
      older adults identified as at risk for functional decline by developing a personalised
      support plan.

      Design and sample:

      We will perform a feasibility cluster randomised controlled trial where 8 primary care
      practises will be randomly assigned (4 facilities per arm) to the intervention group versus
      usual care alone. Randomisation will be stratified according to location (Northern Ireland
      /Republic of Ireland - Louth, Monaghan). Primary care practices will be randomly allocated to
      the intervention or usual care arm before patient screening for risk of functional decline. A
      total of 64 patients (32 per study arm, 8 patients, randomly selected, per primary care
      practise) will be enrolled into the study. A sample of 32 patients per study arm is
      considered adequate to allow the size of any definitive trial to be determined more
      accurately and therefore minimise the number of patients required overall.

      Setting:

      Practices located in Northern Ireland will be recruited via the Northern Ireland Clinical
      Research Network (Primary Care). In the Republic of Ireland the HRB Primary Care Trials
      Network will recruit primary care practises located in the border counties of Louth and
      Monaghan. Practises will be drawn from both urban and rural settings that serve a
      socioeconomically deprived population.

      Patient enrolment:

      Individuals who screen as at risk of functional decline will be sent a letter from their GP
      inviting them to participate in the study. A project research assistant will recruit
      consenting patients by telephone. Allocation to the intervention vs. usual care will be
      communicated to the study participant by a member of the research team after the research
      assistant has obtained consent and conducted the baseline-standardised interview. In the case
      of two or more eligible participants in any one household, all will be eligible for enrolment
      into the study. In the intervention arm the study nurse employed by the project will then
      commence arrangements to visit the appropriate patients.

      Intervention:

      The nurse led ACP intervention will be integrated into regular care where the study nurse
      will involve the patients' GP in care planning and is informed about patients' goals and
      plans. As a first step in the intervention, the study nurse will contact the patient by
      telephone to schedule an initial home visit. This will typically be conducted within 4 weeks
      of the return of the participant's PRISMA 7 postal questionnaire. At the initial home visit
      the study nurse will, with the aid of a medical summary including current repeat prescription
      provided by the GP practise, will employ a structured protocol conduct a brief Comprehensive
      Geriatric Assessment (CGA) that will also encourage discussion about present and future care
      and patient goals.

      Following the initial home visit the study nurse will draft a structured summary report of
      the home visit that will include patient goals, preferences for care, identified problems and
      action list. The study nurse will forward to a pharmacist, who will be an adjunct to the
      study, the summary report generated from the brief CGA highlighting the patient medication
      list and the identification of potentially inappropriate prescribing (PIP). The pharmacist
      will cross check and verify the presence of PIPs. A record will be maintained by the
      pharmacist on the accuracy of the study nurse identifying PIPs during the trial. The results
      of this audit will contribute to the finalisation of the intervention. Subsequent to PIP
      feedback from the pharmacist the study nurse will finalize the summary report and will meet
      with the GP who will be informed through a structured format patients goals and wishes,
      results of the patient assessment, problem list and recommended actions. The GP with
      appropriate participation of other members of the health care team, will review, provide
      feedback and confirm agreement with the plan of care.

      In the second home visit the study nurse will meet with the patient and family carer to
      discuss identified problems, review proposed options for support, document the agreed support
      plan and consider options for follow up and set a date for review. The study nurse may
      conduct, depending on clinical need, the second visit in the patients' home or the GP
      practise so the GP can be present. The finalised care plan will be left with the patient and
      a copy will be placed in the patient's chart in the GP practise.

      All outcome measures will be assessed at baseline, six weeks and six months.
    
  