
    
      This is a retrospective, cross-sectional patient records review study. Only records with
      subjects that were 35 years or older and have been active patients of the School of Dental
      Medicine, University at Buffalo will be included. Three individual searches with three
      distinct patient criteria will be conducted to obtain records from subjects in three
      populations with different degrees of periodontal disease. All subjects that qualify the
      eligibility criteria will be selected. The IT Department has access to select the subjects
      according to the eligibility criteria without requiring access to the physical patient
      record. The three subject groups are:

        1. Periodontally healthy patients: Patients with a D1110 or D1111 (adult prophylaxis
           including those with 6 or fewer teeth) treatment code, seen by a 3rd or 4th year
           pre-doctoral dental student. Excludes all charts that have ever had a U4990 (Perio case)
           treatment code. Patient is 35 years or older relative to 1/1/2016.

        2. Patients with a history of advanced periodontal treatment, group 1: All patients treated
           in the Postgraduate Periodontics department by a periodontics resident between 1/1/2000
           - 12/31/2017. Patients presenting for treatment of chronic periodontitis will be
           included while those patients presenting to the clinic for other reasons, such as crown
           lengthening procedures, will be labeled as such. All patients selected will be 35 years
           or older at time of initial exam.

        3. Patients with history of advanced periodontal treatment, group 2: All patients ever
           treated in the private faculty practice of one periodontist, that were still active
           patients during between 1/1/16 - 12/31/16. Only those 35 years and older were included.
           Patients presenting for treatment of chronic periodontitis will be included while those
           patients presenting to the clinic for other reasons, such as crown lengthening
           procedures, will be labeled as such.

      All duplicates within a group will be excluded (e.g. patients may have had a D1110 code more
      than once per year). These 3 subject search criteria should yield a sufficient number of
      patient records for statistical analysis.

      All patient records will be reviewed and data will be collected and recorded in an electronic
      Microsoft Excel database file that is saved on an encrypted flash drive. The only patient
      identifier recorded will be the patient records number. Once data collection is complete, or
      at a maximum of 3 years from the start of the study, all identifying information will be
      deleted and only de-identified data saved on a separate electronic file will be analyzed. No
      code key will be required.

      Data will be analyzed using ANOVA (F-test). If multiple variables are used, analysis will be
      by using generalized estimating equations (GEE).
    
  