
    
      Asthma is a common respiratory disease worldwide and in Hong Kong. According to the
      estimation by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention in 2015, 7.6% adults in the
      United States have asthma. In Hong Kong, the prevalence of asthma was estimated to be 10.1%
      among 13 to 14 years old children and 5.8% in randomly selected Chinese elderly aged more
      than 70. The clinical characteristics varies in different age groups, with elderly asthmatics
      have higher rates of bronchial hyper-reactivity and more severe phenotypes, when comparing
      with younger patients. This is more important in an ageing population.

      Asthmatic exacerbation is not an uncommon complication and can be fatal. For those patients
      with near-fatal asthma exacerbation, ICU admission and mechanical ventilation may be
      necessary to prevent mortality. This is more common among poor controllers and adults.
      Asthma-related deaths may be reduced if risk factors are recognized and addressed early.

      Many predictors for exacerbation had been identified, both endogenous and exogenous,
      including high eosinophil count, upper airway diseases, gastroesophageal reflux, poor inhaler
      technique, medication non-compliance, guideline non-compliance. One of the most powerful
      predictors for future exacerbation in patients with severe or difficult-to-treat asthma is a
      recent severe asthma exacerbation. In addition, hospitalization for exacerbations requiring
      ICU care and mechanical ventilation are both predictors for near-fatal asthma. After the
      acute attack, its unfavourable impact continues and can lead to multiple sequelae.
      Exacerbation of asthma is associated with a more rapid decline in the post-bronchodilator
      forced expiratory volume in 1 second and worse quality of life. In addition, individuals with
      uncontrolled asthma had higher medical expenditures and decreased productivity, contributing
      to a greater economic burden when compared with individuals without asthma. In contrary,
      patients with controlled asthma had lower hospitalization rate, mortality rate and less
      decline in lung function.

      Many of these factors are potentially reversible. But, there is still a significant
      proportion of asthma patients experiencing recurrent exacerbation despite optimization of
      pharmacological treatment. A model of better asthma care may be established by improving the
      understanding on these risk factors, leading to less exacerbation events.
    
  