
    
      Stroke is the leading cause of adult disability in the United States. One of the most
      debilitating impairments resulting from stroke is aphasia, a language disorder caused by
      damage to the left hemisphere of the brain. While evidence shows that aphasia therapy
      improves speech production and communicative quality of life in persons with chronic (>6
      months) stroke-induced aphasia, the amount of therapy provided to patients in the United
      States is typically far less than what is probably necessary to maximize recovery. There are
      a few important reasons underlying this discrepancy. For example, considerable emphasis is
      placed on acute and subacute stroke recovery with less therapy focus on the chronic period,
      when recovery is usually slower. Also, access to rehabilitation services can be limited by
      the availability of providers (e.g., in rural regions) or by difficulties with transportation
      logistics related to disabilities and the physical sequelae of stroke. One way to increase
      access to aphasia therapy is to rely on telerehabilitation (a.k.a., aphasia remote therapy;
      ART). So far, telerehabilitation in stroke has primarily focused on physical therapy, with
      only a handful of smaller studies involving aphasia therapy. The purpose of this study is to
      compare aphasia therapy administered via ART to aphasia therapy administered in person
      (In-Clinic Therapy; I-CT). We will conduct the first phase II, non-inferiority trial of
      telerehabilitation for aphasia therapy that is exclusively administered by a speech-language
      pathologist. Participants with chronic aphasia will be randomized to either a
      telerehabilitation or aphasia remote therapy (ART) group or an in-clinic therapy (I-CT) group
      relying on the same therapy approach currently used in our ongoing POLAR study. The outcome
      measure will focus on speech production and combines correct naming on the Philadelphia
      Naming Test and correct words produced per minute (CWPM) during discourse. The primary
      endpoint is change in the outcome measure at 6 months compared to baseline. The
      non-inferiority margin will be set so that if ART leads to less than 50% improvement than the
      improvement following I-CT, it will be considered inferior for therapy delivery. Neuroimaging
      will be used to evaluate how aphasia is shaped by the stroke lesion in combination with
      residual brain integrity.
    
  