
    
      Aim: To determine the effect of intragastric infusion of lidocaine on satiation,
      gastrointestinal complaints and food intake.

      Hypothesis: We hypothesize that intragastric administration of lidocaine will result in a
      delay of postprandial satiation and hereby will result in an increase in food intake.
      Furthermore, lidocaine infusion will not result in an increase in any gastrointestinal
      complaints.

      Primary objective: To investigate the effect of intragastric infusion of lidocaine on ad
      libitum food intake.

      Secondary Objective(s):

        1. To investigate the effect of intragastric infusion of lidocaine on satiety/satiation.

        2. To study the effect of intragastric infusion of lidocaine on gastrointestinal
           complaints.

      Design: Double blind randomized placebo-controlled cross-over trial in healthy male
      volunteers.

      Study population: 35 healthy human male volunteers, 18 - 50 years old. Main study
      parameters/endpoints: Difference in ad libitum meal intake (as measured during ad libitum
      chili con carne meal).

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Visual Analogue Scales (VAS) scores for satiety feelings (e.g., satiety,
      fullness, hunger, prospective feeding, desire to eat, desire to snack) and gastrointestinal
      symptoms (burning, bloating, belching, cramps, colics, warm sensation, sensation of abdominal
      fullness, nausea and pain) will be measured using VAS (0 to 100 mm) anchored at the low end
      with the most negative or lowest intensity feelings (e.g., extremely unpleasant, not at all),
      and with opposing terms at the high end (e.g., extremely pleasant, very high, extreme).
      Volunteers will be asked to indicate on a line which place on the scale best reflects their
      feeling at that moment. The scoring forms will be collected immediately so that they cannot
      be used as a reference for later scorings.

      Catheter placement: the subjects will perceive mild discomfort during the placement of the
      catheter. Subjects can, at any time, come in contact with the investigator if any problems
      occur. All participants are healthy volunteers and we don't expect any health benefits or
      disadvantages.
    
  