
    
      The nadir of the neonatal risks seems to be at 39 weeks of gestation and there is an
      augmentation of maternal complications after 39 weeks. Nonetheless, planned induction of
      labor at 39 weeks was not encouraged in common practice due to a suspected higher risk of
      frequency cesarean delivery and other adverse maternal outcomes, especially among nulliparous
      women with unfavorable cervix, compared with expectant management. This suspected increased
      maternal morbidity especially the cesarean rate associated with the induction of labor was
      based on observational studies which suffer from methodological limitations or based on
      underpowered small randomized clinical trials.

      A recent multicenter, randomized, controlled, unmasked trial conducted in United States of
      America in 2014-2017 (ARRIVE trial), provides new results with a high level of evidence. This
      trial conducted among 6,106 low-risk nulliparous women who were randomized, 3062 assigned to
      labor induction at 39 weeks 0 day to 39 weeks 4 days and 3,044 assigned to expectant
      management, demonstrates that induction of labor at 39 weeks did result in a trend but not
      significant lower frequency of the primary outcome - a composite adverse perinatal outcome -
      (relative risk [RR] 0.80, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.64-1.00), but did result in a
      significantly lower frequency of cesarean delivery (RR 0.84, 95% CI 0.76-0.93).

      Although the cesarean delivery rate was a secondary outcome of the study and the absence of
      any comparison for women's characteristics of those who were eligible and declined to
      participate and those who were randomized, the recommendations of the Society of
      Maternal-Fetal Medicine (SMFM), American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG)
      and numerous authors have already considered that induction of labor ≥ 39 weeks should be
      proposed in low-risk nulliparous women. In other words, on the basis mainly on the results of
      a secondary outcome from only one single randomized controlled trial, they have proposed to
      modify the management of the pregnant women who reach 39 weeks gestation (i.e. the large
      majority of the pregnant women) while until now induction of labor for those women was
      proposed only if abnormal medical condition occurred or beyond 41 weeks of gestation.
      Nevertheless, the findings of the ARRIVE trial are so important because the reduction of the
      cesarean rate is a worldwide goal and the elective induction of labor ≥ 39 weeks seems to be
      today the most effective way to achieve it. However, French context and obstetrical practices
      are different than USA, with a lower rate of cesarean. Women's characteristics are also
      different (i.e. lower body mass index in France). Consequently, the external validity of the
      ARRIVE trial needs to be confirmed. Moreover, in the ARRIVE trial, the labor management has
      to respect American recent guidelines with a longer duration of the latent phase and
      administration of oxytocin if needed for at least 12 hours after membrane rupture before
      deeming the induction a failure. A generalization of labor induction at 39 weeks without a
      strictly respect of the eligibility criteria or labor management could result to an increase
      of unexpected adverse maternal or neonatal outcomes.

      Thus, the expected benefits of labor induction at 39 weeks have to be confirmed in other
      context, in particular in French settings with a lower cesarean rate than in USA by
      replicating the ARRIVE study conducting another randomized controlled trial for which the
      primary outcome will be the cesarean section rate.

      This replication is crucial before leading to a such important change in daily practice that
      would be considering routine induction of labor for low-risk nulliparous women at 39 weeks of
      gestation and consequently modifying the organization of all maternity wards in order to
      achieve this policy.

      In addition to the replication of the ARRIVE trial in a French context, a prospective
      observational cohort with 4,200 women is associated with this trial to identify a potential
      participant selection bias.
    
  