
    
      Skin site reactions account for one of the most likely reasons for discontinuation of
      subcutaneous injections of MS medications. It is imperative that additional methods be
      determined to decrease the reactions and/or treat the reactions that occur. Individuals
      continue to use over the counter preparations (e.g. Benadryl or steroid creams) or other
      treatments recently described (warm compresses) to improve tolerance to the subcutaneous
      injections and the reactions. Both short (3 to 6 months) and long term skin reactions have
      been reported by patients. They complain about this at office visits and calls to nurses in
      clinics or to those who teach injection technique. Recently, this investigator and a nurse
      colleague found that an herbal cream (Bach's Rescue Remedy Cream) reduced the redness and
      skin site reactions. A small investigator funded mini-pilot demonstrated a decrease in
      resolution and in size of skin site reactions and satisfaction of herbal cream versus the
      placebo cream. This proposed research study builds upon Moore's previous success that
      documented significant decrease in injection site reactions by adding an air bubble to the
      injection before injection, which is now described in the injection instructions of Copaxone,
      Rebif, and Axonex. The specific hypotheses for this study as end points include:

        1. The herbal cream will significantly decrease time of redness based on daily measure of
           skin site reactions compared to placebo cream.

        2. The herbal cream will decrease discomfort of skin site reactions as measured by a visual
           analogue scale compared to the placebo cream.

        3. Participants will indicate how the herbal cream has made a difference to their quality
           of life based on a qualitative description of effects of skin site reactions before
           herbal cream and following use of herbal cream
    
  