
    
      Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is expressed or over-expressed in many human solid
      tumors and plays an important role in progression to invasion and metastases. The EGFR
      tyrosine kinase is activated by binding of a variety of ligands to the external domain.
      Autophosphorylation by the EGFR tyrosine kinase initiates a signaling cascade that feeds
      downstream cell cycle control machinery regulating cell proliferation, and these reactions
      are a major component in growth factor-induced proliferation of cancer cells.

      The Erb-B (HER) receptor family consists of four transmembrane tyrosine kinases:
      Erb-B1-epithermal growth factor receptor (EGFR, HER1), Erb-B2/neu (HER2), Erb-B3 (HER3), and
      Erb-B4 (HER4). The ectodomain of Erb-B1, Erb-B3, and Erb-B4 interacts with a specific set of
      ligand, whereas no ligand has been identified thus far for the Erb-B2 receptor. Nonetheless,
      Erb-B2 can be activated by any of the other ligand-activated Erb-B coreceptors. Upon ligand
      binding to the active domain of Erb-B1, Erb-B3, or Erb-B4, these receptors preferentially
      recruit Erb-B2 into a heterodimeric complex in which the Erb-B2 kinase can modulate receptor
      internalization and prolong signal transduction.

      Data are now emerging that Erb-B2 modulates cellular p27 and cyclin D1 protein levels through
      both Ras/MAP kinase and PI3K/Akt signaling. Reversible interruption of Erb-B2 function by
      trastuzumab (Herceptin) has been shown to inhibit MAPk and reduce MAPk-mediated transcription
      through cyclin D1. In addition, the signaling molecule Akt is important in the cell survival
      pathway. Akt inhibits apoptosis and is present in the PI3 kinase pathway, which is activated
      by the EGF family and the IGF family. Several biologic arguments support the use of EGR
      inhibitors to block HER2 signaling. In HER2-overexpressing cell lines, the HER2 receptor is
      constitutively phosphorylated. This suggests that HER2 may be transactivated through
      ligand-stimulated EGFR, also present in tumor cells. In addition, overexpression of HER2
      enhances the binding of EGFR ligands to the receptor and potentiates EGFR signaling. HER2
      inactivation has been shown to impair EGFR- mediated transformation, and conversely EGFR
      blocking antibodies can augment the growth inhibitory effect of antiHER2 antibodies in cells
      with high levels of HER2. Taken together, these data suggest that EGFR/HER2 crosstalk is
      present in a subset of human tumors and that interruption of EGFR may reduce HER2 signaling.
      Cell cycle progression is regulated predominantly by cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), which
      in turn are controlled by a family of CDK inhibitory proteins that include P27KIP1 and
      P21CIP1-WAF1. Pathways involving CDK inhibitors are commonly destructive in cancer cells.
      ZD1839 is an orally active, selective EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor that blocks signal
      transduction pathways implicated in cancer cell proliferation, survival, and other
      host-dependent processes promoting cancer growth.

      In preclinical studies, ZD1839 causes tumor growth delay in a range of cancer cell lines and
      xenografts, and tumor regression has been observed at higher doses. ZD1839 was also shown to
      inhibit proliferation in DCIS together with significantly increased apoptosis in these
      tissues. Data from these different cell lines and xenografts suggest that ZD1839 may act via
      dose-dependent growth inhibition and by increasing apoptosis, and may even potentiate the
      activity of cytotoxic chemotherapy.

      In one phase II multicenter study, 63 women with metastatic breast cancer who could have had
      any number of previous chemotherapy or hormonal regimens were treated with an oral daily dose
      of 500 mg of ZD1839 until disease progression, intolerable toxicity, or withdrawal of
      consent. Dosage reduction to 250 mg daily was allowed for toxicity. The primary end point was
      clinical benefit rate (complete response + partial response [modified ICC/WHO criteria] +
      stable disease) at 6 months. There was 1 partial response and 2 patients with stable disease
      for more than 4 months (4 months in 1 patient and 7+ months in the other), for a total of
      4.8% clinical benefit. An additional 4 patients had stable disease lasting 1 to 2 months, and
      another 2 patients had stable disease lasting 1 month, resulting in an overall 14.3% partial
      response or stable disease in this heavily pre-treated population; 15% were on treatment for
      4 to 8+ months, and 2 patients stayed on treatment, despite progression, because of
      significant bone pain palliation.

      Preliminary efficacy and toxicity data from another phase II trial of 22 ER-positive or
      ER-negative patients were reported at the same conference. In that study, patients could have
      had 1 previous chemotherapy regimen or were experiencing disease progression while on
      tamoxifen and were given 500 mg of ZD1839 daily. Two patients had a partial response and 10
      had stable disease at 4 weeks. In both trials the toxicity profile was identical to that seen
      in patient with NSCLC.
    
  