
    
      Prospective randomized controlled study was designed to evaluate subscapularis repair in
      anterosuperior rotator cuff tear compared with debridement of the subscapularis tear. After
      identification of the subscapularis tear arthroscopically, final eligibility of participants
      for the study was established on the basis of intra-operative arthroscopic inspection of the
      subscapularis using 70 degrees arthroscope. Once eligibility was confirmed, patients were
      randomized to one of two arthroscopic methods; repair (group A) or debridement (group B) of
      the subscapularis tear. The treatment allocations were decided through an interphone by
      "Research Coordinator". Block randomization was performed and no stratification was
      performed. Random Sequence Generator (Random.org) was used for the randomization process by
      given number whose digit was residue of modulo 2 (0 - group A, 1 - group B). Sequence
      Boundaries was 1 (smallest value) to 300 (largest value) based on the number calculated from
      power analysis. After randomization, patients underwent arthroscopic repair or debridement of
      the subscapularis tear. Size of the rotator cuff tear was also determined by the arthroscopic
      finding (small-to-medium, medium-to-large, large-to-massive). When full-thickness tear was
      confined to supraspinatus, the tear was called small-to-medium size tear. Medium-to-Large
      size tear was defined as complete full-thickness supraspinatus tear combined with incomplete
      full-thickness infraspinatus tear. Large-to-massive tear consisted of complete full-thickness
      tear of supraspinatus and infraspinatus or complete full-thickness tear of supraspinatus and
      subscapularis or complete 3-tendon tears. Postoperatively, rehabilitation was identical for
      both groups and consisted of sling immobilization for six weeks. Pulley exercises were
      performed during this time period. After six weeks from the surgery, active-assisted exercise
      including stick exercise to achieve full range of motion was performed. After 9 weeks from
      the surgery, Theraband exercise was initiated to strengthen repaired rotator cuff muscles.
      All patients underwent ultrasound at 24 months follow-up to evaluate integrity of
      supraspinatus tendon. The evaluation of integrity of supraspinatus tendon was performed and
      compared between two groups to evaluate the contribution of the subscapularis tendon to
      rotator cuff integrity. Re-tear of the supraspinatus was carefully evaluated through
      ultrasound by musculoskeletal radiologists who were experienced in ultrasound-diagnosis of
      shoulder more than 10 years.
    
  