
    
      Low back pain (LBP) is an important musculoskeletal problem that causes clinical, social and
      economic losses. LBP, which affects approximately 85% of the lifetime population, becomes
      chronic LBP in 23% of individuals lasting 3 months or more. Although there are various forms
      of LBP, the most common form is non-specific low back pain (NSLBP). There are no specific and
      definable pathologies in NSLBP such as a history of spinal surgery, presence of neurological
      deficit, facet joint problem, disc herniation and sacroiliac joint dysfunction.

      Although there are studies examining the changes in various positions in geriatric
      individuals with NSLBP, maintaining and maintaining postural control during standing position
      has been the focus of current studies. According to the systematic review study on the effect
      of sensory manipulations on postural release changes in individuals with NSLBP, the results
      are uncertain and further studies are needed. For example, in cases where sensory systems (eg
      visual, proprioceptive, and vestibular) that are effective in achieving postural control are
      not manipulated, some studies report greater release size in NSLBP patients, while others
      find that the size of release is similar to healthy individuals. Sherafat et al. Emphasized
      that the evaluation of gravity center changes in static environment may be effective in the
      emergence of these contradictory results. As expressed in this study, standing still on a
      static platform may be an obstacle to detect small postural stability and balance differences
      between individuals with and without NSLBP. In this context, testing of geriatric individuals
      with NSLBP in the standing position on a mobile platform such as the Biodex Balance System
      (BBS) (Biodex Medical Systems, Shirley, NY) and exposure to more stringent equilibrium
      conditions will yield more sensitive results in assessing postural stability and balance.

      BBS is a device used for objective evaluation of static and dynamic balance, allowing free
      movement in mediolateral and anteroposterior directions. The validity-reliability studies of
      the BBS were conducted in various populations including active, non-active, young adult and
      geriatric individuals, and individuals with ankle sprains. The validity-reliability study of
      individuals with NSLBP was reported by Sherafat et al. has a strong-excellent correlation
      with four-square step test, timed-up-and-go test, Berg Balance Scale, and single leg stance
      test.

      Studies have emphasized the use of BBS in geriatric individuals with NSLBP, but no data on
      the cut-off scores of this system have been found. The determination of a cut-off score with
      high sensitivity and specificity is thought to be beneficial for detecting deterioration in
      functional status in geriatric individuals with NSLBP. Therefore, the aim of our study is to
      determine BBS cut-off scores in geriatric individuals with NSLBP.
    
  