
    
      This is a single centre study which will take place in a mock clinical and non-clinical
      environment. The site-specific requirements including a clear space in which the participant
      can walk for 3m, and a firm chair with sturdy arms. The individuals performing the clinically
      led test must have experience in performing clinical examinations and be able to explain the
      steps involved in the Timed Up and Go in a clear and cohesive manner as judged by the study
      operators.

      Participants will initially be asked to perform a clinician led 'Timed Up and Go' (TUG), this
      result will be recorded including:

        1. Number of attempts

        2. Use of arm rests to aid

        3. Whether mobility aid is used

      Each participant will be given a rest period of at least 10 minutes. Participants will be
      asked to download the Medopad application onto their own mobile device. Once onboarded, they
      will be shown how to use the TUG module and then asked to complete a non-clinician led TUG,
      this result will be digitally stored on the application. Participants will be instructed to
      carry out the TUG in the following manner: sit in an upright chair with arm rests, with no
      extra cushions or pillows on the seat. They will be advised to ideally use a firm chair of
      height ~46cm with arm rests. Whilst at home, they will be asked to place the 3m ruler down in
      front of the chair they plan to use, open up the application and enter the TUG module. At
      this point, they will be prompted to take a picture of their chair, they will then need to
      sit down and rest for 5 minutes and re-read through the TUG module information. After 5
      minutes they will need to press the 'Go' button on the application and perform the test,
      pressing the 'Stop' button on completion.

      Following this initial test, participants will then be asked to repeat this TUG in a week's
      time. They will be provided with a standardised 3 metre measuring device to ensure correct
      distance at home. After completion of the final TUG test, they will be asked to complete a
      short feedback questionnaire regarding their experience.

      At each test performance, the participant will be asked to place a second mobile device with
      the Medopad application loaded. The motion capture module of this device's application with
      be initiated as the start of the test and record accelerometer and gyroscope data during the
      test's performance. It will then be stopped.
    
  