
    
      ABUS produces a 3D volume acquisition using a 6-15 Mega Herz reverse curve transducer. Images
      are digitally reformatted on a dedicated workstation to produce axial, sagittal and coronal
      reformatted images. Unlike handheld ultrasound, the ABUS is relatively simple to use,
      necessitating less technical training, and results in higher reproducibility. Previous
      studies have shown that automated breast ultrasound is very well tolerated by patients can be
      useful in detection of solid and cystic lesions and in evaluating tumor extent
      preoperatively.

      Automated breast ultrasound will be performed on the "Invenia ABUS" (Automated Breast
      Ultrasound System) designed for automated breast imaging by General Electric (GE) Healthcare.
      Images will be acquired using a 15 centimeter field-of-view reverse curve ultra-broadband
      transducer of 6-15 Mega Herz. Using mechanical compression assist, the transducer is placed
      on each breast and six volumes are acquired with six sweeps (right anterior-posterior, right
      lateral, right medial; left anterior-posterior, left lateral, left medial). Acquisition time
      expected 15 minutes per patient, approximately 30-40 second acquisition per volume.

      ABUS examinations will be performed by the investigators institution's radiographers, with
      variable degrees of experience in performing hand-held breast ultrasound examinations (HHUS).

      Reformatted images and volumes will be view on a designated workstation of 2 megapixel high
      resolution monitor, using customized hanging protocols, multi-slice 3D viewing and patented
      clinical algorithms. Interpretation of images will be done by our institution's breast
      imaging radiologists with more than 15 years of experience in performing and reading
      hand-held breast ultrasound studies.

      Each breast will be assigned a final ABUS BI-RADS score according to the American College of
      Radiology classification ranging from 1 to 6. A discrepancy between the ABUS Breast
      Imaging-Reporting and Data System score and the hand-held ultrasound BI-RADS score (HHUS
      BI-RADS 1-2 & ABUS BI-RADS >2, or HHUS BI-RADS >3 & ABUS BI-RADS 1-2) will result in the
      referral of the woman to second-look hand-held ultrasound to determine the reason for the
      mismatch.
    
  