
    
      The purpose of this project to see if the combination of 177Lu-DOTA0-Tyr3-Octreotate and
      nivolumab is safe and tolerable, and provides PFS benefit compared to observation alone in
      the maintenance setting in patients with ES-SCLC and no disease progression after first-line
      platinum-based chemotherapy.

      Treatment will be administered on an outpatient basis. A standard dose-escalation phase I
      design will be used. Three subjects will be enrolled at each dose level in the absence of
      DLT.

      Selection of the starting dose of 177Lu-DOTA0-Tyr3-Octreotate and nivolumab is based on the
      results from previous clinical studies with each compound used as single agent and the fact
      that the combination has not been tested in clinical trials. The first dose of
      177Lu-DOTA0-Tyr3-Octreotate will be given two weeks after the first administration of
      nivolumab. Studies have shown that intravenous administration of amino acids has a renal
      protective effect [46]. An infusion of amino acids (lysine 2.5% and arginine 2.5% in 1 L 0.9%
      NaCl; 250 mL/h) will be started 30 minutes before the administration of
      177Lu-DOTA0-Tyr3-Octreotate and last 4 hours.

      Nivolumab will be administered as a fixed dose of 240 mg as an intravenous infusion over 30
      minutes every 2 weeks. Nivolumab will be given until progressive disease, patient withdrawal
      or toxicities.

      The phase II portion will consist of patients with ES-SCLC who completed platinum based
      standard first-line chemotherapy (e.g. 4-6 cycles of platinum plus etoposide or irinotecan)
      without disease progression (responders plus stable disease) at the time of initiation of the
      combination therapy with 177Lu-DOTA0-Tyr3-Octreotate and nivolumab. Eligible patients will
      then be randomly allocated in two arms: one will be treated with the combination of
      177Lu-DOTA0-Tyr3-Octreotate and nivolumab, and the other arm will continue be followed
      (observation) after completion the standard chemotherapy treatment.

      Randomization:

      Patients who do not receive radiotherapy after chemotherapy

        -  The randomization must occur within 6 weeks of the last chemotherapy cycle.

        -  The study treatment must start within 2 weeks from randomization. Patients who receive
           radiotherapy (including prophylactic cranial radiation and/or thoracic radiation) after
           chemotherapy

        -  The randomization must occur within 9 weeks of the last chemotherapy cycle but at least
           2 weeks after completion of radiotherapy.

        -  The first dose of 177Lu-DOTA0-Tyr3-Octreotate cannot be given within 8 weeks of
           radiotherapy.

      Randomization process:

        -  Randomization will be stratified according to NETSPOT® PET tumor uptake score (Grade 2,
           3 and 4).

        -  OnCore will be used as statistical center and the randomization algorithm will be
           developed by the study biostatistician.

        -  The project management department will be the first point of contact for assessment
           through email.

      Courses are defined as 56 days of dosing. Nivolumab will be given until progressive disease,
      patient withdrawal, or toxicities. For patients randomized to the observation group,
      cross-over at the time of disease progression will be allowed, since the primary endpoint is
      PFS and not OS.
    
  