
    
      Survival rates for both non-Hodgkin's (NHL) and Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) have improved in
      recent years due to the development of better treatments. However, the diagnosis and
      treatment may leave a cancer survivor with long-term consequences. It is recognized that
      patients cured of HL have increased mortality due to long-term effects of treatment. The
      literature also suggests that patients cured of NHL suffer from long-term complications.
      These complications may include infertility, cardiovascular disease, pulmonary disease,
      secondary cancer, osteoporosis, fatigue, and psychological disease. Limitations of the
      current literature on lymphoma survivors include that the majority of studies are
      retrospective in nature, and therefore do not take into account other risk factors for
      development of chronic health conditions, such as tobacco use, exercise, family history, and
      specifics of the cancer treatment. In addition, few studies have attempted to explore the
      relationship between chronic health conditions, psychological distress, patient-physician
      communication, and quality of life (QOL) in lymphoma survivors.

      The aims and objectives of this research are to identify chronic health conditions,
      psychological disease, QOL, and patient preferences for survivorship care. A prediction model
      will then be developed integrating demographic, clinical, and health behavior data with
      chronic health conditions to predict poor psychosocial outcomes.

      Subjects will be asked to participate in an oral interview with the primary investigator. The
      survey consists of demographic information, employment and workplace information, the
      Charlson Comorbidity Index, the Qualify of Life-Cancer Survivor questionnaire, the PHQ-9 (a
      depression screening tool), the Impact of Events Scale (a post-traumatic stress disorders
      screen), the State-Trait Anxiety Index, the Holmes-Rahe Stress Scale, Brief Fatigue
      Inventory, Leisure Time, Exercise Questionnaire, as well as questions pertaining to
      patient-physician communication and preferences for follow-up care. There are a series of
      qualitative or open-ended questions at the end of the survey, designed to understand the
      experience of being a survivor of lymphoma. These responses will be audio-taped (with the
      consent of the participant) in order to capture the verbatim responses of the participants,
      which is necessary for analysis of qualitative data.

      Data will be entered into a password-protected database maintained by the primary
      investigator. Quantitative analysis will be done in JMP®7 statistical software. Analysis will
      be via multiple regression, with quality of life as the primary outcome. Predictive variables
      will include demographics, treatment data, comorbidities, fatigue, exercise, workplace
      issues, depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic stress disorder. Each variable will also be
      analyzed in a univariate model. Qualitative questions will be analyzed separately using
      grounded theory, a form of analysis that can be used to generate new ideas. This will involve
      selective coding technique, grouping concepts into categories, which lead to themes between
      the categories.

      There are few risks involved with this study. It is possible that subjects may experience
      psychological distress due to the sensitive nature of some of the questions. In this case,
      participants may stop the interview at any time and withdraw consent. However, it is
      anticipated that this is unlikely to occur. In the event that the investigator finds that a
      subject has screened positive for depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, or anxiety; the
      patient's primary care physician will be notified, as long as the patient gives consent. If
      the patient is found to be suicidal at the time of the interview, the interviewer will
      accompany the patient to the emergency room.

      Benefits of this research are the improved understanding of long-term outcomes in lymphoma
      survivors and the identification of factors that predict for poor QOL, so that in the future,
      interventions can be made to improve QOL in this patient population.
    
  