
    
      Muscle relaxation is paramount for successful laparoscopic surgery. However the optimal
      degree of neuromuscular blockade (NMB) is not identified yet. Previous studies showed
      conflicting results on the outcomes of laparoscopic surgical conditions when moderate NMB was
      compared to deep blockade .The evidence for the use of either modalities is rather limited .
      In the recent literature, there is insufficient evidence to conclude that deep NMB improves
      surgical conditions during laparoscopic bariatric surgery.

      In the recent literature, there is insufficient evidence to conclude that deep NMB improves
      surgical conditions during laparoscopic bariatric surgery. However postoperative pulmonary
      function was decreased independently of the depth of NMB regime. There are limited data on
      the effect of such practices on postoperative outcomes especially in enhanced recovery after
      bariatric anesthesia (ERABA) .A previous study by Unterbuchner C has showed deep NMB may
      improve surgical conditions during low-pressure capnoperitoneium , However ,it has also been
      reported by M.H. Bruintjes and his colleagues showed that the routine capnoperitoneium
      insufflation pressure improved surgical conditions independent of the level of muscular
      relaxation. Torensma B and his colleagues have reported that the previous pregnancy can
      affects the abdominal wall strength and eventually the degree of relaxation Therefore, the
      investigators have decided to exclude any females with previous history of pregnancy in the
      study design and also report interaction between inhalation anesthetics and NMB, through
      augmentation of the effect of NMB.

      Martini and his colleagues showed that , rating of the quality of surgical conditions
      considerably varies between different surgeons when assessed through
      Leiden-Surgical-Rating-scale . Therefor in this study, the Lieden-surgical-score is going to
      be used by the bariatric surgeon who is going to be the operating consultant in this study
      population.
    
  