
    
      Adults with cervical spinal cord injury (SCI) rank gaining arm and hand function as the
      highest priority for improving their quality of life. Children with SCI, similarly experience
      paralysis of hand and arm muscles that limits their engagement in play and exploration
      typical for child development . Furthermore, pediatric-onset SCI disrupts the acquisition of
      motor skills involved in activities of daily living such as feeding, dressing and grooming
      increasing the child's dependence on a parent/caregiver. Current interventions teach persons
      with SCI to use a brace or splint to compensate for paralysis or weakness of hand muscles.
      Others are invasive requiring nerve or tendon transplantation and/or electrode implantation
      for functional electrical stimulation. Transcutaneous electrical spinal cord stimulation
      (TcStim) is a non-invasive painless technique that augments the intrinsic capacity of the
      spinal cord below the level of injury to generate patterned motor output. In adults with
      chronic SCI, TcStim acutely (immediately) augments trunk control and improves upper extremity
      function when combined with task-specific training. In children with cerebral palsy, TcStim
      in combination with locomotor training improves walking ability. Thus, the long-term
      objectives are 1) to investigate the therapeutic potential of TcStim for improving arm/hand
      function and 2) provide high quality scientific evidence to guide the clinical use of
      neurotherapeutic interventions promoting recovery in children with SCI. As children with SCI
      represent a vulnerable population, we first must establish the safety and feasibility of any
      potential novel therapeutic approach. Therefore, the specific aims of this proposal are to 1)
      determine proof-of-principle, safety and feasibility of TcStim for acute increase of hand/arm
      function in children with SCI and 2) determine the safety and feasibility of TcStim in
      combination with activity-based upper extremity training (AB-UET) across 40 sessions in
      children with SCI. For this pilot study 8-10 participants, ages 5-18 years with chronic,
      acquired SCI who have completed ≥ 40 sessions of activity-based upper extremity training
      (AB-UET) with neuromuscular stimulation will be recruited. For Aim 1, TcStim parameters will
      be optimized for arm/hand function. Arm/hand function will be assessed using the three tasks:
      overhead reach, forward reach and grasp and in-hand manipulation for no-TcStim and TcStim
      conditions measuring kinematics, electromyography of arm and hand muscles. For Aim 2 (safety
      and feasibility), two participants will undergo 40 sessions of AB-UET in combination with
      TcStim. To assess long-term safety and feasibility, participant compliance and any
      difficulties (i.e. risks, discomfort) will be documented and risk-likelihood/risk-benefit
      established. The long-term goal is to provide better therapies that will improve the ability
      of children with SCI to use their arms and hands with more success to grasp, reach and use
      their hands for everyday play and daily tasks.
    
  