
    
      Patients will be selected from the out-patient clinic according to the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria, from where the participants will be divided into two equal groups using
      computer generated random table and the sequence of the random numbers will be only revealed
      to the Co-supervisor who will report the assigned treatment to the principal investigator.

      Immediate placement of root analogue titanium dental implants. All patients in the study
      group will be radiographed using cone beam computed tomography for diagnosis and evaluating
      the attachment of the tooth and bone level.

      The tooth indicated for extraction will be extracted atraumatically using periotome, socket
      preservation using Iodoform packing strips, and then optical scanning of the remaining tooth
      structure with optical scanner will be made to obtain a 3D virtual model, this model will be
      modified by addition of macro-retentions strictly to the interdental area to avoid any
      fracture in thin cortical bone, the cervical portion of implant circumference will be
      decreased by 0.1 to 0.2 mm to avoid pressure resorption of alveolar crest of bone and
      addition of prepared crown stump for the future crown to be placed.

      After all additions and adjustments are being made, an STL (stereolithography) extension file
      followed by milling of the implant from medically grade titanium will be carried out,
      followed by sandblasting acid etching.

      For sterilization, the implant will be washed in a 90% concentration ethanol ultrasonic bath
      for 10 minutes, followed by packaging and sterilizing in a steam pressure autoclave.

      At the day of implant placement, removing of suture and the Iodoform gauze followed by
      flushing of the extraction socket using saline solution and vigorous curettage of the socket.
      Then implant placement will be made by hand pressure followed by tapping using mallet.

      Implant stability in both groups will be measured using Periotest device. The measuring
      procedure will be made immediate postoperative, 3 months and 6 months.
    
  