
    
      The overall goal of the proposed research is to evaluate the effects of lingual resistance
      exercise on swallowing and related outcomes in frail elderly patients with dysphagia. In
      addition, we will determine if there are prognostic factors that will allow us to predict for
      whom the intervention is most effective. For all objectives, frail, dysphagic patients will
      be randomized into 2 treatment groups: a) standard swallowing treatment and an 8-week tongue
      exercise program, or b) standard swallowing treatment and an 8-week hand exercise program,
      which serves as a "sham" intervention.

      Objective 1: To quantify the effects of the exercise program on bolus flow which are: a)
      direction as measured by the Penetration Aspiration Scale; b) completeness (residual rating
      scale 7) and; c) duration in msec.

      Objective 2: To quantify the effects of the exercise program on oropharyngeal physiology
      including lingual pressure (a surrogate for strength) and kinematics of the hyolaryngeal
      complex and opening of the upper esophageal sphincter (UES) and to determine the
      contributions of these measures to bolus flow and functional outcomes including
      swallowing-specific quality of life and dietary intake.

      Objective 3: To quantify the underlying changes in lingual volume and tissue composition
      resulting from participation in the exercise program.

      Objective 4: To determine the effect of an 8-week lingual resistance exercise program on
      swallowing function, as quantified by a valid, reliable measure of swallowing-related quality
      of life (QOL) and dietary intake.

      Objective 5: To explore the time course of the response by examining outcomes after 4 and
      after 8 weeks of exercise.

      All objectives will be pursued in parallel across the 3 years of research. Milestones for
      accomplishing these objectives include: (1) Year 1: implementing procedures, manuals, and
      instrumentation for strength testing and training by Month 4; enrolling 24 subjects by Month
      12; (2) Year 2: enrolling 40 subjects by Month 24 and writing a preliminary manuscript; (3)
      Year 3: completing subject enrollment by Month 30, which requires 16 additional subjects,
      completing statistical analyses regarding intervention effects by Month 34, and completing 2
      comprehensive reports on results by Month 36.
    
  