
    
      Background: P2Y12 receptor inhibitors are crucial for the management of patients undergoing
      coronary stenting. Although large-scale trials have shown that ticagrelor is superior to
      clopidogrel in terms of platelet inhibition and reduction of major adverse cardiovascular
      events (MACE), clopidogrel remains the most commonly used P2Y12 receptor inhibitor due to its
      lower price and bleeding risk. Despite the combined use of aspirin and clopidogrel, a
      substantial portion of patients after coronary stenting are at increased risk for adverse
      cardiovascular events including death, myocardial infarction, and stent thrombosis. This
      phenomenon may be due to the so-called clopidogrel resistance. Cytochrome P450 2C19 (CYP2C19)
      polymorphism plays a crucial role in the clopidogrel resistance. CYP2C19 is responsible, in
      part, for converting the clopidogrel prodrug into an active metabolite that irreversibly
      binds to the P2Y12 receptor thus inhibiting ADP-induced platelet aggregation. CYP2C19*2 and
      *3, which encounter loss function, have been demonstrated to be the most common genetic
      variants resulting in clopidogrel resistance.

      Methods: Patients who undergo coronary stenting will be randomized to a prospective CYP2C19
      genotype-guided antiplatelet therapy arm versus a conventional therapy arm. Venous blood
      collection will be completed immediately after randomization in all patients eligible for the
      study. The genotype results involving CYP2C19*2 and *3 allele variants will be obtained
      within 48 hours only in the genotyping arm. CYP2C19 *2 or *3 reduced function allele patients
      will receive ticagrelor 90 mg bid, whereas non-*2 or -*3 CYP2C19 patients will receive
      clopidogrel 75 mg once daily. The conventional therapy arm will receive either clopidogrel or
      ticagrelor, according to the clinical and procedural characteristics of patients. The dual
      antiplatelet therapy will last for at least one year in the both arms. The primary endpoints
      will be evaluated at one-year follow-up.
    
  