
    
      The current study aims at assessing the impact of Type 1 diabetes and HbA1c on muscle oxygen
      delivery and on muscle mitochondrial capacity. Our hypothesis is that these both steps of the
      oxygen cascade might be involved in the aerobic fitness impairment usually observed in
      poor-controlled patients.

      Adults with Type 1 diabetes, aged 18-40 years, without microvascular and macrovascular
      diabetic complications, will be recruited among patients that regularly attend the unit of
      diabetology of the University Hospital of Lille and the regional hospital of Roubaix. They
      will be separated into 2 groups according to their glycaemic control at entrance in the study
      (HbA1c < 7%, HbA1c > 8%). Subsequently, two healthy control groups (checked by an OGTT) will
      be selected to strictly match the patients with Type 1 diabetes (age, sex, BMI, number of
      hours of physical activity per week, tobacco smoking). This is a cross-sectional study
      including 4 groups.

      On their first visit, after the determination of HbA1c, all the subjects will perform at rest
      a DLCO/DLNO. Then they will realise an incremental exercise test to exhaustion on an
      electromagnetic cycle ergometer. Non-invasive measures will be performed throughout the
      exercise test, including gas exchange parameters (and maximal oxygen uptake), muscular and
      brain oxygenation (Near Infra Red Spectroscopy at vastus lateralis muscle and at prefrontal
      cortex). A blood sample from an arterialised ear-lobe will be taken at rest and exhaustion to
      determine O2 haemoglobin saturation, arterial partial pressure in O2 and CO2, haemoglobin
      concentration, hematocrit, and bicarbonates. Blood, from a catheter in a superficial cubital
      vein, will also be taken at rest, at a precise time during the exercise and immediately after
      the exercise to measure potential of hydrogen, bicarbonates, haemoglobin concentration,
      hematocrit, erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and other blood markers of metabolic and
      hormonal adaptations to exercise. The subjects will also fill in questionnaires.

      On a second visit, in a fasting state, the subjects will have a muscle biopsy at vastus
      lateralis using a specific needle (less than 150mg) in order to assess mitochondrial
      respiration capacity and endocannabinoid system activity. A venous blood sampling will allow
      analysing other health markers (lipid profile, insulin resistance...).

      On another visit, the subjects will have a measure of body composition by Dual energy X-ray
      Absorptiometry and skinfold thickness.

      They will also wear an accelerometer over one week and fill in a diet questionnaire over 3
      days.
    
  