
    
      This is a prospective, single-center, observational study. Aim of this study is the
      evaluation of preoperative transnasal fiberoscopy as a predictor of difficult laryngoscopy
      and intubation during elective general anesthesia in an adult population. Unexpected
      difficult of failed intubation is a serious, and potentially fatal, occurrence at the
      induction of general anesthesia. However, current strategies used to predict the ease of
      intubation are still not sufficiently sensitive and specific.

      Patients undergoing a scheduled ENT (Ear-Nose-Throat) surgical intervention are subjected to
      a transnasal fibescopy, a minimally invasive examination, as a part of a normal ENT
      evaluation before surgery, according to the guidelines of the recruiting center.

      During fiberoscopy, the investigators are collecting many anatomical and functional data
      about the upper airways of the patient. These data include the collapse of the upper airway
      during the Muller maneuver, the Cormack - Lehane scale as seen in fiberoscopy, the anatomy of
      the glottis and epiglottis.

      The investigators are also collecting data about the preoperative evaluation made by the
      Anesthesiologist as well as the effective difficulty of laryngoscopy and intubation
      encountered at the induction of general anaesthesia, expressed by the Cormack - Lehane scale
      and the Intubation Difficulty Scale (IDS) as described in literature.

      General anesthesia will be performed as usual and will not be influenced by fiberoptic
      evaluation as the Anesthesiologist will be blind to it, and he/she will be free to choose the
      best anesthesiological plan for his/her patient; whether an elective awake intubation will be
      chosen, this will exclude the patient from the study.

      For safety reasons, the only exception to blindness is an expected difficulty of intubation >
      90% (as reported in a VAS scale) by the ENT specialist, based upon the physician's
      experience. In this case, he will talk to the Anesthesiologist about and the patient will be
      excluded from the study.

      The researchers are excluding from the study patients with suspect or confirmed malignancy of
      the nose, mouth, pharynx and larynx, as well as patients with trachoestomy, active bleeding
      lesions or those in which is planned an elective awake intubation for any reason.

      To reduce confounders, the fiberoscopy will performed by an ENT specialist chosen in a
      limited pool (three) and it will be recorded and subsequently reviewed by another one in the
      same pool. Likewise, general anesthesia will be performed by a limited pool (three) of
      Anesthesiologists expert in ENT surgery.

      Preoperative data obtained by fiberoscopy and intraoperative data recorded by the
      Anesthesiologist will be matched and analyzed, to explore a possibile relationship.

      In literature, this relationship has never been demonstrated nor indagated. If proven, this
      might give the Anesthestiologist further information about the prediction of a difficult
      laryngoscopy and intubation, even beyond ENT surgery; in fact, whether fiberoscopy is
      routinely carried out for surgical reasons (e.g. vascular surgery for the evaluation of
      recurrent laryngeal nerve prior to aortic surgey) or requested by the Anesthesiologist
      him/herself at the moment of the preoperative evaluation, it might guide a different - and
      hopefully safer - anesthesiological strategy.
    
  