
    
      The present study is carried out within the project "Physical ActIvity after hip and knee
      Replacement" (PAIR) and funded within the Erasmus Plus Sport program (Grant Agreement
      613008-EPP-1-2019-1-IT-SPO-SCP). It is aimed at evaluating the efficacy and safety of an
      exercise program specifically designed for improving physical function and QoL in people who
      had undergone THR or TKR for primary osteoarthritis after completing the surgical and
      rehabilitative treatment.

      The primary objective of the study is to compare modifications of QoL measured with the
      Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36) induced in the intervention groups (IG) by the PAIR exercise
      program versus a control groups (CG) who will undergo usual care. SF-36 is one of the most
      widely used questionnaire to measure the health related QoL (HRQoL) in total hip and total
      knee arthroplasty patients.

      The secondary objectives of the study are to investigate differences between IG and CG on
      domains which are considered to be determinants of QoL:

      Hip- and knee-related impairments and functional limitations

        -  Harris Hip Score (HHS), American Knee Society scoring (KSS),

        -  Visual analog scale (VAS) to evaluate pain, High-Activity Arthroplasty Score (HAAS),
           ---Western Ontario and McMasters Universities Osteoarthritis

        -  Index (WOMAC),

        -  Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS)

        -  Hip Disability and Osteoarthritis Score (HOOS).

      Hip- and knee-related functional status

        -  Time Up and GO (TUG),

        -  Single Stance test,

        -  The 30-second Chair-Stand Test (30s-CST),

        -  Hand Grip test, Maximal strength of the lower limb,

        -  Hip and knee joints mobility (by goniometry).

      Life style The ultimate goal of the PAIR exercise program is to increase physical activity in
      a sedentary population. The exercise program, through its beneficial effects on health, is
      expected to generate a virtuous circle promoting a more active life-style. For this domain 2
      instruments will be used: Recent Physical Activity Questionnaire (RPAQ) and PAIR
      questionnaire for patients' attitudes toward physical (instrument generated within the PAIR
      project).

      Safety: Adverse clinical events (ACEs) occurred to the participants both inside and outside
      gym classes.

      Adherence: adherence of each subjects to the exercise program will be monitored in the IG.
      The adherence will be measured as percent of exercise sessions actually performed/total
      number of scheduled exercise sessions. Other factors considered to influence the adherence to
      an exercise program will be also recorded (age, gender, comorbidity, BMI, educational level,
      marital status, working activity, and home gym-distance).

      Participants' satisfaction Satisfaction of PAIR exercise program is a very important domain
      since influence adherence. It will be verified by asking few questions with structured
      responses based on a 7-point Likert scale, to get participants' opinion about the PAIR
      exercise program.
    
  