
    
      Combat deployment and related challenges are family stressors, associated with more negative
      parent-child interactions, ineffective and coercive parenting practices and lower levels of
      parenting satisfaction. Disrupted parenting practices are well-known predictors of risk for
      child adjustment difficulties that are precursors to youth substance use, including behavior
      problems, school failure, deviant peer association, and depression . These child adjustment
      problems can contribute to continuing parental stress, increasing parental distress, and
      further disrupting parenting. Despite this, no parenting interventions have been empirically
      tested for reintegrating military families deployed to OEF/OIF.

      PMTO is a well-established empirically supported intervention targeting highly stressed
      parents that applies Social Interaction Learning theory. Similar to family stress and stress
      amplification models, SIL posits that parenting mediates the effects of family stressors on
      child adjustment. That is, deployment and related stressors would be expected to impair
      social interactional patterns, leading to increases in coercion, decrements in positive
      parenting, and increased risk for child maladjustment. PMTO interventions have demonstrated
      efficacy and effectiveness, showing benefits for children including reductions in behavior
      problems that are precursors to substance use, actual substance use, and internalizing
      problems, as well as increases in social competence and school adjustment. Moreover, recent
      findings indicate that strengthening parenting practices contributes to improved outcomes for
      parents themselves. While PMTO interventions have been implemented in multiple diverse
      contexts, no study to date has adapted and examined PMTO among military populations. Data
      from studies of the current wars demonstrate a strong need for accessible prevention
      interventions that reduce parent stress, enhance parenting, and promote family resilience.

      Specific aims of this study are as follows:

        1. Examine the usability and feasibility of an adapted PMTO prevention program: After
           Deployment: Adaptive Parenting Tools/ADAPT

             1. Conduct in-house testing and external usability evaluation of ADAPT online
                enhancement

             2. Evaluate feasibility of ADAPT group component

        2. Assess effectiveness of and satisfaction with ADAPT (group and web enhancement) program
           compared with a services-as-usual comparison group, among 400 reintegrating MN Army
           National Guard (MN ARNG) families with 6-12 year old children.

             1. Assess effectiveness of ADAPT in (i) reducing coercion, and improving positive
                parenting practices, (ii) reducing child risk for substance use and related
                behavior problems, and (iii) improving parental adjustment, in the face of
                deployment and reintegration stressors.

             2. Assess the capacity of ADAPT to yield higher parent satisfaction ratings than the
                services as-usual (tip sheet) comparison condition.

        3. Within the ADAPT intervention group, detail and describe responsiveness to intervention.

             1. Report dosage for group (face-to-face) and web components of ADAPT

             2. Examine dosage as a potential moderator of intervention outcome

             3. Examine fidelity of the implementation as a potential moderator of intervention
                outcome
    
  