
    
      Study procedures

        1. Written informed consent before study specific procedures are undertaken. The
           investigators will explain the contents of the trial especially the information about
           the possible side effects, other alternative treatment and the right to withdraw based
           on the participant own willing to the candidates. Patient can choose to sign or not to
           sign the inform consent based on his/her own decision after completely understanding the
           investigators explanation.

        2. The process of the experiment

      Start to receive colchicine:

      Participant will start to receive colchicine starting from 2 tablets after meal twice per day
      (total 2 mg).

      Adjustment the dosage of colchicine during study: based on the following steps:

      2 tablets-2 tablets-2 tablets (three times per day, after meal, total 3 mg, maximum dose)<->
      2 tablets -1 tablet -2 tablets (three times per day, after meal, total 2.5 mg)<->2 tablets -2
      tablets (twice per day, after meal, 2 mg, starting dose)<->1 tablet -1 tablet -1 tablet
      (three times per day, after meal, 1.5 mg, minimum dose)

        1. The colchicine dosage will be changed when the hepatic reserved function of the
           participant changes to Child score 8-9 points according to the following rules.

             1. 1 tablet after meal three times per day with total dose of 1.5 mg; continue 4 days
                and stop for 3 days (1 cycle)

             2. If the hepatic reserved function of the participant returns to Child score < 8
                points, the dosage changes to starting dose.

             3. If the hepatic reserved function of the participant changes to Child score > 9
                points, colchicine will be stopped and participant receives regular follow-up only.

        2. If participant suffers from severe diarrhea, colchicine will be temporarily stopped.
           When the symptom of diarrhea subsides, colchicine will be given again according to the
           above steps of dose adjustment.

        3. If the participant has one of the following conditions, colchicine will be temporarily
           stopped. When the condition of the participant improves, colchicine will be given again
           after the judgment from the doctor of the research team. For participants unable to
           receive colchicine again, they will receive regular follow-up only.

             1. . There are life-threatening hemorrhage including gastrointestinal hemorrhage and
                hemorrhage from other vital organs such as lungs or brain.

             2. . There are life-threatening bacterial, fungal or viral infection (not included
                hepatitis B and C virus).

             3. . Patient has serum creatinine level > 1.5 mg/dL.

             4. . Patient has white blood cell count < 1500/µL, platelet count < 30000/µL or
                hemoglobin < 9.0 gm/dL after medication.

             5. . The research team decides that the participant is not suitable to continue the
                study caused by abnormality of any vital organ or severe side effects caused by the
                study.

        4. Colchicine will be temporarily stopped before non-curative operative resection of tumor
           or transcatheter arterial chemoembolization until participant has body temperature < 38
           ℃, same hepatic reserved function as before, and serum creatinine level < 1.5 mg/dL.

        5. no need to stop colchicine during irradiation therapy, pure ethanol injection or local
           radiofrequency abrasion

        6. Colchicine needs to be temporarily reduced to half of the original dose when the
           participant will temporarily take P-Glycoprotein inhibitor or strong Cytochrome P450 3A4
           inhibitor.

      The conditions for the participant to withdraw or terminate the trial:

        1. Participant suffers from systemic itching, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, fever, or
           skin rash after colchicine administration.

        2. Participant is unable to tolerate 1.5 mg total daily dose of colchicine for at least 4
           cycles. This does not include temporarily reduce dose to total 1 mg during temporarily
           application of P-Glycoprotein inhibitor or strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitor.

      Follow-up procedures and items for the participants to co-operate:

      All participants will be followed according to the guide line of the National Health Council
      and the clinical practice in the treatment of hepatic malignancy. Ultrasonography,
      contrasted-enhanced computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging will be performed
      within every 3 to 4 months. Chest x-ray and whole body bone scan will be followed based on
      the condition of the participants. Serum alpha-fetoprotein or CA19-9 will be determined
      within 3 months in participants with abnormal original levels. The complete blood count,
      hepatic and renal function will be determined at least one session every month. The
      participants are asked to visit investigators' outpatient clinic at least one session every
      month.

      Concomitant treatment:

        1. Permitted:

           non-curative operative resection of the tumor, local abrasion therapy, local irradiation
           therapy, transcatheter arterial chemoembolization, target therapy, immunotherapy

        2. Prohibited:

      systemic chemotherapy, other clinical trial testing drugs, Chinese traditional medicine, herb
      drugs

      Statistical analysis

      1.Statistical Method for Efficacy / Safety measurements: (A) Survival analysis for efficacy:
      (log-rank test and median survival)

        -  colchicine combined with other therapy is better than other therapy without target drug
           or immunotherapy

        -  colchicine combined with other therapy is not inferior than target drug or immunotherapy
           combined with other therapy (B) Safety measurements The safety assessment is presented
           in a narrative statistical manner for the collection of participants' severe adverse
           events and adverse events.
    
  