
    
      Literature studies on the effectiveness of kinesio taping (KT) in pregnancy related
      lumbopelvic pain (LPP) are limited in number and have methodological shortcomings such as
      lack of randomization, a control group or assessor and/or patient blindness. Although
      generally presenting a significant effectiveness of KT on intensity of pain and disability,
      these parameters are evaluated by subjective methods, and the findings do not rely on
      quantitative data, in general.

      In addition, the intervention parameters used in these studies, such as the KT techniques
      used, amount of KT tension and duration of the intervention are different from each other,
      and there is lack of studies comparing the effectiveness of different KT techniques.

      In this study, effectiveness of two different KT applications will be compared with placebo
      KT:

        1. Lumbopelvic KT (LPKT): Two I-shaped kinesio tapes in 40 cm length will be applied
           bilaterally, beginning from 5 cm below the spina iliaca posterior superiors (SIPSs) to
           the level of the 12th costae, in maximum trunk flexion position, on the paravertebral
           muscles, by inhibition technique of muscle correction techniques. The tapes will be
           placed with no tension at 5 cm of both ends, and with 15-25% tension in between. In
           addition, an extra I-shaped tape will be placed perpendicullar to these tapes with the
           ligament correction technique, while the pregnant women are in the vertical upright
           position, at the level of the sacroiliac joints, starting with a tensile strength of
           75-100% from the middle, and then with no tension at two ends.

        2. Abdominal supported LPKT (ALPKT): An abdominal support tape will be added to the LPKT.
           In order to reduce the tension of the uterus ligaments, and to help perception of the
           normal elasticity of the target tissues, ligament technique will be used. The middle
           part of an I-shaped tape will be placed to the midpoint of the lower abdomen, and then
           will be progressed laterally and above with 50% tension.

      For placebo application, a Micropore™ surgical plaster of the same color with KT will be
      applied with no tension, as described in the LPKT technique.

      All participants will undergo a 45-60 minutes of standard ergonomic education after initial
      assessments and following the first taping applications, They will be observed in regard to
      their behaviours during different activities such as standing, sitting, walking, turning in
      bed and standing from the bed. Necessary warnings will be given about correcting their
      posture and behaviors in terms of ergonomic principles.
    
  