
    
      Objectives

      Voluntarily stopping an on-going motor response has been shown to engage a specific
      prefrontal-basal-ganglia (PBG) neural network. However, it is not known whether the PBG
      network is also crucial for other types of response inhibition such as suppressing an urge to
      act (i.e., habitual impulse), a common impairment after traumatic brain injury (TBI). The
      objectives of this protocol are: 1) to determine whether the PBG network is engaged in
      suppressing habitual impulses and, 2) to determine the extent to which the (PBG) neural
      network can account for the deficiency in response inhibition after mild to moderate
      traumatic brain injury (TBI). The proposed studies will involve performance of simple
      behavioral tasks, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (TMS), transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), and diffusion tensor
      imaging (DTI). tDCS will be applied separately from fMRI scans. TMS will be applied
      separately or concurrently during fMRI scans.

      Study Population

      One hundred and ninety healthy adult volunteers and 95 patients with mild to moderate TBI
      will be recruited under the protocol. Eighty of the healthy volunteers and 80 of the patients
      will be recruited under the project funded by the Center for Neuroscience and Rehabilitative
      Medicine (CNRM) at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences (USUHS).

      Design

      There are five experiments. Experiment 1 includes healthy adult volunteers and mild to
      moderate TBI patients to determine whether the PBG inhibitory network is engaged in the
      suppression of an undesirable habitual impulse. Subjects will perform simple motor response
      tasks during fMRI scans. Experiment 2 will use fMRI with behavioral tasks and apply
      single-pulse TMS during fMRI scans when subjects are at rest to examine whether changes in
      the active and resting neural connectivity within the PBG network are associated with
      deficiency in response inhibition after mild to moderate TBI. Experiment 3 will involve only
      healthy volunteers to determine the effect of disruption of critical links/brain regions
      within the PBG network on response inhibition. Inhibitory rTMS (i.e., 1Hz repetitive TMS with
      stimulation intensity at 80% of a subject s own resting motor threshold [rMT]) will be
      applied in separate groups of subjects immediately before the behavioral tasks. Experiments
      4-5 will use similar response tasks as in Experiment 1 but with patients who have had blast
      induced concussion(s). tDCS will be applied in Experiment 5 to examine the extent to which
      tDCS may change connectivity and improve rapid response inhibition. Additional behavioral
      measures, DTI, and high-resolution structural MRI images will be acquired in a separate
      session for all subjects.

      Outcome Measures

      Major outcome measures will include: 1) Task and TMS induced fMRI BOLD signal change and, 2)
      Behavioral performance data (reaction time and accuracy). Secondary measures: White matter
      fiber integrity and fiber tracking based on diffusion tensor imaging data.
    
  