
    
      Sensitisation/Allergy:

      Food allergy (FA) is common, increasing in prevalence and represents a public health concern
      in many countries. FA increasingly affects geographic regions where rates of FA were
      previously low.(1-5) Data from the Enquiring About Tolerance (EAT) study, which enrolled 1303
      exclusively breastfed three month old babies from the general population, showed that 8% of
      children had proven immediate-onset FA at three years of age. This equates to almost 1 in 10
      children. (1) The early-introduction of specific food allergen(s) to infant diets is a
      successful strategy for the prevention of FA. Introduction of peanut to the infant diet
      before 11 months of age, protected against the development of peanut allergy in a high-risk,
      atopic population.(6) This effect persisted despite cessation of peanut consumption for 12
      months.(7) In the EAT Study, children from the general population were randomised either to
      consume six commonly allergenic foods (cow's milk, egg, peanut, wheat, fish and sesame) from
      four months of age (early introduction group (EIG)), or to follow Department of Health (DoH)
      advice to exclusively breastfeed until about 6 months of age (standard introduction group
      (SIG)). The per-protocol analysis revealed a reduction in any FA of 7.3% versus 2.4%
      (p=0.01), for peanut allergy of 2.5% versus 0% (p=0.003) and for egg allergy 5.5% versus 1.4%
      (p=0.009) in the SIG and EIG respectively. (8) In the EAT study, between 1 and 3 years an
      intention-to-treat analysis (ITT) of sensitisation to individual foods showed a significant
      cumulative treatment effect of 35% (p=0.0095) in the EIG (unpublished data). Furthermore, in
      the per-protocol analyses (PP), we showed a statistically significant reduction of 41.6%
      (p=0.01) in skin prick test (SPT) sensitivity to any food at 1 year, and again at 3 years
      with a 67.3% relative reduction (RR) (p=0.002) in the EIG. These findings were particularly
      significant for individual food; at 3 years there was a relative reduction in skin-prick
      sensitivity to all individual foods and particularly for peanut (RR 67.1% p=0.007).

      FA is a dynamic condition with egg and milk allergy typically developing in infancy and being
      outgrown and peanut and sesame allergy usually developing between the ages of 3-6 and
      persisting into adulthood. Whilst early introduction of commonly allergenic foods is
      effective in preventing food allergy in early childhood and within the confines of a
      randomised controlled trial (RCT), the longevity of this novel approach has not been tested
      and little is known about whether these effects are sustained after 'real world' ad libitum
      consumption. The EAT-On Study aims to investigate this by following-up children who were
      previously enrolled in the EAT Study when they are 8 years of age and investigating the
      natural history of food allergy, and how the intervention that was applied when children were
      4-6 months of age influences food allergic sensitisation and clinical food allergy when they
      are 8 years of age.

      Child Health:

      Whilst the UK Department of Health recommends exclusive breastfeeding (EBF) until around six
      months of age, surveys suggest this is achieved by only 1% of mothers(9). Given the lack of
      EBF till 6 months of age, the majority of infants will require additional nutrition provided
      from formula and/or solid weaning foods. Indeed, 75% of infants have been introduced to solid
      food by 5 months of age (9). The nutritional consequences of different weaning regimens may
      have important consequences on obesity outcomes, but rigorous trials in this area are
      difficult to undertake, not least because of the necessary ethical concerns that pertain to
      the comparison of breast-feeding with alternate or complementary feeding strategies. The EAT
      cohort presents a unique opportunity to study this question further as the diet consumed by
      children who participated in the EIG of the EAT study is much higher in protein than
      breastmilk alone. Good quality studies have found that consumption of high protein formula
      milk in early infancy increases the risk of overweight in later childhood compared with
      breastfeeding, but the effect of high protein solid food consumption alongside breastfeeding
      in early infancy has not been studied. The majority of infants have solid food introduced
      before 6 months of age, and updated guidance advocates the introduction of a high protein
      food (peanut) from 'around 6 months of age' (UK(10) and Australia(11)), or at 4 months of age
      (USA(12)) to prevent a new onset of peanut allergy. It is therefore timely to explore how
      early diet, particularly with respect to high protein weaning diet, influences childhood
      obesity. This will lead to the development of clearer guidance in respect to early weaning
      diet which extends to other high protein foods, while taking in to account the risk of
      childhood obesity.

      The nature of the EAT cohort means that between 4 and 6 months of age children were
      randomised either to a lower protein diet (SIG) or to a higher protein diet (EIG): breastmilk
      contains approximately 6% energy from protein whilst the EIG were asked to consume a diet
      containing at least 15% energy from protein, more than double that of the SIG. This cohort
      therefore offers a unique opportunity to explore the effect of differing energy consumption
      from dietary protein on overweight/obesity and markers of cardiovascular health in later
      childhood.
    
  