
    
      This is a single centre, randomised, double blind, double-dummy, parallel group ,
      multiple-dose, active and placebo controlled efficacy study to evaluate the efficacy and
      safety of ibuprofen 2×300 mg ibuprofen PR tablets in subjects with postoperative dental pain.

      Eligible subjects will complete all screening procedures within 28 days before the surgery
      and randomisation.

      At Screening, subjects will provide written informed consent to participate in the study
      before any protocol specified procedures or assessments are completed. On Day 1, subjects who
      continue to be eligible for study participation after completing screening procedures and
      assessments will undergo extraction of 2 or more third molars. At least 1 of the third molars
      must be a fully or partially bone impacted mandibular molar. If only 2 molars are removed,
      then they must be ipsilateral.

      All subjects will receive local anaesthesia (2% lidocaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine).
      Nitrous oxide will be allowed at the discretion of the investigator. Subjects who experience
      moderate to severe pain intensity (a score of ≥ 5 on a numeric rating scale [NRS] from 0-10
      where 0 = no pain, 10 = worst pain ever) within 6 hours after surgery and who continue to
      meet all study entry criteria will be randomised in a 3:3:1 ratio to receive 2×300 mg
      ibuprofen PR tablets every 12 hours (Q12h), 2×200 mg ibuprofen IR tablets every 8 hours
      (Q8h), or placebo. The randomisation will be stratified by baseline pain category (moderate
      or severe) using a categorical scale that includes the categories of none (0), mild (1-4),
      moderate (5-7), and severe (8-10).

      Subjects will re-assess their baseline pain intensity using the NRS immediately before
      receiving study drug (pre-dose, Time 0) and their pain intensity (NRS) and pain relief (5
      point categorical scale) at the following time points (pre-dose, if at one of the dosing
      timepoints of 0, 8, 12 and/or 16 hours): 15, 30, and 45 minutes, and 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
      7, 8, 10, 12, 16, and 24 hours after Time 0; and immediately before each dose of rescue
      medication, if any. For assessments less than 1 hour apart a window of +/-2 min is allowable
      whilst for assessments at least 1 hour apart a +/-5 min window is allowable.

      The double stopwatch method will be used to record the time to perceptible pain relief and
      time to meaningful pain relief during the 8 hours following the first dose or until subject
      takes rescue medication. Subjects will complete a global evaluation of study drug 24 hours
      (+/- 5 minutes) after Time 0 or immediately before the first dose of rescue medication
      (whichever occurs first). Vital signs will be recorded after the subject has been in a
      sitting position for 3 minutes at the following times: before surgery, within 30 minutes
      before Time 0, 12 and 24 hours after Time 0, and/or immediately before the first dose of
      rescue medication. Adverse events (AEs) will be monitored and recorded from the time of
      signing of the informed consent form (ICF) until the Follow up Visit (or Early Termination
      Visit). During the 24 hours following Time 0, subjects will complete efficacy and safety
      assessments. Subjects will remain at the study site overnight and will be discharged on Day
      2.

      Paracetamol / acetaminophen (1000 mg) will be permitted as the initial rescue medication.
      Subjects will be encouraged to wait at least 60 minutes after receiving study drug before
      taking rescue medication. If acetaminophen rescue medication is not effective in relieving
      the subject's pain, 5 mg oxycodone rescue medication may be administered at the discretion of
      the investigator.

      Subjects are not permitted to take any concomitant medications that might confound
      assessments of pain relief, such as psychotropic drugs, antidepressants, sedative-hypnotics
      (other than those permitted for conscious sedation), or other analgesics taken within five
      times of their elimination half-lives (other than those used at the surgery). Selective
      serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors
      (SNRIs) are permitted if the subject has been on a stable dose for at least four weeks prior
      to Visit 1 (screening).

      Other restrictions include the following: alcohol use is prohibited from 24 hours before
      surgery until discharge on Day 2; nothing by mouth from midnight before surgery until 1 hour
      after surgery; clear liquids only are allowed starting 1 hour after surgery until 1 hour
      after dosing; 1 hour after dosing, the subject's diet may be advanced according to standard
      practice.

      Upon discharge from the study site, subjects may be prescribed pain medication for use at
      home according to the standard practice of the study site. On Day 8 (± 2 days), subjects will
      return to the study site for an abbreviated confirmatory physical assessment and AE
      assessments.
    
  