
    
      Activating mutations in the BRAF gene are present in about 50% of human melanomas. BRAF
      inhibitors (BRAFi) inhibit the serine-threonine protein kinase BRAF, which plays a dominant
      role in the MAPK pathway influencing cell growth. MEK inhibitors (MEKi) inhibit MEK1 and
      MEK2, two regulatory proteins downstream of BRAF.

      The clinical benefit of this treatment is limited due to development of drug resistance in
      6-8 months for treatment with BRAFi and 9-14 months for treatment with BRAFi in combination
      with MEKi.This is often associated with secondary mutations in the MAPK pathway leading to
      re-activation of the pathway.Withholding from treatment with BRAFi and/or MEKi leads to a
      reversible hyperactivation of the MAPK pathway, causing a transient growth arrest. Chronic
      proliferation and growth arrest occur when there is a persistent hyperactivation of the MAPK
      pathway. Treatment of BRAFi and/or MEKi resistant melanoma with vorinostat, a histone
      deacetylase inhibitor (HDACi), leads to persistent hyperactivation of the pathway and a state
      of growth arrest with hallmarks of oncogene induced senescence.In these studies in mice with
      BRAFi resistant BRAF V600 mutated melanoma switch from a BRAFi to the HDACi vorinostat
      resulted in complete disappearance of the tumor after two months of treatment.

      HDACi cause accumulation of Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS) leading to apoptosis and
      upregulation of the MAPK-pathway. As seen by Wang et al hyperactivation of the MAPK-pathway
      is an important milestone in the anti-tumor treatment of BRAF V600 melanoma.

      This is a phase I, single-center, single-arm, non-randomized, open-label, clinical
      pharmacological proof of principal study to determine the safety of vorinostat as anti-tumor
      therapy in patients with advanced resistant BRAF V600 mutated melanoma. A total of 21
      evaluable patients with BRAF V600 mutated melanoma who developed resistance to BRAFi and/or
      BRAFi+MEKi after at least 4 weeks of PR or CR response will be enrolled in this study.
      Vorinostat will be given at a single daily dose of 360 mg derived from the established and
      registered dose for treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Treatment will be continuous in
      cycles of 28 days and doses will be reduced in steps of 90 mg per dose-reduction in case of
      unacceptable safety concerns.
    
  