
    
      Hospital crowding has been associated with increased hospital length of stay in pediatric
      populations and adverse outcomes in adult populations. This study focuses on a 36-bed general
      pediatric inpatient care unit whose occupancy has seen exponential growth over the past
      several years. With the growth in patient population, the study hospital is experiencing
      increasing difficulty with hospital crowding, particularly during key times of year, such as
      the winter viral respiratory season. During these times, pediatric patients may experience
      high emergency room wait times, and admitted patients may be required to board in the
      emergency room or post-anesthesia care unit while they await an inpatient bed. Lack of
      inpatient bed availability has also, at times, required cancellation of surgical cases and
      denial of outside hospital patient transfers to the institution, resulting in inconvenience
      to patients and delays in care.

      The pediatric hospital discharge process has come under particular scrutiny as an area in
      which both the efficiency and the effectiveness of patient care can be improved. Currently,
      around 10% of patients ready for discharge in a given day from the general pediatric
      hospitalist service are discharged prior to noon, freeing up this bed space for a new
      patient. While for some patients, discharge is postponed for medical reasons, others must
      remain in the hospital for non-medical delays. For example, they may remain hospitalized
      because they have not yet been seen by a physician, their medications are not available for
      pick-up from the pharmacy, or they do not have transportation from hospital to home. Several
      studies in pediatric populations have shown that quality improvement processes can improve
      discharge efficiency without compromising care quality or patient/family satisfaction. The
      investigators aim to determine if an iterative quality improvement process can reduce
      barriers to discharge and therefore decrease pediatric patients' length of stay. They will
      simultaneously analyze several secondary outcomes to evaluate patient flow, patient/family
      satisfaction, and subsequent hospital utilization to evaluate for unintended consequences of
      the interventions.
    
  