
    
      Improving diagnostic methods and screening of men with prostate specific antigen (PSA) has
      led to earlier detection of prostate cancer (PCa) with more favorable disease
      characteristics. To decrease overtreatment, low risk cases are increasingly treated with
      active surveillance; nevertheless some of them progress requiring interventions.
      Intermediate- and high-risk cases need active treatments to improve survival. However,
      despite desirable local control, the standard therapies including radical prostatectomy and
      radiation therapy, carry a risk of treatment related adverse effects to genitourinary and
      bowel functions. There is an eminent need for efficient PCa therapies with minimal effect on
      genitourinary function and quality of life. To date most studied mini-invasive technologies
      have used extremities of temperatures to treat PCa including high intensity focused
      ultrasound and cryoablation.

      Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has improved PCa diagnosis. Novel MRI techniques enable
      localization and visualization of clinically significant PCa. Further, MRI can be used for
      guidance of targeted biopsy from suspicious lesion enhancing detection of clinically
      significant PCa and pinpointing a target for image guided therapies. Also, increased use of
      MRI may lead to more MRI-visible tumors encountered in clinical practice developing an unmet
      need for image guided therapies.

      MRI guided transurethral ultrasound ablation (MRI-TULSA) - treatment system offers treatment
      strategy incorporating precise diagnosis and targeted therapy. It has been evaluated for
      whole-gland ablation of localized PCa. Further, lesion-targeted MRI-TULSA has been proved to
      be feasible and safe for treating MRI-visible-biopsy-concordant histologically significant
      PCa in our phase 1 treat-and-3-week-resect study (not published yet). This current study
      further investigates the safety and the efficacy of lesion-targeted ablation of MRI-visible
      biopsy-proven PCa with MRI-TULSA.
    
  