
    
      The pelvic floor serves as stability and support as it is the postural balance and core
      resource base for the pelvic organs. A dysfunction in the organs in this area can affect the
      pelvic floor muscles, the functioning of an organs in the muscles. Incontinence organ
      prolapse, pelvic pain and sexual problems may occur when the support or stability of the
      pelvic floor is impaired. Pelvic floor novelization is not always seen weakness. Sometimes
      excessive contractions and excessive activity in muscle tone can be seen. Stress and
      anxiety-related tension are the main causes of pelvic floor dysfunctions. Involuntary
      contractions and excessive muscle tone in the pelvic floor muscles cause chronic pelvic pain
      syndrome, constipation and dyssynergic defecation problems. Some of these patients have
      complaints of tightening teeth in the temporamandibular joint, grinding teeth at night,
      together with contractions in the pelvic floor.

      Diagnosis of patients in the temporamandibular joint is very difficult for the clinician. The
      difficulty of identifying etiological factors and the fact that dysfunction is associated
      with multifactorial factors make it mandatory to use different assessment methods in
      diagnosing patients with Temporamandibular joint dysfunction (TMD). One of the indexes used
      to diagnose TMD patients in a healthy population is the" Fonseca Anamnestic Index (FAI)". The
      low cost and easy applicability of the index make it preferred for TMD patients at the stage
      of diagnosis (Ayalı ve Ramoğlu, 2014; Türken vd., 2020).

      In the pathogenesis of TMD, parafunctional habits such as day and night tooth tightening,
      tooth grinding, nail eating, lip biting, cheek biting, pen biting, chewing gum play an
      important role. It has been reported that there is often a positive correlation between TMD
      and parafunctional habits. "Oral Behavior Checklist (OBC)" is used in the diagnosis of such
      oral habits (Güngör, 2019; Türken vd., 2020).

      It is thought that this dysfunctional condition in the temporamandibular joint may cause
      tinnitus in patients. The fact that tinnitus is subjective and an unsolved symptom related to
      the mechanisms of its occurrence makes it difficult to obtain objective assessment and
      concrete data. For this reason, the evaluation of tinnitus is again possible by perceptual
      measurement. For this purpose, psychoacoustic tests such as tinnitus intensity and frequency
      matching, maskability, residual inhibition, and verbal, numerical, and visual rating scales
      are used to evaluate tinnitus (Meikle vd., 2008). The Tinnitus Disability Questionnaire is
      the only scale with validity and reliability in Turkish and is widely used in our country to
      determine the level of tinnitus (Aksoy vd., 2007).

      Although the use of scale is an important tool in determining the level of tinnitus, it is
      difficult for each person to express their condition as it is. It is known that some patients
      may exaggerate or underestimate their complaints, each scale has strengths and weaknesses,
      and sensitivity may vary depending on the therapy used. Since most of the scales are
      developed in English, it should be considered that when applied to different cultures and
      socio-economic groups, there may be changes in specificity and sensitivity (Langguth vd.,
      2006). For this reason, the addition of a structured interview form as a standard in addition
      to the scale strengthens the opinion of the clinician.

      Accordingly, it is expected that temporamandibular joint loosens after treatment applications
      in patients with pelvic floor dysfunction. As a result of this relaxation, we believe that
      there may be a decrease in the level of tinnitus felt in patients.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of pelvic floor improvement on tinnitus
      level as a result of dysfunctional condition in temporamandibular joint with treatment
      practices of pelvic floor patients with excessive muscle activity.
    
  