
    
      BACKGROUND:

      This community-based study in three geographically distinct populations of West African
      heritage with contrasting levels of hypertension risk was one of the first comprehensive
      examinations of the genetics of hypertension in African Americans. The study focused on the
      renin-angiotensin system (RAS) because it was the only physiological arm of blood pressure
      control for which candidate genes had been securely linked to the risk of hypertension.
      Polymorphisms at the angiotensinogen locus varied considerably between Blacks and whites. The
      documented Black:white differences in the RAS system emphasized the importance of determining
      whether RAS genes contributed to the excessively high risk of hypertension experienced by
      African Americans. The study generated unique information about the variability of the RAS
      loci in populations of West African heritage, and the contribution of this variability to
      hypertension risk. The data from the study, including the DNA specimens, also represented a
      valuable resource for future work on the genetics of hypertension in this important ethnic
      group.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The primary goals of this study were: 1) Determine the extent to which genetic variability of
      the RAS genes influenced the distribution of blood pressure (and of RAS intermediate
      phenotypes) within each population, and contrast the results across populations; 2) Use
      family studies, within each population, to determine the degree-of familial aggregation of
      blood pressure, and of the RAS intermediate phenotypes; 3) Use segregation analysis to
      determine the contribution of 'major genes' to the familial aggregation of blood pressure and
      of hypertension, and determine whether RAS genes cosegregate with hypertension, or with RAS
      intermediate phenotypes; 4) Evaluate whether the different prevalence of hypertension in each
      community reflected differences in their genetic background. The study sites included Ibadan,
      Nigeria, Kingston, Jamaica, and Maywood, IL. At each site, genetic and epidemiological data
      were collected from individuals, sampled as follows: individuals comprising 100 five- member
      structured family sets (proband, spouse, two sibs, one offspring, or half-sib), equally
      ascertained from the highest and lowest quartiles of the blood pressure distribution, as
      defined by an ongoing community-wide survey; unrelated singletons, also sampled equally from
      the highest and lowest blood pressure quartiles. The following measurements were obtained
      from all participants. Epidemiological variables: blood pressure, height, weight, waist/hip
      ratio, skinfolds, urine sodium/potassium and sociodemographic variables; Intermediate
      phenotypes: Plasma levels of angiotensinogen, renin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE);
      Genotypes: A set of DNA polymorphisms at the four main RAS loci (angiotensinogen, renin, ACE
      and the angiotensin II-type l receptor).

      The study was renewed in FY 2000. To further elucidate the environmental pathways, the
      investigators conducted a substudy cross-classifying participants on the major risk
      determinants (ie, obesity and sodium intake) and they examined gene-environment interactions
      directly. They used a genome scan in linkage analysis to identify new chromosomal regions of
      interest. They also examine two new candidate loci (adducin and beta-2 adrenergic receptor)
      and conducted association studies using single nucleotide polymorphisms. They used the full
      range of analytic tools, including segregation, linkage and cladistic analysis.

      The study was renewed again in FY 2005 to : supplement evidence of hypertension causation on
      chromosomes 6,7, and 11 with a new set of dense markers and to search for positional
      candidate genes for hypertension at the two best regions; identify the genes under the
      linkage peak(s), find appropriate single nucleotide polymorphisms for a frequency of greater
      than 10% and conduct association/linkage disequilibrium mapping; replicate these findings in
      additional case-control studies and assess potential gene-environment interactions.
    
  