
    
      The purpose of this project is to establish a bank at UVa of tampon samples, cervical swabs,
      blood, associated tumor specimens that would otherwise be discarded, and relevant medical
      data from consenting patients that have suspected and/or confirmed gynecological cancer
      diagnoses. The specimens collected will be saved for analysis on future projects to determine
      if factors in the specimens are predictive and/or correlated to gynecological cancer
      diagnoses and/or outcomes. The bank will contain: 1) 10cc of blood drawn through venipuncture
      annually; 2) tampons placed in the patients vagina prior to surgery or clinic visit; 3) swabs
      of the endocervical canal; 4) freshly collected leftover and to-be-discarded tumors from
      ovarian, uterine, cervical, as well as leftover normal tissue, and ascites fluid, from
      samples collected for diagnostic purposes. These samples and patient-associated medical
      record data will be banked and used for future research and analyses. Samples will be saved
      in multiple formats for later tumor profiling (i.e. FFPE, snap frozen, in RNA-later, etc).
      These samples and information will be used to determine the underlying causes of cancers and
      chemoresistance, so that better methods of treatment, management, and prevention of
      gynecological cancers may be discovered in the future.

      Samples will be linked and coded, with all HIPAA protected information removed, for storage
      and sharing with other investigators to protect patient information. Only coded samples and
      clinical information will be used in this protocol for when samples, information, and/or data
      are shared with other investigators at UVa or outside institutions in the future. A separate
      password protected/encrypted file will contain the patient identifiers and the key to the
      coded sample numbers. This file will only be accessible by the PI or study team listed on
      this protocol on UVa premises, and will only be stored on a UVa server behind the UVa
      firewall, and will not be stored or accessed on personal computers. Thus, identified patient
      information will not be accessible to any individual, except the PI or study team listed on
      this protocol, ensuring protection of patient information. In addition, coded patient samples
      and medical data from specimens obtained from the University of Alabama-Birmingham, that were
      previously collected by the PI under local IRB approval (IRB-HSR #18042), have been
      transferred to UVA under a fully executed MTA, and will be assimilated into this databank at
      UVa for future research.
    
  