
    
      One of the most devastating complications of coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG) is
      postoperative stroke. While the etiology of stroke after CABG is multifactorial, atheroemboli
      generated during aortic manipulation is believed to account for most cerebral embolic events.
      Manipulation of the aorta during CABG occurs during aortic cannulation, institution and
      maintenance of cardiopulmonary bypass, and during aortic clamping and unclamping with either
      a cross-clamp, partial-occluding clamp, or both. One operative strategy to minimize aortic
      manipulation is to avoid cardiopulmonary bypass altogether by using off-pump techniques
      (OPCAB). Another method is to avoid the use of aortic clamps and to construct proximal
      aortocoronary anastomoses with facilitating devices that do not require aortic clamping. The
      effect of these strategies on reducing cerebral embolic events and the underlying mechanism
      for this reduction are not well-defined.

      This study will test the hypothesis that an off-pump (OPCAB) approach and facilitating
      devices to perform clampless proximal anastomoses will result in the least amount of aortic
      manipulation and therefore the lowest incidence and frequency of cerebral embolic events. The
      approach associated with the lowest incidence of TCD-detected cerebral embolic events will
      also result in the lowest incidence and severity of postoperative neurocognitive decline.
      Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography is an established method to detect cerebral embolic
      signals during cardiac surgery and will be utilized to detect cerebral embolic events during
      the operation. After an on- or off-pump strategy is selected, patients will be subsequently
      randomized to one of two clamping strategies. There will be 4 groups of patients: 1) OPCAB
      patients randomized to no clamping (facilitating device); 2) OPCAB patients randomized to
      partial clamping; 3) on-pump patients randomized to double clamping; and 4) on-pump patients
      randomized to a single clamp strategy.
    
  