
    
      Latinos suffer a greater disability burden from depression than whites due to low rates of
      quality depression care. Depression is common among Latinos in primary care settings and is
      also often chronic, recurring, and comorbid with chronic medical illness. Improving outcomes
      for both depression and chronic medical illness requires patients to become educated, active
      partners in managing their illnesses. Latinos desire education regarding general and mental
      health; have stigma-related concerns regarding mental health care; and prefer psychotherapy
      to medication. However, safety net primary care providers and clinics often prioritize
      improving medical outcomes and lack the resources for depression care, especially
      psychotherapy. There is an important public health need to develop a culturally tailored, low
      cost intervention that includes educational and psychotherapeutic elements, targets medical
      illness and depression, and destigmatizes depression care.

      In response to patient, provider, and clinic preferences and resources for depression care,
      we developed but have not yet tested an innovative, theoretically-based group intervention,
      drawing upon two evidence-based interventions that improve self-efficacy: group cognitive
      behavioral therapy (CBT) for depression and group self-management for chronic medical
      illness. Professionally-led group CBT is effective for depression among ethnic minorities in
      primary care but is difficult to sustain. Among patients with chronic medical illness,
      lay-led group self-management programs educate and empower patients to engage in healthful
      behaviors and participate in their care. The groups improve self-efficacy, health-related
      behaviors, and outcomes; have been adapted for diverse conditions; and have been widely
      disseminated and sustained. However, standard self-management groups do not improve
      depression. We thus enhanced the Spanish-language Tomando Control de su Salud chronic disease
      self-management program by adding depression-related educational and skill-building content
      from group CBT.

      We will pilot test and refine Cuerpo Sano, Mente Sana, our newly enhanced self-management
      program for depression and chronic medical illness. Following a framework for successful
      implementation of interventions, we will 1) evaluate intervention context and refine our
      intervention and implementation strategy; 2) conduct a randomized trial with 30 low-income
      Spanish-speaking patients with depressive disorder and chronic medical illness; 3) review
      pilot findings of feasibility, implementation, and potential sustainability with a
      multistakeholder panel and then revise our materials and procedures; 4) conduct a second
      trial with 30 additional patients; and 5) review additional pilot findings (including 3- and
      6-month intervention effects on self-efficacy, self-care behaviors, and depression and health
      outcomes and interviews with clinic stakeholders) and finalize the intervention and
      implementation strategy. This study lays the groundwork for future comparative effectiveness
      studies of strategies to address depression among Latinos in safety net primary care.
    
  