
    
      Design: A prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trial to study the effectiveness of
      applying fluoroscopy guided femoral artery access in the cardiac catheterization lab and its
      effect on the usage of FDA approved femoral artery closure devices. This trial will randomize
      patients between fluoroscopy guided femoral artery access or femoral artery access using the
      usual anatomic landmarks and will then study the difference in the ability to use closure
      devices on the access site.

      Purpose: To establish the safety and efficacy of using fluoroscopic assistance to allow
      access of the common femoral artery rather than its branches and thus increase the ability to
      use closure devices.

      Enrollment: An approximate enrollment of up to 1000 patients (all patients randomized) who
      will be undergoing cardiac catheterization and who meet all the eligibility criteria at OUMC
      and VAMC in Oklahoma City.

      Duration: The study will be conducted over approximately one year.

      Primary Endpoint: Prediction of ability to use femoral artery closure device based on
      angiographic data of the femoral artery from fluoroscopy arm versus traditional technique
      arm.

      Secondary Endpoints:

        1. Compare the incidence of known major side effects of femoral artery puncture between the
           two methods of access

        2. Compare the time and number of attempts needed to obtain arterial access between the two
           groups of patients.

        3. Compare the ability to puncture the common femoral artery using fluoroscopy vs.
           anatomical landmarks among different levels of trainees (cardiology fellows) and
           attending cardiologists.

        4. Assess whether fluoroscopic guidance is a superior method to obtain access and thus
           should be used as a training technique for cardiology fellows.

      Analytical Subset: Intention-to-treat sample
    
  