
    
      The national recommendations of sedation concerning the intubation in emergency settings
      advise the use of a hypnotic, etomidate associated to succinylcholine. A national inquiry
      showed that more than 80% of prehospital intubations use a rapid sequence intubation as
      sedation. However, several recent studies throw into question the use of etomidate in this
      indication. Indeed, etomidate is a powerful inhibitor of the synthesis of cortisol.
      Adrenocortical hormone insufficiency is clearly associated to an increase in the
      morbidity-mortality of critically ill patients. Several authors advise therefore against the
      use of etomidate for such patients. Yet, to date, only indirect arguments associating the use
      of etomidate with excessive morbidity-mortality exist. A real causality link is not yet
      established. Another hypnotic that could constitute a therapeutic alternative to the use of
      etomidate exists: ketamine. The advantage of this molecule is that it does not inhibit the
      adrenocortical hormone axis.

      Objectives: To evaluate sedation using ketamine versus etomidate in term of
      morbidity-mortality in critically ill patients intubated in the prehospital setting.

      Experimental diagram: A prospective, multicentric, randomized, controlled, simple blind trial
      with independent analysis of the primary outcome.

      The expected benefit is a reduction of the morbidity of patients admitted in the intensive
      care unit having received ketamine for intubation. The risks incurred for patients being
      suitable to this research are bound essentially to the adverse effects of ketamine. These
      include some psycho-dyslectic manifestations: nightmare, unpleasant awakening, and disruption
      of the visual, auditory sensations and mood, a sensation to float and sometimes
      depersonalization. These adverse effects are warned by a continuous administration of
      benzodiazepines.
    
  