
    
      Use of force no greater than 8 pounds of tension will improve lead extraction and minimize
      lead displacement compared to current standard of care methods which do not limit the force
      applied. Among subjects undergoing lead extraction procedures for CIED infection,
      bidirectional rail (superior and inferior) and traction force objective feedback using Force
      gauge is associated with minimal displacement (<1cm) of the leads (surrogate marker) on
      fluoroscopy compared to conventional lead extraction. • The research nature of the protocol
      is explicitly explained to the patient and an informed consent is explained obtained from the
      patient prior to the procedure. Only patients with CIED infections requiring lead extraction
      are enrolled in the study. Patients are risk stratified based on our current risk
      stratifications scheme. Multiple superior and inferior venous accesses are obtained during
      the procedure. The leads are prepared using locking stylets. Baseline fluoroscopic image of
      the position of the leads is stored. A deflectable sheath and traction forceps are deployed
      from the groin to provide downward rail in the force feedback arm. Locking stylet from the
      lead is in turn attached to a Force gauge (McMaster-Carr Santa Fe Springs, CA). The procedure
      is performed using continuous fluoroscopic image save tool during the procedure for post
      procedural viewing and analysis. The patients are randomized to the active arm (to keep force
      around 8 lb) or the control arm (tactile force discretion based on the operator. The
      investigator is blinded to the force gauge reading for half of the patients enrolled in the
      study. For the other half of the patients, the operator optimizes the force to prevent
      overexertion (<8-9 pounds). Three point along the lead course evaluated during the study.
      Position of downward turn of the lead in the SVC, heel of the lead (only in case of RV lead)
      and the lead tip positions are evaluated. The investigators postulate that there will be at
      least 5 cine-fluoroscopic views per every lead. The investigators hypothesize that use of
      bidirectional rail and force feedback is associated with minimal displacement of the lead on
      fluoroscopy.
    
  