
    
      Avastin [RHUMAB VEGF, Bevacizumab] is a drug that has damaging effects on blood vessel growth
      in tumors.

      Before treatment starts, you will have a complete physical exam. About 2 tablespoons of blood
      will be drawn for routine tests and a urine test will be performed. Chest x-rays and CT scans
      of the abdomen and pelvis will be done. Women who are able to have children must have a
      negative blood pregnancy test.

      You will receive radiation therapy once a day for 5 days in a row (Monday-Friday) for 5 weeks
      and three days (a total of 28 treatments). You will take the chemotherapy drug capecitabine
      by mouth twice a day on each of the days that you receive radiation therapy. These pills will
      not be taken on Saturday and Sunday. You must not take cimetidine, and must be off of
      coumadin for at least one week and sorivudine and brivudine for at least four weeks before
      starting capecitabine and while taking capecitabine.

      You will receive the drug Avastin by vein once every 2 weeks for six weeks (a total of three
      doses). The infusion will at first last 90 minutes. If there are no allergic reactions,
      fevers or chills, it will be shortened to 60 minutes and then 30 minutes for later infusions.

      During the study, you will have physical exams, including weekly blood tests (about 2
      teaspoons). The possible development of side effects will be closely monitored.

      All participants will have surgical removal of the rectal tumor 6-8 weeks after the
      completion of treatment as they would for the standard of care for their disease. No patients
      will have surgery before 6 weeks.

      After participation in this study is over, you will have follow-up evaluation as needed for
      standard of care.

      THIS IS AN INVESTIGATIONAL STUDY. Capecitabine is approved by the FDA, but Avastin has not
      yet been evaluated for approval.

      About 50 patients will take part in the study. All will be enrolled at the M. D. Anderson.
    
  