
    
      This is a phase I, open-label, dose-escalation study to determine the MTD of selumetinib when
      combined with the standard dose of azacitidine. For the purposes of DLT assessment, subjects
      will be stratified into 2 cohorts- cohort A will include subjects with MDS and MDS/MPN;
      cohort B will include subjects with myelofibrosis. Dose escalation will proceed independently
      in each of these cohorts. Determination of MTD will thus also proceed independently within
      each cohort. Three dose levels of selumetinib are planned for evaluation. Dose escalation
      will follow a 3+3 study design. Patients will be enrolled sequentially and stratified
      according to disease type as outlined above. An increased dose level will only open to
      accrual once at least 3 patients have been treated at the lower dose, followed for the
      defined DLT observation period (28 days, see section 2.8 below), and the lower dose level has
      been deemed safe.

      The 3+3 dose escalation algorithm will proceed as follows:

        1. If 0/3 patients develop a DLT at a dose level, escalate to the next dose level.

        2. If 1/3 patients develops a DLT at a dose level, enroll 3 additional patients at that
           dose level.

             1. At that dose level, if 1/6 patients develops a DLT, escalate to the next dose
                level.

             2. If ≥2/6 patients develop a DLT, that dose level will be determined to be too toxic.

        3. If 2-3/3 patients develop a DLT at a dose level, that dose level will be determined to
           be too toxic.

        4. Six patients will be treated at the MTD.

             1. If the study progresses to dose level 3 with 0/3 patients experiencing a DLT, an
                additional 3 patients will be enrolled at that dose level to gain additional
                information regarding toxicity.

             2. If a dose level is determined to be too toxic and the next lower dose level only
                included 3 patients, an additional 3 patients will be treated at the lower dose
                level to confirm tolerability.

        5. If no patients have a DLT reported at dose level 3, that will be defined as the MTD and
           the dose will not be escalated above that level.
    
  