
    
      Very preterm birth is associated with motor, cognitive and behavioral problems.

      Micro-structural brain abnormalities, even in the absence of focal lesions, have been
      documented by neuroimaging studies in preterm infants at term corrected age and later in
      childhood. These alterations in brain maturation occurring during the neonatal period may be
      implicated in long-term neurobehavioral disorders later experienced by preterm babies.

      However, there is increasing evidence that also negative environmental factors (intensive
      care, excessive sensory stimulation, paucity of parental contact etc.) can affect later
      outcomes.

      Potential benefits of early dyadic interaction and preterm baby massage in reducing the
      effects of the NICU stressor environment have been demonstrated. More recently, few studies
      have investigated visual function in preterm infants focusing on the potential role of early
      visual interaction to enhance attention and improve later neurodevelopment.

      The role of early intervention strategies to improve neurodevelopment has been recently
      emphasized.

      Early intervention programs based on the concept of "individualized care" have proved to be
      effective in promoting brain maturation and neurodevelopmental outcome. In this context,
      early interventions as the Mother Infant Transaction Program (MITP) and the Premie Start,
      both targeting parenting, have the greatest potential to have sustained effects on child
      development.

      In addition, recent studies have shown that exposure to stressful events in the neonatal
      period can cause epigenetic modifications in children born preterm; in particular alteration
      of serotonergic tone was observed, associated with methylation of the serotonin transporter
      gene, which could be implicated in the etiology of behavioral disorders observed in these
      children. In animal models these epigenetic effects appear to be influenced by maternal care
      that can epigenetically modulate the offsprings' stress response.
    
  