
    
      PURPOSE:

      The purpose of the project is to determine whether metabolic workups are administered to
      Canadian kidney stone patients in accordance to CUA (Canadian Urologic Association)
      guidelines. Additionally, the study will look to evaluate whether the results of metabolic
      tests were sufficiently explained to patients by their doctors, and also whether or not
      patients would follow dietary or treatment plans to possibly prevent kidney stones based on
      these metabolic workups.

      HYPOTHESIS:

      The investigators hypothesize that the implementation of metabolic tests based on CUA
      guidelines is sub-optimal and that when they are prescribed, doctors do not adequately
      explain these results to patients. The investigators also hypothesize that patients would
      follow dietary and treatment plants to prevent recurrent stone formation based on these
      metabolic results - if they are prescribed to the patient.

      JUSTIFICATION:

      The investigators believe that implementation of metabolic workups is sub-optimal. The
      investigators would like to confirm this so that, in the future, metabolic workups can be
      promoted as an appropriate tool for identifying metabolic abnormalities that contribute to
      stone disease. If metabolic workups are administered and explained adequately to patients
      then further diet or treatment plans can significantly reduce recurrence of stones in stone
      patients.

      OBJECTIVES:

        1. Determine if metabolic workups were administered when they should have been according to
           CUA guidelines.

        2. For patients who received metabolic workups, determine if the results from metabolic
           workups were explained to patients, and if so was it done adequately (did the patient
           understand the explanation)

        3. Determine patient compliance regarding dietary and treatment plans based on metabolic
           workups

      RESEARCH DESIGN:

      This is a survey based study (one time completion) given to patients pre-ESWL. The surveys
      will be analyzed by research staff to determine the study objectives.
    
  