
    
      Gastric cancer (GC) is the fourth most common cancer, and the second leading cause of
      cancer-related death worldwide. Advances in diagnostic and therapeutic approaches have
      achieved long-term survival for early GC. However, receiving perioperative/postoperative
      systemic chemotherapy and gastrectomy with D1-D2 lymph node dissection, 5-year survival rates
      of advanced gastric cancer remain under 30%. 40-60% of recurrences are peritoneal and/or
      locoregional. hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) technique is increasingly
      used in the curative treatment of primary and digestive peritoneal carcinomatosis, in
      association with cytoreductive surgery. Theoretically, HIPEC eliminates free cancer cells
      that can be released into peritoneal cavity during the gastrectomy and prevents peritoneal
      carcinomatosis recurrences. The benefit of using HIPEC as an adjuvant treatment for advanced
      gastric cancer has been reported in several randomized studies and a meta-analysis. Surgical
      resection combined with HIPEC significantly reduces the peritoneal recurrences and improves
      the overall survival of GC patients. But there is not a prospective and randomized phase III
      clinical study of HIPEC in the treatment of locally advanced gastric cancer after radical
      surgery in China so far.

      In order to evaluate the survival benefit and safety of radical surgery and HIPEC followed by
      postoperative chemotherapy in local advanced gastric cancer, patients who fulfill the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria will be recruited in this study and randomized to two
      treatment groups (HIPEC group and control group). In HIPEC group, the patients undergo
      radical gastrectomy with D2 lymphadenectomy and HIPEC with paclitaxel and postoperative
      chemotherapy. Patients in the control group just undergo radical gastrectomy with D2
      lymphadenectomy followed by postoperative chemotherapy. Patients in both groups receive 6-8
      cycles of postoperative systemic chemotherapy (XELOX or SOX regimens) . Patients are followed
      up for 5 years and the survival outcome will be analyzed.
    
  