
    
      The evaluation of the incontinent patient usually includes in and out catheterization for
      post void residual urinary volume, a cotton tipped swab test, and urodynamic testing. All of
      these evaluations require manipulation of the urethra by either a catheter or a cotton tipped
      swab. To minimize discomfort, water based lubricant or 2% lidocaine gel is often used to ease
      passage of the device into the urethra. In 2008, Harmanli et al. performed a randomized
      control trial showing use of 2% lidocaine gel significantly decreased pain during the cotton
      tipped swab test and in and out catheterization. However, data looking at cystourethroscopy
      in women suggests that 2% lidocaine gel does little to relieve discomfort over lubricant
      alone. There are no studies looking at whether 2% lidocaine gel decreases the pain associated
      with multichannel urodynamic testing when compared to using lubricant alone. The purpose of
      this study is to determine a difference in patient reported pain levels before, during, and
      after multichannel urodynamics in patients treated with 2% lidocaine gel or water based
      lubricant. We hypothesize that lidocaine gel will decrease pain levels when compared to
      lubricant gel.

      This study design is a prospective double blinded randomized controlled trial.

      Participants will be randomized to the 2% lidocaine gel or the lubricant gel group after
      informed consent is obtained and immediately before undergoing multichannel urodynamics.
      Sequentially numbered sealed opaque envelopes containing the identity of the study arm will
      be used for randomization. The urogynecology clinic nurse will prepare the selected gel
      (either the 2% lidocaine gel or the water based lubricant) on the procedure field without any
      identification. Since the gels look identical, both the examiner and the patient will be
      blinded to their assigned arm. The participant will undergo the standard clinic exam in
      standardized order, which consists of perineal/vulvar sensation exam, measurement of post
      void residual, cotton tipped swab test, pelvic organ prolapse quantification measurements,
      pelvic exam with speculum, bi-manual exam, and multichannel urodynamic testing. The study gel
      will be applied to the red robinson catheter for in and out catheterization, the cotton
      tipped swab, and the bladder catheter for multichannel urodynamic study. The participant will
      be asked for their pain level at specific points (before the start of the exam, after
      placement of the bladder catheter, immediately after completion of the study, 30 minutes
      after completion of the study) using the Wong-Baker pain scale. At the conclusion of the
      procedure, the participant will be given a short survey to complete about their expectations
      of the procedure and their pain level. The practitioner/investigator will also be given a
      short survey to complete at the end of the examination to assess their idea of the patient's
      comfort level during the procedure. Data will be entered into a database for analysis using
      the independent samples t test, the Mann-Whitney U test, and the chi square test.

      We will specifically be using Lidocaine Hydrochloride Jelly USP, 2% and Surgilube (Savage
      Laboratories). Surgilube is a water based lubricating gel used during gynecologic exams. It
      is available in 5g individually wrapped sterile packets. Lidocaine gel is also readily
      available for use in the gynecologic clinics, available in 5ml individually wrapped sterile
      packets. Both are clear, viscous, odorless, gels that are visually identical. Currently both
      are used in the standard urogynecologic exam, depending on operator preference.

      All patients scheduled for urodynamic testing will be invited to participate.
    
  