
    
      This study will be undertaken using a prospective, multidimensional design. 42 nonadherent
      kidney transplant patients will be included in the intervention group. The nonadherent
      patients will be identified through Imperial College Renal and Transplant Centre (ICRTC)
      Outpatient Clinic based at Hammersmith Hospital. Standard and transplant specific
      demographics will be collected for all patients. All kidney transplant patients have their
      tacrolimus levels measured at each clinic visit. The variability of these levels can be used
      as a marker of their adherence. Patients with a high intrapatient variability (IPV) of their
      levels are said to be nonadherent. The Chief Investigator or another member of the research
      team will approach individual patients directly in the transplant out-patient clinic where
      they are members of the multidisciplinary clinical care team. The Chief Investigator or
      another member of the research team may also telephone patients to invite them to clinic to
      discuss participation in the trial. The Chief Investigator or another member of the research
      team will describe the study to the patient, answer any questions they have and provide them
      with a participant information sheet (PIS). Patients will be given the opportunity to take
      the PIS away and think about whether they would like to participate. A follow up discussion
      either in clinic or on the phone will be arranged with the patient to answer any queries they
      have within two weeks of providing them with the PIS; during that discussion, the Chief
      Investigator or other member of the research team will arrange an appointment in the
      transplant clinic with the patient to sign the consent form if they do decide to participate.
      Patients recruited into the study will receive pharmacist led, patient tailored interventions
      to improve immunosuppressant medication adherence. Patients will be included in the study for
      one year from recruitment.

      The pharmacist led, patient tailored intervention will involve regular, intensive,
      personalised support from a pharmacist to improve adherence to immunosuppressive medications.
      The pharmacist will meet with the patient on a regular basis in the transplant clinic to
      identify their perceptual and practical barriers to adherence and agree a support plan that
      is tailored to them.

      Within the first two weeks of recruitment, the study pharmacist will meet with the patient in
      transplant clinic to:

        -  Undertake a full medication history

        -  Discuss self-reported medication nonadherence

        -  Undertake the BAASIS questionnaire

        -  Ask the patient to complete a Beliefs about Medicines Questionnaire (BMQ)

        -  Undertake a socioeconomic and educational assessment

        -  Undertake to gain collateral reporting of nonadherence by clinicians, relatives, friends
           or carers

        -  Perform a tacrolimus pill count

        -  Check in-house dispensing records of tacrolimus

        -  Identify barriers to adherence

        -  Tailor interventions and support to the needs of the patient

        -  Complete a motivational interview

        -  Agree to meet again during an outpatient clinic visit within an agreed time which is
           appropriate for the patient needs and within 3 months.

      This first visit will provide a baseline assessment of the patient's medication adherence.

      Tailored support may include:

        -  Setting alarms

        -  Medication diary card or calendar

        -  Medication compliance aid filled by the patient, family/carers or by a pharmacy
           professional

        -  Adherence app

        -  Reducing the complexity of the medication regime

        -  Positioning medication within their daily routine eg. by toothbrush

        -  Changing formulations

        -  Additional education regarding need for medication / timing of doses

        -  Referral to a social worker to assist with affordability of medicines

        -  Referral to a psychologist to explore deeper psychological issues regarding medicines
           taking

      The structure of each follow up adherence review will be the same as the first formal
      adherence review with the exception that the BMQ will only be repeated at the end of the one
      year follow-up and the socioeconomic and educational assessment will only be undertaken at
      the first assessment review. Every patient will have a formal adherence assessment at
      recruitment and then at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months. At the end of one year of follow-up, the
      specific benefits perceived by the patient of intensive adherence support from a pharmacist
      will be determined through a questionnaire.

      Baseline nonadherence will be measured at the first visit with the study pharmacist within
      two weeks of recruitment and then at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months. The IPV of their tacrolimus
      levels and their outpatient clinic nonattendance rate will be measured retrospectively in the
      12 months prior to recruitment to the study and then prospectively at the end of the
      intervention year. The IPV is calculated from the tacrolimus levels measured for an
      individual patient using the coefficient of variance mathematical formula - Coefficient of
      variance (COV) defined as: SD x 100 / Mean. The outpatient clinic nonattendance for each
      participant will be taken from the hospital integrated computer system.
    
  