
    
      The title of this acute, open-label pilot study is "Controlled Release Melatonin (Melatonin
      CR) for the treatment of impaired sleep maintenance (ISM) in 4-8 year old children with
      autism spectrum disorders (ASD)." Maintenance of sleep is a significant challenge in the
      treatment of children with neurodevelopmental disabilities including ASDs. Night awakening or
      early morning waking can have detrimental effects on these children's daytime behavior and
      the functioning of their household. Sleep problems in the ASD population are generally
      managed first with behavioral interventions and, when these are not successful, pharmacologic
      therapy. Most medications effect sleep onset and not sleep maintenance. This study
      investigates the effectiveness of Melatonin CR for managing ISM in 4-8 year old children with
      ASD. Twenty patients will be recruited from the Developmental/Behavioral Pediatrics Clinic at
      the Munroe Meyer Institute at the University of Nebraska Medical Center. Inclusion criteria
      are male and female children ages 4-8 years with a diagnosis of an ASD, including Pervasive
      Developmental Disorder NOS (PDD, NOS), Asperger's Syndrome, or Autistic Disorder,
      parent/guardian consent for participation, stable psychotropic medication treatment for at
      least 4 weeks, and a documented history of ISM based on parent-report, somnolog and Child
      Sleep Habits Questionnaire (CSHQ), and a clinician rating of ≥4 (moderately ill) on the
      Clinical Global Impression-Severity (CGI-S) Scale. Patients will be excluded if they have
      been treated with Melatonin or Melatonin CR in the past month, failed treatment with
      Melatonin CR, or if they have a previously un-evaluated medical condition which may be
      causing the ISM. Following the completion of a somnolog and standardized questionnaires, the
      patients will be treated for 10-14 days with melatonin CR. Somnologs will be completed during
      treatment, and standardized parent questionnaires, CGI-S, and adverse event collection will
      be repeated at the end of Melatonin CR therapy. Response will be defined as a Clinical Global
      Impression-Improvement (CGI-I) score of 1 or 2 (much or very much improved). These will be
      compared to baseline ratings. Following the completion of the study protocol, all patients
      will continue to be followed in the Developmental Pediatrics clinic. Data from this acute
      pilot trial can be used to evaluate the appropriateness of a larger study to determine
      optimal therapy for patients with ASD and ISM.
    
  