
    
      The ultimate goal of this project is to develop a portable neuromodulatory intervention to
      reduce craving in cocaine addiction. This proposed project is in response to NIH/NIDA's
      solicitation titled "Development of Portable Neuromodulatory Device for the Treatment of
      Substance Use Disorders (SUDs)." The present study aims to evaluate the tolerability and
      feasibility of repeated administration of tDCS to reduce drug craving in individuals with
      cocaine addiction, with the aim of using these data to support a phase II study and,
      ultimately, support of approval of usage of this device without clinical supervision.

      The specific objectives are:

        1. Establish the feasibility and safety of using tDCS to reduce self-reported cravings in
           individuals addicted to cocaine.

        2. Train cocaine addicted individuals to self-administer tDCS (under supervision) to test
           the feasibility of future home self-administration in this population.

      Substance use disorders present a treatment challenge for clinicians, as well as a
      socioeconomic burden on individuals and society at large. Cocaine use disorder occurs when
      someone experiences clinically significant impairment caused by the recurrent use of cocaine,
      including health problems, physical withdrawal with discontinuation of use,
      persistent/escalating use, and failure to meet major personal, occupational, or educational
      responsibilities. At present, no FDA approved medicines are available to treat cocaine
      dependence, and behavioral therapy may be used to treat this addiction, though with limited
      efficacy. Drug craving (strong obsessions about and/or irresistible urges or compulsions to
      consume a drug) is a central driving force for perpetuation of substance use and subsequent
      addiction, as well as relapse after abstinence. Currently, no treatments exist that are
      targeted at reducing drug craving, which is intrusive and distressing to patients. The
      prefrontal cortex (PFC) plays an important role inhibiting these intrusive cravings. However,
      decades of data have shown that PFC activity is impaired in addictions. In this study, our
      goal is to increase PFC activity with non-invasive neuromodulation. Given the role of the PFC
      in the processing and regulation of craving behavior, this brain region is a key target for
      brain stimulation.

      This study will recruit individuals with a diagnosis of cocaine use disorder (per DSM-5
      criteria) who are receiving treatment for their substance use disorder at Samaritan Daytop
      Village (SDV) and other similar treatment facilities (e.g., Phoenix House, Mount Sinai's
      network of hospitals and clinics). Patients will be randomly assigned to receive either
      active or sham (placebo) tDCS. Participants will receive 20 minutes of stimulation per tDCS
      day, three days per week for five weeks.

      Interviews and neuropsychological testing will be conducted, and self-reported drug craving
      and addiction severity questionnaires will be used. Follow up cognitive and behavioral
      assessments will be conducted over a period of 12 months post tDCS stimulation. In addition,
      participants will be asked to perform EEG, cognitive tasks, and collection of a blood sample
      to assess genetic/epigenetic patterns.
    
  