
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To develop and validate a new patient-reported outcome measure of quality of life
           related to facial appearance following oncologic head and neck resection and
           reconstruction.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Part 1 (questionnaire content generation and development of preliminary instrument
           [post-operative patients only]): Patients undergo semi-structured interview with a
           trained interviewer and answer open-ended questions. Statements concerning facial
           appearance post-resection and reconstruction are extracted to generate items for the
           preliminary instrument. The preliminary instrument is developed from review of the
           literature, qualitative interviews with patients, and expert opinion (head and neck
           surgeons, reconstructive surgeons, and other relevant health care providers, including
           nurse clinicians). The instrument is then pre-tested on a small sample of patients via
           mail to clarify ambiguities in the wording of items, confirm appropriateness, and
           determine acceptability and completion time.

        -  Part 2 (field-testing with item reduction and development of final rating scale):
           Post-operative patients complete 2 copies of the preliminary questionnaires in the mail
           or clinic approximately 2 weeks apart. Pre-operative patients complete the questionnaire
           prior to surgery (during preoperative appointment) and again at least 1 month after
           surgery (via mail). Data are analyzed to determine the most valid grouping of items into
           measurement scales for development of the final instrument.

        -  Part 3 (psychometric evaluation of the patient-reported outcome questionnaire):
           Post-operative patients complete 2 copies of the questionnaires in clinic or by mail
           approximately 2 weeks apart. They also complete several other well-established,
           validated instruments used to measure patient-reported quality of life and
           symptomatology in order to aid in the evaluation of convergent and discriminant
           validity. Pre-operative patients complete the final questionnaire prior to surgery
           (during preoperative appointment) and again at least 1 month after surgery by mail or in
           clinic.
    
  