
    
      Thirty male healthy volunteers (between 18-40 ages) were screened for eligibility by physical
      examination and history. Informed written consent was obtained from all participants before
      enrollment. The research proposal was reviewed and approved by the Faculty Ethics
      Committee(No: 05-213-14).

      This is a randomized sham controlled, double-blind pilot clinical trial. The block
      randomization method with a block size of 4 was used in order to allocate the subjects
      equally into two groups; Kinesiotaping (KT) and sham (control).To conceal the randomization
      sequence an independent researcher (HG) who is unaware of the baseline data carried out the
      procedure using a computer software. The researcher (MO) who was blinded to the
      allocationprocedure did the balance testing of all subjects, before (t0), immediately after
      (t1) and 24 hours after the application of KT (T2). The subjects were also blinded to the
      type of intervention.

      Standard 2-inch (5-cm) Kinesio® Tex (Kinesio Holding Corporation, Albuquerque, NM) Tape was
      used for all applications in both groups. A certified KT practitioner (BST) did the all
      taping procedures. KT was applied bilaterally to the ankle joints. To ensure blinding of the
      assessor (MÖ), taping procedure was done in a separate room and subjects wore their socks
      after the application. The tape remained in place for 24 hours duration and subjects were
      instructed to participate in their normal daily activities, except shower.

      The experimental group received a standardized therapeutic Kinesio Tape application. Three
      "I" strips were applied to the both ankle joints for joint stability with subject's ankle at
      90 degrees. KT was applied according to the procedures recommended by the website of
      http://www.kttapeeurope.com/How-to-tape-Ankle-Stability (last accessed on July 7th, 2017).
      First strip was anchored 5 cm above the ankle. Then tape was applied down the outer ankle,
      across the bottom of the heel, and up the inner side of the ankle. The last 5cm of tape was
      laid without stretch. Second strip was anchored along the instep of the foot. Then tape was
      laid around the back of the heel and across the arch with 50% stretch. The last part of tape
      was laid down without stretch on inside of foot. Third strip was anchored same style along
      the outside of the foot. The tape was laid the around the back of the heel and across the
      arch with 50% stretch. The last 5 cm of the tape was laid down without stretch on insideof
      foot. The control group received a sham Kinesio Tape application. Ankle position was hold at
      minimally plantar flexion during taping. A"I" strip was placed from the anterior midfoot, not
      stretched and attached to the midline of anterior leg.

      Each participant's height and weight were recorded and body mass index (BMI) was calculated.
      Balance measurements were made with a stabilometer, BiodexTM Balance System. A dynamic
      postural stability test was performed in a double-leg standing position with eyes open. Each
      test included three trials that lasted 20 seconds with a 10-second rest period between them.
      A mean score was calculated from three trials. Subjects were given a practice trial lasting
      20 sec. to familiarize with the test. During the dynamic postural stability test three
      indices were calculated; (1) anteroposterior stability index (APSI), (2) mediolateral
      stability index (MLSI), (3) overall stability index (OSI). The OSI indicates the total
      variation in plate deviation (sway) from the horizontal plane. The APSI and MLSI indicate the
      deviation of the plate (sway) from the horizontal position in the sagittal and frontal
      planes, respectively. Since the values obtained during measurements indicate the amount of
      sway from the horizontal position, lower scores show better balance.

      Non-parametric tests have been used due to the small sample size and skewed data
      distribution. The baseline demographic characteristics of the patients in each group were
      compared by Mann Whitney U test. The two-way mixed ANOVA was used to compare the mean
      differences between independent groups over time and to understand if there is an interaction
      between time and group factors.
    
  