
    
      SCIENTIFIC ABSTRACT There is increasing evidence that relapse of ulcerative colitis (UC) can
      be provoked by psychological stress. When this study was planned, there were no proper
      scientific studies to find out whether stress reduction can improve the course of UC.
      Hypnotherapy is a technique by which a practitioner induces a temporary trance-like state in
      patients: while they are in this state, the practitioner uses suggestion to induce relaxation
      as well as beneficial modification of the way in which the patient experiences the gut
      working. In previous studies in our lab, we had shown that a single session of hypnosis can
      reduce measures of inflammation at both systemic and rectal mucosal levels. Thus, 50 min of
      gut-focussed hypnosis reduced serum interleukin-6 (IL6) and non-killer (NK) cell numbers in
      circulating blood, as well as rectal mucosal release of interleukin-13 (IL13), substance P
      and histamine. Furthermore, in earlier work by others, hypnosis had been shown to be
      effective in the treatment of patients with irritable bowel syndrome, duodenal ulcer and
      indigestion unassociated with ulcers.

      Many patients with UC need to take the immunosuppressive, azathioprine, in addition to a
      5ASA, to keep their disease in remission. While azathioprine is usually effective in
      maintaining remission of UC, it does require regular drug checks and carries the risk of
      possible side-effects. We undertook a study of hypnotherapy to see whether it could prevent
      relapse of UC in patients who normally need to take azathioprine to keep their UC inactive.
      To do this, we planned to ask 66 patients who agreed to participate in the trial to stop
      their azathioprine. They were then to be allocated to receive either gut-focussed
      hypnotherapy (44 patients) or, as a control, non-emotive educational sessions (22 patients)
      once a month for 3 months, with intervening self-hypnosis daily in the active arm. We then
      recorded relapse rates in each group at 1 year. We diagnosed relapse from patients' diaries
      recording the Simple Clinical Activity Index, and by Baron score >1 at sigmoidoscopy.

      It was hoped that this clinical trial would identify a new drug-free way of reducing the
      chances of relapse in patients with UC withdrawing from treatment with azathioprine.
    
  