
    
      The internet-delivered intervention SCOPE was developed using a participatory research
      approach, i.e. in cooperation with the target group. SCOPE has eight ASD theme modules and
      weekly contact with an experienced clinician (coach) via a message function within the
      Swedish national platform for internet-delivered treatment (1177.se e-services).

      The three treatment arms means that the self-study controls as well as the wait-lsit controls
      will have the option to take part of SCOPE the following semester after having completed the
      data collection process. The assessment of eligibility is conducted on the national platform
      for internet-delivered interventions using a web camera application or phone interview. The
      assessment covers depression symptoms and suicidality using MADRS-R, functional impairment
      using WHODAS 2.0 (WHO), autism core symptoms using OSU Autism and Social Responsiveness
      Scale.

      Treatment expectancy and satisfaction will be measured using the Treatment Credibility Scale
      (see outcome measures) and an evaluation of each module.The criteria for feasibility were (1)
      attrition should be less than 40% and (2) the participants should attend at least 75% of the
      sessions. Efficacy-related measures will be gained through the primary outcome of gained
      knowledge about ASD. Secondary outcomes are mental health: anxiety and depression, and also
      acceptance of diagnosis as well as quality of life. In addition, measures of treatment
      credibility are also completed by the coaches. The measures will be analysed using a series
      of mixed design repeated measures ANOVAs (rmANOVAs).

      The recommended first-line intervention for ASD is psychoeducation. Psychoeducational
      interventions for young adult individuals with ASD however have a very limited evidence base.
      Therefore, the effect of psychoeducation for the target group is difficult to discern, the
      current study would contribute significantly to the research field. The findings will be
      important especially as psychoeducation is a clinically common intervention, provided in a
      non-standardized way and without sufficient information of its effects.

      Recruitment commenced during the autumn of 2016 and will carry on through until 2020 or until
      sufficient participant numbers have been met.
    
  