
    
      Study Design:

      The investigators will conduct a single intervention cross-sectional study to evaluate the
      impact of gain-framing versus loss-framing on patients' therapy preferences. This pragmatic
      study will compare whether patients are more likely to adhere to a hypothetical injectable
      psoriasis medication after exposure to a short paragraph explaining either the potential
      benefits after receiving the medication or the potential losses of not receiving the
      medication. The goal of this pragmatic study is to test whether differences arise in patient
      preferences depending on how the information they receive is framed.

      Recruitment:

      The investigators will recruit ninety adults with psoriasis from the Keck Medicine of
      University of Southern California (USC) Outpatient Care Network and the Los Angeles
      County+University of Southern California (LAC+USC) Medical Center outpatient clinic network.

      Survey Administration:

      Ninety subjects will be randomized using the HIPAA-compliant database Research Electronic
      Data Capture (REDCap) 1:1 to receive a survey regarding a hypothetical therapeutic
      intervention specific to their disease. All subjects (N=90) will be asked to indicate basic
      demographic information, such as age, sex, race, and education level. Also, the investigators
      will ask whether they have been diagnosed with psoriatic arthritis. Importantly, subjects
      will complete the survey questions anonymously, and no direct patient identifiers or
      HIPPA-protected information will be collected.

      Half of the subjects (n=45) will be presented with a gain-framed message that explains the
      benefits of receiving a hypothetical injectable psoriasis medication. The other half (n=45)
      will be presented with a loss-framed message that explains the harms associated with not
      taking the medication. Both arms will include the same information regarding the possible
      side effects upon receiving the injection. The following are examples of gain-framed versus
      loss-framed messages for this study.

      Example of a gain-framed question: A new injectable medication is being developed for
      psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. If you take this medication, you will have the chance to
      reduce psoriasis severity, reduce joint pain, and improve how you feel overall. The side
      effects of this medication include a small chance of pain around the injection site and a
      small chance of skin infections. How likely are you to take this medication?

      Example of a loss-framed question: A new injectable medication for psoriasis is being
      developed. If you do not take this medication, you will miss out on the chance to improve
      your skin, your joints, and your overall health. If you do not take this medication, your
      psoriasis may get worse; you may have worsening pain in your joints from psoriatic arthritis;
      and you may feel worse overall. The side effects of this medication include a small chance of
      pain around the injection site and a small chance of skin infections. How likely are you to
      take this medication?

      After each arm is exposed to their respective gain-framed or loss-framed question, each
      participant will be asked to indicate their preference on a scale from zero to ten. Zero
      indicates they definitely will not use the medication while ten indicates they definitely
      will use the medication.

      The investigators will not collect any patient protected information, such as name, date of
      birth, phone numbers, or address. Subjects will fill out the survey anonymously.

      Selection of Participants:

      With a total sample size of 90 (45 per each group), this study has 80% power to detect a
      difference of 1.5 in the means between the subjects randomized to positively framed messages
      versus those randomized to negative framed messages with alpha of 0.05 and standard deviation
      of 2.5.

      Statistical Analysis: The investigators will perform a multivariate regression analysis and a
      paired t-test to determine statistical and clinical significance. To minimize confounding,
      the multivariate regression analysis will adjust for demographic and clinical characteristics
      such as gender and the presence or absence of psoriatic arthritis.
    
  