
    
      1. Introduction

           One of the most common reasons for medication nonadherence among older adults is
           forgetfulness. Medication management technologies can help them not only with
           forgetfulness or cognitive impairment but also with other reasons that contribute to the
           lack of adherence to medications, such as polypharmacy (ie, the self-administration of
           multiple drugs). Research has also shown that the use of external cues supports the
           automatic recovery of a planned action. Therefore, this study proposes to support
           external cues through a tablet-based ambient display designed to increase the retrieval
           process of the planned action (ie, taking medications) and to provide awareness of
           adherence behavior. To reach this end, the Medication Ambient Display (MAD) was
           developed.

           An ambient display unobtrusively presents relevant information unless it requires the
           users' attention. In addition, users can easily monitor the display to obtain the
           desired information because it uses abstract modalities to represent information, such
           as pictures, sounds, and movement. Thus, different abstract modalities to provide
           external cues that enable older adults to easily obtain relevant information to take
           their medications on time and be aware of their medication adherence.

           MAD was implemented for Android tablets to be placed as portrait frames in the older
           adults' homes and to provide the following external cues:

             -  Abstract and stylized representations of their medication adherence

             -  Auditory and visual reminders to call older adults' attention

             -  Events that may enhance older adults' awareness about whether the medication was
                taken.

           In this study, the effect of the use of the above-mentioned approach was assessed by
           using objective medication adherence measures. Moreover, qualitative findings were
           obtained about the adoption of the MAD.

        2. Study flow

      2.a. Participant recruitment

      For recruiting participants, research assistants (students of the Nursing Faculty) contacted
      older adults affiliated in the Comunity Center of the University, in which students and
      academic personnel offer older adults social and health-care services. To recruit
      participants, research assistants administered a set of instruments to assess which older
      adults met the eligibility criteria. The instruments used were the Short Portable Mental
      State Questionnaire, the Medication Management Instrument for Deficiencies in the Elderly,
      and the 8-item Medication Adherence Questionnaire, also known as Morisky scale. Relatives of
      older adults were interviewed to identify their role in helping older adults follow their
      medication routine. Older adults who met the eligibility criteria and expressed their
      interest to participate were enrolled in the study. The recruitment procedure lasted
      approximately 5 weeks (weeks 1-5).

      2.b. Pre-Intervention activities

      Baseline data were collected during weeks 6 to 10 on medication adherence by using the pill
      counting technique. Research assistants noticed that participants accumulated containers with
      the same medications. Under those circumstances, seniors were provided with a basket to
      arrange the medications that should be taken each week, which facilitated data collection for
      measuring the Dosage_pill adherence outcome.

      2.c. Intervention activities

      Research assistants made a random and blind allocation of the participants to the treatment
      group (TG) and the control group (CG). On the first day of the intervention phase, research
      assistants visited older adults in the TG to introduce the MAD in the presence of caregivers
      by using the spaced retrieval approach, that is, teach, ask, wait, ask again, wait, and ask
      again. After the completion of the training session, which lasted 40 minutes approximately,
      the MAD was personalized according to the participant's prescriptions and through discussions
      with the participants on an appropriate schedule for presenting the reminders. Afterward, the
      MAD was placed in the area of participants' homes where they usually reported taking
      medications, mostly the kitchen, living room, and bedroom. The intervention phase lasted 5
      weeks, during which research assistants visited participants to collect data on medication
      adherence (from both the TG and the CG) and system adoption (from the TG).

      2.d. Postintervention activities

      After the intervention was completed, MAD was removed from the participants' homes. Research
      assistants then carried out weekly visits (weeks 16-17) to older adults from the TG to
      collect data through semi-structured interviews about how MAD affected their medication
      routine and adherence.

      3. Outcome measures and data acquisition

      A set of variables were identified as relevant for analyzing the effect of the external cues
      provided by the MAD on the participants' medication adherence, such as dosage and timely
      variables, which were used to address research question 1.

      During the intervention phase, qualitative evidence about the system's adoption was collected
      to address research question 2. The interview included questions regarding the system's
      functionalities that the TG's participants perceived as most useful, less useful, and the
      difficulties faced while using it. Similarly, at the end of the postintervention stage, TG's
      participants were interviewed to obtain their perceptions of how withdrawal from the MAD
      impacted their medication adherence. In addition, caregivers were interviewed to obtain
      information on their involvement in the seniors' medication activities. The questions
      centered on the specific activities associated with the older adults' medication regimens
      that caregivers were involved in and how they knew if older adults took their pills in a
      given week.

      4. Data analysis

      Student t tests and chi-square tests were used to measure the statistical difference in age,
      the number of prescribed medicines, and self-reported medication adherence between the TG and
      the CG. A one-way repeated measure analysis of variance (ANOVA), dependent t tests, and
      independent t tests were used to find significant differences in medication adherence between
      the study phases and between the TG and the CG. The McNemar test was used to verify
      differences within the TG between the self-reported medication adherence in the recruitment
      and intervention phases. To determine whether any of the differences between the means
      estimated are statistically significant, the P value was compared with a significance level
      set to .05.

      For the qualitative analysis, the collected data were transcribed from their original Spanish
      version, that is, audio and handwritten notes. The thematic analysis approach was followed
      which consists of generating initial codes from the data, searching for potential themes,
      contrasting the identified themes with the data, and iteratively refining them.
    
  