
    
      Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a major health problem. The World Health Organization
      (WHO) estimated that at least 150-170 million people, approximately 3% of the world's
      population, are chronically infected. These patients are known to be at risk of developing
      liver complications, i.e., cirrhosis and liver cancer, with an estimated liver-related
      mortality of 350,000 people/year. However, the risks of morbidity and mortality are
      underestimated because they do not take into account the extra-hepatic consequences of HCV
      infection. Numerous extra-hepatic manifestations (HCV-EHMs) have been reported. In some large
      cohort studies, up to 74% of patients experienced HCV-EHMs of different severity, from
      perceived to disabling conditions.

      Treatment of HCV infection has a long history. It began with interferon (IFN) mono-therapy,
      with less than 20% sustained virological response (SVR). Milestones include the addition of
      ribavirin (RBV) to the treatment protocol and providing pegylated-IFN (PegIFN) as an
      alternative treatment.

      Treatment with PegIFN/RBV was the standard of care for about 10 years. The success rate of
      treatment with this regimen is very dependent on patient characteristics, including age, body
      mass index, ethnicity, and genetic factors.

      Viral factors, especially HCV genotype, also affect the response to HCV treatment, and there
      are always additional factors that should be taken into account in each treatment approach,
      including treatment success rate, duration, cost, and side effects.

      In light of these concerns, attempts have continued to introduce better therapeutic regimens.

      Treatment of chronic HCV infection has been revolutionized in recent years. The FDA has
      approved different IFN-free direct acting antiviral regimens (DAAs) including: Sofosbuvir
      (SOF) in combination with Ledipasvir (LDV), combination of Ombitasvir/Paritaprevir/ Dasabuvir
      (a three direct acting antiviral, or 3D), combination therapy with Grazoprevir/Elbasvir
      (GZR/EBR), Simeprevir (SMV) and Daclatasvir (DCV) also in combination with SOF.

      More than 95% of patients have a sustained viral response (SVR) using DAA. The recent Cohort
      studies have demonstrated that the new regimens of DAAs may be associated with renal side
      effects, especially when using SOF combinations. So, to aid in the correct use of DAAs in
      treatment of HCV patients, their potential renal toxicity must be known.

      The close monitoring of renal function is required. Although, new DAAs were well tolerated,
      recent real-life studies have demonstrated some nephrotoxic effect in Frail populations
      treated with SOF based regimens.

      The use of direct acting antiviral agents (DAAs) in HCV patients might be expected to result
      in improved outcomes in hepatic functions even in end stage liver disease. But, the effect of
      DAAs on the kidney still needing a specific study.
    
  