
    
      Accidental dura rupture is a complication of lumbar spine surgery, with an incidence of 2-18%
      which can cause cerebrospinal fluid leakage leading to symptoms such as postural headache,
      photosensitivity, tinnitus, infection, and pseudomeningocele. Traditionally, the condition is
      treated with postoperatively flat bed rest ranging from 0-72 hours, entailing an increased
      risk of complications due to bed rest. There is inconsistency in the length of prescribed
      flat bed rest for these patients, and no consensus exists nationally or internationally. The
      prescription of flat bed rest is generally made by the surgeons based on their clinical
      experience.

      This quality development project in the clinimetric field aims to develop an assessment tool
      (Duramob) of perioperative symptoms prevalence and severity in lumbar spine surgery patients
      with and without dura rupture in the early postoperative phase.

      Data is based on clinical auditing comprising a consecutive samples of patients in
      collaboration with " Center for Rheumatology and Spine Diseases", Rigshospitalet-Glostrup,
      Denmark.

      The Duramob instrument will be developed as an evidence-based algorithm for assessing the
      potential need for postoperatively restrictive bedrest after dura rupture, - and subsequently
      to be implemented in clinical perioperative practice. Further scientific testing will
      following be carried out in a feasibility study and / or as a Randomized Controlled Trial.

      This initial study will generate observational evidence investigating the first steps towards
      establishing a safe mobilisation regime for patients with surgical dura rupture. Ultimately,
      we seek to avoid unnecessary bedrest and complications derived from perioperative
      immobilization. Data will be protected in a local clinical database RedCap hosted by the
      Capital Region Data Management system and follows GDPR regulations. The department leadership
      approved the project and the local ethical Committee' waived the need for approval.
    
  