
    
      The study will enroll subjects in several different cohorts including a febrile rash cohort
      (attempting to capture acute Zika/Chikungunya/Dengue infection), a household cohort
      (attempting to capture asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic subjects), and a cohort of those
      with Guillain Barré). Additionally, two subpopulations of the febrile rash cohort that have
      special follow up. This includes the pregnant population, who will be followed through
      delivery to determine pregnancy outcomes, and those subjects with neurologic or cognitive
      manifestations who will be evaluated to determine the spectrum of neurologic disease seen
      with these diseases.

      Subjects with Guillain Barré with potential exposure to Zika virus are of special interest
      given the severity of disease. Subjects with Guillian Barré do not need to have a preceding
      illness suggestive of Zika or other viruses. As there are few subjects with Guillain Barré,
      subjects will be enrolled in two ways - a prospective cohort for subjects with acute Guillain
      Barré, and a cohort for subjects that had Guillain Barré in the last several years. Data
      collected systematically from these cohorts will improve the understanding of
      Zika/Chikungunya/Dengue virus infections.

      There are many uncertainties about the number of subjects that meet this case definition.
      There are limits to the ability to enroll based on staffing and other resources. If there are
      many cases, an emphasis will be placed on enrolling pregnant subjects and adults with
      neurologic complications that meet the case definition, as this is the area of highest
      clinical need. If there are few pregnant women or subjects with neurologic problems that can
      be enrolled, then any adults or children meeting the criteria can be enrolled. Not all
      cohorts will be active at all sites, based on the type of facility and type of patients
      typically seen. If sufficient numbers of certain populations are enrolled (i.e. children born
      to women infected with Zika), the protocol may be amended to study those populations in more
      detail.
    
  