
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety of fenretinide delivered in a 5 of 7 day regimen. (Phase I) II. To
      estimate the efficacy (response rates) of fenretinide + rituximab in patients with B-cell
      non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To perform pharmacokinetic studies on patients receiving fenretinide. (Phase I) II. To
      determine the intratumoral concentrations of fenretinide. (Phase I) III. To evaluate the in
      vivo mechanism of action of fenretinide. (Phase I) IV. To identify the predictors of response
      to fenretinide. (Phase I) V. To estimate the response rates, positron emission tomography
      (PET) response, overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), time to progression
      (TTP), and disease-free survival (DFS) of patients treated on this study. (Phase I) VI. To
      estimate the overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), time to progression
      (TTP), disease-free survival (DFS), and PET responses of patients treated on this study.
      (Phase II) VII. To perform pharmacokinetic studies on patients receiving fenretinide. (Phase
      II) VIII. To determine the intratumoral concentration of fenretinide. (Phase II) IX. To
      identify the predictors of response to fenretinide and fenretinide + rituximab in B-NHL.
      (Phase II) X. To evaluate the in vivo mechanism of action of fenretinide in B-NHL. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of fenretinide followed by a phase II
      study.

      PHASE I: Patients receive fenretinide orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-5. Treatment
      repeats weekly for at least 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients receive fenretinide PO BID on days 1-5 in weeks 1-8 and rituximab
      intravenously (IV) once weekly in weeks 5-8. Treatment continues in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  