
    
      Introduction:

      Gait deviations in children may be caused by excessive femoral anteversion (AV). This
      rotational deformity is usually self-limiting but is a common cause of parental concern.
      Femoral anteversion is an inward twisting (rotation) of the femur. Excessive femoral
      anteversion causes the patients knees and feet to turn inwards and have a "pigeon-toed"
      appearance. The AV angle can be measured in the transverse plane by a line through the centre
      of the femoral head and neck and a tangential line across of the posterior femoral condyles.
      In the majority of cases of increased femoral AV, normalization occurs spontaneously during
      growth.

      Persisting excessive femoral torsion after the age of 8 years may lead to tripping and
      anterior hip and knee pain. Recent studies have shown that increased internal rotation is a
      risk factor for patellofemoral instability and may result in patellofemoral contact pressure.

      There are no studies supporting conservative treatment with physiotherapy or braces. Femoral
      derotational osteotomy is the gold standard to correct symptomatic patients with increased
      femoral AV. Several techniques have been described and there is no clear evidence in the
      literature supporting which surgical technique or implant that should be used (3).
      Traditionally these patients are treated with an open osteotomy and plate and screw fixation.
      In recent years intramedullary nailing with adolescent interlocking nail has been described
      both for rotational osteotomies and femoral fractures. With a lateral trochanteric entry
      point this has been shown to be a safe method. Percutaneous osteotomy and intramedullary
      nailing is considered a less invasive technique compared with open osteotomy and plate and
      screw fixation.

      Study aims:

      The investigators want to compare percutaneous osteotomy and intramedullary nailing with an
      open approach and plating with interlocking screws, in a randomized, controlled single-center
      trial. Our hypothesis is that percutaneous osteotomy and intramedullary nailing is
      non-inferior in the treatment of increased femoral AV, compared to open approach with plate
      fixation.

      The primary outcome measure is to measure the accuracy of the derotation at 12 months by CT
      scan.

      Study design and methodology:

      The study is a randomized non-inferiority trail comparing operative treatment of patients
      with symptomatic increased idiopathic femoral anteversion. There are two arms: (1) Open
      approach and plating and (2) percutaneous osteotomy and intramedullary nailing. The
      allocation ratio is 1:1.We will recruit patients in the age 10-18 years of age, referred to
      the Orthopedic department, Oslo University Hospital. A pediatric orthopedic surgeon will
      verify that the patient meets the inclusion criteria, and the patient will be given thorough
      oral and written information. After signed consent, the randomization allocation to treatment
      method will be performed by means of a web-solution made by NTNU WebCRF system with the
      approval from the OUS Head of Patient Security.

      Follow-up:

      The study patients will be followed-up over a one year period (6 weeks, 12 weeks, 12 months).
      All patients will be tested with 3 d gait analysis at 12 months and will be compared with the
      patients preoperativ 3 D gait analysis. All reoperations will be recorded.
    
  