
    
      Scientific Background and Significance

      Introduction:

      Congestive heart failure (CHF) represents a major health care concern in the United States.
      It has been estimated that approximately 5 million patients in the U.S. have CHF, and nearly
      550,000 people are diagnosed with this disease annually.1 It is known that sudden cardiac
      death occurs more frequently in the setting of structural heart disease. Moreover, the risk
      for sudden cardiac death is 6 to 9 times greater in the heart failure population, and cardiac
      arrhythmias are perhaps the leading cause of death in CHF patients. 2,3 Currently, both the
      American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association endorse the placement of
      internal cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy,
      reasonable life expectancy, and reduced ejection fraction below 40% (class I, level of
      evidence A).4 Additionally, placement of ICDs is recommended in non-ischemic cardiomyopathy
      patients who meet similar requirements with an ejection fraction of less than 35% (class I,
      level of evidence B).4 Despite these recommendations for primary prevention of sudden death
      by way of ICD implantation, more than half of the patients receiving a device are likely to
      not experience an arrhythmic event that necessitates ICD shock delivery.3 ICD devices, on
      average, cost $20-50,000 exclusive of operative and follow up costs. Currently, risk
      stratification of sudden cardiac death and the need for ICD placement is essentially
      dependent upon assessment of left ventricular ejection fraction. Other methods employed for
      risk stratification are signal averaged electrocardiogram (ECG) and another
      electrocardiographic technique known as T-wave alternans. Although these methods are FDA
      approved from risk prediction of cardiac death, such techniques are not widely employed in
      the U.S. given equipment and personnel costs to implement them. Thus, alternative testing for
      risk assessment for the development of sudden cardiac death in the heart failure population
      is desirable.

      Role of Sodium Channels and the SCN5A Gene:

      The cardiac voltage-gated sodium (Na+) channel, SCN5A, is the main channel generating current
      for electrical propagation in heart muscle and is the target of many antiarrhythmic drugs.
      Defective expression of the cardiac Na+ channel results in increased arrhythmic risk as
      evidenced by sudden death in the Brugada Syndrome.5 SCN5A mutations have also been implicated
      in the inherited long-QT syndrome, which can result in the development of the fatal
      dysrhythmias like ventricular fibrillation and torsades de pointes.6 Additionally, mutations
      in the SCN5A gene have also been proposed to exist and enhance risk for drug-induced
      dysrhythmias.7 Many studies have been done to shed light on the role of this
      tetrodotoxin-insensitive sodium channel in disease states. It has been demonstrated that
      mutated sodium channels in dilated cardiomyopathy may function differently depending upon the
      specific mutation type of the principal Na+ channel alpha-subunit.8 Specifically, Nguyen et
      al have demonstrated that these mutations may lead to changes in physiological function such
      as slower action potential rise time, enhanced late sodium current during steady state, or
      impaired inactivation.8 Additional mutations in the SCN5A gene have been linked to shifts in
      voltage dependence of Na+ channel inactivation in patients with idiopathic ventricular
      fibrillation.9 Additional research has concluded that decreased inactivation of late sodium
      currents may contribute to action potential prolongation.10 A different SCN5A gene
      abnormality, the E161K mutation, has been shown to lead to decreased sodium current density
      and a an 11.9 mV positive shift in the cell membrane half-maximal activation potential.11
      Therefore, mutations of the Na+ channel can cause altered channel behavior and arrhythmias.

      Valdivia et al. demonstrated that peak sodium current density is reduced 39% in the dog
      model, and approximately 57% in explanted failing human hearts, although the mechanism is
      unclear.10 Though our understanding of electrophysiological changes in heart failure and
      their relationship to arrhythmogenesis remains unclear, it can be inferred that disruptions
      in sodium handling - and perhaps increased intracellular sodium - may also result in change
      in calcium homeostasis via action of the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger.12,13 Overall, such changes in
      INa are likely to significantly contribute to arrhythmia in the setting of failing
      myocardium.

      At the genome level, research has focused on the role of SCN5A gene mutations in
      arrhythmogenesis.8,9,14-16 Nevertheless, we have recently described acquired defects in Na+
      channel messenger RNA (mRNA) that result in reduced Na+ current and occur only in failing
      hearts. Three 3'-terminal SCN5A mRNA splicing variants were identified and characterized in
      failing human heart ventricles. These splice variants were predicted to result in the
      translation of nonfunctional sodium ion channels that lack an appropriate domain IV pore
      region. These three splicing variants for the nonfunctional sodium channel gene product were
      denoted E28B, E28C, and E28D. Relative levels of the full length mRNA isoform, E28A, were
      decreased by 24.7% in patients with CHF compared to control. Additionally, two truncated
      versions of the gene product were increased in heart failure patients, reflecting an acquired
      genetic abnormality in production of the SCN5A gene in heart failure. At the same time, the
      E28C and E28D mRNA abundances were increased 14.2 fold and 3.8 fold respectively in CHF
      patients compared to controls. In order to confirm that truncation variants could contribute
      to arrhythmic risk, a gene-target mouse model was created with a nonsense mutation at exon
      28. The electrophysiological effect of the presence of this gene truncation was also
      examined. It was found that action potential rate of rise was reduced (p=0.02, n=11), and the
      action potential amplitude was reduced from 76 ± 1.4 mV to 52 ± 0.6mV (p≤0.01, n=11).
      Integrated effect of this truncation was studied by examining bipolar field potentials (FP)
      of cardiomyocytes on microelectrode arrays.17 A 70.5% reduction (p<0.05) from -1126 ± 314 μV
      (n=6) in WT to 332 ± 174 micro V (n=7) in FP amplitude was observed. Additional measurements
      done by this method revealed a delay in FP rise and slowed conduction velocity in the mutant
      cells versus normal controls, suggesting that the truncation mutants could cause electrical
      abnormalities severe enough to contribute to arrhythmic risk. Also, we showed that
      lymphocytes process sodium channels similarly to cardiomyocytes. Thus, lymphocyte SCN5A mRNA
      processing may serve as a surrogate marker to assess SCN5A at the cardiac level and may
      correlated with arrhythmic risk in high risk populations. This study will assess that
      assertion.

      Specific Aims/Objectives:

      Research Aim 1:

      To determine the abundances of SCN5A mRNA splice variants in patients with CHF and baseline
      ejection fractions less than 35% versus normal controls of similar age groups.

      Research Aim 2:

      To compare the abundances of SCN5A mRNA splice variants in patients with ICD devices who have
      and have not experienced ICD shock therapy.

      Performance Sites of Research:

      University of Illinois Medical Center and Jesse Brown VA Medical Center.

      Key Research Personnel:

      The Principal Investigator for this study will be Dr. Samuel Dudley, MD, PhD. Dr. Dudley is
      the Chief of the Section of Cardiology at the University of Illinois at Chicago. He is a
      Professor of Medicine and a published author in the field of cardiovascular medicine and
      physiology.

      Research Methods:

      Study Design:

      Research Aim 1: We will correlate the amount of white cell Na+ channel splice variants with
      ejection fraction in patients with an without heart failure.

      Research Aim 2: We will correlate the amount of white cell Na+ channel splice variants with
      the number of appropriate ICD shock in patients with ICDs in place.

      Study Interventions:

      This study requires no change in the standard of care. All study participants will be
      subjected to phlebotomy at the time of enrollment.

      Sample Collection and Processing:

      About 15 ML of blood will be drawn from study participants from University of Illinois at
      Chicago (UIC) or Jesse Brown Veterans Affairs Medical Center (JBVAMC) who have given informed
      consent for phlebotomy and study participation. Samples will be delivered immediately by
      study staff (coordinator, CO-PI, etc) to Dr. Dudley's (PI) lab in Room 1133 of the Clinical
      Sciences Building (CSB) for processing within 2 hours of collection. Levels of mRNA will be
      measured and some of the processed sample may be stored in a -80° F freezer in the same Lab
      for up to 7 years. Samples will NOT be stored or processed at JBVAMC or any other facility.

      Statistical considerations:

      The relationship of Na+ channel mRNA variant abundances will be compared in subjects with and
      without heart failure and in subjects with and without ICD events. The primary endpoint will
      be the a comparison of mRNA variant abundances. Dependent variables will include heart
      failure for aim 1 and number of shocks in aim 2. The number of patients need for each aim is
      determined by the variance of the test, the mean difference expected, and some consideration
      of the number of covariates that will need to analyzed in the regression analysis.
      Previously, we showed that the least sensitive measure was a reduction in E28A abundance by
      24%. If we assume that the same percentage reduction will happen in aims 1 and 2, then we
      would need about 45 patients in each group to have a 90% power to detect this difference,
      assuming a 10% loss rate due to technical errors in the assays. Therefore, we would need a
      total of 180 patients for the total trial, 45 with heart failure, 45 controls, 45 ICD
      patients with events, and 45 patients without events.

      Baseline data will be expressed as mean ± standard deviation (SD) for continuous variables,
      and frequencies for categorical variables. Differences in baseline characteristics between
      the groups will be examined by use of Fisher exact and Mann-Whitney tests for categorical and
      continuous variables, respectively. Because the number of ICD events recorded is a function
      of the observation time, Poisson regression will be used to model any relationship. In this
      model, the number of ICD events observed is assumed to be distributed following a Poisson
      distribution. That is, for a given period of time, the probability that a certain number of
      events has occurred is a function of the event rate multiplied by the duration of
      observation. In order to estimate the effects of mRNA variants on the rate of event
      occurrence, it is assumed that the event rate is log linear with respect to the predictors of
      interest. Solving this equation gives rate ratios comparing the rate of event occurrence in
      subjects with and without ICD events. Multiple expressions for the mRNA variant abundances
      will be considered, such as the relative abundance of each variant individually, the
      abundance of the individual variant as a function of the total Na+ channel mRNA, and the
      ratio of the truncations to the full-length Na+ channel mRNA. The regression coefficient will
      be estimated for the relationship between the dependent variable, ICD events, and the
      independent variables as the log of the rate ratio estimates. Statistical significance will
      be determined by using the likelihood ratio test. A p-value of 0.05 or less will be taken to
      be statistically significant. Results will be reported as the risk ratio and its associated
      95% confidence interval. In order to select variables to be included in the model, we will
      consider, conservatively, those variables with a different distribution between the two
      groups at a p<0.20. The possibility of multicolinearity will be evaluated. Linear and
      non-linear terms will be considered. Normality of the variable distributions will be tested
      by a normal probability plot and by a Shapiro-Wilk test. While regression is fairly tolerant
      of violations in this regard, transformations will be investigated as necessary.
      Homoscedasticity will be evaluated by plot of residuals versus predicted values.
      Discrimination of the model will be evaluated by an overall C index and validated by
      bootstrap methods.

      Anticipated Results and Pitfalls:

      We do not anticipate any complications with acquiring blood samples, analyzing mRNA variants,
      or performing the statistics. Nevertheless, the major limitation to this trial is its
      retrospective nature. Nevertheless, this data will be useful in the design of future
      prospective trials.
    
  