
    
      The objective of this study is to measure the effect of home (self) blood pressure monitoring
      on control of hypertension in a primary care setting.

      This research is important for several reasons:

      i) Lack of control of hypertension is common and is associated with morbidity and mortality.

      ii) The costs of managing hypertensions are high, not only because of the prevalence of
      hypertension, but also because maintenance of control must exist over many years for most
      patients.

      iii) Home blood pressure monitoring is increasingly being used by patients.

      iv) Guidelines for home blood pressure monitoring are already being developed and
      distributed.

      v) While it would seem helpful to increase self-care by patients, there is currently
      conflicting or inadequate evidence that home monitoring is useful.

      The main hypothesis of the study is that, compared to patients who receive usual care,
      patients who use home monitoring will have lower blood pressure levels.

      Our secondary hypothesis is that HBPM changes physician and patient behaviours in ways that
      would result in better control of hypertension.

      The methodology uses cluster randomization. Physicians will be randomly allocated to either
      have their patients use the intervention or to continue with usual care. The intervention for
      the experimental group is the provision of a home blood pressure monitor to patients with a
      request that they record weekly blood pressure measurements and report them to their family
      physician at their regular hypertension follow-up visits. The physicians will be informed of
      current guidelines for target levels for home monitored blood pressure. The control group
      will receive usual care.

      The main outcome measures will be blood pressure level (by 24 hour ambulatory monitoring) at
      baseline, 6 months and 12 months.

      The secondary objective of this study is to measure the effect of home monitoring on
      physicians' and patients' behaviours related to hypertension control. Behaviours that will be
      measured include the intensity and type of pharmacological treatment, compliance with
      antihypertensive medication and changes in patient's lifestyle.
    
  