
    
      Background:

        -  While great progress has been made in CAR T-cell therapy for the treatment of
           hematologic malignancies, its use in solid tumors is still at the exploratory stage.

        -  Transmembrane 4 L Six Family Member 1 (TM4SF1) protein mediates signal transduction
           events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and
           motility. It is a cell surface antigen and is highly expressed in different carcinomas.
           Epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM),is a transmembrane glycoprotein of 40
           kilodaltons (kDa). EpCAM is highly expressed in many epithelial-derived tumors, such as
           colon, stomach, pancreas, lungs, ovaries and breasts. Recently, EpCAM has been
           identified as the surface marker of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and cancer stem cells
           (CSCs).

        -  The investigators have developed novel TM4SF1-targeting CAR T-cells (CART-TM4SF1 cells)
           and EpCAM-targeting CAR T-cells (CART-EpCAM cells) for solid tumor treatment. These
           engineered T-cells can target and kill the TM4SF1- or EpCAM-positive tumor cells in
           vitro or in mice. Both of the CAR molecules contain a safety switch based on epidermal
           growth factor receptor (EGFR) to ensure the safety.

        -  The investigators propose to investigate the feasibility, safety, and efficacy of
           CART-TM4SF1 cells and CART-EpCAM cells for solid cancers in patients.

      Objectives:

      Primary objectives:

        1. To determine the safety/tolerance dosages and adverse effects of CART-TM4SF1 cells or
           CART-EpCAM cells in the treatment of TM4SF1- or EpCAM-positive recurrent/refractory
           advanced solid tumors.

        2. To preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of CART-TM4SF1 cells and CART-EpCAM cells in the
           treatment of TM4SF1- and EpCAM-positive recurrent/refractory advanced solid tumors.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To determine the pharmacokinetic (PK)/pharmacodynamic (PD) characteristics of
           CART-TM4SF1 cells and CART-EpCAM cells in humans.

        2. To evaluate the overall survival (OS) and tumor regression after treatment.

        3. To assess the life quality of patients

      Study population:

      The study population includes 72 patients with refractory/recurrent advanced solid tumors
      positive for TM4SF1 or EpCAM expressions, each cancer including 9 patients . Among these
      patients with pancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer, gastric cancer or lung cancer, 9 subjects
      will receive 3 escalating doses (3 subjects in each dosage group)and safety and preliminary
      efficacy evaluation.

      Design:

        -  This is a single-center open-label clinical study.

        -  Recruit patients with refractory/recurrent pancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer, gastric
           cancer or lung cancer, with written consent for this study. Perform biopsy to determine
           the expression of TM4SF1 or EpCAM of the tumor with immuno-histochemistry (IHC).

        -  Collect peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) from the patients, isolate and activate
           the T cells and transfect them with TM4SF1, or EpCAM targeting CAR, expand the
           transfected T cells as needed, assess the quality and antitumor activity of the CAR-T
           products in vitro and then transfer them back the patients via systemic or local
           injections, and follow up closely to collect related results as needed.

        -  Clinical and immunological responses will be evaluated closely in about 30 days and last
           up to 2 years after back-transfusion.
    
  