
    
      Background:

      There are several medications used to prevent blood clotting in patients undergoing surgical
      replacement of their aortic valves with tissue valves. One of these medications is called
      warfarin (Coumadin ®) which prevents blood clotting by making the blood "thinner." Another
      medication is aspirin which prevents the aggregation (clustering) of cells in the blood
      called platelets. Some clinicians consider that using only aspirin should be enough to
      protect the patients against the presence of clots in the blood, but others consider that
      aspirin should be combined with warfarin for better protection. Moreover, physicians express
      concern over the use of oral anticoagulation due to the possibility of an increased risk of
      bleeding. The effects of these medications for preventing blood clots traveling to the brain
      after the surgery are currently unknown. Transcranial doppler ultrasound will be used in
      these patients to evaluate non-invasively the quantity of fragments of clots circulating in
      the arteries of the brain. In addition, platelet function will be measured to determine how
      effective these treatments are for preventing the aggregation of the blood cells called
      platelets, which may be involved in clot formation.

      Objective:

      Our purpose is to determine if there is any difference in the counts of cerebral emboli and
      platelet function between two prophylactic treatments of thrombosis currently used in our
      institution for the first three months after surgery in these patients: 1) daily use of
      high-dose aspirin [325 mgs], and 2) the combination of oral Warfarin [target INR 2.0 to 3.0]
      and low-dose aspirin [81 mg].

      Methods:

      Patients with low risk profile undergoing primary aortic valve replacement with a
      bioprosthetic (tissue) valve will be eligible for the study. Patients will receive one of the
      two prophylactic treatments of thrombosis (1 or 2) depending on the surgeon's preference.
      Platelet function will be measured before surgery and transcranial doppler within the first
      24 hours immediately after the surgery. At the end of one month following surgery, all
      patients will undergo transcranial doppler and platelet function assessment. The study will
      be powered on demonstrating the hypothesis of substantial equivalence between the two
      treatments as regarding the primary outcome (cerebral emboli).

      Outcome measures:

        1. Primary outcome:

           Bilateral counts of cerebral emboli in the middle cerebral arteries with transcranial
           doppler ultrasound at one month after surgery

        2. Secondary outcomes:

      Platelet function, incidence of major adverse neurologic and bleeding events at one month
      following surgery
    
  