
    
      Peritoneal dialysis (PD) is one of the methods of renal replacement therapy (RRT) that can
      easily perform at home. The declared "PD first" policy from the National Health Security
      Office causes rapidly expansion of this group of patients. In the year 2013, the current
      study in Thailand showed that the patients enrolled for peritoneal dialysis accumulated for
      more than 15,000 people. It works continuously similar to the actual function of the kidneys
      in normal people. In addition, PD also helps to slow the decline of remaining kidney function
      (residual renal function), which is very important and affect in decreasing mortality rate in
      this group of patients. However, PD has several limitations such as complications from the
      infection and high failure rate associated with a dysfunction of the peritoneal membrane
      during long-term treatment. Approximately 4-12 percent of patients will have ultrafiltration
      failure and volume overload in the first couple of years of treatment and soar to 30-50
      percent in patients treated for more than six years.

      The causes of peritoneal membrane deterioration are exposure to incompatible dialysis
      solution with hyperosmolar glucose content, acidic pH, reactions to PD catheter material,
      uremia and peritonitis. The alterations of structural and functional of the peritoneal
      membrane after exposed to these several insults are epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition
      (EMT), and increase in peritoneal solute transport, which consequently leading to peritoneal
      dialysis failure. It has been already demonstrated that the local
      renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) plays a key role in this regulation by promoting
      the activation of neoangiogenesis and fibrotic pathways.

      According to the pathophysiologic changes of the peritoneal membrane, Angiotensin Converting
      Enzyme Inhibitors (ACEIs) and Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) are adapted to be use in
      respect of membrane preserving agents. Many studies, both in human and animal models,
      demonstrate the protective effect against peritoneal membrane deterioration by inhibiting the
      formation of transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-β1), vascular endothelial growth factor
      (VEGF), and decreasing progression rate of small to high transport membrane type. In fact,
      mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs) seem to have higher efficacy than ACEIs/ARBs in
      some experimental models. The possible mechanism is the effects of mineralocorticoid receptor
      antagonists that not only inhibit the formation of TGF- β1 and VEGF, but also suppress
      intracellular Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS) generation, activation of extracellular
      signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2, and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), the
      substrates responsible for aldosterone induces alterations in cell phenotype. A prospective
      cohort study of 23 CAPD patients was conducted and evaluated the effect of spironolactone on
      peritoneal membrane. The result showed the possible benefit of spironolactone in slowing the
      decline of peritoneal function, suppressing the elevation of profibrotic markers, and
      increasing mesothelial cell mass.

      As a result of the clinical practice, most of CAPD patients tend to receive ACEIs/ARBs as
      prescribe by the clinicians, in order to control blood pressure, raise serum potassium level,
      and others compelling indications. Thus, the concept of add-on MRAs to ACEIs/ARBs, desiring
      the synergistic effects of these 2 drugs group, for membrane preservation is challenge.
      Notwithstanding the fact that current evidence about the combination effects of ACEIs/ARBs
      with MRAs is limited in term of quality of the study, sample size, inadequate follow-up
      period, and poor sensitive parameter in assessing the structural and functional changes of
      the peritoneal membrane. Thereby, this study aims to evaluate the effect of add-on
      spironolactone to losartan versus losartan alone on membrane preservation in continuous
      ambulatory peritoneal dialysis patients.
    
  