
    
      Cardiovascular disease is one of the leading causes for hospitalization and death in Canada.
      Being discharged is often a challenging and overwhelming time. Sometimes patients are
      readmitted to the hospital shortly in the months following their discharge. Some of these
      readmissions are due to information transfer being poor or insufficient.

      Previous studies have looked at whether text messaging can be a simple, cost-effective way to
      help patients. Therefore, we wish to investigate the effectiveness of using text messaging to
      help heart patients after they are discharged from the hospital.

      The goal of this study is to determine the impact of a pilot text-messaging intervention
      program (Txt2Prevent) that supports coronary syndrome (heart attack and unstable angina)
      patients for 60 days after their hospital discharge. The program will include information
      about follow-up care, medication use, and healthy lifestyle behaviours. The texts will be
      sent at relevant times during the patients' recovery.

      The primary objective is compare self-management between the usual care patients versus the
      Txt2prevent patients. We hypothesize that the Txt2Prevent group will have better
      self-management than the usual care group.

      The secondary objective is compare medication adherence, and health-related quality of life
      as well as readmission and mortality rates between the two patient groups. We hypothesize
      that the Txt2Prevent group will have better outcomes for these variables.

      The study population is acute coronary syndrome patients at St. Paul's hospital who are
      discharged. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two groups-a usual care group
      and the usual care plus the Txt2Prevent text messaging program group. All participants will
      undergo a baseline assessment that includes:

        -  Demographics, medical history, medication use and technology use information

        -  Self-management skills

        -  Health-related quality of life

      After 60 days, participants will be contacted again to perform a follow up assessment that
      includes:

        -  Information on readmission, medication use, the use of health services such as cardiac
           rehab

        -  Self-management skills

        -  Health-related quality of life

        -  Medication adherence

      In both the baseline and follow-up assessments, information may be obtained from the
      patient's medical chart or records (e.g. medical history) or self-report.

      After the intervention, some intervention participants will be contacted to complete a
      semi-structured interview about their experiences with the Txt2Prevent program.
    
  