
    
      Patients and Methods

      Study Design

      This is a randomized clinical trial to be conducted at two tertiary health care centers, with
      census of 102000 and 60000 visits per year, during years 2017 and 2018. The study design has
      been approved by ethics committee of the university. Informed consents will be obtained from
      patients. And patients who refuse to participate in the study are excluded from the study and
      will receive analgesia based on the physician responsible for analgesia preference.

      Population

      All adult patients (aged 18 or more) with upper extremity trauma who need procedural
      analgesia in the ED are included in this study. Patients with a history of seizure, known
      allergy to analgesic substances, sickle cell anemia, peripheral vascular disease and
      arteriovenous fistula or infection in upper extremities are excluded from the study. Patients
      who need emergent intervention/s that last more than one hour are also excluded from the
      study. Randomization is done using sealed envelopes containing computer-generated block
      random allocation numbers.

      Intervention

      After introduction of the protocol of Bier's block (using 1.5 mg/kg of 0.5% lidocaine) or
      systemic analgesia (using ketamine 1.5 mg/kg), patients underwent the necessary procedure.
      Physicians who were responsible for the analgesia, had authority to change the method of
      analgesia in each group, if necessary.

      Measurements

      Patient's age, sex, site and type of injury, vital signs and pain score using the Numerical
      Rating Scale (NRS) will be recorded before the introduction of analgesia. Patient's vital
      signs are documented at the end of the procedure. Satisfaction of the patient, surgeon and
      physician responsible for analgesia for the applied analgesic method is obtained before
      discharge from the ED operating room. Patients also score their level of pain before
      discharge and their vital signs are recorded at another instance. Time of initiation of
      analgesia, initiation of procedure, end of procedure, and gaining consciousness in systemic
      analgesia group and time of discharge from ED operating room are documented and patients will
      be discharged from the ED operating room when eligible.
    
  