
    
      Participants will be 60 children, aged 10-21, ASA 1 and 2 Classification, with idiopathic
      scoliosis or congenital deformity of the chest wall, who are undergoing Nuss
      procedure/scoliosis repair at the Nationwide Children's hospital. The design of this study is
      a single-blinded randomized controlled trial-comparing pre-operative anxiety, post-operative
      pain and other related symptoms in two groups of:

      Group 1: Receives hypnosis (described below) Plus PCA Group 2: Standard of care (PCA)

      Interventions:

      Group I) Hypnosis: The hypnosis group will receive a semi-structured intervention by primary
      investigator. The intervention is somewhat individualized based on the recipients personal
      characteristics (e.g., age, gender, medical history). The intervention will begin with an
      "induction" phase during which the participant is guided to relax and to focus their
      attention on one stimuli. The intervention will then proceed with a "suggestion" phase.
      Suggestions used in this phase will all be directed toward decreasing the patient's anxiety
      and post-operative pain. Patients will be taught self-hypnosis to decrease distress and
      reframe painful experiences.

      Group II) Control: This group will receive the standard of care of Nationwide Children's
      hospital.

      Procedures:

        1. Potential participants will be identified through review of the NCH surgery schedule and
           assessed for eligibility by review of the electronic medical record using the
           exclusionary criteria listed below.

        2. In order to assure valid data, all anesthetic protocol will be standardized.

        3. All patients will be randomized to the Hypnosis group and control group by another
           member of the research team based on a randomization table. The patient's group
           assignment will be placed in a sealed envelope prior to the day of surgery. Only PI can
           access the envelope prior to the intervention. The PI will only perform the assigned
           intervention while the research assistant and other health care providers are not
           present. The research assistant and the peri-operative health care personnel will remain
           blind to group assignment throughout data collection.

        4. A research assistant will administer a brief assessment of state of anxiety (STAI) that
           will take the patient at most 5 minutes to complete.

        5. The research assistant will measure patient's blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR).

        6. The PI will perform the clinical hypnotherapy intervention and teach self-hypnosis at
           two points of time in Hypnosis group;

             1. In pre-op visit prior to the surgery date

             2. on the day of, prior to the procedure

        7. A second research assistant will administer a second brief assessment of anxiety (STAI),
           and measure HR and BP again.

        8. Once the patient enters the operating room the standardized anesthetic protocol ( as
           describe below) will be employed.

        9. Following surgery, in the Post Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU) and floors we standardize
           pain management with PCA orders.

       10. Postoperative analgesia will be provided by hydromorphone delivered via a
           patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) device with a bolus dose of 4-8 µg/kg and a lockout
           period of 8-10 minutes. This may be increased up to 10 µg/kg as needed to achieve
           optimal analgesia. No basal infusion will be administered for the PCA. The nursing staff
           in post-anesthesia recovery unit and study staff collecting post-operative pain scores
           until 24 hours post-operatively will be blinded as to the group assigned. The subject's
           pain scores will be collected and recorded using the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) pain
           scale. Total opiate consumption in the first 24 hours will be recorded. The need for
           medications to treat opiate-related side effects including naloxone or ondansetron for
           pruritus or nausea respectively will be recorded. We will record the number of
           deliveries and demands from the PCA device. We will also record the length of hospital
           stay.

      Measures

        -  State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI)15. The STAI, completed by the patient to chart
           their own anxiety level, is a 40-item self-report measure that contains 20 items
           measuring state anxiety and 20 items measuring trait anxiety. Subjects are asked to
           respond on a 4-point Likert scale. Total scores for state and trait portions separately
           range from 20 to 80, with higher scores denoting higher levels of anxiety.

        -  Visual Analog Scale (VAS) The VAS is completed by the blind observer to chart their own
           rating of the patient's pain. It is a 10cm line where the observer can mark a line
           anywhere from "not anxious at all" to "very anxious"

        -  McGill Pain Questionnaire (MPQ). Sensory and effective dimensions of pain are measured
           using the short MPQ, which consists of 15 pain descriptors that are rated on a 4-point
           severity scale from 0 (none) to 3 (severe).

        -  Analgesic consumption. Analgesic consumption will be measured by recording the
           analgesics administered to the study subjects.

        -  Clinical recovery. Postoperative parameters will be recorded including time to clear
           fluid intake, voiding, and discharge from the hospital. The incidence of post-operative
           complications, such as post-operative nausea and vomiting and post-operative infections,
           will be noted as well.

        -  Global health questionnaire (GHQ). The GHQ is used to assess post-operative recovery;
           items include sleep, strength and energy, self-assistance and movement. The subjects
           rate every item on a six point Likert scale. The individual ratings are summed for a
           total recovery score.
    
  