
    
      The Researchers are trying to learn more about how individuals break down and process
      medications based on their genes. The Researchers are doing this in order to assess the
      number of potential genotype-based drug interactions and side effects in patients with
      polypharmacy as well as to assess the number of potential individualized (based on the
      patient's genotype) drug interactions and side effects in these patients. After completing
      the OneOme genetic testing and relaying those results to the patients care team, the
      Researchers will then assess, at 30 days post-recommendations, whether the medication
      recommendations to reduce individualized drug interactions and adverse effects were followed,
      and (2) whether the adverse effects decrease compared to admission.

      Patients will be recruited from the inpatient units listed in the inclusion criteria and,
      upon admission, each patient will complete a 24 item questionnaire measuring medication side
      effects, have a review of their medications for potential drug-drug and drug-genotype
      interactions (classified as low, medium or high risk), and then undergo the buccal swab to
      collect the DNA cells which will then be sent to OneOme for analysis. When the results are
      available, the study investigators will review the medications again for potential drug-drug
      and drug-genotype interactions and then communicate to the patients clinical team those
      results and whether medication changes are recommended to minimize the drug-drug and
      drug-genotype interactions.

      Thirty days after the recommendations are communicated to the patient's clinical team, the
      patient will be contacted by phone. During this phone call, the following information will be
      obtained:

        1. The patient's current medication list.

        2. The patient's 24 item questionnaire measuring medication side effects.

        3. The patient's one item self rating of improvement Once this phone call is completed, the
           research team will determine whether the medication recommendations were followed by the
           patient's clinical team, whether the adverse effects decreased compared to hospital
           admission, and whether the patient reported improvement.
    
  