
    
      Childhood obesity is a major public health crisis in the United States, affecting 16.9% of
      youth aged 2-19 and 20.5% of youth aged 12-19. While current family-based interventions are
      effective in reducing body mass index (BMI) in adolescents; the majority of adolescents
      regain their excess weight within 2 years. In addition, there is a high rate of drop out from
      weight management programs, with 27% to 73% of families not completing the full treatment
      protocol. One possible mechanism influencing pediatric weight management outcomes is chronic
      pain. Although chronic pain affects 25 to 46% of all youth, among youth with obesity, the
      prevalence is upwards of 70%. The causal relationship between pain and obesity is not well
      understood. In some cases, chronic pain may be a precipitant that causes youth to develop
      obesity by limiting their activities or altering their eating habits. A more common scenario
      is that obesity places mechanical stresses on the body that can cause pain. With time, pain
      may become "centralized." Either mechanism may impact youth's participation in a weight
      management program. However, interventions that address the relationship between chronic pain
      and obesity in youth are needed, yet no such interventions exist. We expect that co-treating
      these conditions -obesity and pain- rather than treating just the obesity, will lead to
      improved pediatric weight management outcomes. The proposed study will take place at the
      Pediatric Obesity Center at Connecticut Children's Medical Center (CCMC), as an adjunct to
      our Fit5 program. Fit5 is CCMC's family-based, group weight management treatment program for
      youth between the ages of 10-18. Consisting of 13 sessions, this multidisciplinary program
      focuses on behavior changes, nutrition education and physical activity within a cognitive
      behavioral therapy (CBT) framework. A brief 4 session adjunctive CBT intervention, Pain and
      Weight treatment (PAW), will be trialed in a group of youth entering weight management
      treatment and endorsing musculoskeletal pain. This will be done in three phases. First a
      focus group will be held to review the PAW curriculum which has already been created for this
      study. In phase two, a small randomized (n = 25 per condition) controlled trial (RCT) will be
      conducted to pilot PAW. Finally, exit interviews to obtain preliminary feasibility,
      acceptability and retention data on PAW as compared to an information only control condition
      will be conducted. There is much work that continues to be needed to improve treatment for
      youth with obesity. The findings of this study will advance a line of research much needed to
      better understand outcomes and treatment for adolescents with obesity by shifting from
      focusing on obesity as an independent condition, and instead, treating it in the context of
      its comorbid conditions that may be important determinants of engagement, adherence, and
      outcomes. This proposal will focus on pain and obesity as a model with the intention that
      this could expand to other comorbidities such as sleep disturbances. The pilot data obtained
      through this R21 grant proposal will be used to modify the intervention and to seek R01
      funding to support a large scale RCT of PAW.
    
  