
    
      Diet, nutrition, and physical exercise are critical factors in the maintenance of good health
      through the entire life course. However, in most western countries the annual increase in the
      prevalence and the severity of obesity and physical inactivity is substantial. Early
      detection of individuals with high risk for obesity is important, because reversing the obese
      state is very difficult. To prevent and treat obesity, it is necessary to characterize neural
      mechanisms supporting altered incentive motivation and food intake, and to build a
      comprehensive model of the interactions between neural, physiological, and psychological
      factors contributing to development and maintenance of obesity. This obviously calls for
      novel data analysis techniques allowing fusion analysis of neurobiological, physiological,
      and behavioural data, as well as screening the critical combination of biomarkers for
      obesity.

      A total of sixty males (30 normal-weight, 30 with risk for developing obesity) are recruited
      into this prospective study. The subjects will undergo physical examination, physical fitness
      tests, physical activity measures, body tissue composition measurement, structural and
      functional magnetic resonance imaging of the brain and body (MRI & fMRI), and positron
      emission tomography (PET) with ligands [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose ([18F]-FDG), [18-F]FMPEP, and
      [11C]carfentanil. Subjects' weight and physical condition will be followed up for 5 years.

      In three interconnected work packages (WPs) we test three hypotheses derived from human and
      animal studies:

        1. Altered reward and cognitive control functions in the brain predisposes some individuals
           to overeating and obesity.

        2. Opioid system and reward circuit function provide feasible biomarkers for obesity risk.

        3. Mobile tracking and behavioural paradigms tapping reward learning and inhibitory control
           can be used for unobtrusive and inexpensive detection of risk factors for obesity.

      These studies will improve our understanding of the neural and psychological mechanisms of
      obesity and addictive disorders. This knowledge will translate into crucial knowledge for
      developing novel risk factor screening procedures, and novel pharmacological and
      psychological treatments for obesity.
    
  