
    
      The Problem: Infants who are born to mothers taking or abusing opiates frequently suffer from
      neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) after birth. They often have withdrawal symptoms which can
      be life threatening if untreated. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends opioid
      replacement for the treatment of these symptoms in newborns. Buprenorphine (BNP) has gained
      widespread use in the treatment of adult opioid dependence. One of the reasons BNP is so
      appealing is because of its safety profile in comparison to the other drugs in its class
      (opiates). It has less respiratory depression and a lower level of physical dependence than
      the other opioids. BNP has recently been trialed, in its sublingual form, as a treatment for
      newborns with NAS. In two trials by the same group, there was a significant reduction in both
      the length of treatment and in-patient hospital days in infants treated with BNP in
      comparison to infants treated with morphine.

      In both of these studies, mother/infant pairs were excluded if the mother was dual dependent
      on opiates and benzodiazepines (BZDs). This is not an insignificant population. BZDs are
      frequently prescribed during pregnancy to treat anxiety and panic disorder in women who are
      taking methadone or BNP for opioid replacement therapy. BZDs are also common drugs of abuse.
      It has been estimated that 22-47% of mothers whose infants are diagnosed with NAS used both
      BZDs and opiates during the pregnancy. These infants have a protracted NAS with longer
      hospitalization in comparison to infants exposed to an opioid alone. There are conflicting
      reports in the literature regarding the safety of concomitant use of BNP and BZDs. In both
      adults and children the combination of BNP and BZD prolongs respiratory depression in
      non-drug abusers. In addition, autopsy findings in six adults who were drug abusers were
      linked to concomitant use of BNP and BZD by analysis at autopsy. On the other hand in adult
      tapering trials comparing BNP with methadone in dual-dependent adults there were no adverse
      events in the BNP group, opiate withdrawal scores were lower and the adults were more likely
      to complete treatment. Thus while treatment of NAS with BNP may be desirable and efficacious
      in opiate tapering protocols, it is imperative that we look specifically at this group of
      infants with dual exposure to opioids and BZDs. This is a single site, un-blinded
      observational safety study. Study participants will be recruited from eligible participants
      who are born at Bayfront Medical Center Baby Place and subsequently admitted to the neonatal
      intensive care unit (NICU) at All Children's' Hospital (ACH) for treatment of NAS. Data from
      this pilot safety trial will be used to apply for NIH funding to conduct a large randomized
      double-blind trial to determine the efficacy of BNP versus morphine for the treatment of NAS.

      The Research Hypothesis: BNP can be used safely to treat NAS in the subgroup of infants whose
      mothers were taking both an opiate and a BZD in the week prior to delivery.

      The Importance of the Research: BNP is emerging as a "safer" and more efficient drug for
      adult detoxification and maintenance programs and is showing promise for the treatment of
      neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS). In the most recent published trial comparing BNP to
      morphine in infants with NAS, the length of stay (LOS) was decreased by 40% in the BNP group
      (from an average of 38 days in the morphine group to 23 days in the BNP group). No major
      adverse effects were reported in either treatment group. As is common in early trials, the
      experimental group was restricted - specifically maternal BZD use was an exclusion criteria.
      The rational given was that length of stay is known to be longer for infants whose mothers
      were also using BZDs. However, this is not an insignificant population. It has been reported
      that 22-47% of opiate users are co-using BZDs. At ACH, the incidence of infants exposed to
      both classes of drugs has ranged from 15-35%. Before BNP becomes the standard of care it is
      important to look closely at this group of infants and either caution the use of BNP or
      demonstrate its safety. This pilot trial is designed to determine if infants who have dual
      in-utero exposures to opiates and BZDs can be safely treated with BNP.
    
  