
    
      Diabetes is a growing health problem causing personal suffering, comorbid conditions,
      premature death, and high costs to the individual, the health care system and society. Many
      of these problems can be prevented or delayed by controlling the disease. This in turn
      requires daily self-management by patients.

      The CDC has recognized the importance of self-management by setting a 2010 objective of
      having 60% of diabetics receive diabetes education. Unfortunately, many people cannot receive
      such education because it is not available or they do not wish to or cannot participate in
      small group or one on one education.

      The Internet may offer a viable alternative. We will evaluate an Internet based small group
      Diabetes Self-Management Program. This program will be adapted from the Chronic Disease
      Self-Management Program Online, already developed and currently being evaluated by the
      investigators. Participants with type 2 diabetes will be randomized to participate in the
      Internet Program or serve as controls continuing with usual care. Treatment subjects will
      participate in a structured 6 week interactive web-based online class with 20-24 other
      participants and 2 trained peer moderators.

      Data will be collected online at baseline, 6 months and 1 year. Outcome measures include
      health related quality of life (fatigue, physical discomfort, the symptoms of hypoglycemia
      and hyperglycemia, activity limitations, health distress, and self-rated health), metabolic
      control (hemoglobin A1c), health care utilization (decreases in outpatient visits to
      physicians, increases in the percentage of participants having received an eye examination in
      the past year, increases in the number of times a health professional has examined
      participants' feet, and decreases in emergency department visits, hospitalizations, and
      hospital days), health behaviors (aerobic exercise, communication with physicians, diet,
      glucose self-monitoring, and self-examination of the feet), and self-efficacy to manage
      diabetes.

      If successful, this project will result in a new and effective means of reaching the CDC
      objective and more importantly in improving the quality of life and health status of people
      with diabetes while reducing health care utilization and thus costs.
    
  