
    
      Study hypothesis

      There is no variation in post-operative morbidity and mortality rates following
      gynaecological oncology surgery between HDI country groups.

      Regulatory approval

      Quality Improvement & Assurance Team, Research and Development NHS Grampian (Project ID
      5009).

      Study design

      International, multi-centre, prospective cohort study.

      Primary objectives

      1. To evaluate international variation of post-operative morbidity and mortality following
      gynaecological oncology surgery between country groups defined by HDI.

      Secondary objectives

        1. To evaluate international variation between HDI country groups of intra-operative
           morbidity and mortality following gynaecological oncology surgery.

        2. To evaluate international variation between HDI country groups of histological clearance
           rates of gynaecological malignancies.

        3. To establish an international gynaecological oncology collaborative and surgical
           outcomes database.

        4. To identify modifiable surgical processes.

        5. To establish best practices and standards for gynaecological oncology surgery.

        6. To champion promotion of quality improvement and research and gynaecological oncology
           surgical training.

      Interventions

      Patient data will be collected over a consecutive thirty day period through gynaecological
      oncology multidisciplinary teams/tumour boards and clinics across different human development
      index country groups. Additional data entry (beyond thirty days) is encouraged and may take
      place at the discretion of the participating site. All patients are followed up as per local
      protocols for thirty days post-operatively to identify post-surgical morbidity/mortality. For
      each patient, data will be captured on demographic variables, centre/unit/hospital site, FIGO
      staging, surgical modality, intra-operative morbidity/mortality, 30 day morbidity/mortality
      following surgery, tumour resectability, access to diagnostic endoscopy/hysteroscopy,
      histopathology/radiological imaging/laboratories/critical care facilities, multidisciplinary
      team/tumour board meetings, chemotherapy, radiotherapy seniority and training of lead
      surgeon. All data is collected on a customised, secure, password protected central REDCap
      database.

      Follow up

      All investigators are required to monitor patients for thirty days post-operatively to
      identify complications. Most of these events are expected to occur during the individual's
      inpatient stay. Centres must be proactive in identifying post-operative events (or an absence
      of them), within the limits of normal follow up. Local arrangements may include:

        1. Daily review of patient status and notes before discharge to identify inpatient
           complications.

        2. Reviewing the patient status at a post-surgery follow up appointment in an outpatient
           clinic or via telephone (if this is normal practice).

        3. Checking hospital records (electronic/paper) or handover lists for
           re-attendances/re-admissions.

        4. Checking for Emergency Department re-attendances.

        5. Contacting general/family practitioners to enquire about complications managed in
           primary care.

      International Steering Committee

      An international steering committee will oversee the study. The committee will monitor and
      supervise progress and adherence to protocol. The committee will review at regular intervals
      relevant information from other sources, e.g. other audits/studies. It will ensure that the
      study is conducted to a high standard in line with Guidelines for Good Clinical Practice. The
      committee will meet every six months though more frequent meetings may be called if
      necessary. Meetings will be called for by the chief investigator.
    
  