
    
      Liberation from invasive mechanical ventilation has a huge impact on quality of life and
      healthcare expenses. Weaning is more difficult and complex in patients who have been
      ventilated for a longer time (i.e. more than seven days) or have undergone multiple failed
      weaning attempts and thus are classified weaning category three according to Boles at al. [1]
      Current national and international guidelines are in favour of a rather restrictive
      transfusion regime. This recommendation is mainly based on the work of Hebert et al. [2]
      where no benefit or a liberal transfusion approach could be found. Patients in the Hebert
      study however had become acutely ill and did not show any impairment or dysfunction of the
      respiratory muscles

      Weaning class 3 patients however suffer from an overload of their respiratory muscles either
      cause by an increased load or decreased capacity.

      In either instance unloading of the respiratory muscles is key to improve the capability of
      spontaneous breathing. One possible way to achieve this goal is to improve oxygen delivery.

      Oxygen delivery is determined by the cardiac output times the oxygen content of the blood.
      The latter is mainly determined by the haemoglobin concentration and the oxygen saturation
      (Hb x 1.34 x SaO2 + PO2 x 0.003). Previous studies have shown that in patients with a
      strained respiratory pump blood transfusions improve the work of breathing [3].

      A more liberal transfusion strategy therefore might improve the weaning outcome ventilator
      dependant patients [4]

      This study is designed as a prospective, randomized, open labeled blinded End-point
      evaluation to test the hypothesis that a liberal transfusion strategy decreases the time
      needed for weaning.

      Patients who are anemic (Hb < 9 mg/dl) and were admitted to our specialized weaning unit are
      either randomized to a conservative or liberal transfusion regime if they are agreed to
      participate.

      The goal in the liberal transfusion group is to keep the Hb at > 12 mg/dl and transfusions
      are given in single units until this threshold is achieved.

      Patients then undergo routine weaning procedures consistent of daily or multiple daily
      weaning trials paired with intermittent ventilation targeted do rest the respiratory muscles.

      Daily physiologic data are recorded as well as adverse events. Primary outcome is the time
      needed to wean the patients off invasive mechanical ventilation, mortality is a secondary
      criterium.

      The study is planned to include 120 patients in blocks of 40 patients. Interim analysis will
      be performed after each block and the study will be terminated if a significant result is
      achieved.

        1. Boles, JM, J Bion, A Connors, M Herridge, B Marsh, C Melot, R Pearl, H Silverman, M
           Stanchina, A Vieillard-BaronandT Welte, Weaning from mechanical ventilation. Eur Respir
           J, 2007. 29(5): p. 1033.

        2. Hebert, PC, G Wells, MA Blajchman, J Marshall, C Martin, G Pagliarello, M Tweeddale, I
           SchweitzerandE Yetisir, A multicenter, randomized, controlled clinical trial of
           transfusion requirements in critical care. Transfusion Requirements in Critical Care
           Investigators, Canadian Critical Care Trials Group. N Engl J Med, 1999. 340(6): p. 409.

        3. Schonhofer, B, M Wenzel, M GeibelandD Kohler, Blood transfusion and lung function in
           chronically anemic patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Crit Care
           Med, 1998. 26(11): p. 1824.

        4. Sato, T, EJ BedrickandC Tsai, Model Selection for Multivariate Regression in Small
           Samples. Biometrics, 1998. 54(1): p. 391.
    
  