
    
      We propose to examine the acute effects of exercise on patients with dyssynchronous
      electrical activation of the heart and heart failure and to compare the release of novel
      biomarkers in selective areas of coronary venous drainage by direct cannulation of different
      veins via the coronary sinus (CS).

      The study design will separate patients into a minimally invasive arm (MINARM)and an invasive
      arm (INARM). The INARM will be recruited from patients in the MINARM.

      MINARM

      Group 1: 40 patients scheduled for CRT implant Group 2: 15 patients with heart failure and no
      dyssynchrony Group 3: 15 patients with normal hearts

      Group 1:

      40 patient undergoing CRT will have venous samples taken from the CS, two CS tributaries,
      peripheral venous and peripheral arterial sites at the time of CRT insertion at the time of
      device implant. Blood samples will be analysed for metabolites and novel biomarkers

      They will then undergo repeat sampling at 6 months to assess for changes in the micro RNA and
      biomarker profile including CS sampling.

      Group 2 and 3

      A control arm of 15 patients with heart failure and no dyssynchrony (Group 2) and 15 patients
      with normal hearts (Group 3) will undergo peripheral venous sampling for biomarkers and this
      will be repeated at 6 months. These samples will allow for control against the dyssynchronous
      heart failure group and also for temporal changes in micro RNA expression.

      10 patient from Group 1 and 5 from Group 2 and 3 will be invited to from part of the INARM at
      the time of recruitment.

      INARM study

      Methods:

      GROUP A 10 pts with heart failure and dyssynchronous ventricular contraction GROUP B 5 pts
      with heart failure and no electrical dyssynchrony schedule for either coronary angiography or
      electrophysiology study.

      GROUP C 5 pts schedule for diagnostic coronary angiography or electrophysiology study with
      normal cardiac function

      The exact details of the protocol will vary depending upon the Group:

      GROUP A

      1 On the day preceding the CRT implant will attend hospital for a temporary invasive catheter
      study. A pacing protocol will be performed using a pacing wire inserted into the right
      atrium. Coronary sinus venous blood sampling will be performed using a catheter placed via
      the femoral or internal jugular vein. At the chief investigator's discretion a specially
      designed exercise bicycle that allow supine exercise in the catheter lab will be used rather
      than the atrial pacing wire.

      3 6 months post implant the patients will return to the catheter laboratory for a further
      study. This will repeat the protocol but with the device having been on for 6 months. This
      will require further arterial access as described above. This study should take approximately
      an hour.

      GROUP B and C

      It is common practice for these patients to have a coronary angiogram to exclude ischaemic
      heart disease as the cause of their heart failure or chest pain or to have electrophysiology
      study to determine the mechanism of arrhythmia. If their angiogram is normal,we will perform
      a pacing protocol (this will be required if they are attending for an electrophysiology
      study). This will require 2 femoral venous access sites (similar to standard
      electrophysiological study) to allow temporary atrial pacing and acquisition of blood samples
      from the coronary sinus. Following the invasive part of the study patients in Group B and C
      will fall back into Group 2 and 3 of MINARM and attend at 6 month for peripheral blood
      sampling.
    
  