
    
      Recently, a new type of prosthetic foot has appeared on the market. This device is composed
      of a fiberglass composite material. Knowledge is lacking regarding the performance
      characteristics of this new device. Comprehensive studies are needed to form a solid basis
      for prosthetic prescription. The current study sought to understand the experience of
      community-living, transtibial amputees using this prosthetic foot. Specifically, the
      biomechanical performance of this device were compared to existing conventional dynamic
      elastic response (DER) technology in a controlled laboratory setting. The investigators
      hypothesized that the fiberglass composite material provided more energy return and improved
      ankle kinematics performance.

      The study design was a repeated measures cross-over trial whereby only the prosthetic foot
      was changed. Each subject was tested using their current carbon-fiber energy storage and
      return prosthetic foot (CFPF) and the fiberglass composite energy storage and return
      prosthetic foot (Rush, Ability Dynamics) (FPF). Half of the subjects began the study on the
      CFPF while the other half began on the FPF. All types of CFPF were used in this study. Each
      subject was given an acclimation period (about 4 weeks) before testing, which was consistent
      with other similar studies. The same socket and suspension were used throughout the study in
      order to eliminate these confounding variables.

      A 10 camera, high resolution motion capture system with a set of 51 reflective markers was
      used to capture whole-body motion. Three-dimensional marker trajectory data was collected at
      120 Hz and filtered using a fourth-order Butterworth low-pass filter with a cutoff frequency
      of 8 Hz. The standard Helen Hayes marker set and some additional markers were applied to the
      subject. Additional markers included an anterior pylon marker, medial pylon marker, lateral
      pylon marker, right and left medial calcaneus markers, and right and left lateral calcaneus
      markers. In addition, left and right medial knee markers were used for establishing the knee
      joint centers and were then removed for the walking trails. Subjects wore standard laboratory
      athletic shoes for all walking trials. All of the markers associated with the foot were
      placed on the outside of the subject's shoes.

      Following the application of the reflective marker set, the subject performed tests while
      walking over level ground at a self-selected and normalized speed as well as up and down a 10
      degree inclined ramp. The normalized speed controlled for leg length by normalizing to a
      Froude (Fr) number of 0.25 where Fr = v^2/gl, and v is the walking speed, g is the
      gravitational constant, and l is the leg length using the greater trochanter height as leg
      length. Timing gates were used to control the walking speed. Simultaneously, ground reaction
      force data was collected from force plates at a sampling rate of 600 Hz. Data from these
      force plates was time-synchronized with the motion cameras. The ramp had a force plate
      embedded within the ramp.
    
  