
    
      Following approval of the University of Minnesota Institutional Review Board, 33 consecutive
      adult patients (≥ 18 years of age) were observed from October 2013 to December 2014 who
      underwent either single or bilateral lung transplantation and received a continuous
      paravertebral block. The paravertebral catheters were placed within 1-2 day postoperatively
      in the intensive care unit. If the patient was too hemodynamically unstable or too critically
      ill to be placed in lateral decubitus position, the placement of the catheter was delayed or
      in some cases not performed (these patients were not included in study) They were placed via
      an in plane transverse technique. The ultrasound was placed on the patient's back at the T8-9
      level with probe in transverse orientation. Then a 17-gauge tuohy needle was advanced lateral
      to medial in plane until beneath the transverse process upon which a test dose of 3-5 mL of
      1.5% lidocaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine was injected to see adequate spread. The catheter
      was then fed 1 centimeter past the tip of the tuohy needle and needle was withdrawn. All
      catheters were confirmed to be in correct position with real time local anesthetic injection
      and secured with skin glue and occlusive dressing. Each was performed with the patient in the
      left lateral decubitus position for the right catheter and right lateral decubitus position
      for the left catheter. The paravertebral catheters remained in place for up to seven days
      postoperatively in unilateral lung transplants and up to ten days postoperatively in
      bilateral lung transplants. During that time an infusion of 0.2% ropivacaine was infused at a
      rate of 0.2-0.25 ml/kg/hour through an elastomeric pump (ON Q Halyard Health).

      The outcome measured were minimal and maximum pain scores from the first 7 days post
      paravertebral catheter placement (rated on an 11-point numeric rating scale; 0=no pain,
      10=worst pain imaginable). The acute pain Nurse Practitioners, bedside nurses, or acute pain
      anesthesiology residents collected the pain scores. Additional outcomes of interest included
      postsurgical opioid use through postsurgical day 7, and length of hospital stay. Patients
      were asked daily if they experienced nausea/vomiting, however, Nursing notes and physician
      progress notes were also evaluated if patients experienced any adverse events or nausea and
      vomiting. Demographics such as age and weight were recorded in addition to length of surgery
      and time spent in the hospital before discharge.
    
  