
    
      Fifty patients is included in this study. Routine monitorization included a 5-lead
      electrocardiogram (ECG), invasive arterial monitoring, pulse oximetry, capnography,
      temperature monitoring. Invasive arterial catheter were inserted under local anesthesia.
      Central venous catheter (jugular or subclavian) and esophageal heat probe were inserted after
      tracheal intubation.

      Anesthesia induction was standardized in all patients and included 1 mg/kg propofol, 1 μg/kg
      fentanyl and 0.1 mg/kg vecuronium bromus to facilitate endotracheal intubation. The patients
      were divided into two groups by computer randomization method. Group R (n=25), remifentanil
      group and Group D (n=25) dexmedetomidine group. In the remifentanil group, anesthesia was
      maintained with 0.5-1.5% sevoflurane and 0.125-0.25 μg/kg/min remifentanil infusion. In the
      dexmedetomidine group anesthesia was maintained with 0.5-1.5% sevoflurane and 0.5 μg/kg
      dexmedetomidine loading dose during 10 minute and 0.3-0.9 μg/kg/min infusion.

      Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) period was started after aort and venous cannulae were inserted.
      Mean arterial pressure, central venous pressure, venous oxygen saturation (SVO2) and arterial
      blood gase analysis were recorded. All blood samples include laktat, pyruvate, CKMB and
      Troponin-T were taken via the coronary sinus catheter at specific time intervals
      (precardiopulmonary bypass, 20 minutes after cross clamp, 20 minutes after removal cross
      clamp and 10 minutes after cardiopulmonary bypass).

      Cardiopulmonary bypass time, aortic cross clamping time, the need of
      defibrillation/intraaortic balloon pumping (IABP)/extracorporeal membrane oxygenator (ECMO),
      urine output, positive inotropic agents requirement were recorded. At the end of surgery, the
      patients were transferred intensive care unit intubated and full monitorized.
    
  