
    
      Smokers recruited for this study are randomly assigned at a screening session to complete the
      NPU stressor task pre-quit or post-quit (i.e., nicotine deprived or non-deprived).
      Participants are also randomized to receive either placebo or active combination nicotine
      replacement therapy (NRT; patches and lozenges) for a two week smoking cessation period. The
      NPU stressor task measures stressor reactivity to predictable and unpredictable stressors
      (i.e., electric shock). Startle potentiation during predictable and unpredictable stressors
      (relative to no-shock) provides the primary measures of stressor reactivity in this task.
      Predictable and unpredictable startle potentiation are used to calculate overall stressor
      reactivity and selective unpredictable stressor reactivity. Further detail on these
      reactivity measures is provided in the Independent Variables section. Detail on the
      quantification of startle potentiation is provided at the end of this registration.

      Smokers provide three weeks (1 week pre-quit, 2 weeks post-quit) of brief 4x daily, real-time
      web-survey reports of recent cigarette use, NRT use, and other measures not relevant to this
      study's purpose on the participants' smartphones. At two weeks post-quit, smokers are
      scheduled for a laboratory visit where participants provide an additional report via staff
      interview of any smoking during the two-week smoking cessation period.

      The stressor reactivity measures from the NPU task will be tested as predictors of clinical
      outcome (i.e., continuous abstinence during the two-week cessation period) to evaluate the
      validity of each as surrogate endpoints for use in research on stress mechanisms in smoking
      relapse. Deprivation status at the time of the NPU stressor task will be examined as a
      moderator of the effect of stressor reactivity to determine if the surrogate endpoints
      predict clinical outcome generally or only as deprivation increases.
    
  