
    
      This single-visit, retrospective study was designed to evaluate the long-term safety of
      becaplermin gel 100 mcg/g versus placebo gel. Patients previously enrolled in protocol
      PDGF-DBFT-003 or PDGF-DBFT-005 were evaluated during a single-study visit in which
      retrospective safety data were collected. Recurrence data on the Target Ulcer were also
      obtained. The maximum number of patients in this study was the sum of patients enrolled in
      the 2 previous trials. The investigators made every effort to contact all patients enrolled
      in the previous double-blind trials in order to get follow-up information on as many patients
      as possible. If the patient was deceased, the cause of death, if known, was collected by the
      investigator (where permitted by the local authorities). After evaluation of the entrance
      criteria, demographic data, significant new intercurrent illnesses, a current medication
      profile, therapies received for the treatment of any diabetic neuropathic foot ulcer and
      surgeries in the last 12 or more months were collected and recorded. A questionnaire was used
      by the investigational staff to elicit patient information. At the visit, a complete physical
      examination was done (special attention was given to assess the presence of any
      malignancies), the feet were carefully examined and the footwear was assessed. The site of
      the Target Ulcer treated in the previous double-blind trial was assessed by an independent
      dermatologist.and photographs of the heel, back, inside and outside surfaces of the foot, as
      well as a distance photograph of the foot, were taken. Parameters such as major changes in
      the general health, (i.e., hospitalizations, major illnesses, and past surgeries), and past
      as well as present histories of any malignant diseases were carefully assessed. Of primary
      interest were the examination of previously treated ulcer site(s) and the Target Ulcer limb
      in general, for recurrences and/or new ulcerations; their treatments and outcomes; and any
      other relevant changes to the previously treated ulcer and the surrounding skin.
      Observational study - No study drug administered
    
  