
    
      The risk factors for the development of gall stones are multiple which a reason for its high
      prevalence. Past history of major surgeries does carry some of the biological causations of
      the gall stones like prolonged fasting during the perioperative period and post-operative
      hyperbilirubinemia, effects of stress in the gall bladder, and bile flow. However, there have
      not been recent studies to redefine the etiology of gall stone and history of major surgery.
      Meanwhile, some of the studies are found be of a great value for the background of this
      study.

      A study published by J M Little and J Ivramovic in 1991 showed that the major abdominal
      surgery had a statistically significant difference in a cumulative prevalence of the gall
      stone compared to those who did not undergo any surgery. However, the exact mechanism behind
      the formation of the stone was not revealed but the sludge formation during fasting was
      assumed to be the common pathways. L Bolondi, S Gaiani have ultrasonographically assessed the
      prevalence of sludge in a group of 48 fasting patients after gastrointestinal tract surgery
      with a period of fasting lasting for 7 to 10 days. It showed the presence of gall stones with
      different ultrasonographic patterns in three sludge positive patients after the end of six
      months. They concluded in the early postoperative period there is a high risk for sludge
      development and that in some cases sludge may subsequently evolve into gall stones.

      Another cross-sectional study by A F Attili,E Scafato showed that Prevalence of gallstone was
      higher among subjects who had an overnight fasting period of over 12 hours than subjects with
      that of less than 12 hours. H M Bloch et al studied the effects of fasting and composition of
      gall bladder, where the mean cholesterol saturation index was significantly greater after a
      15 hour fast (1.35+0.08) than after a 10 hour fast (105+0.10). The cholesterol saturation
      index is the ratio of the cholesterol of the sample to the maximum soluble cholesterol of
      that sample. In the study, it was determined by using the criteria of Hegardt and Dam. The
      saturation index of greater than 1 represents the cholesterol is supersaturated and forms
      gall stones. Henceforth, the findings suggested that fasting for between 10 to 20 hours
      increases the risk for gallstones formation. Another study by Lee et al where they followed
      the 94 patients with biliary sludge for the mean of 37.8 months. It was found that 8.3%
      developed asymptomatic gall stones and 6.3% underwent cholecystectomy.

      Another prospective study by Christine Evans et al followed 180 patients following major
      operations found an incidence of 3.7% severe jaundice and 16.5% mild jaundice (serum
      bilirubin 1.5-4 mg/dl) and a study by Stefan Stenderet al followed 61,212 patients for 34
      years, which showed that the risk for gall stone disease is significantly higher in
      population with bilirubin level in 10th decile (geometric mean 1.34 gm/dl). Though the
      previous studies have examined the relationship between fasting and the formation of
      gallstones, none of them examined the direct relationship between any major surgeries and the
      incidence of gallstones. They also did not study the other factors like the effects of
      stress, drugs during surgeries and anesthesia on the gall bladder, and the bile flow.
      However, they have given enough background to establish a hypothesis that any major surgery
      can be a significant risk factor for the development of gallstones. However, there is no
      widely accepted consensus on the grading of surgery so by major surgery we mean all surgeries
      done under general or regional anesthesia and involves procedures in abdominal cavity.

      With our observation of the evidence, it indicates that any major surgery may itself is an
      important determinant of the gallstone formation soon after the surgery and so a study can
      address this gap of the knowledge. A case-control study can help us assess the past history
      of major surgery as a significant risk factor for gallstone disease. Any significant findings
      will warrant other higher studies like cohort study for a detailed assessment of the cause.
      It has been evident that prolonged fasting or fasting over 10-12 hours imposes a risk factor
      for gallstone disease. It has also been established that major gastrointestinal surgery,
      hyperbilirubinemia is also a risk factor for gallstone disease. However, there is a clear gap
      of knowledge whether any major surgery with similar biological causation imposes a risk
      factor for gallstone disease or not. The rationale of the study is to look over this lack of
      knowledge.

      The gall stone disease is itself a major economic burden to a lot of patients and the
      development of symptomatic gallstone in patients who have undergone major surgery in the past
      few years would be distressing to the patients and relatives. Even if few people after major
      surgery develop gall stones in future, and those at such risks could be identified, then we
      could institute surveillance ultrasonography or medical prophylactic measures like
      ursodeoxycholic acid.
    
  