
    
      Percutaneous drainage of intra-abdominal abscesses occurring as a complication of colon and
      rectal resection has been a major advance in the management of surgical patients. Proper
      patient selection is critical for safe and effective management in this population. Almost ¾
      of patients undergoing CT scan after colorectal resection due to clinical suspicion of
      intrabdominal process will have at least one fluid collection identified. These collections
      can represent a spectrum of clinical entities and there is not a consensus on the most
      effective management of these collections or even the definition of abscess. Currently,
      reliance on radiologic criteria in isolation can lead to overuse of interventional
      procedures. For example, 40% of rim-enhancing collections are sterile on aspiration. The
      surgeons' clinical suspicion for abscess and radiologic proximity to an anastomosis are the
      only criteria that are useful in predicting abscess versus sterile collection. A further
      consideration is the natural history of these abscesses. Studies in the diverticulitis
      literature have demonstrated that abscesses less than 3 cm in greatest dimension are
      successfully managed with antibiotics alone, while abscesses greater than 6.5 cm are likely
      to require intervention. However, this leaves a great number of abscesses between 3 cm and
      6.5 cm that fall into uncertain grounds. In contrast to diverticulitis, where it can be
      reasonably inferred that an associated abdominopelvic collection is indeed and abscess,
      management of fluid collections identified post-operatively and determination of who will
      benefit from drainage is less clear. A novel radiologic technique with high discrimination
      between sterile and infected collection would be of great clinical utility in the
      post-operative management of fluid collections after colorectal resection.

      The proposed research project seeks to broaden applicability of a proven but rarely used
      method, diffusion weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DW-MRI), to discriminate sterile or
      benign from infected abdominopelvic fluid collections, in order to enhance the utilization of
      percutaneous drainage in the post-operative setting after colorectal resection. Ability to
      streamline a limited MRI protocol to efficiently obtain diffusion weighted imaging of the
      abdominal cavity will be key to applying this methodology into daily practice. Secondly, it
      is not known whether DW-MRI can effectively discriminate specifically post-operative sterile
      collections from abscesses. This is one of the primary aims of this pilot study and will be
      used to generate hypothesis for a full-scale study.

      Adult patients who have undergone a colon or rectal resection at the University of Chicago
      Medicine and have developed a CT-proven abdominopelvic fluid collection > 3 cm in greatest
      dimension will be eligible for inclusion in the study. The surgeon will then determine using
      traditional clinical and radiologic factors whether percutaneous drainage is desired. All
      patients with discrete abdominopelvic fluid collections > 3 cm in greatest dimension will
      undergo DW-MRI, and then be taken directly to the interventional radiology suite for
      drainage, or continue best medical care if drainage is felt to be unnecessary. Fluid will be
      sent for culture and gram stain, as well as cell count. In addition, the interventional
      radiology team will qualify the fluid in their notation as 'purulent', 'serous',
      'sanguinous', etc.. Any patients initially managed without drainage who fail this medical
      management and ultimately undergo percutaneous drainage will be considered the crossover
      group.

      DW-MRI readings will be analyzed and ADC values will be compared and validated in an attempt
      to report a threshold apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) that reliably discriminates
      sterile and infected post-operative fluid collections. The effect size from utilization of
      DW-MRI (defined as a change in management decision to pursue drainage or hold on drainage) to
      determine if this is a useful clinical tool. Because it is not yet know how DW-MRI should be
      interpreted in this clinical setting, the DW-MRI acquisition will not be utilized in any way
      in the clinical care of the study patients. The DW-MRI data is considered a single-point
      intervention and will only be used to define an ADC threshold that can discriminate sterile
      from infected collections. The data will help us to identify potential limitations of DWI in
      differentiation of abscess from non-infected collections and allow us to determine the
      appropriate cohort size for a future clinical trial. Based on the correlation with DWI and
      clinical data, we will explore and suggest novel acquisition and analysis methods for
      quantitative DWI.
    
  