
    
      Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is by far the most common form of human malignancy, affecting more
      than 3.5 million Americans each year. Aberrant activation of the Hedgehog (Hh) pathway,
      typically through loss of the receptor Patched (PTCH) or oncogenic activation of Smoothened
      (SMO), has been identified as the primary driver of BCC growth and development. In
      particular, up to 1 in 57,000 individuals in the US are affected by a rare, autosomal
      dominant disorder characterized by mutations in protein patched homolog 1 (PTCH1) known as
      basal cell nevus syndrome (BCNS). These patients can develop dozens to hundreds of BCCs at
      any one time (1-5). Surgical removal of the entire tumor burden is not feasible.

      Hh-targeted therapies employing inhibitors of SMO (i.e., Vismodegib, Sonidegib) have shown
      remarkable efficacy in reducing tumor burden in BCC patients. However, the sustained clinical
      utility of these agents has been hampered by the rapid development of clinical resistance,
      significant tumor recurrence, and toxicity. Treatment strategies directed at finding
      additional molecular or immunological targets may enhance the possibility of sustained
      remission and/or cure of these tumors. Emerging data from our research group and others
      suggest the therapeutic efficacy of SMO inhibition may be dependent on immunological
      mechanisms. Hh inhibition appears to increase T cell recruitment and activation as well as
      upregulate major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I expression on tumor cells. These
      data, together with case reports demonstrating the efficacy of cytotoxic T-lymphocyte
      associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) and programmed death-1 (PD-1) inhibition in Hh inhibitor-naïve
      and resistant BCCs, support a role for anti-tumor immunity in BCC and underscore the
      potential enhanced therapeutic efficacy of combined SMO and immunological checkpoint
      inhibition.
    
  