
    
      Primary Objective : To compare the percentage of patients achieving reduction in hemoptysis
      in intrabronchial voriconazole with standard medical therapy group vs standard medical
      therapy alone for inoperable symptomatic pulmonary aspergilloma.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To compare the percentage of patients who have complete cessation of hemoptysis after 3
           months.

        2. To compare the percentage of patients having recurrence of hemoptysis during 3 months
           follow up.

        3. To compare the severity of hemoptysis during recurrence in both groups.

        4. To compare the change in size of aspergilloma after 3 - 6 months following last
           intrabronchial voriconazole instillation.

        5. To compare the percentage of patients who need BAE during anytime till 3 - 6months.

        6. To compare the percentage of patients with symptomatic improvement in Dyspnea On
           Exertion, Cough and recurrent respiratory infections.

      Number of Patients: 30 patients in each arm (Intrabronchial voriconazole with Standard
      medical therapy vs Standard medical therapy alone)

      Study Design : Prospective Randomized control study

      Dosages of drug - 400 mg iv preparation of Voriconazole every week for 4 sessions

      Duration of follow-up - 3-6 months

      Brief Methodology: Patients with aspergilloma who presented with hemoptysis will be screened
      for inclusion in the study. Diagnosis of aspergilloma will be based on characteristic
      computed tomography (CT) features with microbiological or serological evidence of Aspergillus
      (Aspergillus specific Ig G). The patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria will be taken
      informed consent and randomized into one of the two arms of intervention.

      Arm 1: Will receive 400 mg of Intrabronchial Voriconazole every week for 4 weeks along with
      standard medical therapy.

      Arm 2: Will receive standard medical therapy alone (hemostatics, anti-tussive and others as
      deemed appropriate by treating physician)

      All subjects in arm 1 will undergo fiberoptic bronchoscopy (FOB) following standard protocol
      under local anesthesia with supplemental oxygen and continuous hemodynamic monitoring. After
      identifying the segmental/sub-segmental bronchus of interest (as identified by CT) or cavity
      (if visible) the study drug voriconazole, will be instilled. The bronchoscope will be kept
      wedged for 60 seconds to prevent back leakage of the solution and then slowly withdrawn
      without applying suction. The patient will be kept in right or left lateral position
      (depending on the side of involvement) for the next 20 minutes. Following this patients will
      be observed for 48 hours for cessation of hemoptysis before discharge. The procedure will be
      done on day 1 of each week for 4 weeks in arm 1.

      All patients will receive standard medical treatment for hemoptysis including appropriate
      positioning, airway protection, blood product transfusions, antitussives, tranexamic acid,
      and antimicrobial therapy as clinically indicated. BAE shall be offered to all patients if
      indicated.

      Mild hemoptysis shall be defined as < 50 ml in 24 hrs, moderate hemoptysis as 50-200 ml in 24
      hrs and massive hemoptysis as 200-600 ml in 24 hrs or any amount causing hemodynamic
      compromise/threatening ventilation.

      Records will be reviewed regarding demographics, primary etiology leading to fibrocavitary
      disease, duration and severity of hemoptysis/ other constitutional symptoms, extent of
      disease (unilateral, bilateral, associated pleural or parenchymal changes), simple vs complex
      aspergilloma. Size of index aspergilloma. The number of patients requiring emergency or
      hospital admission due to recurrent hemoptysis, and subsequent treatment details will be
      recorded.

      All patients will be followed up for 3-6 months. During follow up patients will be assessed
      for symptoms and severity, successful cessation of hemoptysis, requirement of BAE due to
      persistent or increased hemoptysis, number of sessions required for symptomatic
      improvement/cessation of hemoptysis, hemoptysis-free interval, recurrence of hemoptysis will
      be noted. Pre and post procedure CT scans (low dose limited CT through aspergilloma) will be
      compared by an independent radiologist blinded to the clinical outcome. Size of index
      aspergilloma shall be determined by addition of maximum diameter of largest length and width
      of the visible lesion. CTs shall be compared for documenting change in the size of index
      aspergilloma and decrease/disappearance of the cavity. On the basis of these parameters,
      aspergillomas will be described as no interval change, increased or decreased aspergilloma
      size, or disappearance and emptying of the cavity.

      Outcomes in the form of reduction/cessation of hemoptysis, decrease in size of aspergilloma,
      overall symptomatic improvement and mortality shall be recorded.
    
  