
    
      Introduction: Bipolar disorder is an illness that consists of distinct episodes or "poles" of
      both major depression and mania (bipolar I) or major depression and hypomania (bipolar II).
      Both poles of the illness may be fully present simultaneously in what is referred to as a
      "Mixed episode". The "poles" of Major depression, Mania and Mixed mood are currently defined
      by descriptive criteria in the psychiatric diagnostic manual, DSMIV.

      Estimates of the prevalence of Bipolar disorder are as high as 6% of the population.(1) It is
      a severe and potentially lethal illness which has a different course and treatment profile to
      unipolar depression, commonly known simply as "major depression". In 50-60% of cases however,
      the initial presentation of bipolar disorder is one of major depression, and several episodes
      of depression may occur before declaration of bipolarity, by virtue of a manic or hypomanic
      episode (pre-bipolar depression).(2,3) The mainstay of treatment for unipolar major
      depression is antidepressants. In contrast, antidepressant monotherapy is contraindicated in
      Bipolar I depression and must be used very cautiously in Bipolar II illness (4) with much
      concern for an "unacceptable cost /benefit ratio' because of the risk of antidepressant
      induction of mania and rapid cycling (increase in frequency of episodes as a consequence of
      antidepressants). (5). Hence treatment of the early depressive episodes of bipolar illness
      requires recognition of depression specific to bipolar disorder and appropriate choice of
      medication.

      Unfortunately, efforts to clearly distinguish bipolar from unipolar depression
      cross-sectionally have been mostly disappointing. Most evidence supports the value of family
      history(6) and there is variable predictive value for specific phenomenological and course
      descriptors such as hypersomnia, psychomotor retardation, early-onset and psychotic sub
      types(7,8).

      The dilemma then is two-fold:

        1. Identifying patients suffering from major depression who are at high risk of bipolar
           disorder.

        2. Choosing appropriate pharmacological treatment.

      In choosing pharmacological treatment for a "high risk" group, there is the possibility of
      causing harm with antidepressants if the true diagnosis is bipolar disorder, and of not
      treating the depression adequately if using mood stabilizers in what is truly a unipolar
      illness. This dilemma applies to a large subgroup of those presenting with depression. A
      recent study in a primary care setting suggested that as many as 21% of patients currently
      treated with antidepressants for a presumed depressive disorder may in fact have a bipolar
      diathesis, thus representing a large group that may be improperly treated(9).

      The concerns with the use of antidepressants in known bipolar depression have focused on
      antidepressant - induction of mania, and rapid cycling but these do not always present
      themselves immediately. However, there may be other subtle and immediate antidepressant
      treatment effects that make the diagnostic distinction possible and more
      pressing.(5,10)Indeed, it has been postulated that undetected bipolar depression may explain
      the apparent poor treatment response and increase in suicidality with the use of
      antidepressants in the adolescent population, where one might expect an increased prevalence
      of depression as first episode of bipolar disorder by virtue of earlier age of onset compared
      to unipolar illness.(11)

      Objectives:

      The objective of this proposal is to investigate response to acute lithium treatment in
      subjects who meet the diagnostic criteria for major depression, but are potentially at risk
      for bipolar disorder, by virtue of family history of bipolarity or completed suicide.

      Primary Hypothesis:

      Subjects with depression considered at risk for bipolar disorder, will show a significant
      clinical response to lithium.

      Secondary Hypothesis:

        1. Subjects with depression considered at risk for bipolar disorder, will show a
           significant clinical response to paroxetine.

        2. Treatment emergent mixed symptoms, in particular agitation, will occur only in the
           antidepressant treated group.

      Study Design:

      This is a 6 week double-blind randomized controlled pilot trial of lithium versus paroxetine
      in subjects with major depression who have either a family history of bipolar disorder or
      completed suicide. 20 subjects men or women above the age of 18 will be recruited at this
      centre.

      Patients will be randomized to receive either lithium or paroxetine at their first study
      visit and the dose of drug will be adjusted to find the right one for each patient. Patients
      will be assessed on a weekly basis thereafter.Data from this pilot study will help in the
      development of a larger adequately powered study to compare lithium and paroxetine in the
      treatment of depression in this high risk group.

      Patients excluded from the study would include subjects not able to give informed
      consent,pregnant or breast-feeding women,a current diagnosis of panic disorder, post
      traumatic stress disorder or psychosis,a history of mania or hypomania,active substance abuse
      or dependence in the last 6 months, a current depressive episode less than 4 weeks or greater
      than 12 months in duration, a current or prior adequate trial of lithium or
      paroxetine,concurrent use of other antidepressants or augmenting agents for the treatment of
      depression,or a clinically significant medical illness, in particular renal impairment.
    
  