
    
      BACKGROUND:

      This research should increase our understanding of human variation, the genetics of
      adaptation to exercise-training and of the concomitant changes in cardiovascular disease and
      diabetes risk factors.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      A total of 742 sedentary subjects were recruited, initially tested, exercise-trained in the
      laboratory with the same program for 20 weeks, and re-tested. The subjects came from families
      of Caucasian descent with both parents and three biological adult offspring and families of
      African-American ancestry. Oxygen uptake, expiratory volume and respiratory exchange ratio,
      blood pressure, heart rate, blood lactate, glucose, glycerol and free-fatty acids, stroke
      volume and cardiac output were measured during exercise before and after training and maximal
      oxygen uptake was determined. Plasma lipids, lipoproteins and apoproteins, glucose tolerance
      and insulin response to an intravenous glucose load, plasma sex steroids and glucocorticoids,
      resting systolic and diastolic blood pressures, and body fat and regional fat distribution
      were also assessed. Dietary habits, level of habitual physical activity and other lifestyle
      components were assessed by questionnaires. Genetic analyses included the determination of
      the heritability level for each phenotype and its response to regular exercise, testing for
      the presence of paternal or maternal effects, sex-limited effects, major gene effects and
      segregation patterns. Multivariate genetic analyses and complex segregation analyses were
      used to develop hypotheses concerning the genetic basis of the response to exercise-training.

      The study was renewed in September 1997 to perform analyses of the data collected under Phase
      I. A series of nongenetic studies were undertaken on the dataset. Physiological, behavioral,
      and social determinants of maximal and submaximal indicators of cardiorespiratory endurance
      in the sedentary state and in the response to training were investigated taking into account
      the contributions of age, gender, and race. Similar analyses were conducted on the
      cardiovascular disease and non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) risk factors
      monitored in the study. Genetic analyses determined the heritability levels and tested for
      paternal or maternal effects, major gene effects, and segregation patterns which were used to
      develop hypotheses concerning genetic bases of the response to endurance exercise. A panel of
      candidate genes were typed and used for association and linkage studies. Differential display
      analysis of skeletal muscle transcripts were used to identify new candidate genes for the
      response to endurance exercise. Finally, a genome wide search was undertaken to isolate
      candidate genomic regions and positional candidate genes for the response of
      cardiorespiratory endurance and cardiovascular and NIDDM risk factor phenotypes.

      The study was renewed in 2001 for four years to continue analyses of the data.
    
  