
    
      Objectives:

        -  to evaluate the effectiveness of digitally customized titanium meshes for guided bone
           regeneration with autologous bone chips taken from the mandibular body and/or ramus
           mixed with bovine bone mineral bone granules (500-1000microns in diameter):

             -  complication rate of the reconstructive procedure;

             -  assessment of bone gain obtained before implant placement;

        -  implant survival and implant-related complications 1 year after the starting of
           prosthetic loading;

        -  peri-implant bone resorption (MBL) after 1 year from the prosthetic load.

        -  to perform a histomorphometric analysis of bone samples taken from sites reconstructed
           according to the principle of Guided Bone regeneration by means of autologous bone chips
           mixed with a xenograft with a 1:1 ratio and customized titanium mesh.

      The following parameters will be analyzed from an histologic point of view:

        -  bone remodeling and mineralization levels of the new bone matrix

        -  volumetric tissue fractions

        -  neo-vascularization

      Study method: prospective study - 24 consecutive patients treated (see statistical power
      analysis)

      The study will be performed in accordance with the ISO Standard 14155: 2011, Clinical
      Investigation of Medical Devices for Human Patients with the Appendices VIII and X of the
      Medical Device Directive 93/42/ EEC and following the 2004 Helsinki Declaration.

      The null hypothesis (H0) is the following: the reconstructed bone is not functionally mature
      to support implants, masticatory and functional loads after 12 months.

      The sample size calculation was performed with the statistical program
      https://clincalc.com/stats/samplesize.aspx. A literature search on PubMed was performed and
      revealed that, on average, the percentage of new bone formed after reconstructions with
      particulate bone autografts and xenografts and titanium mesh is 66% with a standard deviation
      of 6%. The expected percentage value for the investigator's study was set at 70% with a
      statistical power of 90% and a two-tier significance level of 0.05.

      Data distribution will be analyzed by Shapiro Wilk's normality test, due to the small sample
      size.

      If the data distribution is normal, the comparative analysis for the primary outcome will be
      performed by T-student test for paired samples. If the data distribution is not normal, a
      Wilcoxon test will be performed.

      The independent variable of the study is the bone reconstruction procedure. The dependent
      variables are: a) the histomorphometric values of the reconstructed bone; b) the increase
      (measured in mm) of the bone reconstruction obtained; c) the MBL (in mm) peri-implant 1 year
      after the prosthetic load.

      Data analysis will be performed with SPSS software. Differences will be considered
      statistically significant for alpha <0.05.
    
  