
    
      This protocol presents the rationale, 25-year historical review, and methods for
      multidisciplinary, low-risk studies of individuals referred to the NCI Viral Epidemiology
      Branch (VEB). Referrals are generally for unusual types of cancer or related conditions,
      known, or suspected to be related to viruses. Kaposi's sarcoma in two homosexual men
      evaluated in 1981 is a classic example. These referral cases provide the basis for pilot
      studies that generate hypotheses, the development of protocols for formal investigations of
      promising leads, and help to set priorities for VEB.

      A VEB investigator who is a Staff Member at the NIH Clinical Center, interviews each subject,
      performs a physical examination, draws a blood sample, and, when appropriate for the disease
      or virus under study, obtains other clinically indicated biological specimens, such as urine,
      sputum, saliva, tears, semen, Pap smear, or cervical, anal, oral, or nasal swabs. On
      occasion, other relatively non-invasive studies may be indicated. Skin testing with
      conventional, licensed antigens for assessment of cellular immunity may be performed, and
      skin lesions may be biopsied or excised. Tumor or other tissue biopsies may be obtained when
      biopsy or surgery is clinically indicated for other reasons. Otherwise no surgery is
      performed, and no therapy is administered. Clinical referral to other components of NCI, NIH,
      or the private sector are made as needed. The biological specimens are frozen or otherwise
      preserved to be batch tested in current assays or future assays that will be developed. Such
      laboratory testing is performed either at VEB's own support laboratory, or collaboratively in
      other NCI, NIH, or extramural laboratories that have the needed expertise for the disease or
      virus under study.

      Occasionally, repeated or more long-term evaluation is required. More often, a single
      evaluation in the NIH outpatient clinic, or either at a collaborating physician's office or
      other suitable site in the field, is sufficient. The VEB investigator provides counseling
      relevant to the virus or disease under study, and about the interim study results. He or she
      makes appropriate referral if needed (e.g., to the Genetic Epidemiology Branch for genetic
      counseling). Clinically relevant results and the VEB investigator's interpretation of these
      results, are provided in writing to the subject's primary caregiver. Confidentiality of the
      information that is obtained is carefully protected. The results of the study are summarized
      for publication in the peer review literature.
    
  