
    
      Background:

        -  Burkitt lymphoma/leukemia (BL) is highly curable. Standard treatment employs doseintense
           multi-agent chemotherapy and though effective is associated with high morbidity.
           Therefore, novel approaches are needed that improve the therapeutic index of BL while
           maintaining or improving efficacy. In HIV+ BL, outcome has been poor, mainly due to the
           use of CHOP based regimens in this disease.

        -  Two NCI phase II trials have used EPOCH chemotherapy with 1 or 2 doses of rituximab (R)
           per cycle in untreated BL. (Dose-adjusted) DA-EPOCH-Rituximab has been used in16 HIV
           negative BL, and 8 HIV positive patients have received 3 to 4 cycles of EPOCHRR to
           minimize toxicity and risk of opportunistic infections. All patients remain in
           continuous remission. Treatment was very well tolerated and represents a novel
           therapeutic strategy in BL.

        -  This trial seeks to assess the effectiveness of a risk adaptive approach with DA-EPOCHR

      in untreated BL (HIV+/-). Because this treatment represents a major conceptual

      departure from standard treatment, it is important to obtain additional Phase II results in

      limited/advanced stage BL

      -c-MYC positive DLBCL is a rare variant of DLBCL. There is very little data on the biology of
      this disease and what the optimal therapeutic approach should be has not been

      defined. Therefore, based on our impression that this behaves aggressively and is likely
      characterized by a high tumor proliferation rate, we plan to accrue patients with this
      disease in addition to BL patients.

      -Plasmablastic lymphoma, another variant of DLBCL is frequently characterized by the
      activation of MYC and has had a poor outcome historically with standard treatment. We plan to
      include these patients in the study also. As they are CD20 negative, they will

      receive DA-EPOCH without Rituximab.

      Objectives:

        -  Determine PFS, EFS and OS of risk adaptive DA-EPOCH-R in untreated BL and c-MYC + DLBCL
           and DA-EPOCH in c-MYC+ plasmablastic lymphoma.

        -  Assess predictive value of early FDG-PET/CT scans on PFS.

        -  Obtain pilot comparative molecular profiling in HIV negative and positive BL and c- MYC
           + DLBCL, including c-MYC+ plasmablastic lymphoma.

      Eligibility:

        -  Burkitt lymphoma, c-MYC + DLBCL and c-MYC + plasmablastic lymphoma age greater than or
           equal to 18 years.

        -  No prior treatment except limited-field radiotherapy, short course of glucocorticoids

      and/or cyclophosphamide for an urgent problem at diagnosis.

      -Adequate major organ function unless impairment due to lymphoma.

      Study Design:

      -Phase II Study of risk adapted DA-EPOCH-R in BL, c-MYC + DLBCL and DA-EPOCH

      in c-MYC+ plasmablastic lymphoma

        -  Low risk: DA-EPOCH-RR x 3 cycles.

        -  High risk , c-MYC + DLBCL and c-MYC+ plasmablastic lymphoma : DA-EPOCH (+/-) R x 6
           cycles or 8 cycles in select patients.

        -  CSF cytology and flow cytometry for analysis of BL.

        -  High Risk CSF negative - Prophylactic intrathecal treatment

        -  CSF positive - Active intrathecal treatment

        -  FDG-PET/CT pre- and post-cycle 2 in all patients.

        -  A total of 194 patients will be enrolled in the protocol.
    
  