
    
      The aging of the French population is associated with a constant increase in the number of
      cancers in people over 75 years of age (1/3 of cancers diagnosed in patients ≥ 75 years).

      Oncogeriatrics is a combination of two specialties, oncology and geriatrics. This practice
      aims to ensure that all elderly cancer patients are treated according to their condition
      through a multidisciplinary and multiprofessional approach. The improvement of the care of
      elderly people with cancer has been measured in Measure 23.4 of the 2009-2013 Cancer Plan.
      This objective is pursued through action 2.16 of the 2014-2019 Cancer Plan aimed at meeting
      the specific needs of elderly people with cancer, notably by relying on the organizational
      set-up of UCOGs (Coordination Units in Onco-Geriatrics). for an improvement of the management
      practices of this population and a structuring of clinical research in oncogeriatrics.

      However, 85% of people over 75 have at least one pathology and more than 7 different
      molecules are delivered on average at least three times a year. Polypharmacy is a factor of
      frailty and the risk of functional decline is established from two prescribed drugs.
      Polypharmacy can be problematic in elderly patients with cancer who are treated with
      chemotherapy.

      In our institution, we wanted to combine a review of therapies with this geriatric evaluation
      in elderly patients with cancer or haematological diseases managed by a systemic oncological
      treatment. In this context, during the evaluation sessions in day hospital (HDJ) of
      oncogeriatrics on the Assistance Publique-Hopitaux de Marseille (AP-HM), a medical assessment
      and a cross analysis between the usual treatments of patients (herbal medicine) and
      self-medication) and chemotherapy and / or immunotherapy and / or targeted therapy and / or
      new generation hormone therapy are routinely performed. The main objective of this work is to
      evaluate the influence of the therapeutic revisions associated with the EGS data on the
      unplanned hospitalization rate at 3 months and then the secondary objective of the impact on
      the course of treatment oncology, to become patients and their survival. For this purpose, we
      want to conduct a pilot observational cohort study, monocentric, prospective, descriptive for
      patients convened in oncogeriatric HDJ and each patient is followed for 6 months.
    
  