
    
      The hepatitis C virus (HCV) is an enveloped, single-stranded positive-sense Ribo-Nucleic Acid
      virus which is a major cause of chronic liver diseases, including cirrhosis and
      hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and infects approximately 3 % of the world population(150-170
      million).

      One of the countries most affected by HCV is Egypt. The Egyptian Demographic and Health
      Surveys measured antibody prevalence among the adult population aged 15-59 years at 14.7% in
      2009 and at 10.0% in 2015 To attend to this challenge, Egypt developed a national strategy
      for Hepatitis C Virus control and established HCV prevention and treatment programs using
      Direct Acting-Antivirals (DAAs).

      Egypt launched an ambitious national HCV treatment program aiming to treat over 250,000
      chronically infected individuals per year, with the goal of achieving a national chronic
      infection prevalence of <2% by 2025.

      Although the consequences of chronic HCV infection are generally associated with liver
      manifestations such as hepatic fibrosis, cirrhosis, steatosis (known as non-alcoholic fatty
      liver disease, NAFLD) and HCC, the liver-related mortality of 350,000 individuals annually is
      still underestimated due to the lack of consideration of extrahepatic effect including a
      growing evidence showing that HCV infection is strongly associated with the dysregulation of
      glucose homoeostasis such as insulin resistance (IR) and type 2 diabetes (T2D).

      HCV-related type 2 diabetes mellitus may arise from a complex interaction between IR,
      steatosis and inflammatory processes People infected with HCV are 4 times more likely to
      develop Type 2 Diabetes; and HCV-infected patients with uncontrolled glucose are at higher
      risk to develop advanced liver fibrosis, HCC, and exhibit decreased sustained virologic
      response (SVR) to traditional interferon treatment.

      HCV protein NS5A and the core protein directly inhibit microsomal triglyceride transfer
      protein (MTP) activity, thereby reducing very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) assembly and
      inducing hepatic steatosis.

      Over time, accumulation of hepatic triglycerides leads to hepatic IR via decreased
      insulin-stimulated glycogen synthesis and enhanced hepatic gluconeogenesis; such conditions
      further cause peripheral IR in multiple organs through increased circulating insulin and free
      fatty acid levels.

      Regarding the molecular mechanisms of regulation of insulin signaling by HCV infection. HCV
      core protein has been found to increase serine rather than tyrosine phosphorylation of IRS-1
      ( insulin Receptor Substrate-1) in hepatocytes, resulting in its degradation and impaired
      downstream signaling Protien Kinase B signalling pathway.

      HCV core protein also stimulates Insulin Receptor Substrate-1 serine phosphorylation via
      increasing mTOR (mammalian Target Of Rapamycin)levels, resulting in decreased Protien Kinase
      B signaling.

      Reduced surface expression of glucose transporters GLUT1 and GLUT2 with consequential
      reduction in glucose uptake in HCV-infected hepatocytes has also been reported.

      Despite these findings of IR development via direct effects on insulin signaling pathways,
      the complex relationship between intrahepatic HCV infection and extrahepatic IR remains
      elusive.

      Several miRNAs have been determined to play a key role in regulating viral replication and
      pathogenesis during HCV infection.

      Host miRNAs can be activated by viral integration in the host genome; viral miRNAs can target
      host mRNAs, , or host miRNAs can target viral mRNAs.

      miR-122 expression is enriched in the liver, accounting for approximately 70 % of the total
      miRNA population in normal adult hepatocytes with approximately 66,000 copies per cell.

      miR-122 has a role in the HCV replication cycle, where it binds to two target sites (S1 and
      S2) in the highly conserved 5' untranslated region of the HCV genome, thus forming a complex
      of HCV oligomeric miR-122 that protects the HCV genome from nucleolytic degradation as well
      as from the host innate immune response.

      Many metabolic processes are potentially targeted by miR-122, including protein metabolism,
      carbohydrate metabolism, lipid metabolism and phospholipid metabolism. Signaling pathway
      ontology revealed several IR-related pathways [eg insulin/Insulin Growth Factor/Protien
      Kinase B signaling, Phosphoinositide 3-Kinase signaling, apoptosis, Epidermal Growth Factor
      receptor signaling,G protien-coupled receptors signaling pathway.

      Antagonism of miRNA-122 not only reduces viral replication but also reduces HCV propagation
      by decreasing the expression of enzymes involved in lipid metabolism, which can enhance HCV
      replication in cell culture models.

      miR-122 represents an interesting therapeutic target for the treatment of liver disease
      including viral hepatitis, fibrosis, steatosis and HCC. Experimental studies have elegantly
      demonstrated that a miR-122 inhibitor efficiently reduces viral load in chronically infected
      HCV patients without detectable resistance.
    
  