
    
      Acute lateral ankle sprains are frequently incurred by athletes, who participate in indoor
      sports such as volleyball, handball, and badminton; accounting for up to 30% of all injuries
      sustained in these sports. Despite established injury prevention strategies, the prevalence
      of recurrent lateral ankle sprain injuries and the concomitant development of CAI is high for
      athletes participating in indoor sports. CAI is characterized by athlete self-reported
      feelings of ankle joint instability, episodes of ankle joint "giving-way", and recurrent
      lateral ankle sprains. Additionally, athletes with CAI, who participate in indoor sports, may
      develop a heightened fear of re-injury, which may deter them from performing optimally in
      their sport. This study is designed as a prospective cohort study. The objective is to
      investigate fear of re-injury and ankle function in elite athletes with CAI (n = 25), both
      before and after a 10-week period during which they will use Spraino® during all training
      sessions and games. This study seeks to answer the following research questions: Does fear of
      re-injury improve in elite indoor sports athletes with established CAI when using Spraino®
      for 10 weeks? Does the use of Spraino® improve their ankle function?

      The intervention time is scheduled for 10 weeks with the primary time point of interest being
      at the completion of week 10. The combined number of training sessions and games for each
      participant over the 10-week time-period is anticipated to exceed 32 exposures to ensure
      adequate exposure of participants to the use of Spraino®. All participants will receive a
      weekly text message using a Short Message Services-system (SMS-Track) throughout the 10-week
      time-period. This will be used to quantify training and game exposure and to register
      occurrences of new ankle injuries.

      Embedded in this study is a qualitative method (semi-structured interview after week 10) to
      assess the participants´ experiences of using Spraino®. The content analysis will be a
      descriptive analysis of the data with some degree of interpretive analysis. The qualitative
      study will be reported in a secondary paper with a clear reference to this primary study
      registration.

      The study purpose and methodology were evaluated by four identified stakeholders from the
      highest sports level including a physiotherapist, a head coach, a team doctor and an athlete.
      Their feedback ensured that the research is relevant to real-life circumstances and adds
      value to existing injury prevention strategies in elite indoor team sport.

      The enrollment process will start in October 2018 and conclude when 25 participants have been
      enrolled in the study.
    
  