
    
      This study will test the efficacy of an innovative, inexpensive, resource-efficient treatment
      for thirst -- one of the most pervasive, intense, unrecognized, and under-treated symptoms
      suffered by critically ill patients in Intensive Care Units (ICUs). The first aim of this
      single-blinded, randomized clinical trial is to test a non-pharmacologic intervention for
      thirst in ICU patients. The intervention is a combination therapy treatment (CTT) for thirst
      that includes the use of sterile water mouth sprays, sterile water swabs, and menthol-based
      lip and tongue moisturizer. The second aim of the study is to examine demographic,
      environmental, and health and illness factors that increase an ICU patient's risk profile for
      thirst. Aim #1 hypotheses: (1) Thirst intensity and distress will decrease significantly in
      ICU patients who receive a CTT for thirst compared to those who receive research team
      observation. (2) Subjective (e.g., dry mouth) and objective (e.g., cracked lips)
      thirst-related characteristics will decrease significantly in ICU patients who receive a CCT
      for thirst compared to those who receive research team observation. Aim #2 hypotheses: (1) A
      significant association will be found between presence of thirst and certain risk factors for
      thirst, e.g., serum osmolality, hydration status, and administration of certain medications,
      e.g., opioids. (2) A significant association will be found between the intensity of thirst
      and certain risk factors for thirst, e.g., serum osmolality, hydration status, and
      administration of certain medications, e.g., opioids.

      The sample will be 245 ICU patients in one Experimental and two Control groups. Those with
      thirst will be randomized to either the Experimental or the Control 1 group. The Experimental
      group will receive the CTT; the Control 1 group will receive research team observation. The
      Control 2 group patients who reported no thirst will be compared to the Control 1 group on
      characteristics associated with the presence and intensity of thirst.

      Multilevel linear regression models will be employed to test the difference in the linear
      change trajectories between the treatment and control groups. Multiple logistic regression
      analysis and multiple linear regression analysis will be used to determine association of
      risk factors with the presence and intensity of thirst, respectively.

      Results will contribute empirical data needed to stimulate a far overdue nursing practice
      change for the treatment of thirst in ICUs. Results will also identify a risk profile for
      thirst that will be an important target for future research of thirst in ICU patients.
    
  