
    
      METHODOLOGY This study is a clinical, longitudinal, prospective trial conducted at the
      Laboratory of Kinesiology and Cinesioterapia of Physiotherapy, Federal University of
      Triangulo Mineiro - UFTM. All participants signed an informed consent. The research started
      after approval by the Ethics Committee UFTM Research Protocol (2147-2012).

      Subject Initially the invitation was made to all students enrolled in the Open University of
      Third Age - UATI / UFTM from August to October 2012.

      The selection was based on the following inclusion criteria: (1) age and above 60 years, (2)
      non-practicing regular physical activity, (3) availability to attend Pilates classes twice a
      week (in addition to the time UATI ) and (4) with preserved cognitive autonomy and exclusion
      criteria: history (1) diseases that directly affect the posture (disc herniation and angular
      deformities of the spine), (2) cardiovascular, respiratory and neurological diseases that
      prevent attainment of Pilates exercises, (3) impaired cognitive capacity limited autonomy or
      self-determination, (4) withdrawal of participation during the assessment process, and (5)
      two consecutive absences or a total of three absences during the proposed time for the
      training set.

      Thus, the proposed methodology for this study was applied in seven women with a mean age of
      64 ± 6 years.

      Review / Procedures The assessment instruments were used: (1) Initial Assessment Sheet, (2)
      spirometer and (3) manometer.

      The record initial assessment and spirometry were applied for the selection of participants.
      Through the initial evaluation form was possible to assess aspects of health status of
      participants (associated diseases, blood pressure, respiratory and heart rate, postural
      assessment) as well as information on personal history, family history and current medication
      .

      A pulmonary function test (spirometry) was performed using the Vitalograph ® spirometer brand
      model 8600. Equipment was calibrated, and the tests were performed by a single trained and
      qualified examiner with instructions and standardized voice commands, as I standards
      advocated by Consensus Brazilian on Espirometria.12 Spirometry was performed to rule out any
      lung disease that affects the performance of the proposed exercises.

      To assess respiratory muscle strength, the volunteers remained in the standing position using
      a nose clip. Respiratory muscle strength was obtained by the techniques of measurements of
      maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP) and maximal expiratory pressure (MEP), by means of an
      analog manometer Generate brand, scaled to ± 300 cmH2O, equipped with nozzle adapter,
      containing a hole 2 mm in diameter, serving as relief of muscles bocais.4 MIP valve was
      obtained with the maximal inspiration preceded by maximal expiration to residual volume level
      and MEP through the maximal expiration preceded by a maximal inspiration, to total lung
      capacity. Were performed at least three maneuvers maximal inspiratory pressure and maximal
      expiratory pressure, in order to obtain the greatest value from three acceptable.

      The measurement of respiratory muscle strength occurred through an analog manometer (Ger-Air
      ®, São Paulo, Brazil), with scales - 300 to +300 cmH2O (calibrated), equipped with plastic
      trachea 16 cm long and 2.4 cm internal diameter, hard plastic mouthpiece and drain hole
      approximately 2 mm in diameter to dissipate the pressures generated by the muscles of the
      face and orofaringe.13 the maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP) and expiratory pressures were
      obtained maximum (MEP), carried a maximum of five times, acceptable and reproducible, and in
      the standing position, using a nose clip, for a time of sustained three seconds. The value of
      MIP was obtained from residual volume, and MEP from total lung capacity. Volunteers were due
      verbal encouragement and if there were more than 10% between a measure and another, a new
      difference maneuver was performed, considering the highest value since this was not the
      último.14 Therapeutic Intervention - Pilates Method The training through the Pilates
      exercises were performed in eleven weeks. The participants were instructed not to miss and
      attend classes twice a week. Each class consisted of five exercises lasting 40 minutes each
      lesson.

      During the first four weeks (1 st to 4 th week) exercises performed were: Cat, Coffee Table,
      Single legcircle, pelvic movements, contraction of the glutes and closure was performed with
      posterior chain elongation range.

      In the next four weeks (5th to 8th weeks) began a new series of exercises, which are: Bridge,
      Side Table, Bridge hip roll with legextension, Abdominal - halfhollup, obliques, and
      ultimately Stretching - Series of William's.

      In the last four weeks of training (9th to 11th weeks) proposed a new series of exercises
      involving: Beaststroke, Support heel Bridge - hip roll with leg extension, and Hundred Squats
      with bat on the wall.

      All exercises were performed during expiration. Statistical Analysis Descriptive data
      analysis was performed, with a mean and standard deviation. For comparative analysis of the
      data obtained in the pre-and post-intervention, the paired t test was applied (after
      confirmed the normal distribution of the sample - Shapiro Wilk test). The level of
      significance was set at 5%. The statistical program used was 18.0 SSPSS.
    
  