
    
      Principal objective: Assess the effectiveness of a strategy to prevent HBV mother-to-child
      transmission (MTCT) in Cambodia based on the use of rapid tests HBs Ag and HBe Ag to screen
      HBV infection and a treatment by TDF for patients with a positive HBeAg test with a "test and
      treat" strategy for those seen for Antenatal Care (ANC) from 24 weeks of amenorrhea.

      Secondary objectives Assess the feasibility and acceptability for patients and health care
      providers of the rapid tests screening strategy Assess the acceptability of the test and
      treat strategy for patients seen after 24 weeks of amenorrhea Describe the HBV viral load
      (VL) decrease caused by the TDF Estimate the rate of HBV transmission to newborns according
      to the time spent on TDF as well as initial viral load level and delivery viral load level
      Estimate the rate of HBV transmission to newborns for HBe Ag negative women Describe the
      correlation between HBV viral load level and HBe Ag status Describe subgroups of mothers and
      new-borns for which the strategy seems more effective Assess TDF safety in mothers Analyse
      the cost-effectiveness of the strategy compare to international guidelines (WHO, APASL)

      Each woman will be informed of the objectives and the total duration of the study as well as
      the benefits and risks to participate. An information sheet in Khmer will be given to each
      woman. The study will be composed of two phases of information's and consent. The first one
      will be done during the HBs Ag screening using rapid test; the screening will be proposed to
      all pregnant women attending ANC in one of the affiliated centres. The second phase will be
      done during the inclusion visit and will concern only HBs Ag positive women. The study will
      concern only HBs Ag positive women with 1) follow up of all HBsAg positive women from
      inclusion up to 6 months postpartum 2) For HBeAg positive women, initiation of treatment by
      fumarate de tenofovir disoproxil (Viread®), with a daily administration of one 300mg pill.
      Women will be treated from 24 weeks of amenorrhea until 6 weeks post-partum. For women with
      first ANC after 24 weeks of amenorrhea, treatment will begin the day of inclusion. Treatment
      will be given for 4 weeks and adherence will be estimated. In all cases, vaccination of the
      newborn will be carried out according to the national protocol in Cambodia i.e. 4 injections
      at 24 hours, 6, 10 and 14 weeks of age.

      A total of 933 positive HBs Ag pregnant women will be enrolled including 280 HBe Ag positive
      women and 653 HBe negative women.
    
  