
    
      The objectives of the proposed study are to advance Type 2 translational science through an
      effectiveness-implementation "type 2" hybrid design to evaluate the clinical and
      cost-effectiveness of an efficacious intervention (Teen Marijuana Check-Up, TMCU) and compare
      the feasibility, acceptability, impact and cost-effectiveness of two integrity monitoring
      support systems. Marijuana continues to be the most frequently used drug in the U.S. and
      adolescent use is associated with negative effects such as academic failure, dropout, and
      emotional problems. Although marijuana is the most common presenting substance for 12-17 year
      olds seeking substance abuse treatment, few voluntarily seek indicated services. The TMCU is
      a brief, school-based motivational enhancement therapy approach that has been systematically
      evaluated in three randomized controlled trials with reliable beneficial effects in prompting
      voluntary participation in the intervention and decreasing adolescent marijuana use. With
      TMCU now well-positioned for broad dissemination, its public health impact may be enhanced by
      further research addressing: 1) to what extent its documented efficacy under controlled
      conditions translates to real-world effectiveness, and 2) what support systems are most
      useful in promoting sustained integrity in its delivery by the available school-based
      personnel. The proposed type 2 effectiveness/implementation hybrid trial will include
      randomization at multiple levels. Students will be randomly-assigned in a 1:2 ratio to
      'services-as-usual' and TMCU intervention conditions, and school-based personnel identified
      to deliver TMCU will be randomly-assigned to do so under governance of a 'gold-standard'
      training/oversight support system (i.e., rapid, continual performance-based feedback and
      weekly coaching about integrity of TMCU delivery) or a less resource-intensive support system
      similarly including performance-based feedback but with process benchmarking (defined by
      prior performance of research interventionists in TMCU efficacy trials) prompting points at
      which these school-based personnel receive purveyor coaching. Expected trial participation of
      ten schools will enable recruitment of 30 TMCU interventionists, and access to a pool of 250
      marijuana-using students during a two-year implementation period. This nested design (e.g.,
      students in schools/intervention conditions; interventionists in schools/training/oversight
      support systems) will utilize multilevel models in study analyses to account for possible
      school-level clustering. A cost analysis will also be conducted. Longitudinal outcome and
      process data will be collected from school based staff (6, 12, 18, & 24 month follow-ups) and
      students (3 and 6 month followups).

      The trial will occur in Washington state at an opportune time when legislative, fiscal, and
      socio-cultural factors converge to heighten potential adolescent exposure to
      marijuana-related harms-represents an effort by this investigative team to respond to such
      local challenges in a manner that will advance understanding of best practices for
      dissemination and implementation of this and other efficacious, school-based interventions
    
  