
    
      Covid-19 pneumonia became the worldwide, serious health problem, affecting nearly 20 million
      people and causing nearly one million deaths. The health systems of many countries are
      overwhelmed with the increased need of medical care, of the number of available hospital
      beds, intensive care beds and ventilators. The proper management of available resources
      becomes now critical. Ultrasound can reliably detect morphologic changes associated with
      pneumonia, especially in Covid-19 pneumonia, where the involvement of superficial parts of
      the lungs predominates. Additionally, protocols were elaborated which unify the investigation
      procedure and improve the intra- and interrater reliability. Moreover, ultrasound is a time
      and cost-effective and widely available method. Finally, it is much easier to take measures,
      which minimize the risk of viral transmission between patients for ultrasound equipment than
      for other lung imaging devices such as x-ray or computer tomography. The aim of this study is
      to evaluate the efficacy of the ultrasound of the lungs in predicting the length of
      hospitalization, of intensive care and of mechanical ventilation in Covid-19 pneumonia.
      Further aims are the evaluation of the efficacy of the ultrasound of the lungs in predicting
      the risk of death and of the long-term pulmonary complications as consequences of Covid-19
      pneumonia. The study will include repeated ultrasound investigations in severe acute
      respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) positive patients admitted to the University
      Hospital in Cracow (Poland) performed during hospitalization and after discharge. The
      relation of severity and the course of pneumonia revealed by ultrasound to clinical
      condition, long term complications, use of mechanical ventilation, admission to intensive
      care and results of laboratory tests will be examined.
    
  