
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the addition of estrogen deprivation to neoadjuvant therapy
      consisting of therapy of docetaxel, carboplatin, trastuzumab, and pertuzumab (TCHP) yields a
      greater rate of pathologic complete response (pCR) (breast and nodes) than TCHP alone when
      administered to women with operable, hormone receptor-positive, HER2-positive breast cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the addition of estrogen deprivation to neoadjuvant therapy
      consisting of TCHP will increase the pCR rate in the breast compared to TCHP alone when
      administered to women with operable, hormone receptor-positive, HER2-positive breast cancer.

      II. To determine whether the addition of estrogen deprivation to neoadjuvant therapy
      consisting of TCHP improves recurrence-free interval (RFI) in women with operable, hormone
      receptor-positive, HER2-positive breast cancer.

      III. To determine whether the addition of estrogen deprivation to neoadjuvant therapy
      consisting of TCHP improves overall survival (OS) in women with operable, hormone
      receptor-positive, HER2-positive breast cancer.

      IV. To compare the rates of second primary invasive cancer by treatment arm. V. Assessment of
      patterns of pCR, RFI, and OS by menopausal status. VI. To evaluate the cardiac toxicity
      associated with each of the regimens. VII. To compare the effect of adding estrogen
      deprivation to neoadjuvant therapy on endocrine-related symptoms in all patients by treatment
      arm.

      VIII. To compare the effect of adding estrogen deprivation to neoadjuvant therapy on
      vasomotor symptoms, musculoskeletal, and vaginal complaints as well as quality of life.

      IX. To determine a relationship between pCR and a potential mechanism of
      resistance/sensitivity in hormone receptor-positive, HER2-positive tumors.

      X. To evaluate tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and immune biomarkers as predictors of
      pCR.

      XI. To study early changes in TILs and other immune biomarkers in response to TCHP.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatments arms.

      NEOADJUVANT:

      ARM I: Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes, carboplatin IV over
      30-60 minutes, trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes, and pertuzumab IV over 30-60 on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients enrolled after Amendment #4 undergo 2 core biopsies prior to
      course 3 of treatment.

      ARM II: All patients receive docetaxel, carboplatin, trastuzumab, and pertuzumab as in arm I.
      Premenopausal patients also receive goserelin acetate subcutaneously (SC) every 28 days until
      surgery and aromatase inhibition therapy at the investigator's discretion daily until 1 day
      before surgery. Postmenopausal patients receive aromatase inhibition therapy at the
      investigator's discretion daily until 1 day before surgery. Patients enrolled after Amendment
      #4 undergo 2 core biopsies prior to course 3 of treatment.

      SURGERY: Patients undergo lumpectomy or mastectomy.

      RADIATION: Patients undergo whole breast irradiation within 8 weeks following surgery.

      ADJUVANT: Patients receive trastuzumab IV over 30-60 minutes every 21 days for up to 1 year.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6, 9, 12, and 18 months
      for 5 years.
    
  