
    
      The research aim is to determine if perturbation-based training (PBT) leads to greater
      improvements in balance reactions, scores on clinical scales, and fall rates compared with
      conventional gait training. The investigators hypothesize that individuals with iSCI who
      participate in PBT will show significantly greater gains in: 1) the ability to take a
      reactive step during the lean-and-release test, as evidenced by a reduction in both the time
      taken to initiate the reaction, and the number of steps taken to regain balance; and 2)
      clinical measures of gait, balance, and balance self-efficacy. The investigators also
      hypothesize that individuals who participate in PBT will experience fewer falls in the 6
      months following training than the conventional training group.

      All 24 participants with iSCI will complete 2 baseline assessments spaced 2 weeks apart. The
      participants will then be randomized into perturbation-based training and conventional gait
      training (12 participants/group) using a matched pairs design. Participants will be matched
      based on AIS level (C or D) and age (<60 years or >60 years). For both programs, the dosage
      will be 3 sessions/week for 8 weeks, with each session lasting 1 hour. After training,
      follow-up assessments, including the lean-and-release test and clinical measures, will be
      completed at 3 and 6 months post-training. PBT and conventional gait training will be
      delivered by a graduate student with a background in Physical Therapy or Kinesiology and
      supervised by a licensed physical therapist. PBT will consist of repetitive practice of
      reactive stepping for 1 hour. Participants will experience 60 perturbations per session
      during standing and walking activities, such as standing on a compliant surface or with eyes
      closed, stepping on targets on the ground, or stepping sideways. To create a perturbation,
      the researcher will apply unexpected pushes or pulls to a safety harness around the
      participant's trunk. The perturbation will be sufficient in magnitude to elicit a stepping
      response from the participant. Conventional training will consist of treadmill (0.5 hr) and
      over-ground (0.5 hr) gait training. On the treadmill, participants will walk as fast and as
      long as possible. Body weight-support may be used, if needed. During over-ground walking,
      participants will practice similar activities to the PBT group, but no perturbations will be
      applied. After the training period, participants will be followed for 6 months to track the
      occurrence and consequences of falls. If a participant experiences a fall, he/she will be
      asked to complete a short survey (online or on paper) within 24 hours of falling. A
      researcher will maintain monthly contact with participants to ensure falls are documented.
      Assessments will be performed twice during the baseline period, and after 4 and 8 weeks of
      training, and 3 and 6 months post-training for those participating in the RCT. The
      lean-and-release test will be administered by the research team due to the technical
      expertise required. All other measures will be administered by licensed PTs who are blind to
      study purpose and training allocation. The lean-and-release test will quantify the ability to
      take reactive steps. Participants will stand on a force plate and lean forward with 5-10% of
      their body weight supported by a horizontal cable. The cable is released at an unpredictable
      time, and participants must take a reactive step forward onto a second force plate. Ground
      reaction forces and surface electromyography of the legs (rectus femoris, vastus lateralis,
      biceps femoris, soleus, medial gastrocnemius, and tibialis anterior) will be recorded. The
      lean-and-release test has good test-retest reliability in older adults. The Mini-Balance
      Evaluation System's Test assesses four balance control systems, including postural responses
      to perturbations. This scale has been used in SCI, and has shown good validity and
      reliability in stroke and Parkinson's disease. The Activities-specific Balance Confidence
      Scale is a questionnaire on balance self-efficacy. Participants rate their confidence in
      their ability to maintain balance while performing 16 functional tasks. It has been used in
      individuals with SCI and has good psychometric properties in stroke. Spatio-temporal gait
      parameters, such as step width and double support time, will be collected with the Zeno
      Walkway (ProtoKinetics).

      All electromyography (EMG), force plate and motion capture data will be sampled at 1 kHz. The
      EMG signals will amplified and bandpass filtered between 20-500Hz. EMG and force plate
      signals will be used to determine the timing of the reactive step, elicited by the
      lean-and-release test. The magnitude of activity in each muscle during the reactive step will
      evaluated using the root mean square of each muscle's EMG. The Shapiro-Wilk test will be used
      to test the assumption of normality. To compare the outcomes of the 2 training programs, a
      one-way repeated measures ANOVA or Friedman's Test will be used. The alpha level will be set
      at 0.05.
    
  