
    
      Aim: To de termine the effect of mid urethral sling in reducing postoperative incontinence
      after vaginal prolapse surgery.

      General Objectives: To compare the risk of de novo postoperative incontinence between
      prolapsed surgery with mid urethral sling versus no sling.

      Specific Objectives: to compare the change in score of BFLUTS-SF (Bristol Female lower
      urinary tract symptoms- sexual function) and UDI-6 (Urinary distress inventory-6) pre and
      post surgery between the two groups.

      Research Hypothesis: The use of mid urethral sling after vaginal prolapse surgery has role in
      reduction of postoperative incontinence.

      Materials & Methods:

        1. Whether study involves humans/animals or both : Humans

        2. Population/ participants: Patients with pelvic organ prolapse who are planned for
           vaginal prolapse surgery in BPKIHS (BP Koirala Institute of Health and Sciences).

        3. Type of study design: a randomized controlled trial

      (e) Expected sample size: 54 Sample size calculation: Previous study done by Control groups:
      Patient undergoing vaginal prolapse surgery only without mid urethral sling. There will be
      small incision in the suprapubic region that mimics the TVT incision.

      (f) Probable duration of study: one and half year (g) Setting: BPKIHS, Department of
      Obstetrics and Gynecology (h) Parameter/Variables to be applied/ measured: Age, BMI, POPQ
      (Pelvic organ prolapse quantification) stage, menopause, ESST (Empty supine stress test).

      (i) Outcome measures: LUTS score, UDI-6 score, SUI (stress urinary incontinence), Voiding
      dysfunction, dyspareunia, satisfaction, Complications like bladder injury, hemorrhage.

      (j) Rationale for statistical methods to be employed: attached (k) Ethical clearance: Study
      will be started after getting clearance from the IRC (Institutional review committee) of
      BPKIHS .

      (l) Permission to use copyright questionnaire/Proforma: Pre designed Proforma and
      questionnaire will be used to collect the data. The internationally valid questionnaire in
      English will be validated in Nepali language first and then it will be used.

      (m) Maintain the confidentiality of subject: The confidentiality of the patients will be
      maintained throughout the research.
    
  