
    
      Abiraterone acetate is a steroidal irreversible inhibitor of CYP17 (17α hydroxylase/C17,
      20-lyase), blocking 2 important enzymatic activities in the synthesis of testosterone. The
      goal of this study is to compare the clinical benefit of abiraterone acetate plus prednisone
      with placebo plus prednisone in patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer
      (CRPC) who have failed one or two chemotherapy regimens, one of which contains docetaxel. All
      patients involved in the study will be randomized (assigned by chance) into one of two arms
      and will not know what study drug is being given to them. Study drug randomization allocation
      will be 2:1 (abiraterone acetate: placebo). The study will be conducted in the United States,
      Canada, Australia, and the EU. The study will consist of screening, treatment, and follow-up.
      In this study, patients will receive study treatment (abiraterone acetate or placebo) plus
      prednisone until progression of clinical disease. Follow-up will continue until patient dies,
      is lost to follow-up, or withdraws informed consent. After providing written informed
      consent, patients will have screening procedures completed to determine eligibility. Safety
      evaluations at the screening procedure will include a physical examination, vital signs, and
      clinical blood laboratory tests, ECG, radiographs, urine tests, and recording of any adverse
      events including details of current prostate cancer symptoms. Patients will be asked to use a
      method of birth control with adequate barrier protection as determined to be acceptable by
      the principal investigator and sponsor during the study and for 13 weeks after last study
      drug administration.

      Study medication, abiraterone acetate,is an oral (by mouth) medication to be administered as
      four (4) 250mg abiraterone acetate tablets or 4 placebo tablets to be taken at least one hour
      before or two hours after a meal anytime up to 10PM everyday. Prednisone will be administered
      as 5mg orally twice a day for both groups. Each cycle will be 28 days. Study treatment will
      continue until disease progression as determined by investigator or when the patient meets
      criteria for withdrawal from study.
    
  