
    
      Early childhood is a sensitive period in which young children develop language and
      socio-emotional skills foundational for school readiness. Unfortunately, poor vulnerable
      children experience disparities in these critical areas of development. Parent-child shared
      reading can help ameliorate these disparities, yet low-income parents do not consistently
      engage in this activity. Behavioral economics approaches utilizing automated hovering (AH)
      have the potential to increase parent-child shared reading through text messages and
      financial inducements.

      The study design is a prospective, randomized comparative group trial to test the effects of
      AH approaches to increase parent-child shared reading. A total of 45 eligible children and
      their parents will be recruited from participating practices to achieve a diverse sample of
      children.

      Forty-five participants in will be randomized 1:1:1 to receive one of the 3 AH interventions:
      1) daily text message reminders, 2) daily text message reminders with coaching/social
      comparisons or 3) daily text message reminders with coaching/social comparisons and weekly
      lottery entries. All interventions are related to principles of behavioral economics in order
      to provide external motivation. There will be 15 participants per group to adequately assess
      feasibility and acceptability, the primary outcome.

      Descriptive statistics for demographic, home reading environment, and parenting stress
      measured at baseline will be examined across the three groups to assess the success of the
      randomization. To assess feasibility and acceptability, Investigators will assess the
      proportion of participants who receive and report a daily reading behavior each week across
      all groups, the proportion of participants who access coaching content in group 2 & 3, and
      the proportion of participants who participate in the weekly lottery in group 3, and
      satisfaction scores in all groups. Secondary outcomes including differences between groups in
      weekly reading frequency, home reading environment, and child socio-emotional scores between
      groups will be assessed using standard inferential statistics and intention-to-treat
      analysis.

      The results of this study may assist health care providers and researchers in testing the
      feasibility of AH approaches to improve parent-child shared reading and prepare for a larger
      efficacy trial.
    
  