
    
      Psychosocial treatments in cancer survivors have demonstrated their efficacy in reducing
      emotional distress and improving Quality of Life (QoL). Providing access to a psychosocial
      intervention at the end of a curative cancer treatment becomes worthwhile, not only because
      it reduces the use of other medical resources and promotes return-to-work, but also because
      it facilitates oncological treatment adherence and the adoption of healthy lifestyles. Online
      psychosocial treatments are a good option because of their easy access, anonymity and low
      cost. The study is a sequential multicenter, controlled and randomized clinical trial
      organized in two stages. It is worth highlighting that there was a deviance from the initial
      research plan which contemplated a three-arm clinical trial. However, during the preparation
      of the recruitment phase, we faced some problems related to the opening of the third arm
      (online group positive psychotherapy) due to the fact that the required technology that
      supported the online group psychotherapy was not available for use at that moment. As a
      result, we decided to wait for a few months before we activate the third arm of the study. In
      conclusion, the study aims to prove, in the first stage, the efficacy of a face-to-face
      Positive Psychotherapy in Cancer (PPC) group compared to a Cognitive Behavioral Stress
      Management (CBSM) group. In the second stage, the common face-to-face version of the PPC will
      be compared with its online version via videoconference (Online group Positive Psychotherapy,
      OPPC). Those breast cancer survivors who have showed moderate or severe adaptation problems
      after the completion of their oncological treatment will be randomly assigned to PPC versus
      CBSM group for the first stage of the study (January 2013-December 2015), and for the second
      stage, a different group of breast cancer survivors will be assigned to PPC versus OPCC
      (January 2016-February 2019). Regarding the methodology of the study, participants from the 4
      groups will be evaluated using a battery of measures at the beginning of the study (T0),
      post-treatment (T1), 3 months from T1 (T2) and 12 months from T2 (T3). Therefore, this study
      will use a factorial design of 3 (treatment conditions) x 4 (evaluation points).The main
      outcome measures include: quality of life, anxiety, depression, post-traumatic stress and
      post-traumatic growth. Secondary outcome measures will be: healthy lifestyles, adherence to
      the oncological treatment, perceived social support, and the number of return-to-work days
      after the cancer treatment completion.

      Data will be analyzed using SPSS 21.0 version. For the first stage, we hypothesize that the
      PCC group would achieve similar efficacy in reducing participants' distress compared to the
      CBSM group, while the PCC group would show greater improvement in PTG. For the second stage,
      it is hypothesized that the OPCC would achieve similar efficacy in all psychosocial variables
      and guarantee equivalent retention and adherence compared to face-to-face PPC. Besides, the
      presential format will be more effective for severely distressed patients with previous
      history of trauma, while the online format will be more effective for younger patients with
      mild emotional distress.
    
  