
    
      This protocol is designed to provide blood, urine, sputum, stool, cerebrospinal fluid, skin
      biopsy and bone marrow aspirate samples from paid, volunteer donors for use in in vitro
      studies of eosinophilia and parasitic diseases. Donors meeting standard normal donor
      eligibility criteria will be recruited to donate blood, urine, sputum, stool, cerebrospinal
      fluid, skin biopsy and/or bone marrow using conventional techniques. The investigational
      nature of the studies in which their samples will be used, as well as the risks and benefits
      of the donation process will be explained to all donors, and a signed informed consent
      document will be obtained. Donors will be compensated according to an established schedule
      based on the duration and discomfort of the donation. Samples provided through this protocol
      will be used solely for in vitro research. Blood, urine, sputum, stool, cerebrospinal fluid,
      skin biopsy and bone marrow samples will be assigned a unique product number, and the study
      investigators listed on this protocol will serve as the custodians of the code that links the
      product with a donor s identity. The nature of the in vitro studies in which the specimens
      collected in this study will be used is not the subject of this protocol and will be
      described in general terms only, since it involves several IRB-approved LPD protocols.
      Because some of these protocols require normal controls without a history of asthma or
      allergic disease, all subjects will undergo a standardized allergy/asthma history at
      enrollment. Serum immunoglobulin levels and a basic RAST panel may be performed on sera from
      some normal donors, and some normal donors may be asked to undergo pulmonary function
      testing. This protocol is designed to assure adequate and complete informed consent,
      counseling, and protection of the study subjects according to IRB, OHSR, OPRR and other
      applicable Federal regulatory standards.
    
  