
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the recommended dose and schedule of docetaxel when given in combination with
      recombinant vaccinia-CEA-TRICOM vaccine, recombinant fowlpox-CEA-TRICOM vaccine, and
      sargramostim (GM-CSF), defined by best immune response with acceptable toxicity, in patients
      with carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA)-expressing metastatic lung or colorectal cancer.

      II. Compare the effect of varying doses and schedules of docetaxel on CEA-specific T-cell
      immune responses by ELISPOT assay in patients treated with these regimens.

      III. Compare objective antitumor response in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE:

      This is a 2-part, randomized, pilot study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 6 treatment arms:
      arms I, II, and III in part I (lung cancer and colorectal cancer patients) and arms IV, V,
      and VI in part II (lung cancer patients only). Patients are stratified according to disease
      site and HLA-A2 positivity (positive vs negative). At least 6 of 10 patients must be HLA-A2
      positive for each of the treatment arms.

      Vaccinia-CEA-TRICOM vaccine (parts I and II): In all treatment arms, patients receive
      vaccinia-CEA-TRICOM vaccine intradermally on day 1 and sargramostim (GM-CSF) subcutaneously
      (SC) into the vaccine site on days 1-4.

      Fowlpox-CEA-TRICOM vaccine and concurrent chemotherapy:

      Part I (lung cancer and colorectal cancer patients):

      ARM 1: Three weeks after treatment with vaccinia-CEA-TRICOM vaccine, patients receive
      fowlpox-CEA-TRICOM vaccine SC on day 1 and GM-CSF SC into each vaccination site on days 1-4.

      ARM II: Patients receive fowlpox-CEA-TRICOM vaccine and GM-CSF as in arm I and lower-dose
      docetaxel IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8.

      ARM III: Patients receive fowlpox-CEA-TRICOM vaccine and GM-CSF as in arm I and standard-dose
      docetaxel IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8.

      Part II (lung cancer patients only):

      ARM IV: Patients receive fowlpox-CEA-TRICOM vaccine and GM-CSF as in arm I and full-dose
      docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1.

      ARM V: Patients receive full-dose docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1, fowlpox-CEA-TRICOM
      vaccine SC on day 8, and GM-CSF SC into each vaccination site on days 8-11.

      ARM VI: Patients receive full-dose docetaxel as in arm V, fowlpox-CEA-TRICOM vaccine SC on
      day 15, and GM-CSF SC into each vaccination site on days 15-18.

      Treatment in all arms repeats every 21 days for a total of 4 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who do not have significant disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity after 4 courses of treatment may receive additional
      fowlpox-CEA-TRICOM vaccine and docetaxel according to the treatment arm on which they were
      enrolled at study entry. Patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then annually
      for 13 years.
    
  