
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE: Depression with a global prevalence of over 4% is a major public
      health problem and is the single largest contributor to non-fatal health loss. There is a
      need to identify interventions that are relatively cost-efficient, scalable, and can be
      offered to many people. Treatment for depressive disorders typically includes anti-depressant
      medication and/or counselling and psychotherapy.

      Exercise as a form of treatment for depressive disorders, especially of mild-to-moderate
      severity, has evidence of benefit. In fact, the magnitude of the effect of exercise as a
      treatment for depression is reported to be comparable to conventional treatment. An umbrella
      review of systematic reviews and meta-analyses of the use of exercise to treat depressive
      symptoms in older adults, for example, concluded that exercise is safe and efficacious in
      reducing depressive symptoms in older people and it should be considered as a core
      intervention in the multidisciplinary treatment of depression in this age group. A
      meta-analysis adjusting for publication bias, concluded that "exercise has a large and
      significant antidepressant effect in people with depression". The mechanisms by which
      exercise decreases depressive symptoms may include biological mechanisms, such as
      anti-inflammatory effects or increasing neurotransmitter levels implicated in depression.
      Other mechanisms may include increasing self-efficacy or enhancing social interaction.

      Despite this strong evidence base, few studies have incorporated multiple treatment
      conditions in a randomized controlled trial design, and few studies appear to have assessed
      the effect of group CBT. In addition, few studies could be found that compared group CBT,
      group exercise, and wait-listing for treatment as usual conditions. This is important in
      further delineating the effective components of treatment for mild to moderate depression,
      and results have implications for service delivery and clinical recommendations in the
      treatment of depression within healthcare organizations in Alberta and beyond. Specifically,
      patients with MDD referred to Addiction and Mental Health (AMH) Clinics in Edmonton Zone may
      wait for weeks before receiving individual treatment. Thus, if found to be effective, group
      treatment conditions examined in this study may serve as an expedient treatment avenue to
      decrease wait-list times for patients with MDD.

      AIM AND OBJECTIVES: The aim of the project is to conduct a three-arm randomized controlled
      pilot trial to evaluate the feasibility and initial efficacy of group CBT or group exercise
      on depression symptom scores and quality of life measures in patients with MDD. The client
      outcomes will be organized according to: functional variables (relationships, well-being,
      physical activity), symptom variables (change in depressive symptoms scores), and service
      variables (e.g. patient compliance and retention in treatment and patient satisfaction).

      Given the aim, the objectives of the project are to compare mean changes in functioning,
      clinical symptoms, and service satisfaction variables from enrolment baseline to 12 weeks
      post enrolment for: 1) participants receiving group CBT plus wait-listed to receive TAU; 2)
      participants receiving scheduled exercise plus wait-listed to receive TAU; and 3) those only
      wait-listed to receive TAU. Another objective of the study is to compare mean changes in
      functioning, clinical symptoms, and service satisfaction variables from treatment baseline to
      7 and 14 weeks post-treatment commencement for: 1) participants receiving group CBT plus
      wait-listed to receive TAU and 2) participants receiving scheduled exercise plus wait-listed
      to receive TAU.

      HYPOTHESIS: The investigators hypothesize that participants enrolled in the group CBT or
      group exercise treatments while wait-listed to receive TAU will achieve statistically
      superior outcomes at 12 weeks post enrollment compared to participants only wait-listed to
      receive TAU on each outcome measure used. We expect that participants enrolled in group CBT
      plus TAU will have comparable outcomes to those enrolled in the group exercise plus TAU arm
      of the study at 7and 14 weeks post treatment commencement.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study will be a longitudinal, prospective, parallel design,
      three-arm, rater-blinded randomized clinical trial with a recruitment period of six months
      and an observation period of 14 weeks for each participant.

      The research will be carried out in a municipal recreational centre as well as AMH clinics in
      Edmonton, a large, socio-demographically diverse city in Western Canada. Potential
      participants will be recruited from the AMH Intake Clinic in Edmonton. Patients with
      depression at intake assessment who are presumed to meet the inclusion criteria of the study
      will be invited to enroll in this study.

      To confirm the diagnosis of MDD using the DSM 5 criteria, potential participants will be sent
      to the Mood and Anxiety clinic or Urgent Clinics in Edmonton where they will be assessed by
      one of a group of psychiatrists or psychiatry residents who are independent from the study
      team. The psychiatrist or resident may or may not initiate, continue or adjust
      pharmacotherapy. The diagnosis will be communicated to the study coordinator and clinic
      nurse. The participants with MDD will be informed of their eligibility to participate in the
      study and will be considered for randomization after providing informed consent whereas
      patients with other diagnoses will be informed of their exclusion from the study and will be
      directed to receive an appropriate treatment for their condition.

      After diagnostic confirmation by a psychiatrist, a research assistant who is trained in study
      procedures will provide the potential participants with an information leaflet about the
      study and answer any related questions they may have. All potential participants who agree to
      take part in the study will provide written informed consent prior the completion of baseline
      assessment measures and randomization.

      At baseline, demographic and contact information will be collected. The participants' name
      and contact information will also be collected but only used for future communication or for
      arrangement of treatment, assessment and follow-up sessions.

      Participant's Medical Record will also be reviewed at two points, at the time of enrollment
      in the study and 6 months after enrollment, to gather information about the participant's use
      of health services in the past 6 months to compare service utilization among the groups and
      determine if participation in the intervention group impacts the use of other health services
      in the short term. This same data can also be used for any economic analyses (i.e.,
      cost-effectiveness) that will be conducted.

      All the data will be stored for a minimum of 7 years prior to destruction as per the research
      ethics board requirements, and research ethics board requirements pertaining to collection
      and storage of information will be followed.

      SAMPLE SIZE: As this is a pilot study, the research will utilize data that can be elicited
      from participants who can be enrolled within existing operational resources and time frames.
      The study will therefore be limited to a sample size of 120, with about 40 patients recruited
      into each arm of the study.

      RANDOMIZATION AND BLINDING: Randomization will be enacted via randomly generated codes. Each
      study participant will receive a randomization code. Because it will not be possible for
      participants to be blinded, treatment allocation will be made explicit to them as soon as
      randomization is concluded. Outcome assessors will be blinded to treatment group allocation
      by not involving them in discussions about study participants and not granting them access to
      the database that contains the randomization code. In addition, study participants will
      self-complete all outcome assessments with the assessor facilitating procedural aspects if
      needed. Moreover, these assessors will not be involved in data analysis. After data
      collection is complete all data will undergo a blind review for the purposes of finalizing
      the planned analysis.

      FOLLOW UP ASSESSMENT: 12 and 24 weeks after baseline assessments, a blinded researcher will
      contact study participants in all three arms of the study and assist them in the completion
      of a range of assessment tools related to the outcome measures. The number of treatment
      sessions (group CBT, group exercise or individual therapy) participants have received at each
      time point would be recorded for participants in all treatment arms. In addition,
      participants in the group CBT and exercise arms of the study would complete assessments tools
      weekly during the sessions and also at mid-treatment (7 weeks after starting treatment) and
      at the end of the treatment (14 weeks after the treatment commencement). These self-rated
      assessments would be coordinated by the group facilitators.

      STATISTICAL METHODS: The primary goal of the statistical analysis will be to produce summary
      descriptive statistics for the longitudinal data, which will provide estimates for future
      sample size calculations and enable calculation of effect size. For the three arm trial, we
      will compare mean change scores for primary and secondary outcome measures from enrollment
      baseline to 12 weeks and 24 weeks post-enrollment into the study, whilst for the two arm
      trial, we will compare mean changes scores for primary and secondary outcome measures from
      treatment baseline to 7 and 14 weeks post-enrollment into treatment in addition to comparing
      trends in weekly change scores on the CORE-10 OM between the two intervention groups. The
      data will be analyzed using repeated measures and effect size analyses, and correlational
      analyses will be completed between measures at each time point. The results of this study
      will guide the design for a future, more highly powered, study.

      PATIENT AND PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT: The study was designed and finalized based on feedback from
      patient representatives. This randomized trial also offers patients the opportunity to
      provide feedback via the patient satisfaction survey.

      ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study will be conducted in accordance with the Declaration of
      Helsinki (Hong Kong Amendment) and Good Clinical Practice (Canadian Guidelines). Written
      informed consent will be obtained from each participant. The study has received ethical
      clearance from Health Ethics Research Board of the University of Alberta (Ref. # Pro
      00080975) and operational approval from the regional health authority (AHS # 43638). The
      results will be disseminated at several levels, including patients, practitioners,
      academics/researchers, and healthcare organizations.

      The investigators will plan an organizational engagement strategy to advance discussions
      about feasibility and effectiveness prior to the conclusion of the trial. This will help
      ensure the findings are a relevant part of decision-making processes in a way that is aligned
      with study findings as they emerge. This may facilitate planning of a larger study that is
      endorsed at both leadership and operational levels, so that the potential benefits of the
      interventions can reach patients in a more timely fashion.

      DISCUSSION: The results of the study will provide important information about the
      effectiveness of group CBT and/or group exercise in treatment of MDD. This will augment the
      literature in this area, and also provide practical benefits in examining if benefit can be
      derived from group treatment modalities. Currently, patients with MDD referred to AMH Clinics
      in Edmonton Zone may wait for weeks before receiving care from a health care professional in
      a one-to-one setting. Long wait may negatively impact patients' well-being, personal and
      occupational function as well as their satisfaction with care, and a group-based treatment
      may serve as an alternative for patients with MDD that can be more expediently accessed.

      The results of the pilot trial may inform the implementation of a multi-center clinical trial
      and provide useful information for administrators and clinicians who are interested in
      incorporating these interventions into existing care. The investigators expect that the pilot
      findings will inform and support administrative decision-making with respect to further
      scaling and studying the intervention within the province of Alberta and beyond.

      AUTHORS' CONTRIBUTIONS: The study was conceived and designed by VIOA who also contributed to
      drafting of the initial and final drafts of the manuscript. MH, MYS and GG contributed to the
      study design and drafting of the initial and final drafts of the manuscript. PC, MS, JM, KD,
      LL, DT, JK, PC, DS, JC, JB, KH, DL, LF, AD, SD SS and AAA contributed to the study design and
      revising the initial draft of the of the manuscript. All authors approved of the final draft
      of the manuscript prior to submission.

      FUNDING STATEMENT: This work was supported by a Pfizer Depression grant (via Department of
      Psychiatry, University of Alberta) and support was received from Alberta Health Services.

      COMPETING INTERESTS STATEMENT: All authors have nothing to disclose.
    
  