
    
      The purpose of this study is to develop and pilot test intervention strategies at the
      provincial level (Aim 1), treatment agency level (Aim2), and community level (Aim 3). These
      strategies aim to strengthen both horizontal and vertical collaboration and networking among
      providers to better serve people living with HIV who use drugs (PLHWUD), including those who
      are already in treatment and those who need to be linked to service. Commune health workers
      (CHW) have great potentials to be mobilized to engage PLHWUD living in the community and to
      work with providers at treatment clinics to support PLHWUD treatment retention and adherence.
      E-technologies such as Facebook and e-chat will also be utilized to enhance provider-provider
      coordination and provider-patient interaction.

      The Specific Aims of the study are as follows:

      Aim 1: Develop and implement structural-level strategies by establishing a provincial
      coordination team to improve coordination and service integration.

      Aim 2: Assess agency-level intervention outcomes on treatment-provider collaboration and
      service integration of OPC services and MMT programs.

      Aim 3: Assess community provider-level intervention outcomes by evaluating whether: 1) CHW in
      the intervention group, compared to those in the control group, demonstrate improved levels
      of collaboration with other clinical agencies, communication with patients, and service
      referrals, and 2) PLHWUD in the intervention group, compared to those in the control group,
      demonstrate improvements in treatment initiation, retention and adherence, and other mental
      and biological outcomes.

      Based on the findings from Aims 1 and 2 activities, this intervention will be conducted in
      four provinces of Vietnam(Bac Giang, Hai Duong, Nam Dinh, and Nghe An). Randomization will
      occur at the community level (20 communes assigned to the intervention group; 20 communes
      assigned to the control group).

      CONTROL COMMUNE ACTIVITIES:

      A total of 40 CHW from 20 communes assigned to the control group will be invited to
      participate in a one-time didactic lecture/meeting with other co-workers from their commune
      health centers to learn about the importance of service integration.

      CHW(n=40) and PLHWUD(n=120) from the control commune health centers will participate in a
      baseline assessment and follow-up assessments at 3, 6, 9, 12-months.

      INTERVENTION COMMUNE ACTIVITIES:

      A total of 40 CHW from 20 communes assigned to the intervention group will be invited to
      participate in the intervention that will consist of two in-person sessions lasting
      approximately 90 minutes over two weeks with 8-10 CHW in each session.

      Booster sessions of the intervention training will be offered to CHW once every month during
      the first three months and once every three months thereafter. The booster session will focus
      on CHW' reports of their experiences, reinforcement of efforts, and continued skill building
      for problem solving. CHW(n=40) and PLHWUD(n=120) from the intervention commune health centers
      will participate in a baseline assessment and follow-up assessments at 3, 6, 9, 12-months.

      The efficacy of the intervention will be assessed at baseline, 3, 6, 9, and 12-month
      follow-ups.
    
  