
    
      Consecutive women attending subfertility clinic at Queen Mary Hospital, University of Hong
      Kong who are scheduled for FET treatment will be recruited. Women who have normal uterine
      cavity will be randomized into study and control groups in 1 to 1 ratio according to a
      computer-generated randomization list.

      For patients in the study group, in the cycle immediately preceding the scheduled FET
      treatment, an endometrial biopsy would be arranged on day 21-23 of the menstrual cycles and
      they will be instructed to use non-hormonal means of contraception during that cycle. For
      patient in the control group, a similar procedure would be performed on the same timing
      during the preceding cycles without entering the uterine cavity, ie endometrial biopsy
      catheter entering the endocervical canal without entering the endometrial cavity. All
      patients will then proceed to FET treatment in the next cycle as scheduled.

      The FET would be carried out as per our protocol. In short, patients attend the clinic daily
      from 18 days before the next expected period for the determination of serum E2 and
      luteinising hormone (LH) concentrations until the LH surge, which was defined as the day on
      which the LH level was above 20 IU/L and doubled the average of the LH levels over the past
      three days. For patients with irregular menstrual cycles or no ovulation demonstrated during
      natural cycle monitoring, clomiphene citrate (CC, Clomid, Merrell, Staines, U.K.) 50-100 mg
      will be given daily for five days from Days 3-7. The cycle will be monitored by blood tests
      from day 10 of the cycle as above. FET was performed on the third day after the LH surge. Up
      to two frozen-thawed embryo(s) can be transferred. No luteal phase support is used. On-going
      pregnancy rates, defined as viable fetuses beyond 10-12 gestational weeks, between the two
      groups will be compared.

      We should measure endometrial thickness on LH+1 in natural and clomid-induced cycles.
    
  