
    
      Decisions about the provision of anticancer therapy and the initiation of palliative care in
      the last months of life are frequent and challenging in clinical practice. Research indicates
      that there is considerable heterogeneity regarding clinical practice in this context and that
      oncologists' values influence treatment decisions, as well as whether or not patients
      participate in these decisions. While there is evidence that seriously ill patients differ in
      their choices between treatment options compared to healthy persons, as well as in their
      evaluation of treatment goals and related care settings, there is a lack of analysis
      regarding criteria relevant to patients in the last 6 months of life, when assessing the
      benefit of anticancer treatment and palliative care. Yet, in decisions about anticancer
      treatment and involvement of palliative care, patients' preferences and values are of
      particular importance since anticancer treatment - while associated with high expectations
      for a positive effect - often has only marginal influence on prognosis towards the end of a
      cancer trajectory and sometimes forestalls choosing a palliative care setting or coping with
      the disease. Hence, the decision has a high impact on patients' last months of life.
      Involving patients more actively in the planning of their care has been on the agenda for
      more than a decade, but the implementation of this idea in routine clinical practice remains
      a challenge. Instead, oncologists often avoid prognosticating and eliciting patient
      preferences for or against anticancer treatment and values in the last phase of life. One
      important reason is that oncologists report discussions about ending anticancer therapy the
      most challenging communication task.

      To support advanced cancer patients, for whom standard therapy is no longer available, and
      their oncologists in therapy decisions, the investigators aim to develop a decision-making
      aid (DA) in a multi-phased bicentric study. The DA aims to help patients to understand better
      risks and benefits of available treatment options including the options of standard
      palliative care, off-label drug use within an individual treatment plan and involvement in
      early clinical trials.

      Methods and analysis:

      In phase I, the DA will be developed after exploration of decisional needs of patients and
      views of health care providers based on face-to face interviews and focus groups discussions.
      Subsequently, the DA will be alpha-tested and redrafted, as necessary, in phase II. In phase
      III, the DA will be (1) beta-tested with patients and oncologists and (2), and assessed by
      experts. In the last project phase, the investigators will run a pre-post design study with
      doctor-patient-encounters to access improvements on primary study outcome, i.e. patients'
      level of decisional conflict. In addition, the user acceptance will be tested.
    
  