
    
      In a randomized controlled trial conducted at Montefiore Medical Center, investigators
      propose to randomize inpatient and outpatient providers to a maximum of one record open at
      the time of ordering (restricted mode) or a maximum of four records open at the time of
      ordering (unrestricted mode). Assignments will be made prior to the start of the study, and
      will remain constant throughout the study. A computer programmer working in IT, who is not an
      investigator of this study, will use Microsoft Excel to generate random numbers and assign
      one number to each provider. Providers assigned odd numbers will be in the restricted cohort,
      and those assigned even numbers will be in the unrestricted cohort. Providers who join
      Montefiore after the start of the study will be assigned a random number from Excel when
      assigned a new user log in for the electronic health record (EHR) from a computer programmer
      not affiliated with the study, and will be added to the appropriate group based on their
      assigned random number. At the start of the randomized controlled trial, investigators will
      explain the purpose of the study to clinical staff via email and directly from within their
      IT systems, using a message crafted by the study team. The message will assure clinicians
      that data will be kept confidential and cooperation will carry no risk to them.

      Montefiore uses the EPIC EHR system. EPIC will implement the Retract-and-Reorder (RAR) tool,
      an automated method for identifying wrong-patient electronic orders, as well as capture the
      number of records open at the time of placing an order. This study will examine the effect of
      having the EHR system in restricted mode vs. unrestricted mode on RAR events. The goal is to
      obtain an estimate of the effect size and the intra-class correlations to provide preliminary
      data for a larger-scale health IT implementation research project. The unit of analysis will
      be the order. First, the RAR event rate for orders placed in the restricted vs. unrestricted
      mode will be calculated, testing the difference in rates using rank sum tests. Next, the
      relationship between the RAR event rate in restricted vs. unrestricted mode in subsets of
      providers and settings will be examined to determine whether specific types of providers or
      settings carry increased risk. Finally, a mixed-effects logistic regression model will be
      fitted with RAR event as the outcome and mode of the EHR system (restricted vs. unrestricted)
      as the independent variable of interest. The model will include random effects at the
      provider and order-session level because previous work has suggested substantial
      within-provider and within-session correlation. Orders will be nested in sessions and
      sessions will be nested in providers. To address the threat of confounding, the model will
      include fixed-effects variables including provider, patient, order-session, and order level
      covariates.

      To safeguard against the possibility that the intervention actually worsens (increases) the
      RAR event rate, and to prevent unnecessary continuation of a study that is already
      conclusive, a data safety monitoring committee will conduct one interim review of the data in
      the randomized controlled trial.
    
  