
    
      As the pediatric obesity epidemic continues to rise, obesity-associated pathologic
      conditions, such as type II diabetes, hypertension and gastroesophageal reflux disease
      (GERD), become more prevalent, which, in turn, creates a need for a better understanding of
      the impact of obesity on drug disposition and response in pediatric patients with obesity.
      The following proposal is designed to address the hypothesis that obesity per se has
      significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of CYP2C19 substrates in children and
      adolescents. Pantoprazole, a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) frequently used in the treatment of
      GERD and related conditions, is ideally suited for such a study, given the predominant role
      of CYP2C19(Cytochrome P450 subtype 2C19) in its metabolism and its favorable safety and
      efficacy profile in pediatric medicine. The study of obesity on the activity of CYP2C19 is
      relevant, as it has not been previously studied in pediatrics and the enzyme catalyzes the
      biotransformation of over 20 drugs frequently used in pediatrics (eg., PPIs, selective
      serotonin re-uptake inhibitors). Moreover, knowledge of the CYP2C19 genotype and phenotype
      can be used to individualize drug treatment, making treatment safer and more effective for
      children. The primary objective of the proposed investigation is to evaluate the effect of
      obesity on the pharmacokinetics of pantoprazole in children and adolescents. The secondary
      objective is to assess the utility of the [13C]-pantoprazole breath test, a novel,
      non-invasive, in-vivo technique, as a surrogate biomarker of CYP2C19 activity in pediatric
      patients. In addition, the impact of non-genetic variables, such as resting energy
      expenditure (REE), on CYP2C19 activity will be investigated. The proposed research objectives
      will be achieved by administration of a single dose of oral [13C]-pantoprazole, a safe and
      stable non-radioactive isotope, to 100 patients (both male and female), including 50 obese
      (as defined by BMI >95th percentile) and 50 non-obese patients, between the ages of 6-17
      years. Breath samples will be collected before, and for 8 hours after, [13C]-pantoprazole
      administration to quantify 13CO2(Carbon 13 dioxide)/12CO2(Carbon 12 dioxide) by infrared
      spectrometry. Simultaneously, repeated blood sampling will be used to measure pantoprazole,
      and its primary CYP2C19 catalyzed metabolite. Pantoprazole disposition will then be
      characterized from both breath sample and plasma level data and examined in association with
      important covariates (e.g., age, hip:waist ratio, BMI, REE, parent drug:metabolite ratio and
      CYP2C19 genotype) to test the experimental hypothesis. Data will be collected and analyzed by
      a team of highly experienced investigators representing the fields of gastroenterology,
      pediatric clinical pharmacology and the evolving field of obesity medicine.
    
  