
    
      Advances in diagnostic imaging with expensive technologies and reimbursement policies that
      favor illness intervention rather than primary and secondary prevention have resulted in
      rising costs of health care and more people being deprived of its benefits (Sultz 2004,
      Bodenheimer 2002).

      In the field of coronary artery disease (CAD) are several non-invasive imaging techniques for
      diagnostic and risk stratification purposes such as echocardiography, perfusion imaging
      (cardiac stress SPECT - single photon emission computed tomography - and stress PET -
      positron emission tomography), non-invasive cardiac computed tomography angiography (CTA) and
      combined perfusion-anatomy (PET-CT) studies. There are an estimated 40 million noninvasive
      cardiac tests performed each year (Mark DB 2003). For echocardiography and SPECT imaging,
      reimbursement from Medicare encompasses approximately 30% of all payments, totaling over $1
      billion in the year 2000 (ACC 2003). There are, however, basic questions about cardiovascular
      imaging techniques that need to be addressed: how does technology benefit the patient? It is
      worth the cost? Is treatment plan enhanced? Is outcome better? Data are necessary for
      addressing these questions and if appropriate for acceptance among practicing physicians,
      patients and third party insurers.

      The relevance of the proposed study, the CENTURY trial, lies in its original design, testing
      the impact of stress perfusion imaging by PET coupled with two different intensities of
      clinical management strategies (standard or comprehensive respectively). This study will
      examine post-test resource utilization and reduction of cardiovascular risk in patients with
      known disease or at high risk for CAD.

      There will be a total of 1300 men and women enrolled with approximately 650 subjects
      randomized to one of two treatment arms. Eligible patients must have clinical indications for
      stress perfusion testing.

      Following confirmation of eligibility and provision of signed informed consent, patients will
      be randomized to one of the two possible treatment strategies. At time of randomization
      patients will be assigned to "PET guided + comprehensive" versus "standard medical
      treatment."

      Patients of both groups will have a baseline myocardial PET perfusion study to quantify the
      blood flow to the heart muscle, an electrocardiogram, an exercise treadmill stress test to
      assess exercise tolerance (fitness), a thorough review of the quality of their diet and a
      complete blood work covering individual lipid profiles. These tests and assessments will be
      repeated at 2 years and at 5 years.

      In addition subjects assigned to the standard medical management arm will be managed by
      current standard care provided by their primary referring physician and will be asked to come
      for clinic study visits annually for 5 years to document their medical and lifestyle
      management. The PET scan results will be blinded until the end of the study to the standard
      of care management group.

      Subjects enrolled in the comprehensive medical management arm will have the support of a team
      of professionals focusing on atherosclerotic risk factor modification that involves
      recommended treatment to target lipid levels, blood pressure and diabetes control, smoking
      cessation, very low fat diet and aerobic exercise program. This is in addition to standard
      current medical therapy as provided by the primary referring physician.

      No experimental medication or procedures will be used. Clinic visits for subject's education
      and consulting in the comprehensive program will be performed five times during the first
      year and semiannually thereafter.
    
  