
    
      This is a quality improvement project to evaluate the current standard of care of nutritional
      management for very low birth weight infants receiving donor human milk products in the NICU
      at Texas Children's Hospital.

      There is no randomization, there are no control subjects, and therefore there is no
      probability of group assignment.

      Infants will be identified by the dietitian staff at TCH upon admission to the NICU (Levels 2
      and 3) and communicated to the PI and PI's staff.

      For each subject, data collection will begin at the point that the infant first receives any
      enteral feeding (including trophic feeds). All infants less than or equal to 1250 g birth
      weight will be followed initially. If the parent declines to allow donor human milk products
      for the infant, this will be noted in the data collection and no additional data will be
      collected for this infant. If at a later time, the parent decides to allow donor human milk
      products, we will begin data collection again. Our current experience is that >95% of mothers
      agree to donor human milk products.

      Data collection will continue throughout the hospitalization until one week after all donor
      human milk products have been discontinued or discharge.

      From the medical chart, we will record the following data on a weekly basis: weight, length,
      head circumference, labs (Chem 10 panel - BUN, creatinine, sodium, potassium, bicarbonate,
      chloride, calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, and glucose), medications, and the nutrition order
      (parenteral and enteral nutrition feeding orders including volume, concentration, and
      additives). If an abnormal nutrition-related lab is noted, changes in the nutrition order
      will be recorded more frequently than on a weekly basis. A copy of the data collection
      template is attached in Section S.

      No labs will be requested for research purposes. No interventions are part of this protocol.
      This protocol involves only minimal risk to individuals. A waiver of consent would not in any
      way adversely affect the privacy rights and the welfare of the individuals.
    
  