
    
      The Type and Purpose of the Research

      The study is a randomized controlled study to determine the effect of white noise on sucking
      success and infant comfort in newborn babies between 34-37 weeks of gestation who were fed
      orally by a full enteral mother hospitalized in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit.

      Place and Time of the Study

      The research was conducted in the Bulent Ecevit Training and Research Hospital Neonatal
      Intensive Care Unit between 01.09.2020 and 01.03.2021.

      MATERIAL AND METHOD OF THE RESEARCH

      The study is a randomized controlled study to determine the effect of white noise on sucking
      success and infant comfort in newborn babies between 34-37 weeks of gestation who were fed
      orally by a full enteral mother hospitalized in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit.

      Research Universe

      The universe of the study consisted of newborn babies who were born in the Bulent Ecevit
      Training and Research Hospital Neonatal Intensive Care Unit between 01.09.2020 and 01.03.2021
      and who met the inclusion criteria in the study and the babies who were fed by the mother who
      passed to the mother's room.

      Research Sample Thirty control newborn infants who volunteered to participate in the study
      and met the inclusion criteria were formed by 30 newborns in the white noise group.

      Sampling Selection Criteria

        -  Gestational age between 34-37 weeks,

        -  Having a birth weight of 1800-3600 g,

        -  Does not have any anatomical and physiological problems,

        -  Does not show any signs of disease and does not have any congenital disorder,

        -  Does not have a congenital or acquired malformation related to hearing

        -  Families without any disability to breastfeed

        -  Having parental consent

      Materials and Methods

      In this study, babies who were called to feed mothers who started to be fed orally with
      breast milk after leaving intensive care were selected. Informed consent form, Patient
      Identification Form and Application Registration Form, Premature Infant Comfort Scale, and
      LATCH Breastfeeding Diagnostic Measurement Tool were used for parents who accepted to
      participate in the study. The control group and the intervention group were first told about
      white noise and how it could affect breastfeeding, and the Informed Volunteer form, the
      Patient Identification Form and the Application Registration Form were filled. The mother and
      the baby were given the appropriate position and breastfeeding was initiated. No application
      was applied to the mother during the first breastfeeding. During the second breastfeeding, 30
      neonatal groups were listened to the song "Your Baby Don't Cry" from Orhan OSMAN's album
      "Kolik". During the second breastfeeding, no music was played to the control group. After the
      procedure was completed, the data were collected by the researcher using the Premature Baby
      Comfort Scale, LATCH breastfeeding diagnostic measurement tool, Patient Diagnosis Form and
      Application Registration Form. Then the data will be analyzed in the spss 16.0 package
      program.

      Data Collection Tools

        -  Introductory Information Form for Mother and Baby

        -  LATCH Breastfeeding Diagnostic Scale

        -  Premature Baby Comfort Scale Decibel measuring device

        -  Orhan Osman's Colic album-Don't Let Your Baby Cry II
    
  