
    
      Every autumn the French National Health Insurance conducts a seasonal influenza immunization
      campaign. Since 2009, in France like in many other countries, the seasonal influenza
      immunization uptake has been decreasing in people over 65 years of age and in people with
      diverse target chronic diseases or pregnancy. It has remained far under the national and
      European objective of 75%. For this reason, public advertising has been intensified (TV,
      newspapers and magazines) and the involvement of health professionals was stimulated,
      particularly by means of encounters with Health Insurance delegates, and posters and
      pamphlets to be exposed in FPs' waiting rooms. We conducted a preliminary systematic review
      (in press) to seek for publications assessing the effect of audio-visual aids in primary
      health waiting rooms. It appears that most articles about this topic have a low level of
      evidence and that the effect on patient health behaviour has only been assessed on surrogate
      outcomes. The existence of an effect on behaviour change is controversial, and if any, it is
      small sized, needing more than 10,000 subjects to be demonstrated.

      Our aim is to evaluate the effect of the advertising campaign using posters and pamphlets in
      FPs' waiting rooms on patients behaviour measuring the number of influenza vaccination units
      delivered in community pharmacies.

      We designed a single blinded 2/1 registry based cluster randomized controlled trial.

      The outcome is the number of seasonal influenza vaccination sets released in community
      pharmacies. The target population are patients over the age of 65 or having a chronic disease
      requiring seasonal influenza immunization (like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
      or diabetes). Patients are informed about the anonymous use of their data and can refuse to
      participate at any time.

      A cluster is defined as the patients over the age of 16, who are registered by the Health
      Insurance on the participating FPs' patients' lists. A computerized random draw is used to
      allocate FPs in each group. In the intervention group, FPs will receive and expose in their
      waiting rooms 135 pamphlets and one poster (added to the usual mandatory information)
      withdrawing all the other posters. In the control group, waiting rooms are kept in their
      usual state. To evaluate the number of FPs needed for the trial, we set an interclass
      correlation coefficient of 0.02, for α = 5% and β = 20%. With a predicted rate of influenza
      vaccination delivery of 0.65 in the intervention group and 0.60 in the control group, and a
      target size by FP of 400 patients, 75 FPs have to be enrolled (50 in the control group and 25
      in the intervention group).

      Baseline is defined as the 2013-2014 vaccination campaign. Data are extracted between October
      15, 2014 and February 28, 2015 from the SIAM-ERASME claim database of the Lille-Douai
      district Health Insurance Fund on patient level. To assess the association between the
      vaccination status (dependent variable) and the group intervention/control, because of the
      hierarchical structure of the data and the high incidence rate of the main outcome, we will
      use a generalized estimating equation (GEE) Poisson regression clustering by GP; an
      exchangeable working correlation matrix will be used. The analysis will be carried out using
      R software (version 3.3.1) and the package Geepack.
    
  