
    
      Adolescents and youth have the highest HIV incidence rates compared to any other age strata.
      Inadequate provision of accessible and acceptable HIV testing, counseling, and treatment
      services has been cited as a barrier to uptake of and retention in HIV care in this
      population.

      The "SPEED" study aims to develop and evaluate a clinical training intervention utilizing
      Standardized Patient (SP) actors to improve communication and interpersonal skills of health
      care workers (HCWs) who work with adolescents and youth (ages 10-24), resulting in increased
      engagement in HIV care in Kenya. This intervention includes a series of role plays between
      HCW participants and professional Kenyan actors, followed by feedback and debriefing
      sessions. The hypothesis is that SP encounters will increase HCW confidence and capacity to
      facilitate HIV status disclosure and provide supportive interactions with HIV-infected youth,
      which will in turn increase uptake and improve retention in HIV services among adolescents
      and youth.

      The pilot phase (Aim 1) will consist of developing patient case scripts specific to
      adolescent HIV-related care and counseling needs and establishing HCW competency scores. To
      evaluate the intervention, a cluster randomized controlled stepped-wedge trial will be
      conducted in 24 HIV care and treatment facilities to assess the impact of SP encounters on
      the proportion of adolescents and youth patients retained in care at HIV treatment facilities
      in Kenya (Aim 2). Finally, the cost effectiveness and cost utility of the SP intervention
      will be determined (Aim 3). The estimated study duration is five years.

      The primary outcomes from Aim 1 are final scripts and pass/fail scores for use in SP
      encounters. The primary outcome for the randomized controlled trial (RCT) (Aim 2) is
      retention in care among HIV-positive adolescents and youth, based on electronic medical
      records data. Secondary outcomes will include satisfaction (patients and HCWs), HCW
      competency in youth- friendly counseling, antiretroviral therapy adherence, and viral
      suppression. For the cost effectiveness and cost utility analyses (Aim 3), the cost per
      additional HIV-infected adolescent/youth retained in care and the cost per additional life
      year saved and disability-adjusted life averted will be estimated.
    
  