
    
      Research Hypothesis: Switching to a belatacept-based immunosuppression regimen after kidney
      transplant will have a significant impact on antibody and T cell-mediated immune response as
      compared with control patients as measured in peripheral blood at 6 months after belatacept
      switch and comparable safety and efficacy as compared with calcineurin inhibitor (CNI) based
      regimens.

      Primary Objective: To analyze the effect of switching from CNI to belatacept in patients with
      evidence of CNI toxicity on the development and maintenance of immune memory in response to
      both alloantigen and viral antigens commonly encountered after transplant, and to assess the
      safety and efficacy of conversion to belatacept as maintenance immunosuppression in
      combination with prednisone and mycophenolate mofetil.

      Study Design: Open label, single center clinical trial. Patients with evidence of CNI
      toxicity will be eligible for switch to belatacept-based regimen within the first three
      months after transplant. All enrolled subjects will also receive concomitant maintenance
      immunosuppression with mycophenolate mofetil and corticosteroids.

      Duration of Study: 6 months, with option to extend to 12 months of belatacept treatment
      Number of Subjects: 20 Study Population: Kidney transplant recipients within the first three
      months of their first transplant with evidence of CNI toxicity.

      Criteria for Evaluation:

      Primary Outcome Measures:

        -  Donor specific antibody testing at Month 6

        -  Cell surface cytokine secretion in response to donor cell antigen by direct and indirect
           stimulation at Month 6

        -  Cell surface cytokine secretion in response to CMV and EBV antigens by direct and
           indirect stimulation at Month 6

        -  Immunophenotyping to determine overall immune profile at Month 6

        -  Patient and functional graft survival in stable renal transplant recipients

      Secondary Outcome Measures:

        -  Donor specific antibody testing at Months 1 and 3 (and month 12 if continuing in study)

        -  Cell surface cytokine secretion in response to donor cell antigen by direct and indirect
           stimulation at Months 1 and 3 (and month 12 if continuing in study)

        -  Cell surface cytokine secretion in response to CMV and EBV antigens by direct and
           indirect stimulation at Months 1 and 3 (and month 12 if continuing in study)

      Test Product, Dose and Mode of Administration, Duration of Treatment: Study patients will
      receive intravenous belatacept at 5mg/kg every two weeks at day 1 and weeks 2, 4, 6, and 8,
      and then monthly at months 3, 4, and 5. At month 6 patients may elect to continue for an
      additional six month period of belatacept administration. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells
      (PBMCs) and sera for antibody testing will be collected at time of study entry and at 4, 8,
      12, and 24 weeks after belatacept start, frozen and banked at our center, and analyzed in
      batch fashion for development of humoral and cell mediated immunity. Patients who elect to
      receive an additional 6 months of belatacept treatment will undergo additional immunologic
      analysis at 1 year after study entry.
    
  