
    
      BACKGROUND The presence of atraumatic and degenerative ruptures in the rotator cuff is a
      common finding in imaging studies due to the natural aging process. Several exercise
      protocols have been proposed for this population. However, there is still a gap in the
      literature about what exercises are best for these individuals: exercises to strengthen the
      remaining fibers of the rotator cuff or exercises focused on strengthening other shoulder
      muscles with little emphasis on the rotator cuff. Both types of exercises are performed
      jointly in most treatment programs, or the tension in the rotator cuff is not taken into
      account during exercise selection.

      Despite the lack of consensus on which exercises or exercises are more effective in
      conservative treatment, there is evidence that therapeutic exercises should be the first
      treatment option in individuals with chronic, atraumatic, degenerative, and rotator cuff
      tears. Thus, it is expected that this study may contribute to filling the existing gap,
      re-adjusting treatment techniques for this population and provide scientific bases that
      support the clinical practice of physiotherapists.

      RESEARCH QUESTION:

      Are the results of a rotator cuff unloading exercise program different than rotator cuff
      loading exercise program in individuals with shoulder pain and rotator cuff tear? This
      research question is relevant to clinical practice once that so far there are no specific
      treatment guidelines for patients with degenerative ruptures of the rotator cuff tendons.

      Primary Aim The primary aim of this study will be to verify the effects of 12-week unloading
      rotator cuff exercise program compared to an usual exercise program with an emphasis on the
      rotator cuff on quality of life in patients with shoulder pain and and rotator cuff tear.

      Secondary Aim

      The secondary aim will be to verify the effects of 12-week unloading rotator cuff exercise
      program compared to an usual exercise program with an emphasis on the rotator cuff on quality
      of life in patients with shoulder pain and and rotator cuff tear following variables:

        -  Pain at rest, during arm movement, maximum and minimum referred in the last week;

        -  Function of upper limbs;

        -  Fear-Avoidance Beliefs;

        -  Kinesiophobia;

        -  Pain Catastrophizing;

        -  Strength of abductors, lateral and medial rotators of the shoulder;

        -  Range of movement during arm elevation;

        -  Satisfaction of patients with the treatment;

      HYPOTHESES The hypothesis of this study is that the exercise program with no emphasis on the
      rotator cuff will produce different results on quality of life, pain, function,
      fear-avoidance beliefs, kinesiophobia, pain catastrophizing, muscle strength of abductors,
      lateral and medial rotators of the arm, range of motion during arm elevation and treatment
      satisfaction when compared to the exercise program with an emphasis on the rotator cuff.

      METHODOLOGY

        1. Study Design Controlled, randomized, blind and two-group clinical trial parallel.
           Evaluators will be blinded to the treatment group.

        2. Ethical Aspects This study was sent to the Research Ethics Committee of the University
           and registered in clinicaltrials.gov, respecting the norms of experimental conduct with
           humans (CNS Resolution 466/12). Participants will receive verbal and written explanation
           of the research objectives and procedures. They will also be informed of all the risks
           and benefits of their participation, as well as the freedom to give up participating in
           the research at any time. Individuals who agree to participate will sign the Free and
           Informed Consent Form. Any changes that are made to the research protocol will be
           submitted to the UFSCar Research Ethics Committee and registered at clinicaltrials.gov.

        3. Sample The sample size was performed based on the minimum important difference of 282.6
           points of the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index (WORC) 50 with standard deviation of
           400 points, 80% power, and significance level of 5%. WORC was selected because it
           evaluates the quality of life of individuals with rotator cuff diseases. Considering a
           sample loss of 15%, 9 will be included in the study 78 subjects, randomly assigned to
           two treatment groups: Rotator Cuff Unloading Exercise Program (n = 39) and Rotator Cuff
           Loading Exercise Program (n = 39).

      Block randomization between groups will be performed by the site www.randomization.com and
      the sequence will be stored in sealed and opaque envelopes to maintain allocation secrecy.
      This process will be performed by an independent researcher, that is, who will not be
      involved with the evaluation and treatment. The allocation of individuals will be revealed to
      the investigator responsible for the treatment with the opening of the envelope before the
      beginning of the intervention. The researcher responsible for the evaluation will be blinded
      on the treatment group. The subjects will be blinded to the hypothesis of the study, and in
      addition, the treatment will be performed individually, that is, they will not have contact
      between the participants of the same or the other group.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS Recruitment information and data of subjects included, and dropouts of
      all evaluations will be collected and manually inserted into Excel software (Microsoft
      version 2016). The confidentiality of the data will be guaranteed by transforming the
      individuals' names into identifier codes. In addition, only study researchers will have
      access to survey material and database.

      Statistical Package for Social Sciences version 23 will be used to analyze the data.
      Continuous data will be presented by mean, standard deviation and mean difference between the
      groups with 95% confidence interval, and the categorical ones by frequency and percentage.
      The normality of the data will be verified through the Kolmogorov Smirnov test and
      observation of histograms for each variable in each group. Statistical analysis will follow
      the principles of intention-to-treat analysis.

      Linear mixed models will be used to calculate the differences between the groups using the
      terms of group interaction (Rotator Cuff Unloading Exercise Program and Rotator Cuff Loading
      Exercise Program) versus time (pre-treatment, 12 weeks at the end of treatment, and one month
      after the end of treatment) for the variables of quality of life (WORC index), pain, function
      (DASH questionnaire), fear-avoidance beliefs (FABQBrasil), kinesiophobia, pain
      catastrophizing scale (PCS), muscle strength of abductors, lateral and medial rotators of the
      shoulder and range of motion of arm elevation. The models will be adjusted to baseline values
      for all variables and for multiple comparisons.

      The effect size will also be calculated between groups, where an effect greater than 0.8 will
      be considered large, about 0.5 moderate, and less than 0.2 small.80 A significance level of
      5% (p <0.05).
    
  