
    
      Aging changes in the lower face, neck and decollete are complex and involve skin,
      subcutaneous tissue/SMAS and muscle. It follows therefore that rejuvenation of the jawline,
      neck and decollettage requires a multifactorial, combination approach. Microfocused
      Ultrasound (MFU-V, Ultherapy) has been demonstrated to noninvasively lift the skin of the
      submentum, neck, and reduce wrinkling of the décolletage.1-3 Injection of dilute calcium
      hydroxylapatite (Radiesse) has also demonstrated improvement of skin quality and reduction of
      wrinkles in the neck and décolletage skin.4 Combination therapy using MFU-V and Radiesse has
      been used successfully to improve the appearance of the neck and décolletage and botulinum
      toxin A has been used to improve jawline contouring and wrinkling of the décolletage.5,6 It
      is well recognized that skincare products such as MicroFirm Neck and Decollete Rejuvenating
      Complex improve skin quality and overall skin appearance. Further, Belotero Balance has been
      demonstrated to have optimal biophysical properties for placement in the superficial dermis
      and subsequent correction of etched lines.7 It is not surprising that horizontal "necklace
      lines" in the neck respond better to injection of Belotero Balance than any other reported
      treatment. Evaluation of the combination of skincare, botulinum toxin, MFU-V, and Radiesse
      for rejuvenation of the jawline, neck, and décolletage has not been studied.

      Proposal: I propose an investigator initiated trial in which 20 subjects with moderate to
      severe changes of the jawline, neck and décolletage will undergo combination treatment to
      achieve comprehensive rejuvenation of the jawline and neck. Adequate time will be allowed for
      follow up to determine the complete effects of all treatments administered.

      Materials and Methods: Neocutis MicroFirm Neck and Decollete treatment would be initiated at
      Day 0 and continued bid throughout the entire duration of the protocol.

      Ultherapy will be used to treat the the lower face/neck and décolletage and will also be
      provided at Day 0. Ultherapy treatments would of course be customized to meet each patient's
      needs. The general guidelines that would be used to treat the lower face/jawline/neck would
      be the 4-4.5 transducer (approx. 350 lines) and the 7-3.0 transducer (approx. 460 lines). The
      décolletage area would be treated with the following transducers: 4-4.5 (approx. 120 lines),
      7-3.0 (approx. 120 lines), and 10-1.5 (approx. 40 lines). As per consensus recommendations,
      Ultherapy will be administered prior to injectables.8 Dilute Radiesse (1:2 with injectable
      saline and 1% lidocaine without epinephrine) will be injected into the neck and décolletage
      at days 30, 90, and 150. Radiesse will be injected as per standard protocol using sterile
      technique and administered via a subcutaneous fanning approach. A total of 3 Radiesse
      injections will be administered at 8 weeks intervals (Days 30, 90, and 150). The amount of
      Dilute Radiesse used will be at the discretion of the Investigator but will not exceed 4.5mls
      for both treatment areas, the neck and décolletage.

      Xeomin will be injected in a "Nefertiti Lift" pattern horizontally, parallel to the jawline,
      vertically in the platysma bands, and extending into the décolletage as indicated based on
      platysma muscle anatomy. A total dose of no more than 70U of Xeomin will be utilized. The
      first Xeomin injection will also be administered at Day 30. Additional Xeomin injections will
      be administered at Day 120. Subjects will be assessed at Day 44 +/- 3 days, and Day 134 +/- 3
      days to assess outcomes of Xeomin injections and provide touch up injections if indicated.

      Belotero Balance will be injected in horizontal necklace lines if present at Day 30 with
      reassessment for optional injection Follow up and possible touch up treatment will be offered
      at Day 44+/- 3 days.
    
  