
    
      Introduction Unruptured intracranial aneurysms (UIAs) are incidentally detected at an
      increasing rate, mostly owing to the rise in availability of non-invasive cranial imaging.
      Decision-making in UIAs is complex and requires consideration of many risk factors for
      aneurysm growth and rupture to balance the benefits and risks of treatment versus
      observation. This is due to: 1) the high morbidity and case fatality inherent to aneurysmal
      subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) 2) the relatively low rupture rate of unruptured aneurysms; 3)
      the potential morbidity and mortality rate associated with either microsurgical or
      endovascular treatment.

      Some consistent risk factors for rupture have been identified, including involvement of the
      posterior circulation, larger diameter, higher age, and some specific populations such as
      Japanese and Finnish patients. Many other risk factors have been suggested based on varying
      levels of evidence. However, it is difficult to integrate this considerable number of factors
      into a single risk assessment and to present a clear clinical decision making algorithm to
      patients. A range of scoring systems have been developed and validated to approximate the
      risk of rupture (PHASES) and growth (ELAPSS) or to balance the risks and benefits of
      microsurgical treatment versus follow-up imaging directly (UIATS) by integrating some of
      these risk factors. Still, these scores are focused on predicting rupture events instead of
      neurological outcome. In addition, they usually are focused on solely one outcome, instead of
      providing a wide range of objective predictive analytics that may then improve shared
      decision-making.

      Machine learning (ML) methods have been extraordinarily effective at integrating many
      clinical patient variables into one holistic risk prediction tailored to each patient. A
      previous pilot study has been carried out to assess the feasibility of predicting surgical
      outcomes after surgery for UIAs in a small single-center sample, and it was found that
      prediction was feasible with good performance metrics, and the most important factors to be
      included in such models were also identified. A robust, multicenter, externally validated
      prediction model or predictive score for surgical outcome after microsurgery for UIAs does
      not yet exist.

      Methods Data will be collected by a range of international centers. Overall, the model will
      be built and publication will be compiled according to the transparent reporting of a
      multivariable prediction model for individual prognosis or diagnosis (TRIPOD) guidelines.

      Each center will collect their data either retrospectively, or from a prospective registry,
      or from a prospective registry supplemented by retrospectively collected variables. Data from
      patients operated from January 1st 2010 and onwards will be eligible for inclusion. Data
      collection should be completed, and deidentified data should be sent to the sponsor
      institution.

      A standardized Excel spreadsheet will be provided by the sponsor. The data will be entered in
      standardized and anonymized form. This spreadsheet will only contain a study-specific patient
      number. The data set is anonymized source data that includes clinical data extracted from
      electronic health records (retrospectively or from a prospective registry of already existing
      data). The data will be anonymized upon entering them into the PRAEMIUM Excel spreadsheet,
      after which the patients will be numbered consecutively and there will be no way to trace the
      data back to individual patients. No identifiable data such as date of birth will be
      included. Whenever the PRAEMIUM Excel spreadsheet is transferred, it will be encrypted using
      a password and sent through a secure institutional e-mail server. The password will be sent
      in a separate e-mail. Some missing data is acceptable, but should be kept to a minimum (i.e.
      must be < 10%)

      Endpoint Definitions Models will be developed for the following three endpoints at discharge:
      Poor neurological outcome (1), as well as presence of (2) new sensorimotor neurological
      deficits and (3) any complications (surgical or non-surgical). Neurological outcome was
      assessed by the modified Rankin scale (mRS), and a favorable neurological outcome was defined
      as mRS 0, 1, or 2. Complications will be assessed using the modified 2009 Clavien-Dindo
      grading (CDG), and occurrence of a complication was defined as any deviation from CDG 0.The
      Clavien-Dindo grading system is a classification of surgical complications: Grad 0 signifying
      no complication, Grade I identifying complications with any deviation from the normal intra-
      or postoperative course requiring medical treatment, and so forth. Detailed definitions are
      provided in the Excel spreadsheet. Surgery-related as well as none-surgery-related
      complications are counted. In case of multiple complications, only the complication with the
      highest CDG was counted per patient.

      Input Feature Definitions All features are measured preoperatively. Recorded baseline
      variables will include age, gender, maximum aneurysm diameter, anatomical location (artery),
      total number of aneurysms per patient, if multiple aneurysms were treated during the index
      session, calcification of the aneurysm wall or neck, aneurysm morphology (saccular,
      dissecting, fusiform, or other), involvement of critical perforating or branch vessels, and
      intraluminal thrombosis.

      In addition, the investigators will capture prior SAH, mRS at admission, prior aneurysm
      treatment, presence of anticoagulation/antiplatelet therapy preoperatively, and hypertension,
      as well as American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) grading, the PHASES, ELAPSS, and UIATS
      scores including the UIATS "pro-repair" and "pro-conservative treatment" subscores. The
      unruptured intracranial aneurysm treatment score (UIATS) consists of two subscores: One that
      represents the strength of recommendation for invasive repair of an unruptured aneurysm, and
      one that represents the strength of recommendation for conservative management of an
      unruptured aneurysm. The final overall UIATS score is subsequently calculated as the
      difference between the two subscores. Also included was the surgical approach: minimally
      invasive or standard approach, and whether a bypass was performed.
    
  