
    
      Functional tricuspid regurgitation (TR) has been regarded as a secondary phenomenon of heart
      failure (HF), mitral valve (MV) disease or atrial fibrillation. The prevalence of functional
      TR was reported to be 25-64% in patients with either ischemic or non-ischemic cardiomyopathy.
      Regardless of left ventricular (LV) function or pulmonary artery pressure, presence of
      moderate or greater functional TR is associated with poor prognosis. When a patient develops
      functional TR, it causes RV dilation and tricuspid annular enlargement, which also lead to
      deterioration of TR. A vicious cycle of significant TR, RV volume overload, tricuspid annular
      dilation and consequent aggravation of TR is accepted as a main determinant of the poor
      clinical outcome of patients with TR. Because the quantitative assessment of RV size and
      function using echocardiography is often limited due to the complex geometry of RV, cardiac
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has emerged as a gold standard for evaluating RV volume and
      function with excellent accuracy and reproducibility. The investigators previously reported
      that RV end-systolic volume index (ESVI) and RV end-diastolic volume index (EDVI) measured by
      MRI were significantly larger in severe TR patients, and also found that preoperative RV ESVI
      and RV ejection fraction (EF) on MRI were independent predictors of cardiac death and
      postoperative adverse events in patients who underwent TV surgery for severe functional TR.
      Therefore, therapies that induce reverse remodeling of the RV and consequently reduce TR, may
      improve clinical outcomes. However, there have been no proven medical therapies for TR. The
      morbidity and mortality of patients with functional TR remain high and novel therapeutic
      agents are needed to improve the prognosis of patients with functional TR. The investigators
      hypothesize that carvedilol or empagliflozin is effective on improving RV remodeling in
      patients with functional severe TR and try to examine this hypothesis in a multicenter, 2x2
      factorial, and randomized comparison study using cardiac MRI.
    
  