
    
      Objectives: The purpose of this study is to collect one serum sample from pediatric patients
      in order to analyze the pharmacokinetics of BAT® to verify the currently approved pediatric
      dosing recommendations.

      Protocol Design: This is a single arm, multi-site Pharmacokinetics study in pediatric
      patients treated with BAT®. The study begins once participation in the study is confirmed by
      the physician and informed consent/assent is obtained from the patient and/or guardian.
      Concurrent participation in the BAT patient registry (BT-010) by the treating
      physician/facility is encouraged to collect safety and clinical outcome data.

      Assessments: One 5 mL of blood collected to yield 2 mL serum sample will be collected
      post-BAT® administration. The blood sample should be collected no later than 24 hours post
      BAT® administration. To ensure sufficient detectable circulating levels of BAT® for
      pharmacokinetic analysis the target window of time for collection should be between 6 and 24
      hours post-BAT® administration.

      Pharmacokinetic or Efficacy Parameters: The BAT® serum concentration(s) obtained will be
      modeled using a population pharmacokinetic approach based on a previously developed model for
      BAT® in healthy adult human subjects for toxin serotypes A-G.

      Individual Bayesian Pharmacokinetics parameters (i.e. clearance (CL), volume of distribution
      (Vc), volume of distribution of the central and the peripheral compartments (Vp)) and
      corresponding exposure metrics will be derived from the population analysis.

      Primary Endpoints: The primary endpoint is the dosage level at which pharmacokinetic
      equivalence is reached i.e. the dosage at which BAT® is most effective against the symptoms
      of botulism. Following the estimation of exposure in pediatric patients, and similar to what
      was done for adult subjects, the margin of efficacy for 90% survival will be estimated in
      order to verify the appropriateness of the administered pediatric dose.
    
  