
    
      Biopsy procedure will be done at the Beckman Laser Institute or at the Dermatology Clinic
      Gottschalk Medical Plaza, of University of California, Irvine. Standard procedure of punch
      biopsy will be done in the areas determined by the physician researchers. The normal skin
      biopsy will be obtained from an area of skin without any suspicious lesions located on an
      area of the body. Biopsy specimens will be stored frozen at Beckman Laser Institute
      chemistry-lab for research and will be assigned with subject ID number, there will be no
      personnel health information attach to the skin specimens. There will be no cost to the
      subject or their insurer for participation in this study, except in the specific scenario of
      a suspected skin cancer that would undergo biopsy regardless of participation in this study.
      The time commitment for each subject is approximately 1 hour for each set of biopsies.

      Researchers can test the hypothesis that expression of key metabolic enzymes is reduced
      and/or lost during skin cancer progression. Total ribonucleic acid, a single-stranded
      biologic molecule involved in gene transcription, regulation, and translation, can be
      isolated from biopsied skin specimens. Quantitative Real-Time can be performed to determine
      the expression levels of several key metabolic enzymes.

      Metabolic enzymes regulate several vital signaling pathways in the human body. Some examples
      include hormone and bioactive lipid regulation. Aberrant regulation of these signaling
      pathways can lead to human diseases including cancer.

      Recent evidence has shown that metabolic enzyme call UGT in the genes call
      UDP-glucuronosyltransferases were shown to have significantly reduced expression in breast
      tumors compared with normal breast tissue from the same patients This observed loss of
      expression is hypothesized to be causal as these two enzymes are responsible for estrogen
      metabolism.

      However, relatively little is known about metabolic enzymes and skin cancer. We have
      preliminary data that UGT enzyme expression is lost during melanoma progression which allows
      deregulated lipoxygenase signaling.
    
  