
    
      Cirrhosis leads to portal hypertension and development of gastroesophageal varices, which are
      the most common cause for bleeding in cirrhosis and a major cause of death. Bleeding varices
      have a 6-week mortality of 15%-25%. About 50% of patients with cirrhosis have varices, and
      30% have large varices (>5 mm) that are high risk for bleeding.

      The American Association for the Study of Liver Disease (AASLD) recommends screening
      endoscopy every 2 years to evaluate for varices, and annual surveillance for those with small
      varices on endoscopy. Patients at a high risk of bleeding with large varices, small varices
      and red wale signs (an endoscopic finding), or small varices and decompensated cirrhosis
      proceed to treatment such as prophylactic band ligation and beta blockers. Conversely,
      patients with no varices or small varices (≤5 mm) continue surveillance efforts by endoscopy
      to monitor for development of large varices. Unfortunately, endoscopy is costly, requires
      sedation, is poorly tolerated, is subject to high inter-observer variability, cannot detect
      other signs or portal hypertension or para-esophageal varices that are at risk for future
      bleeding events, and is associated with risks that include bleeding, esophageal injury and
      aspiration. Many of these factors contribute to poor patient compliance with AASLD
      recommendations.

      Noninvasive methods for detecting, grading, and risk stratification of esophageal varices are
      needed. Imaging tests such as ultrasound elastography to measure liver stiffness have been
      proposed as a method to predict the presence of varices but have insufficient accuracy to
      eliminate the need for endoscopy.10 An ideal biomarker to screen for esophageal varices would
      be part of the routine standard of care of patients with cirrhosis, noninvasive, rapid, less
      expense than endoscopy, highly accurate, highly reproducible, and would require no sedation,
      provide a quantitative measure of the size of the varices, provide a mechanisms to assess the
      risk of future bleeding, allow for an assessment for other signs of portal hypertension, and
      provide other benefits to the patient (e.g. detect ascites and HCC and assess liver
      vasculature).

      Computed tomography (CT) is standard of care to screen for HCC. CT is noninvasive, rapid,
      less expensive than endoscopy, requires no sedation, provides a quantitative measure of the
      size of the varices, and allows for assessment of para-esophageal varices, varices in other
      body locations, ascites, other signs of portal hypertension, patency of liver vasculature,
      and detection, diagnosis and staging of HCC. Conventional Single-Energy CT (SECT) has
      relatively high accuracy in prospective studies for detection of any and large varices and
      has higher inter-observer agreement than endoscopy (kappa 0.56 vs. 0.36, respectively). Major
      deficiencies in SECT include relatively suboptimal contrast opacification of gastroesophageal
      varices, inconsistent accuracy that is dependent upon SECT image acquisition technique, and
      suboptimal stratification of the risk of bleeding (e.g. inability to detect red wale sign)
      compared to endoscopy.

      Dual-Energy CT (DECT) improves the contrast-to-noise ratio by 60% compared to SECT. DECT also
      improves visualization by taking advantage of the markedly increased attenuation of iodine at
      photon energy levels just above the iodine K edge (33 keV). Using material decomposition
      techniques, DECT can map the concentration of iodine on a voxel by voxel basis which,
      combined with higher contrast to noise resolution on these same type of images, improves the
      conspicuity of enhancing structures. DECT is routinely used to screen for HCC in cirrhotic
      patients.

      While DECT has been shown to improve image quality and portal venography compared to SECT,
      the accuracy of DECT for screening for varices has not been reported. The primary objective
      is to determine the accuracy of dual energy CT for detecting any varices and high-risk
      varices in patients with cirrhosis presenting for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy.
    
  