
    
      The investigators will seek approval from Mayo Clinic and Arizona State University
      Institutional Review Board to recruit 30 type 1 diabetes adult outpatients using insulin
      pumps and continuous glucose monitoring system from the Endocrinology Clinic at Mayo Clinic
      Arizona. First, participants will complete a questionnaire to self-assess their confidence to
      count carbs from food/drinks, personal perceptions on how exercise/alcohol affect their blood
      glucose, and how they learned about it (e.g., trial and error, education from providers), and
      compensation techniques used to adjust for exercise performed/alcohol consumed (for instance,
      adjust for basal rate or adjust insulin boluses). Stored glucose data will be analyzed for
      the previous 8 weeks prior to entry to establish patient-specific upper and lower bounds for
      determining excessive blood glucose highs and lows. Second, participants will be randomly
      assigned to 4 weeks of using their pump bolus wizards to decide insulin boluses and then 4
      weeks of using iDECIDE to receive recommendations for insulin dosing, or vice versa.
      Throughout the 8 weeks, study participants will be asked to wear a wristband heart rate
      accelerometer that will provide data on time and duration of exercise performed. Also, during
      the 8 weeks, study participants will use their glucose sensor and pump to measure blood
      glucose and to deliver basal insulin. During the 4 weeks when participants receive
      recommendations from iDECIDE, the pump's bolus calculator will be turned off so participants
      will receive no insulin bolus recommendations from pump. While receiving recommendations from
      iDECIDE, participants will use the pump to manually deliver insulin boluses and can either
      use the advice from iDECIDE or override it.

      The primary outcomes to compare iDECIDE's insulin dosing algorithm against the pump
      calculators will be: mean postprandial glucose level and number of events with excessive
      blood glucose highs and lows. Potential secondary outcomes: mean percentage of time with low
      glucose level and time spent in the target glucose range.
    
  