
    
      Primary hyperaldosteronism (PA) is one of the commonest causes of hypertension. It is
      estimated to be the root cause in 10% of all patients with hypertension and 20% of all
      patients with resistant hypertension. Conventionally, patients with PA are divided 50:50 into
      those with a curable, unilateral aldosterone-producing adenoma (APA), and those with
      bilateral idiopathic adrenal hyperplasia (IAH).

      Individual clinicians may reasonably consider it unnecessary to diagnose a benign condition
      whose work-up for surgery can be arduous, and the benefits uncertain. Public health doctors
      could reasonably despair at a large increase in demand for scarce surgical resources, when
      long term comparison of medical and surgical approaches have not been undertaken. Yet PA is
      regarded as a high-risk subset of hypertension, with an estimated 4-12 fold excess rate of
      cardiovascular complications compared to otherwise comparable patients with Hypertension. The
      American Endocrine Society Guidance recommends that where resources permit, a unilateral APA
      should be removed in order to protect patients from the long-term consequences of excess
      aldosterone. At present, most APAs are removed by key-hole surgery, with a 2% conversion rate
      to open surgery.

      While such surgery is justified by the serious cardiovascular risk of PA, the high level of
      proof (of unilateral disease) before surgical referral has the paradoxical outcome of
      reducing take-up of a procedure that can be life-prolonging. A further paradox is that the
      rigid division of PA into unilateral adenoma vs bilateral hyperplasia is probably incorrect
      and that an intervention which does not require the distinction may, in stages, come to be
      regarded as the more logical approach to cure of PA, with reduction/prevention of
      cardiovascular risk. The obvious alternative intervention is selective ablation of APA(s),
      sparing most of the adjacent adrenal gland. Several publications report anecdotal success
      using this technique. The eligibility criteria for ablation were variable, but generally the
      patients were medically unfit or declined to undergo surgery. Success rates, measured as
      reversal of the biochemical abnormalities of PA, and radiological resolution, were high.
      However, there were few major adverse events. Most patients were monitored in hospital after
      the procedures, with shorter stays than the 2-3 days typical of most centres following
      laparoscopic surgery.

      The investigators wish to progress from the experience with percutaneous and
      retroperitoneoscopic ablation to an approach which should maximise the ease and applicability
      of ablation whilst reducing the risk of adverse events. The primary outcome of the study will
      be safety. However, by the end of the study the investigators also need to have sufficient
      evidence of efficacy to justify, and guide design of, a subsequent multi-centre comparison
      trial.

      Population Patients over the age of 18 diagnosed with left adrenal aldosterone producing
      adenoma meeting criteria from Endocrine Society clinical practice guidelines for primary
      hyperaldosteronism. The intervention (ultrasound guided endoscopic radiofrequency ablation)
      will be offered to those unsuitable for left adrenolectomy, who do not want surgery, or those
      who meet the criteria for surgery but wish to consent to radiofrequency ablation.

      Design of study and intervention A multicentre phase 1 study to determine the safety and
      efficacy study of endoscopic ultrasound-guided ablation as a nonsurgical, adrenal-sparing
      treatment for aldosterone-producing adenomas. Thirty patients will be enrolled onto the study
      comprised of three cohorts of ten patients. The three cohorts will run sequentially with
      overlapping stages, and the safety of the first six patients in each cohort/group will be
      reviewed before the next group commences.

      Potential patients will be identified by referrals to our specialist Endocrine or
      Hypertension clinics. Once identified patients will be recruited at St. Bartholomew's
      Hospital in a Screening Visit where they will be clinically assessed, bloods and baseline
      investigations such as urinalysis and ECGs will be performed and informed consent gained for
      official enrollment onto the study.

      Diagnostic PET CT scans using a tracer 11-C-Metomidate (or an alternative tracer, when
      available) will be used for confirmation of a left Conn's adenoma(s). Some patients may have
      already had this investigation as part of their work up. If so the PET CT does not need to be
      repeated. Group 1's (please see eligibility section for details) endoscopies will be managed
      in the Research Endoscopy Suite within the Clinical Research Facility at UCLH. Assuming group
      1 is non-problematic, Barts Hospital will initiate ablations in year 2. The two-site approach
      maximises safety, assures recruitment of 1-2 eligible patients per month, and provides some
      early insight to the generalisability of the innovation.

      Outcomes and assessment

      The Primary Outcome Measures

      There will be a hierarchical co-primary endpoint. The first co-primary is whether the
      recorded patient safety outcome data establishes that perforation, haemorrhage infarction of
      major organs does not occur. This will be assessed at 48 hours. The second co-primary
      endpoint is efficacy, assessed biochemically at 3 months post ablation. This will be achieved
      by:

        -  Accurate adverse event reporting;

        -  Clinical assessment (history and examination) looking for features of blood loss,
           perforation, or inflammation/infarction of peri-adrenal tissues;

        -  Blood tests for Hb, WBC, and Renal function, amylase, LFTs, CRP; and.

        -  Urinalysis for blood and protein.

      The Secondary Outcome Measures

      The difference from baseline measurements at 3 and 6 months following ablation will be
      measured using the following clinical, biochemical and radiological parameters:

        -  Plasma electrolytes;,

        -  Aldosterone and renin ratio at 3 and 6 months;

        -  PET CT 3 months post ablation for radiological disappearance, diameter size and SUV
           measurements;.

        -  The reduced use or cessation of supplementary potassium medication; and

        -  Home BP (measured 3 readings twice a day for 4 days preceding clinic visit).Reduction
           in/or no longer taking antihypertensive medication

      Assessment of cure will be performed at the site not involved in patient care. This will be
      subject to ratification by the safety committee who are not involved in the study.

      Sample size / recruitment size A sample size of 30 patients will be recruited to the clinical
      trial. These statistical analyses have been performed by Dr Stephen Morant, University of
      Dundee (statistician). Patients will be identified through specialist endocrine /
      hypertension clinics and recruitment will be at St Bartholomew's Hospital.

      The Intervention

      Initially the patient's imaging (PET CT) will be reviewed at a multidisciplinary meeting to
      confirm the diagnosis and suitability for treatment by radiofrequency ablation for a left
      aldosterone producing adenoma. Currently this technique can only be used for the left adrenal
      gland due to its position near to the stomach.

      On the day of the procedure the patient will receive a general anaesthetic or conscious
      sedation for the treatment. An endoscope with an ultrasound probe in the tip will be passed
      in to the stomach or small bowel to identify the adrenal adenoma.. A fine needle is then
      inserted into the adenoma via the endoscope and its contents aspirated. Samples will be sent
      to the laboratory for routine analysis. Following aspiration of the adenoma, the patient will
      undergo Endoscopic Ultrasound-Guided Radiofrequency Ablation (EUS-RFA) treatment. The
      radiofrequency probe will be placed into the adenoma via the needle. The needle will be
      withdrawn slightly so the probe lies within the adenoma. A low power current of 10 Watts for
      90 seconds will then be applied to the lesion on up to 10 occasions to ablate the tumour. It
      is anticipated the treatment will cause destruction of the adenoma.

      The 30 patients recruited to this study, will need to stay in hospital for approximately 48
      hours following treatment. A CT scan will be performed 24-48 hours post ablation. Based on
      the experience so far, it is hoped that the side effects of radiofrequency ablation will be
      minor and that ultimately the treatment will be performed as a day-case procedure. If our
      initial experience confirms this, patients recruited to this study may be discharged on the
      same day as treatment, following review by the medical team. Patients will be followed up at
      one, three and six months in outpatients to recheck blood pressure and blood tests to check
      if the treatment has been successful, with a repeat PET CT scan prior to the appointment.
      Blood tests will also be performed on the day of the appointment, as part of standard care.
      If the adenoma has not been completely ablated at 3 months the patient may be offered a
      further EUS-RFA treatment.

      Patients will be asked to measure their blood pressure at home 4 days before each study visit
      with a monitor loaned to them whilst on the clinical trial. In addition to formally checking
      for any adverse effects at each clinic visit, patients were also asked to report any
      side-effects encountered to the medical team.

      Sample management Cytology from the fine needle aspiration will be sent for
      immunohistochemistry staining. DNA obtained will be sent for genotyping.
    
  