
    
      Benign esophageal strictures are a frequently encountered problem in the clinical practice of
      gastroenterology. The formation of benign strictures of the esophagus is believed to be
      caused by the production of fibrous tissue and deposition of collagen stimulated by deep
      esophageal ulceration or chronic inflammation. The most common cause of esophageal stricture
      is a peptic stricture, which is caused by reflux esophagitis. Gastroesophageal reflux disease
      (GERD) affects approximately 40% of adults and if left untreated 7-25% will develop a peptic
      stricture. Other common causes include radiation, caustic ingestions, anastomotic strictures,
      and eosinophilic esophagitis-associated strictures. Patients with an esophageal stricture
      characteristically have dysphagia (difficulty swallowing) to solid food instead of liquids.
      Other symptoms could include regurgitation of food and liquids, sensation that food is stuck
      in the chest after eating, and heartburn. Dysphagia can have a severe and deleterious impact
      on quality of life of these patients and lead to complications such as aspiration, weight
      loss and malnutrition.

      According to the literature, esophageal strictures are structurally categorized into two
      groups: simple and complex. Simple strictures are concentric with a diameter of >12 mm or
      easily allow passage of a diagnostic upper endoscope. Complex strictures are usually long,
      asymmetric, diameter <12 mm or inability to pass an endoscope. Complex strictures are more
      difficult to treat and tend to be refractory despite adequate dilation therapy.

      The standard management approach of benign strictures is dilation therapy. The mechanistic
      action of the balloon dilators is they distribute the dilating force radially and
      simultaneously across the entire length of the stricture. Balloon dilators can be passed
      through-the-scope (TTS) or over a guide-wire. Once the balloon dilator catheter is passed
      through the endoscope, it is positioned so that the narrowest portion of the stricture is at
      the center of the balloon. The dilators are typically inflated with water (or radio-opaque
      material if performed under fluoroscopy) to pressures that correspond to specific dilation
      diameters. The degree of dilation within a session should be based on the severity of the
      stricture by estimating the stricture diameter, followed by serial increases in the diameter
      of the dilating balloon. There are no data on the optimal duration the balloon should remain
      inflated, but national and international guidelines recommend inflation times from 30 to 60
      seconds.

      Balloon dilation has been the primary method for treating benign esophageal strictures for
      decades due to its effectiveness and safety. According to the current medical literature,
      about 80-90% of patients have relief of dysphagia but unfortunately, about 30-40%of patients
      eventually have a recurrence of dysphagia and require repeat dilation. Predictors for
      recurrence include the presence of a complex stricture, persistence of heartburn symptoms,
      presence of non-acid related strictures (radiation-induced or caustic ingestion), and
      eosinophilic esophagitis. Generally, the last dilator used in the previous dilation session
      should be used first.

      There is also no consensus regarding how frequent the interval of balloon dilations should be
      performed. Helsema et al, conducted a retrospective study to determine the optimal target of
      endoscopic dilation of postsurgical esophageal strictures. Eighty-eight patients were dilated
      up to a maximum diameter of 16 mm and 91 patients to a diameter >16 mm. The stricture
      recurrence rate was 79.5 % in the 16 mm group and 68.1 %in the >16 mm group. They concluded
      that endoscopic dilation over 16 mm resulted in a significant prolongation of the
      dilation-free period in comparison with dilation up to 16 mm in patients with benign
      anastomotic strictures after esophagectomy. Pereira-Lima et al performed 1043 dilation
      sessions on 153 patients. Stricture's etiology was postsurgical in 80 patients, peptic in 37,
      caustic in 12, and from other causes in 11 patients. Adequate dilation was achieved in 93.5%
      of the patients (131 of 140). Patients with peptic strictures needed a median of three
      sessions to be adequately dilated during follow-up in comparison to five sessions among
      patients with postsurgical or caustic strictures. They concluded that endoscopic dilation is
      safe and effective in relieving dysphagia caused by benign strictures of different causes,
      although frequently repeated sessions are necessary because of stricture recurrence.
    
  