
    
      Many researchers approach the etiology of trauma-, stressor-, and anxiety-related mental
      disorders from the perspective of classical conditioning processes gone awry. According to
      this view, abnormal associative relationships between neutral, conditioned stimuli (CSs) and
      aversive, unconditioned stimuli (USs) underlie pathological anxiety and result in unusually
      intense fear memories or fear memories that cannot be properly extinguished. Recent work has
      expanded this view by showing that many psychological disorders involving pathological
      anxiety are associated with an exaggerated form of the commonly adaptive classical
      conditioning phenomenon, stimulus generalization, leading individuals with such disorders to
      respond with fear and anxiety to a variety of environmental contexts and cues that should not
      be threatening. Few studies have been conducted in humans to better understand the process of
      fear generalization, and factors that might influence susceptibility to overgeneralize fear
      have yet to be assessed. It is well-known that stress, biological sex, and anxiety-related
      dispositions of an individual increase one's susceptibility for pathological anxiety and
      significantly impact fear learning; thus, it is possible that such factors, alone or in
      combination, contribute to clinical anxiety by influencing fear generalization processes. Aim
      1 of the present study is to determine the effects of acute stress and its physiological
      correlates on fear generalization in human participants. Because acute stress profoundly
      impacts cognitive brain areas that underlie generalization, it is predicted that acute stress
      will enhance or impair fear generalization, depending on when the stressor is administered
      relative to fear learning. Aim 2 is to assess the role of biological sex in fear
      generalization and acute stress-induced changes in such processes. Females are more likely
      than males to develop several psychological disorders that involve pathological anxiety, and
      research has consistently reported sex-related differences in fear learning and
      stress-induced alterations of fear learning, effects that have been associated with ovarian
      hormones. Thus, it is predicted that females will exhibit greater fear generalization than
      males that will be impacted differently by stress. It is also hypothesized that the observed
      effects will correlate with estradiol and progesterone in females. The final aim of this
      project (Aim 3) is to evaluate the relationship between childhood stress, dispositional
      anxiety, and fear generalization. Early life stress has been repeatedly associated with
      altered stress responses and the development of anxiety-related phenotypes, yet the influence
      of childhood stress and trait anxiety on fear generalization have yet to be examined. This
      study will be the first to examine how several factors that are known to increase
      susceptibility for trauma-, stressor, and anxiety-related psychological disorders impact fear
      generalization in human subjects. The resulting findings will provide important insight into
      the etiology of such disorders, which could aid future approaches to their treatment.
    
  