
    
      Background:

      Fibroproliferative disorders (FPD) are common and serious disorders involving many human
      tissues and are a leading cause of mortality and reported as high a 45% of annual deaths.
      Hypertrophic scar (HTS) and keloids are the dermal equivalent of FPD and impose lower
      mortality but great morbidity, particularly following burn injury. In the US, 1.25 million
      people are treated for burns annually, 50,000 requiring hospitalization. Although the
      mortality rate for burn injury has improved, burn patients experience a prolonged
      hospitalization (mean 26.2 days) and rehabilitation, requiring an average of 12.7 weeks off
      work for patients with thermal injuries >30% of the TBSA. Much of the rehabilitation relates
      to functional and cosmetic limitations imposed by HTS, including a reduction in range of
      motion of the extremities and the intense pruritus and heat intolerance making early return
      to work prohibitive, until remodelling of the HTS has occurred. Although risk factors for HTS
      include sex, age, racial or genetic factors, and wound location, HTS develops after prolonged
      inflammation of slowly healing burn wounds with a very high frequency especially in deep
      dermal wounds independent of other factors in up to 75% of burn patients. Unfortunately, HTS
      and keloid are known to respond poorly to current forms of therapy, including pressure
      garments, topically applied silicone and intralesional steroids, usually slowly over months
      or years, often incompletely. Advances in the immunology of FPD including HTS and keloids,
      reveal many common features, such that novel advances in therapy for these disorders may
      provide far reaching benefits to many patients and military personnel suffering from severe
      scarring after burn injury.

      Drug Information: NEFOPAM HCL has been found safe and effective for the reduction of dermal
      scarring following standardized human dermal wounds of critical depth that produces HTS in
      normal human volunteers. NEFOPAM HCl was first developed as a non-narcotic analgesic drug and
      it is currently marketed primarily in Europe, New Zealand and parts of Asia for oral,
      intramuscular or intravenous use for acute or chronic pain. NEFOPAM HCl has over 30 years of
      human safety data. It is considered generally safe with mild side effects including nausea,
      sweating, dry mouth and tachycardia. NEFOPAM reformulated into a cream and topically
      administered has been shown to reduce the amount of scar tissue formed during wound healing
      in mice and the red Duroc pig model of hypertrophic scarring. Most recently, a phase I safety
      and efficacy study was conducted in human volunteers using a standardized progressively
      deeper dermal wound (0-1.6 mm in depth over 6 cm) made with a sterile jig in each hip, where
      normotrophic (negative control) and HTS (positive control) develop in the superficial and
      deep regions of the scratch. 24 patients have been studied over 104 days where the
      preliminary results demonstrate that NEFOPAM cream has very few adverse side effects, low
      immunogenicity and encouraging antifibrotic effects on the healing wounds.

      Purpose/ Hypothesis:

      To re-assess the safety, local tolerability and efficacy of NEFOPAM Cream in burn patients
      when applied to bilateral deep dermal wounds using a standardized dermal scratch model of
      hypertrophic scarring.

      Objectives:

      To assess the efficacy of NEFOPAM Cream versus placebo (vehicle) in reducing scar size
      following artificially induced dermal wounds in each lateral hip region of burn patients.

      To determine the efficacy on wound closure of NEFOPAM Cream versus placebo (vehicle) in burn
      patients.

      To assess the satisfaction of burn patients and investigators in the scar rating and
      appearance after topical application of NEFOPAM Cream versus placebo (vehicle).

      To determine the efficacy of NEFOPAM Cream versus placebo on the gene and protein expression
      of fibrotic molecules including type I and type III collagen, β-catenin target gene (AXIN-2),
      TGF- β1, and decorin, quantitative measures of collagen orientation index (COI),
      immunohistochemistry of a-SMA (smooth muscle actin) and β -catenin in scar tissue.

      Research Method/Procedures:

      This study will be a double blind, placebo-controlled, randomized multicenter Phase II study
      in which burn patients will be randomized to receive NEFOPAM Cream or placebo. Qualifying
      subjects will be randomized to receive 2.0 mL of NEFOPAM Cream or placebo (vehicle) on Day -1
      on intact skin in an area on the upper hip not intended for the incision. On Day 0 burn
      patients who are free of adverse events will enter the treatment phase of the study.

      Consenting burn patients requiring skin graft surgery will be scratch-wounded under aseptic
      conditions on the lateral hip of each lower extremity while under local anesthesia or general
      anesthesia for their wound debridement as previously described. To create small standardized
      depth uniform wounds, a jig fitted with a sterile No.11 surgical scalpel blade will be used
      to create a wound that is 6 cm in length and from 0 to approximately 1.6 mm maximum depth
      into the deep dermis of the lateral hip mid-distance between the anterior superior iliac
      spine and the lateral trochanter of the hip. Two identical wounds will be made, one on each
      hip and subjects will be randomized to receive treatment with NEFOPAM Cream or placebo on
      each wound. Wounds will be followed until >90% re-epithelialized before the wounds will be
      cleaned and the cream will be applied twice a day for the next 21 days. The wounds will be
      covered with an occlusive dressing until Day 21 of treatment (Tegaderm ™). Once the treatment
      is completed and the wounds are fully healed, the wound/scar will be left uncovered and
      treated with a moisturizing cream (Glaxal™) if necessary.

      Burn patients randomized to receive active treatment will have one wound treated with NEFOPAM
      Cream (treatment wound site) and the other wound site treated with placebo cream/vehicle
      (control wound site) according to the randomization schedule and dosing instructions. All
      study team members and subjects will be blinded to all treatments.

      Subjects will receive two applications of treatment to each wound per day for 21 days after
      the wounds are 90% healed.

      Wound evaluations will be performed daily through the treatment period. Digital photography
      of the wound/scar will occur following wounding and on Day 6 (+/- 2), Day 13 (+/- 2), Day 20
      (+/- 3), Day 27 (+/- 2), Day 48 (+/- 7) Day 76 (+/-14), Day 104 (+/- 15). Modified VBSA and
      POSAS scale, vascularity and pigmentation via Mexameter® and ultrasound evaluations of the
      scar will commence after the dermal scratch is completed and thereafter when the wound is
      healed (defined as >90% epithelialization of the wound with no exudate - approximately 1-3
      weeks following wounding) and repeated on Day 20 (+/- 3), Day 27 (+/- 2), Day 48 (+/- 7) Day
      76 (+/-14), Day 104 (+/- 15).

      Two punch biopsies will be performed on the maximally thick region of each scar on Day 28 and
      day 104 for immunohistochemistry analysis of a-SMA (smooth muscle actin) and β-catenin,
      collagen orientation, and RT-qPCR analysis of type I and type III collagen, the β-catenin
      target gene (AXIN-2), TGF- β1 and decorin.

      Subjects may request that the scar be completely excised on or after D104 under local
      anesthetic (1% xylocaine with epinephrine 1:100,000) and repaired using 4(0) monocril suture
      in the subcuticular plain to produce a fine linear scar. Tissue removed from this procedure
      will be used for immunohistochemistry analysis of β-catenin and RT-qPCR analysis of type I
      and type III collagen, the β-catenin target gene (AXIN-2), TGF- β1 and decorin.

      Plan for Data Analysis:

      All calculations and analyses will be performed using SAS version 9.4 or higher resident on
      the HP Unix (HPUX B.11.11 or higher. The continuous data will be summarized via PROC
      UNIVARIATE - mean, standard deviation, median, minimum, and maximum. The Safety Population
      will be used for analysis of adverse events, tolerability reactions, clinical evaluations,
      and laboratory tests. The ITT Population will be used for all other analyses.

      For any assessments that are not performed per hip (e.g. adverse event reporting), results
      will be grouped by treatment (NEFOPAM 3.0% and placebo, placebo alone). For assessments that
      are performed separately on each hip (e.g. tolerability, POSAS scale), results will be
      grouped two ways: (1) By within-subject differences between hips grouped by the 3 treatment
      groups; and (2) By overall group mean value by treatment applied.

      Tolerability is assessed separately for each hip by the investigator using a 5-point scale
      that ranges from 0 (No visible reaction) to 4 (Severe erythema with induration, vesicles or
      pustules and/or erosion/ulceration). While Likert scales are ordinal in nature, parametric
      methods are still robust and appropriate for analysis (43). Thus, for the assessment of
      tolerability, an ANCOVA model will be used to compare the within-subject difference between
      active and placebo hips (or, for placebo-only subjects, between left and right hips) in
      average tolerability. The average tolerability for each subject-hip will be calculated across
      all non-missing scheduled visits.
    
  