
    
      Background

      Attention can be defined as the preparedness to rapidly and accurately respond to stimuli
      coming from the investigators environment and to effectively select between relevant and
      irrelevant information. Attention is a complex cognitive function based on multiple
      components. A recent model postulates that attentional control in the brain is based on two
      discrete neural networks. The ventral (temporo-parietal - ventral frontal) network controls
      non-spatial aspects of attention, such as alertness and vigilance, and stimulus detection and
      reorientation in both hemifields. This network is lateralized towards the right hemisphere
      and plays a role as a 'circuit-breaker'. The dorsal (superior parietal - dorsal frontal)
      network controls spatial attentional shifts, is largely top-down driven, and substantially
      overlaps with eye movement control. This network is not functionally lateralized, each
      hemisphere containing dynamic topographical maps of the contralateral space. Moreover, the
      dorsal networks of the two hemispheres compete to direct attention to the contralateral
      hemispace, thereby exerting reciprocal inhibition.

      Hemispatial neglect - the failure to detect, orient, or respond to stimuli located in the
      contralesional side of space - has been interpreted in terms of pathological changes in the
      interaction between the two attentional networks. Neglect is very common after cerebral
      lesions of the right hemisphere, usually affecting the ventral attentional network. The
      structurally intact right dorsal network would thus receive a weakened input from the right
      ventral network. The ensuing imbalance in the inhibition between the dorsal networks of the
      two hemispheres would then result in the rightward bias in attentional allocation, typically
      observed in hemispatial neglect.

      However, little is known regarding the interactions between ventral and dorsal attentional
      networks and their influence on perception, and the greatest part of the evidence has been
      acquired through correlational approaches. The aim of this study is to further elucidate
      different aspects of these interactions and to investigate their influence on spatial and
      non-spatial attentional performance and on visual perception.

      Objective

      A first objective consists in further elucidating how and through which anatomical structures
      the ventral and the dorsal attentional networks interact. A second objective concerns how the
      interplay of dorsal and ventral attentional networks influences visual perception, in
      particular in cases in which visual stimuli are ambiguous.

      Methods

      Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is the principal method applied in this study. TMS is
      a non-invasive, painless method which is able to influence cortical areas directing attention
      in an interference approach and to thus establish causal relationships. Furthermore, TMS, in
      combination with the measurement of motor evoked potentials (MEP), allows for the assessment
      of the excitability of cortico-cortical circuits.
    
  