
    
      Background

      All over the world the use of intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) with the injection of a
      single spermatozoon into an oocyte has gradually increased since the first report of an ICSI
      conceived child more than 25 years ago (Palermo et al. 1992). The latest reports from the
      European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology (ESHRE) and The International Committee
      Monitoring Assisted Reproductive Technologies (ICMART) show that standard IVF is now used in
      one-third of fresh assisted reproductive technology (ART) cycles, whereas ICSI accounts for
      as much as two-thirds of the cycles (Dyer et al. 2016, Calhaz-Jorge et al. 2017). ICSI was
      initially used in fertility treatment with severe male factor infertility. However, over the
      years a shift towards using ICSI for other indications such as unexplained infertility, mixed
      factor infertility or mild male factor infertility has happened (Boulet et al., 2015; Dyer et
      al., 2016). Today, there is no clear evidence that using ICSI over conventional IVF in cases
      with non-male factor infertility yields better results (van Rumste et al., 2003). In a
      randomised controlled trial (RCT) from 2001 including 415 couples, better fertilisation and
      implantation rates after conventional IVF compared to ICSI was reported (Bhattacharya et al.,
      2001). In contrast, another earlier prospective study including 35 women age 21-44 years,
      found a better fertilisation rate after ICSI compared to sibling oocytes treated with
      standard IVF (Khamsi et al., 2001). A retrospective study including 745 women with non-male
      factor infertility reported no advantage of ICSI over conventional IVF in women aged 40 years
      or older (Tannus et al., 2017). In line with this, so-called poor responders with a single
      oocyte retrieved was shown to have similar reproductive outcomes after IVF and ICSI in a
      retrospective study from 2015 (Sfontouris et al., 2015). RCTs comparing outcomes after IVF
      and ICSI in couples/women in fertility treatment with other indications than severe male
      factor infertility and with live birth rate as the primary endpoint are entirely missing.
      Despite this, the use of ICSI in this population continuous to increase.

      Therefore, a carefully designed RCT to determine whether ICSI results in higher live birth
      rates compared with standard IVF in patients without severe male factor infertility is
      warranted.

      Methods

      Study design:

      This study is a multicentre, randomised, controlled trial with four public fertility clinics
      in Denmark participating. All clinics are part of a university hospital setting and all
      hospitals perform standardised treatments according to the public health care system in
      Denmark.

      Participants:

      All women referred for their first fertility treatment at four public fertility clinics in
      Denmark will be screened for eligibility. Please see criteria for eligible patients under
      "Eligibility".

      Screening and inclusion:

      Patients who are potentially eligible will receive verbal and written information about the
      study by the investigators during their first consultation in the fertility clinic. Inclusion
      and randomisation of participants to either ICSI or conventional IVF will take place after
      the ovulation trigger has been prescribed and before the IVF/ICSI procedure. Women/couples
      who wish to participate in the trial are asked to sign an informed consent form prior to
      enrolment. They will have a minimum of two days between receiving the information and
      deciding whether they wish to participate in the study or not.

      Randomisation and data management:

      An independent statistician will prepare a computer-generated randomisation scheme in a I:I
      ratio between the two arms (IVF and ICSI) ensuring concealment of treatment allocation.
      Permuted blocks of variable size between 4 and 12 are used for randomisation. The
      randomisation scheme will be stratified by fertility clinic and age (three age groups: 18-25,
      26-37 and 37-41) to ensure that the number of participants receiving IVF and ICSI is closely
      balanced within each stratum.

      A designated physician or nurse from each study site will be appointed. The appointed
      nurse/physician will obtain the allocation of new patients being enrolled on their trial
      site. The allocation will be obtained in the online platform REDCap which will also be used
      for data collection during the study. The REDCap database has a complete audit trail and is
      based on anonymous subject ID numbers used in the trial.

      Statistical analysis:

      Baseline characteristics will be compared using t-test, Mann-Whitney U test or chi-square
      tests for continuous and categorical variables. Outcomes will be compared using logistic
      regression analysis, controlling for possible confounding effects. P-values of ≤ 0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant. Statistical analyses will be performed by an
      investigator together with statistical experts. The primary RCT analysis will be performed by
      an independent statistician blinded to group allocation.

      Sample size calculation:

      The cumulative live birth rate after transfer of all transferable embryos in the IVF group is
      set to 45%. The cumulative live birth rate after transfer of all transferable embryos in the
      ICSI group is set to 55%. With a power of 80% and a 2-sided p-value of 5% the sample size is
      estimated to 392 patients in each group, which means a total of 784 patients.

      Intervention

      Gonadotropin stimulation:

      The women will be treated with either a short GnRH-antagonist protocol or a long GnRH-agonist
      protocol (ovarian stimulation). Both the controlled ovarian stimulation and the ovulation
      triggering is done according to the usual daily practice in the clinics. The gonadotropin
      dose is decided by each investigator based on the ovarian reserve as is the usual practice in
      the clinics. The dose may be adjusted during the stimulation if needed. Stimulation with LH
      or hCG preparations are allowed according to clinical evaluation.

      Ovulation induction:

      The ovulation trigger is prescribed when a minimum of three follicles are mature and
      measuring 17 mm or more. Women with only one or two mature follicles may also be prescribed
      the ovulation trigger if they wish to continue despite the poor response to stimulation
      (according to the usual practice in the clinics). The type of medicine as well as the dosage
      used for ovarian stimulation and as ovulation trigger will be the same for study participants
      and patients not participating in the study.

      Transvaginal ultrasound examination during the stimulation period is performed according to
      the usual procedures in the clinic.

      Oocyte retrieval:

      Oocyte retrieval is performed 36±2 hours after the ovulation trigger is prescribed.

      Semen preparation and fertilisation with IVF or ICSI:

      A fresh semen sample is collected on the day of oocyte pick-up. The volume of the sample is
      assessed as well as the total number of spermatozoa and the number of motile spermatozoa. The
      semen sample is purified by gradient centrifugation. After purification the number of
      progressive motile, motile and non-motile sperm is assessed.

      Oocytes are fertilised with either IVF or ICSI according to clinic standard procedures. For
      IVF short time fertilisation is not allowed.

      Embryo transfer, pregnancy test and ultrasound:

      Blastocyst transfer is performed on day 5. Patients with a poor ovarian reserve and few
      oocytes retrieved (≤4) are allowed transfer day 2 or 3 according to clinical practice.
      Surplus blastocysts of good quality are vitrified on day 5 or 6 if the patient wish to have
      the spare embryos/blastocysts vitrified. Luteal phase support will follow the usual procedure
      in the clinic. The medication is bought by the patients according to general prescription
      rules.

      Urine pregnancy test or a serum blood pregnancy test is done 11-21 days after fresh embryo
      transfer.

      If pregnancy is achieved, a transvaginal ultrasound scan is performed at pregnancy week 7-9
      to confirm that the pregnancy is ongoing and intrauterine.

      Women will be asked to inform the clinic of the result of the pregnancy as is the usual
      procedure in the clinic.

      Freeze:

      In cases where all embryos/blastocysts or spare embryos/blastocysts are frozen these can be
      transferred in subsequent cycles according to the daily practice in each clinic (i.e., both
      natural cycles or substituted cycles are allowed).

      In cases with total freeze of the fertilised embryos due to the risk of OHSS, women are not
      excluded from the trial.

      Outcomes:

      Please see "Outcome measures".

      Side effects / risks:

      Both IVF and ICSI are routinely used in the clinic for fertilising the oocytes. The risk of
      poor or no fertilisation of the oocytes exists for both IVF and ICSI. Since both
      fertilisation methods are a part of standard treatment in the fertility clinics, the risk for
      study participants is not considered higher compared with patients who do not participate in
      the study.

      Ethics and approvals:

      The study will be performed in accordance with the ethical principles in the Helsinki
      Declaration.

      For approvals please see "Oversight".
    
  