
    
      Background

      Enhanced epidural pump technology now supports the use of automated or programmed
      intermittent bolus (PIB) administration. Anesthesiologists can now program pumps to deliver
      small, regularly timed intermittent boluses for maintenance of labour analgesia and specify
      "lockout" intervals to ensure patient safety.

      Several studies suggest that administration of PIB may result in a more extensive spread of
      local anesthetic in the epidural space and provide superior labour analgesia compared to CEI.
      In a recently published systematic review by George et al. (1), PIB was associated with lower
      anesthetic consumption, a shorter second stage of labour and greater patient satisfaction
      compared to CEI (1).

      The optimal PIB volume and dosing interval for programmed intermittent bolus has not been
      determined. A small volume with a short bolus interval may be associated with similar
      drawbacks as continuous infusion, while a large volume bolus interval may be associated with
      increased breakthrough pain and reduced patient satisfaction. Wong et al. showed that
      extending the PIB interval from 15 min to 60 min with a larger PIB volume (10 mL vs. 2.5 mL)
      results in decreased anesthetic consumption without affecting patient satisfaction (3). Until
      recently, there was not a pump that could provide PIB along with PCEA. Smith Medical now
      produces the CADD pump with this feature. It ensures that that there are specific limits set
      to not allow "stacking" of boluses and potentially unsafe administration of local
      anesthetics. This pump now has more variables to program and determine the quality of labour
      analgesia.

      A variable that has not received any research attention is the "Next Bolus" (Figure 5). "Next
      Bolus" (NB) determines when the first PIB bolus is given after the initiation of the epidural
      and starting of the pump. Currently we set this to be 15-45 minutes depending on the
      clinician. Determining the optimal timing of the NB is important because if the bolus is
      given too late there may be increased pain and less patient satisfaction. This could lead to
      earlier initiation of PCEA, more frequent PCEA attempts and possibly the need for physician
      intervention for a manual bolus. As more local anesthetic is delivered, the patient may have
      a decrease in blood pressure or greater motor blockade (i.e. leg weakness) than desired.

      Design & Procedure Potential participants will be identified by research personnel by
      communicating with the attending anesthesiologist on the Birth Unit and the Clinical Leader
      of Operations for the Birth Unit at the IWK Health Centre. Birth Unit nurses will receive an
      educational session and training provided by the research coordinator prior to study
      commencement. Birth unit nurses will be notified by the Clinical Leader of Operations if
      their patient meets study inclusion criteria. The patient's nurse will review options for
      labour pain relief with the patient. These options include non-pharmacological measures
      (baths, massage, hypnosis etc.), inhaled nitrous oxide, opioid injections, or an epidural.
      When labour pain management options are introduced, the nurse will provide the patient with a
      brochure that includes basic study information. If an epidural is requested for labour
      analgesia, nurses who have received education regarding the study, will ask the patient if
      they would be willing to speak with research staff. With their consent, participants will be
      approached by study personnel and informed, written consent will be obtained. As standard
      care in the birth unit, upon request of labour analgesia, the cervix will be measured and a
      baseline pain score and blood pressure will be determined.

      A staff anesthesiologist will use a combined spinal-epidural (CSE) technique to initiate
      labour analgesia. As per standard practice at the IWK, an IV catheter will be in place before
      initiation of the technique. With the patient in the sitting position, the epidural space
      will be identified at the L3-4 or L2-3 interspace with a 17G, 9 cm Tuohy epidural needle
      using a loss of resistance to air or saline (< 1 mL) technique. A 27G, 12 cm Whitacre spinal
      needle will be placed into the shaft of the epidural needle and the presence of cerebrospinal
      fluid in the hub of the spinal needle will confirm dural puncture. Bupivicaine 0.25% 0.8 mL
      (2 mg) + Fentanyl 10 mcg (total 1 mL) will be injected into the intrathecal space.

      Each participant will be randomly allocated (using a computer generated randomization table)
      to one of three groups. Group assignments will be sealed in sequentially numbered envelopes
      that will be opened by study personnel following the consent process. The pump will be
      programmed by an unblinded member of the anesthesia team (anesthesiologist or anaesthesia
      assistant) and maintenance epidural analgesia will be initiated in accordance with IWK
      policies when the epidural procedure is complete. The individual programming the pump will
      not be collecting data. The start time of the pump will be recorded on the envelope and the
      sealed envelope will be given to the study personnel. The pump will be connected and
      initiated once the epidural procedure is complete and will start the infusion exactly 5
      minutes after the intrathecal injection. Each participant will have the same PIB settings
      (PIB bolus 8 mL, PIB interval 45 minutes). Group A will be assigned a NB of 15 minutes, group
      B 30 minutes and group C 45 minutes.

      The data collection will take place in the patient's assigned labour room in the IWK Birth
      Unit. The CADD Solis Ambulatory Infusion System (Smiths Medical ASD, Inc., St Paul MN) will
      be used to administer the programmed intermittent epidural bolus doses and patient-controlled
      epidural analgesia (PCEA). The current IWK labour analgesia standard ensures each labour room
      is equipped with a Smith Medical CADD pump, epidural infusion tubing and an epidural
      procedure tray. No new or additional supplies or personnel will be required for the study.
      Prior to study commencement, the research assistant will be trained by one of the
      investigators (anesthesiologist) on how to complete a dermatome sensory evaluation and
      Bromage score. In addition, the research assistant will receive training from the
      anesthesiologist regarding how to instruct patients to use the PCEA device. For all groups
      the PCEA will remain standardized. If after two confirmed PCEA doses that participant's pain
      is not suitably controlled the anesthesiologist will be consulted to provide a manual bolus
      (0.1% ropivacaine 10 mL). The patient and research personnel recording data will be blinded
      to the group assignment.

      Data to be collected Demographic data and health history Medical record number, maternal age,
      height, weight, BMI.

      Labour Information Gestational age, cervical dilation at initiation of CSE analgesia,
      duration of labour (initiation of analgesia to delivery), maximum oxytocin infusion rate
      during labour, mode of delivery, time from initiation of analgesia to delivery.

      Analgesia Data Maintenance epidural solution volume administered from programmed intermittent
      bolus pump, time of first administered PCEA bolus request, number of PCEA bolus requests and
      delivered doses, PCEA ropivacaine dose, time to first request for manual bolus, number of
      manual bolus doses, manual bolus ropivacaine dose, total ropivacaine dose, highest thoracic
      dermatome sensory level to pin prick at 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, 120, 180, 240, 300, and 360
      minutes, along with a modified Bromage score, hypotension, need for vasopressors.

      Satisfaction Scores Overall maternal satisfaction scores (NRS) will be sought within one day
      of delivery. Patients will be asked "On a scale from 0 to 100, how satisfied were you with
      the pain control provided by the epidural during your labour?"

      Data Collection In keeping with CONSORT guidelines all participants enrolled will be included
      in an intention to treat analysis. Descriptive statistics will be expressed as mean +/-
      standard deviation. The Student's t-test will be used for comparison of the means of
      continuous, normally distributed data. Two-way ANOVA or Friedman test will be used for
      variable differences in groups, and Bonferroni or Tukey HSD test will be used for multiple
      comparisons. Categorical data are to be analyzed using χ2 test or Fisher's exact test, as
      appropriate. The investigators will perform the statistical analysis, with the assistance of
      collaborating statistician. An interim analysis will not be conducted and α set at 0.05 for
      significance. A sample size of 26 per group will have an 80 % power to detect a reduction in
      the time to first administered PCEA request by 20 minutes at alpha=0.05. To account for any
      dropouts, we will aim to recruit 35 patients per group.
    
  