
    
      STUDY DRUGS:

      MORPHINE is recommended as the first choice of strong pain killers by the World Health
      Organization Pain Relief Guidelines.

      METHADONE is recommended as the second choice of strong pain killers.

      SCREENING TESTS:

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. The following
      tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will be asked about your level of pain.

        -  You will be asked about any pain killers you are currently taking.

        -  You will be asked about your history of allergies.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to check your kidney function.

      STUDY GROUPS:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the toss of the coin) to 1 of 2 treatment groups. Group 1 will receive morphine while
      on-study. Group 2 will receive methadone. You will have an equal chance of being placed in
      either group. Neither you nor any of the study staff will know which study drug you are
      receiving. However, if needed for your safety, the study staff and study doctor will be able
      to find out which study drug you are receiving.

      STUDY DRUG ADMINISTRATION:

      If you are in Group 1, you will take 1 morphine capsule every 12 hours with water. If you are
      in Group 2, you will take 1 methadone capsule every 12 hours. Morphine and methadone should
      be swallowed whole.

      You will be given additional capsules in another bottle to take for excessive pain. The
      additional capsules should be taken every 2 hours, as needed. If you need 3 or more of these
      additional doses in 24 hours, you should contact the study staff.

      STUDY VISITS:

      You will return to the clinic at the end of Weeks 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 for questionnaires
      about your pain levels, ability to sleep, constipation, other side effects, and
      quality-of-life. You will complete 6 questionnaires at the Weeks 1, 2, 6, 10, and 11 visit.
      You will complete 11 questionnaires at the Weeks 4, 8, and 12 visits. Each questionnaire will
      take 1-3 minutes to complete. The visit with the research nurse will last about 45 minutes to
      1 hour. Your study drug supply will also be checked. You also will be asked about your
      overall health, non-health care questions, and activity level. At these visits, you will
      receive a new prescription for a 2-week supply of the study drug.

      PATIENT DIARY:

      You will be given a patient diary booklet before you start taking the study drug. You will be
      asked to record when you take the study drug, other medications you may be taking, and any
      side effects you experience. You will fill out the patient diary once a day. It will take
      less than 2 minutes to complete.

      For the first week of the treatment, you will be contacted by the research nurse every day
      either in person (if you are in the hospital) or by phone to check for pain, side effects,
      and the number of pills you have taken.

      You are allowed to take other medication, such as medications for constipation, nausea, and
      other drugs during the study. All changes in medication for either symptoms or complications
      must be recorded by the research nurse at each study visit.

      LENGTH OF STUDY:

      After the visit at the end of Week 12, you will be off-study. You will be taken off-study
      early if your pain gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      This is an investigational study. Both morphine and methadone are FDA approved and
      commercially available. You will not be told which study drug you were receiving. Up to 250
      patients will take part in this study. Up to 200 will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  