
    
      Individuals with intellectual disability (ID) have lower levels of physical activity and
      greater barriers for participation in fitness activities, compared to the general population.
      As increased physical activity has positive effects on cardiovascular and psychosocial
      health, identifying effective interventions for use in everyday settings is exceedingly
      important. E-health like motion sensor games (exergames) and smartphone reminders for
      physical activity have been explored and found to be promising in people with ID.

      The purpose of this study is to examine the effectiveness of an individually tailored PA
      programme with motivational mobile e-health support on everyday level of PA in youths and
      adults with ID.

      The PA-IDE trial uses a prospective randomized controlled design. In total, 60 participants
      with a sedentary lifestyle or low physical activity level will be included, aging from 16-60
      years old. The intervention consists of a tailored e-health support intervention, using
      smartphones or tablets to create structure and predictability of physical activities. The
      intervention emphasizes the communicative abilities of individual participants and use
      rewards and give feedback of progress to motivate individuals to increase participation in
      physical activity. Participants will be allocated to groups consisting of 30 participants who
      receive either the e-health intervention or standard care (control). All participants will be
      assessed at baseline, 3-, and 6 months. Participants in the intervention group, close
      relatives or care staff will be invited to participate in a goal-setting meeting about
      physical activity in the intervention period, where the Goal Attainment Scaling (GAS) will be
      used. Primary outcome will be physical activity level measured as steps per day with
      commercial wrist-worn accelerometers. Secondary outcome measures include minutes of moderate
      activity, energy expenditure, social support for physical activity, self-efficacy in a PA
      setting, behaviour problems, and goal attainment.

      The investigators expect that the new intervention will perform better than standard care in
      terms of improved physical activity, mastery, and social support for activities. Technology
      offers new opportunities to influence healthy behaviours. The trial results will determine
      the effectiveness and sustainability of a tailored e-health support intervention to increase
      physical activity among youths and adults with ID.
    
  