
    
      Our project will address three specific challenges: 1) Integrate screening and core packages
      of services into routine primary health care. 2) Provide effective and affordable
      community-based care and rehabilitation. 3) Develop effective treatment for use by
      non-specialists, including lay healthcare workers with minimal training.

      Dementia is under-diagnosed in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) and treatment is rarely accessed or
      available. The burden of dementia on caregivers is high, with loss of income, and
      psychosocial stress common. However, large scale screening for dementia in such a setting is
      neither affordable nor sustainable. The purpose of this 3 year project is to provide a
      sustainable mechanism for diagnosis and therapeutic intervention for people with dementia. We
      will use 2 complimentary, rural study sites, 1 in Nigeria, West Africa and 2 in Tanzania,
      East Africa. As a consequence our results should be generalizable to all SSA. Our approach is
      inexpensive and will have applicability to other low- and middle-income countries.

      During Phase I we will validate a screening tool, previously developed by members of our
      study team from data collected in Tanzania, and carry out a pilot study of the benefits of
      cognitive stimulation therapy (CST) when used in SSA for those already identified with
      dementia. During both of these activities we will initiate training of local healthcare
      workers in diagnosis and management of people with dementia. In Phase II we will engage with
      local communities to raise awareness of dementia. Building on previous work at both study
      sites, we will initiate poster, newspaper and radio advertising and use mobile phone text
      messaging services (for relevant healthcare personnel) to increase awareness of the need to
      diagnose and intervene at an early stage. We will empower local private pharmacies to help
      identify people with dementia, a relationship which will ultimately be mutually beneficial
      through the supply of medicines to treat risk factors for dementia, such as hypertension. We
      will engage with local community leaders and government officials to assist us in this
      awareness raising, an approach that has proven successful in previous studies by our team in
      SSA. One of our study team (Dr Mushi (DM)) is a social scientist based in Tanzania and during
      Phase II we will conduct qualitative research into attitudes and beliefs surrounding dementia
      and identify any barriers to diagnosis in both sites. The results of this research will be
      fed back to inform other phases of the study. Finally, in phase III we will initiate a
      program of community based CST led by local occupational therapists (OTs) and nurse
      specialists. OTs and nurses will train caregivers in CST techniques and we hope that the
      training will ultimately be led by caregivers allowing such therapy to become sustainable
      within communities in the longer term. We will evaluate changes in cognition in people with
      dementia, and quality of life (QOL) in both people with dementia and their caregivers,
      post-intervention. We will carry out a full economic evaluation of the effect of our program,
      to be led by a heath economist based at Newcastle University, United Kingdom.

      This protocol cover the CST trial (Phase III of the study) in Tanzania
    
  