
    
      In this study, the investigators aimed to demonstrate the efficacy of ESWT (extracorporeal
      shock wave therapy) and local corticosteroid injection compared to participants receiving
      only splint and exercise therapy. And the investigators wanted to show that ESWT, a
      noninvasive treatment modality, is as effective and reliable as local corticosteroid
      injection, which is the least invasive treatment. Mild and moderate CTS patients will be
      determined according to American Association of Electrodiagnostic Medicine (AAEM) criteria.
      Cervical radiculopathy, polyneuropathy, brachial plexopathy, systemic corticosteroid
      treatment, fracture and trauma history of the treated side anterior arm and wrist,
      inflammatory rheumatic disease, pregnant and lactating participants, participants with
      cardiac pacemakers, participants undergoing carpal tunnel syndrome surgery, thoracic outlet
      syndrome, severe atrophy, severe carpal tunnel syndrome, participants who are unwilling or
      unable to participate for any reason, and those who have been decided by the clinician that
      the participants is not in favor of the participants, systemic diseases such as renal
      failure, peptic ulcer, dm, hypothyroidism, coagulation disorder will be excluded.90
      idiopathic moderate and mild CTS participants will be included in the study. The participants
      will be informed about their participation in a study and written informed consent will be
      obtained.The demographic characteristics and disease duration of the participants will be
      recorded. The participants will be randomly divided into 3 groups.40 mg of local
      methylprednisolone (depomedrol) injection will be applied to Group 1 once.

      And group 1 will also be given a hand wrist rest splint to use for 3 months, especially at
      night, when not using the hand. ESWT will be applied to Group 2 once a week for a total of 3
      weeks and hand wrist rest splints will be given for 3 months especially at night when it is
      not in use. Group 3 (control group) will be given a hand wrist rest splint to use for 3
      months, especially at night, when not using the hand. The evaluations will be repeated before
      treatment, after the first week after treatment (first ESWT application) and at the 3rd
      month. Hand grip strength measurement will be performed using Boston carpal tunnel syndrome
      questionnaire, visual analog scale and dynamometer. Electromyogram (EMG) data will be
      recorded before and 3 months after treatment. During the trial, the routine will not be
      excluded.
    
  