
    
      Background: The degree of disorder of college students with physical and mental disabilities
      over 18 years old is mostly chronic, and the disease may be stable, the body and mind are
      more adaptable to their own disability, but also due to physical disorders, health-related
      physical fitness can enter the process of degradation earlier than the average person.
      Students with physical and mental disabilities can increase physical activity by adapted
      physical education courses, but because of their individual differences, the degree of
      disorder and the category are different. It is difficult to progress physical fitness without
      further professional intervention. Therefore, if the physiotherapy exercise therapy training
      and the hand-on treatment course are combined and integrated into the adapted physical
      education course and after-school time, it will be able to effectively improve the physical
      fitness performance of students with physical and mental disabilities. Purpose: To integrate
      therapeutic exercise and techniques of physical therapy into adapted physical education
      courses to improve the limitations and obstacles of the physical body, and health-related
      physical fitness training and physical therapy into adapted physical education courses to
      improve the limitations and obstacles of the physical body and to improve the physical
      fitness performance of the students with physical and mental disabilities. Methods: It is
      expected that 20-30 students and students over 18 years old who are involved in physical
      education classes will be recruited. One semester of physical education for a total of 18
      weeks, 2 lessons per week (100 minutes), each class covers 40 minutes of individualized
      physical therapy sports therapy guidance and hand-on treatment and 40 minutes of group
      fitness training courses. The physical fitness assessment was conducted before the first week
      of each semester and after the 18th week. The "Physical Therapy and Adaptation to Physical
      Education" program was implemented for two semesters. The fitness assessment program mainly
      includes: cardio endurance, muscle fitness, body composition, softness and balance. Expected
      results: Adapting to physical education curriculum supplemented by physical therapy
      techniques can effectively improve the degree of physical and mental impairment, the effect
      of add-on fitness training, and make the physical fitness performance of students with
      physical and mental disabilities more progressive.
    
  