
    
      Purpose/hypothesis This study will examine the hypothesis that iloprost maintains and
      improves ventilation perfusion matching in patients with pulmonary hypertension and ARDS/ALI
      as reflected by 1) an improved PaO2/FIO2 ratio as calculated from the measured arterial blood
      gases obtained before and after iloprost administration, 2) an improvement in lung
      compliance, and 3) an improvement in the ventilatory equivalents for oxygen and CO2 measured
      by expired gas analysis.

      Experimental design Twenty patients with pulmonary hypertension and ARDS/ALI will be
      enrolled. This will be 2-3 hour study conducted on a single day in which each patient's
      baseline measurements obtained prior to iloprost administration are compared to measurements
      obtained 30 minutes and 2 hours after Iloprost inhalation. While critically ill by virtue of
      their underlying illness, patients will be clinically stable over the preceding 2 hours prior
      to entry into the study as evidenced by airway pressures and arterial O2 saturation that vary
      less than 10% on the same ventilator settings.

      Proposed procedure After baseline measurements are obtained, 10 mcg iloprost will be
      administered via nebulizer on the inspiratory line of the ventilator. Vital signs including
      blood pressure and heart rate, respiratory rate and arterial saturation by pulse oximetry
      will be monitored at baseline and q 5 minutes after the inhalation of iloprost. Thirty (30)
      minutes after the administration of iloprost the gas exchange, pulmonary function and
      arterial blood gas measurements will be repeated as described above. Patients who remain
      clinically stable as evidenced by a fall in arterial PO2 <5 mm Hg, fall in systemic blood
      pressure of <10% and increase in heart rate of <10 beats/min as well as the absence of
      symptoms 30 minutes after the inhalation of 20 mcg of iloprost will receive a second dose of
      20 mcg. Vital signs will continue to be monitored continuously and 30 minutes after the
      second dose of iloprost, all pulmonary measurements will be repeated. All patients will be
      monitored continuously for at least 2 hours after the final dose of iloprost and pulmonary
      testing will be repeated for a final time 2 hours after the last administration of iloprost.
      Patients will be deemed to have completed the study after 2 hours provided their vital signs
      have returned to within 10% of baseline values.

      Importance of knowledge reasonably expected to result from the research A positive result in
      this pilot study will provide a strong rationale leading to a larger long-term study
      examining the effect of continuous iloprost therapy over several days on pulmonary
      hemodynamics, gas exchange, and outcome in patients with ARDS/ALI. Markers of inflammation
      (IL-6 and IL-8), coagulation (thrombin-antithrombin complexes and D-dimer) and collagen
      formation (TGF* and procollagen peptide III) in lung BAL fluid would be monitored to
      demonstrate iloprost's potential beneficial effects on lung remodeling in this devastating
      disorder.

      If the research involves more than minimal risk, describe the research plan for monitoring
      the data collected to ensure the safety of participants.

      Data safety monitoring board will meet after the first six patients and determine whether to
      continue.
    
  