
    
      Subjects enrolled in the study will be randomized into two groups. One group will have the
      reusable draping system during surgery which the investigators currently use and the second
      group will have the disposable draping system. Subjects will be blinded to the type of
      draping system used. Subjects are under anesthesia at the time the surgical drapes are
      placed. After the subject has signed the informed consent, they will be assigned a study
      number for that surgery. The study number will correlate to an envelope which will contain
      information on the type of draping system to be used. Subjects enrolled, may be randomized
      more than once. Subjects will typically have a minimum of two surgeries, the placement of the
      tissue expanders and then the removal of the expanders and placement of the breast implants.
      Subjects will not be required to sign another consent form but will be randomized prior to
      each surgery. Surgeons who have subjects in the disposable draping system will use a
      disposable draping kit that includes gowns for the surgeons and also towels. For subjects who
      are having a mastectomy and then the placement of tissue expanders, after the mastectomy has
      been performed, the plastic surgeons will use all new draping, towels and gowns to perform
      tissue expander placement. A swab will be taken on the wound site to determine if there are
      any CFUs (colony forming units) present. The swab will then be placed in a tube containing
      1ml of TSB (triptic soy broth). The tube will then be sonicated , and then vortexed for 15
      seconds. A 0.1ml aliquot of the solution will be placed in a blood agar plate and incubated
      for 48 hours to determine the CFU count. The remainder of the solution will be frozen. In the
      event an infection occurs, molecular matching will be done on the culture to determine if it
      is from the same exact culture. Rodac plates will be used to test for the presence of
      bacterial cultures on the surgeon's gown (Forearm [volar surface]) and glove (palm of
      surgeon's dominate hand) and also the subject's surgical drape (Area over sternum). These
      will be incubated for 48 hours to determine the CFU count. This process will be repeated at
      the second surgery.
    
  