
    
      Background

      Doxycycline is used to treat bacterial infections. Doxycycline is in a class of medications
      called tetracycline antibiotics. In addition to the general indications for all members of
      the tetracycline antibiotics group, doxycycline is frequently used to treat chronic
      prostatitis and pelvic inflammatory disease. Especially intracellular agents, such as
      chlamydia, are generally susceptible to doxycycline. Assuming this infection to be
      responsible for the chronic bladder pain syndrome in women, therapy will be performed in
      accordance with the authorised indication and dosage.Bacterial cystitis is an exclusion
      criterion for the diagnosis of chronic bladder pain syndrome. However, the detection of
      microorganisms such as Chlamydia trachomatis, Ureaplasma urealyticum and Mycoplasma
      genitalium remains a challenge so that these organisms may well be involved in the
      pathogenesis of chronic bladder pain syndrome. This is supported by the findings of our
      retrospective study1 that doxycycline orally for 4 weeks including therapy of the sexual
      partner lead to a reduction of symptoms in 71% of women complaining of persistent urgency and
      frequency, chronic urethral and/or bladder pain. Therefore, doxycycline therapy is sensible,
      especially considering that there are only a few, costly and often little effective
      symptomatic other treatment options.

      Thus, we aim to investigate the effectiveness of doxycycline in women with chronic bladder
      pain syndrome in a prospective, randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind study.

      Chronic bladder pain syndrome is a chronic disabling disorder characterized by chronic pelvic
      pain, pressure or discomfort perceived to be related to the urinary bladder accompanied by at
      least one other urinary symptom such as persistent urgency or frequency in the absence of an
      identifiable cause2. In Europe, prevalence rates in women range from 306 to 450/100'0003,4 -
      much higher than previously estimated. Thus, chronic bladder pain syndrome is a serious
      economic problem for every health care system. In addition, chronic bladder pain syndrome
      severely decreases an individual's quality of life and represents a significant financial
      burden to those affected by it. Currently, multifactorial pathogenesis is assumed including
      endocrine-involvement, pelvic floor muscle irregularities, immunologic aspects and chemical
      causes. Corresponding to the wide spectrum of presumptive triggers, a large number of
      therapeutic approaches are propagated, however most are associated with limited
      effectiveness. Thus, treatment of BPS is a challenge and the ideal therapy remains to be
      elucidated. We hypothesise that doxycycline orally for 4 weeks, including therapy of the
      sexual partner, can significantly relieve symptoms in women with chronic bladder pain
      syndrome.

      Objective

      To proof or reject the effectiveness of doxycycline in treatment of chronic bladder pain
      syndrome

      Methods

      This is a prospective, randomised, placebo-controlled double-blind trial. Recruitment of the
      study participants is performed in the urologic outpatient clinic of University Hospital
      Inselspital Bern.

      The randomisation-list in the institute of pharmacy University Hospital Inselspital Bern will
      only be accessible to unblinded employees. In case of unblinding an authorized member of the
      blinded trial team contacts the 24-hours service-number of the pharmacist on-duty in the
      institute of pharmacy. After disclosure of the patient-number, the pharmacist on-duty
      performs the unblinding and informs the authorized unblinded trial-member about allocation.
      Finally unblinding is registered on the randomization list by the pharmacist on-duty.

      The unblinded trial-member will record the name of the person who performed unblinding and
      the date and reason for unblinding in the patient's medical record.
    
  