
    
      Background Total hip arthroplasty (THA) is extensively used in various hip diseases. Abundant
      blood supply at surgical area of bone tissue, intraoperative extensive cleaning, acetabular
      formation, femoral expansion, and medullary cavity and bone wound bleeding, will lead to
      extensive intraoperative and postoperative blood loss. The blood transfusion rate is high,
      which affects patients' rehabilitation. Previous studies have shown that 16%-69% patients
      required blood transfusion after first THA, which greatly affected patient's rehabilitation,
      and increased the risk of transfusion-related infection, hemolysis, immunosuppression, acute
      lung injury, and death. How to reduce perioperative blood loss in total hip arthroplasty has
      become a hot spot for joint surgeons.

      Tranexamic acid as a synthetic antifibrinolytic drug is a synthetic analog of the amino acid
      lysine. Its mechanisms of action are the competitive inhibition of fibrinolytic zymogens, and
      noncompetitive inhibition of fibrinolytic enzymes. Tranexamic acid strongly inhibits
      plasmin-induced fibrin decomposition, reduces fibrinolytic system activity, to achieve local
      hemostasis and reduce bleeding (Appendix 1). However, the route of administration of
      tranexamic acid is diverse, and the best way to administer is not clear. A large number of
      studies have confirmed that during total knee arthroplasty and THA, intravenous application
      of tranexamic acid can significantly reduce postoperative blood loss, blood transfusion
      volume and blood transfusion rate. Intra-articular application of tranexamic acid can reduce
      the drainage volume of drainage tube, total blood loss, blood transfusion volume and blood
      transfusion rate after joint arthroplasty. Moreover, hemoglobin levels remarkably increase
      after surgery. More and more studies and meta-analysis have verified that tranexamic acid has
      a "target effect". Reasonable use of tranexamic acid does not increase the risk of deep
      venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism after hip and knee arthroplasties. Simultaneously,
      tranexamic acid has a good potency ratio.

      Adverse events

        1. To record adverse events during follow up, including incision pain, infection, hip pain,
           peripheral nerve injury, pulmonary embolism, lower extremity hematoma, deep vein
           thrombosis, and fixator falling off.

        2. If severe adverse events occur, investigators would report details, including the date
           of occurrence and measures taken to treat the adverse events, to the principle
           investigator and the institutional review board within 24 hours.

      Data collection, management, analysis, open access

        1. Data collection: Case report forms were collected and processed using Epidata software
           (Epidata Association, Odense, Denmark). These data would be recorded electronically.

        2. Data management: Tengzhou Central People's Hospital, China would preserve all of the
           data regarding this trial. Only the project manager has the right to query the database
           file. This arrangement will not be altered.

        3. Data analysis: A professional statistician would statistically analyze the electronic
           database and create an outcome analysis report. An independent data monitoring committee
           would supervise and manage the trial data.

        4. Data open access: Anonymized trial data will be published at www.figshare.com.

      Statistical analysis

        1. Statistical analysis would be performed using SPSS 19.0 software (IBM, Armonk, NY, USA)
           and would follow the intention-to-treat principle.

        2. Normally distributed measurement data would be expressed as means ± standard deviation
           and minimums and maximums. Non-normally distributed measurement data would be expressed
           as the lower quartile (q1) and median and upper quartiles (q3). Count data would be
           expressed as a percentage.

        3. The differences in hidden blood loss, dominant blood loss and mean blood loss in each
           group at intraoperative, postoperative 1 and 3 days would be compared using two-factor
           analysis of variance with repeated measures. Paired comparison of intergroup data would
           be conducted using least significant difference. Blood transfusion rate and incidence of
           adverse reactions in each group were compared using Pearson X2 test.

        4. The significance level would be α = 0.05.
    
  