
    
      Primary Objective: Evaluate risk factors which predict the transformation of early stage to
      clinically aggressive disease.

      Intervention: None

      Study Abstract: Environmental factors such as diet and cigarette smoking may play a role in
      predicting the progression of early stage prostate cancer to advance disease. The goal of
      this project is to establish an observational cohort of patients with early stage prostate
      cancer who elect not to undergo radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy to evaluate risk
      factors which predict the transformation of early stage to clinically aggressive disease.

      A total of 1,000 US male veterans with early stage prostate cancer will be recruited to
      participate in the study. In order to maximize African-American participation, VA medical
      centers that serve large minority populations will be utilized for recruitment. Eligible
      participants must have an early stage prostate cancer diagnosis (T0-T2) with no known
      involved lymph nodes or metastases, and no prior history of cancer (with the exception of
      nonmelanoma skin cancer) or other major illness that would preclude long term participation.
      Individuals willing to participate will be administered a lifestyle questionnaire and a
      dietary assessment. The lifestyle survey ascertains baseline demographics, mode of cancer
      diagnosis, medical history, smoking, family history of prostate cancer, alcohol use, level of
      physical activity, and other potential risk factors for prostate cancer progression.
      Nutritional parameters will be measured through a self-administered, semi-quantitative food
      frequency questionnaire. A blood specimen will also be collected for genetic and biochemical
      research. Participants will be followed annually with additional lifestyle and dietary
      questionnaires.

      Both surveys are currently being tested through a pilot project in a population of prostate
      cancer survivors to assess the feasibility of collecting diet and lifestyle data in veterans
      and to refine the study methods and recruitment strategies (the current versions of the
      surveys are included).

      A pilot study is being conducted to test different survey types and mailing techniques. The
      results from the pilot project will help improve the survey methodology and refine the survey
      research tools to accurately assess dietary and lifestyle factors. Lifestyle surveys have
      been created to ascertain baseline demographics and potential risk factors for prostate
      cancer survival and progression. Two versions have been generated to test participant
      response to varying survey lengths (a short form vs. a long form). The initial mailing of the
      lifestyle and dietary surveys was directed to 836 veterans diagnosed with prostate cancer in
      the Boston VA Healthcare Network (ICD-9 code in patient treatment files). Surveys were sent
      to 132 African-American veterans, 342 white veterans, and 362 veterans with no known race. An
      Access database has been developed to track survey response and blood collection sites have
      been established in VA health facilities in the Boston area. A phone tracking system has been
      established to answer participants questions about the survey. A total of 251 (30%) of the
      veterans completed the surveys and 72% agreed to provide blood samples. The response rate was
      11% for African-Americans, 28% for whites, and 27% for unknown race. Follow-up mailings are
      currently being sent to veterans who didn't respond to the initial survey request. A
      telephone survey is being designed to target African-American non-responders to improve
      survey response in this cohort.

      Prostate cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in men and the second most common cause
      of cancer deaths among men in the United States. Counseling patients with early stage disease
      about treatment options is extremely difficult since the relative benefit of different
      approaches is not known. The evidence to date indicates that there is no clear benefit with
      invasive intervention over watchful waiting. In addition, little is known about risk factors
      which predict the transformation of early stage prostate cancer to clinically aggressive
      disease. This is of particular concern in the VA since more than a third of all veterans are
      over age 65. The ability to differentiate individuals with early stage prostate cancer from
      those with disease that will become clinically aggressive would have enormous benefits. It
      would help allay the anxiety of those with indolent disease and potentially reduce the
      morbidity and mortality of those with disease likely to become clinically aggressive.
    
  