
    
      The current study will employ a quasi-experimental design whereby several frontline
      clinicians at a mental health crisis response will be trained to deliver the Make It!
      intervention and the others will not. An attempt will be made to train staff who commonly
      share work days or shifts in order to avoid details of the active intervention reaching
      clinicians who continue to deliver treatment as usual. For the duration of the study period,
      clinicians trained in Make It! will be instructed to use the intervention as their standard
      of care with all of the clients they assess whom are subsequently referred to the Information
      Class. The remaining clinicians will continue to use treatment as usual.

      During a 90 minute workshop, Make It! will be introduced and modeled by the Principal
      Investigator (PI). Make It! consists of a 10-15 minute intervention with 5 components: 1)
      Acknowledgement that the client has experienced distressing events and/or very stressful
      situations, and that this exposure can lead to a range of reactions, 2) Client-generated,
      clinician-assisted, pros and cons of attending the Information Class, 3) Detailed
      visualization of the First Information in order to reduce anxiety about what to expect, 4)
      Expression of confidence that the client can begin progress towards the changes they want to
      make, 5) Reiteration of main information and appointment card given. Each clinician trained
      will be observed administering the intervention to a co-worker, with fidelity checks being
      implemented throughout the study period. These fidelity checks will be implemented by the PI,
      who will occasionally and sporadically observe the clinicians administer the intervention
      through a one-way mirror, with the verbal consent of the participant and the clinician.

      All clients accessing the walk-in service at the crisis response centre currently receive a
      mental health assessment by a staff clinician. Throughout the course of the assessment, if
      the clinician perceives that the client may benefit from follow-up psychological services, he
      or she provides the client with an appointment date and time for the next available
      Information Class. The Information Class is a group appointment, and its purpose is to
      provide information about the services offered at the centre. It serves as the entryway into
      follow-up services such as cognitive behavioral therapy classes for mood and anxiety symptoms
      or dialectical behavioral therapy-informed classes. Walk-in clients who receive an
      appointment for this Information Class typically are given an appointment date that is within
      1-2 weeks of their walk-in visit.

      Once the clinician makes a decision to refer a client to an Information Class, the clinician
      will contact the study coordinator. The study coordinator or research volunteer will come
      into the interview room while the clinician steps out, will explain the study to the
      participant, and will obtain informed consent. In the event that a potential participant
      requires more time to consider whether he or she wants to consent to study participation, the
      individual will be provided with the contact information of the study coordinator in order to
      be able to consent at a later date. The study coordinator or research volunteer will also ask
      the participant to complete some brief questionnaires at this time assessing barriers to
      seeking mental health care and stages of change.

      The study coordinator or research volunteer will then leave and the clinician will return to
      the interview room. If the clinician has not been trained in Make It!, he/she will proceed
      with care as usual. This condition involves providing the client with detailed information
      about the upcoming Information Class. If the clinician has been trained in Make It!, then the
      intervention will proceed at this time.

      A few days before the client's Information Class, a reminder call is made by an
      administrative assistant at the centre. When the administrative assistant is unable to reach
      the client, she leaves a brief message, if possible to do so.

      On the day of the Information Class, attendance will be taken. Clients sit in a classroom
      setting and complete a package of questionnaires. Those participants enrolled in the study
      will complete the Life Events Checklist-5, the University of Rhode Island Change Assessment,
      and an open-ended question assessing barriers to care, in addition to 5 questionnaires
      assessing a range of mental health symptoms that are already administered at the Information
      Class for clinical purposes. After the Information Class, clients have the opportunity to
      meet individually for 5-10 minutes with a staff member in order to discuss their treatment
      needs and preferences, and to connect them with subsequent services. If the client is a
      participant in the study, the staff member will provide them with a debriefing document that
      also contains the PI's contact information should they have any additional questions,
      comments, or concerns. This concludes the client's participation in the study.

      For study participants who do not attend the Information Class, the questionnaires
      administered at the Information Class will be mailed to the participant along with a standard
      Information Class "no show" letter and the study's debriefing document. Participants will be
      encouraged to complete the questionnaires and return them in the self-addressed stamped
      envelope to the PI. This will represent the end of the participant's role in the study.

      If a participant calls in advance of the Information Class to reschedule their Class date, or
      if they inform the administrative assistant that they wish to reschedule when she makes the
      reminder call, the participant will continued to be considered a participant until their
      rescheduled appointment.
    
  