
    
      Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) is an acute, systemic, febrile syndrome caused by Ebola viruses.
      EVD has a case fatality ranging from 30% to 90% and spreads by direct contact with body
      fluids of symptomatic patients.

      During the 2013-16 Ebola outbreak in Guinea, a Phase 3 cluster-randomised ring-vaccination
      trial using single-dose rVSV-ZEBOV-GP investigational vaccine reported 100% efficacy in
      protection against EVD. In 2016, the WHO Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE) on
      Immunization recommended the rapid deployment of rVSV-ZEBOV-GP in case of an EVD outbreak
      under an Expanded Access (compassionate use) protocol, with informed consent and Good
      Clinical Practice (GCP) compliance.

      A new EVD outbreak started in North Kivu and Ituri provinces in the Democratic Republic of
      Congo in July 2018. Despite extensive control measures, including vaccination with
      rVSV-ZEBOV-GP in active outbreak areas, the outbreak has continued and WHO declared the
      outbreak a Public Health Emergency of International Concern on 17 July 2019. The ongoing
      outbreak has prompted consideration of additional vaccine candidates that might assist in
      preventing the spread of this infection to currently unaffected communities.

      This study will investigate population-level vaccination with a two-dose prophylactic vaccine
      against Ebola, the Ad26.ZEBOV, MVA-BN-Filo vaccine that has been extensively studied in 11
      previous safety and immunogenicity trials. This will be done by offering vaccination first to
      communities that neighbour the outbreak area or that are located on transport routes from the
      edge of the outbreak area to major centres like Goma.

      In this study, approximately 500,000 healthy adults and children will be given the two-dose
      candidate vaccine regimen VAC52150 that consists of two vaccines, Ad26.ZEBOV and
      MVA-BN®-Filo, administered at an interval of 56 days (-14 day +28 day). Safety will be
      assessed in a safety subset of 500 individuals and pregnant women will be followed to
      delivery. The study will estimate vaccine coverage of dose 1 and dose 2 overall and in
      different target groups and will also examine the knowledge and perceptions of persons
      eligible for large-scale delivery of a preventative Ebola vaccine with a two-dose vaccine
      strategy. The effectiveness of the vaccination on EVD will be determined through a
      test-negative case control study.

      Depending on logistical and community constraints, one exploratory objective is to assess the
      immune response at T0 before vaccination and 21 days after the second dose (MVN-BN-Filo) in a
      subgroup of adults and children.
    
  