
    
      Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy (CRT) has emerged as a promising therapeutic addition in
      patients with drug refractory heart failure (HF). Along with providing relief of symptoms of
      HF, cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators (CRT-D) are used for the prevention of
      sudden cardiac death (SCD). Although there are concerns that the defibrillation threshold
      (DFT) estimates are elevated in the heart failure (HF) patient population due to lower LV
      ejection fraction (EF) and left ventricular (LV) dysfunction, there is paucity of data
      available to evaluate this theory.

      Recently, two different studies in a retrospective manner evaluated the energy requirements
      in patients receiving cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators (CRT-D). Burke et al
      analyzed DFTs in 50 patients each implanted with a cardiac resynchronization therapy
      defibrillators (CRT-D) device and an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD). Although
      the ejection fraction (EF) in cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators (CRT- D) group
      was lower than the implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) group, the mean
      defibrillation thresholds (DFTs) between the two groups were not significantly different
      (10.2 ± 6.1 J for the cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) group vs. 9.5 ± 5.0 J for the
      control group)14. In the ASSURE study, Doshi et al. showed that patients receiving cardiac
      resynchronization therapy defibrillators (CRT-D) devices do not have higher energy
      requirements when compared to patients receiving modern single or dual chamber implantable
      cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs). Although, there was a trend toward higher energy
      requirements found among patients with higher degrees of heart failure.

      Major cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) trials have showed that cardiac
      resynchronization therapy (CRT) therapy has positive effects on ejection fraction (EF) and
      the heart failure (HF) condition of the patient over time. But, there is no study that has
      evaluated the defibrillation thresholds (DFTs) in the heart failure (HF) patients over time
      of receiving cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT). This information will help the
      clinicians decide if they need to perform more invasive procedures during device implant to
      lower DFTs in patients who do not meet the defibrillation safety margin or they should just
      wait over time for the CRT to reduce the defibrillation threshold (DFT). Also, there is no
      published data about the stability of defibrillation thresholds (DFTs) in heart failure (HF)
      patients over time. The results from this study will also help to clarify whether it is safe
      to never test the defibrillation thresholds (DFTs) post-implant in this patient population.
    
  