
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The study hypothesis is that breast arterial calcification (BAC) seen on mammograms can
      identify women with an increased risk of coronary artery disease (CAD). Annual mammograms are
      now routinely obtained on nearly 70% of women over forty years of age. The nearly 40 million
      examinations performed every year could be used to evaluate for BAC without any additional
      cost or change in current mammographic techniques. Identification of women with BAC has
      potential to substantially decrease the rate of heart attack and sudden death due to CAD in
      asymptomatic women. Before BAC can be used in a clinical setting, the age-specific prevalence
      of BAC needs to be fully defined using state of the art mammographic techniques. BAC then
      needs to be compared with well understood CAD risk factors and measures of coronary
      atherosclerosis. While this could be accomplished in a prospective study, the same goals can
      be attained using data already acquired in the Epidemiology of Coronary Calcification (ECAC)
      Study.

      The study uses existing data on 612 non-high risk, non-referred women who are participants in
      the community-based ECAC Study funded by NIH from 1991-2006. This database includes
      traditional and newer coronary artery disease (CAD) risk factors and the results of electron
      beam computed tomography (EBCT) examinations for CAC at a baseline examination. Most of the
      women also have had risk factors and CAC measured during a follow-up examination, on average,
      five years after baseline examinations. The women in the ECAC Study, who do not have a
      history of myocardial infarction (MI) or stroke, represent the full age range routinely
      evaluated with mammograms. Almost all these women have their usual care, including annual
      mammograms, in Rochester, Minnesota.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The ECAC study has been instrumental in establishing the distribution of presence and
      quantity of CAC as well as the predictors of CAC. The database includes clinical and
      laboratory assessments of CAD risk factors, results of EBCTs, and findings on physical
      examinations. It will ultimately include information on adverse clinical events. There are
      612 female participants who had one or more mammograms during the 12-year history of that
      study. Many women had 10 or more mammograms. The study will evaluate all of these mammograms
      for BAC and compare the findings with information already in the database. The combination of
      newly acquired data from mammograms with the existing data allows this to be a very
      comprehensive study and still be completed in the two-year time period. The findings can then
      be used to help design a future study to prospectively evaluate the impact of instituting
      preventive and early therapeutic measures for CAD in asymptomatic women with the appropriate
      features of BAC on mammography.
    
  