
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of tipifarnib when given in combination with
           induction therapy comprising cytarabine, daunorubicin, and etoposide followed by
           consolidation therapy comprising high-dose cytarabine in patients with newly diagnosed
           high-risk acute myeloid leukemia.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxic effects of this regimen, in terms of
           organ specificity, time course, predictability, and reversibility, in these patients.

        -  Determine the rate of complete remission in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the remission duration, overall survival, and relapse-free and event-free
           survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Correlate pharmacodynamic measurements and levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha with
           clinical response in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of tipifarnib.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-7; daunorubicin
           IV and etoposide IV over 2 hours on days 5-7; and oral tipifarnib twice daily on days
           5-12.

      Patients undergo bone marrow biopsy on day 17 OR days 17 and 24 (if day 17 bone marrow biopsy
      shows suspicious disease). Patients achieving a complete remission (CR) proceed to
      consolidation therapy. Patients with residual disease, defined as > 5% leukemic blasts in a
      bone marrow of ≥ 20% cellularity, receive a second course of induction therapy comprising
      cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-5; daunorubicin IV and etoposide IV over 2 hours on days
      4 and 5; and oral tipifarnib twice daily on days 4-9. Patients achieving a CR after a second
      course of induction therapy proceed to consolidation therapy. Patients not achieving a CR
      after a second course of induction therapy are removed from the study.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of tipifarnib until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. An additional 12 patients are treated at the
      MTD.

        -  Consolidation therapy: Patients receive high-dose cytarabine IV twice daily on days 1,
           3, and 5. Treatment repeats approximately every 6-8 weeks for 4 courses.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3-6 months for up to 5
      years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 30 patients will be accrued for this study within 10-15
      months.
    
  