
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, spectroscopic measurements on your cervix will be
      made for research purposes, prior to your routine colposcopy examination.

      MEASUREMENT PROCEDURE:

      The doctor will first place a vaginal speculum and then perform the LightTouch Ã'Â® procedure
      (that looks at tissue from the cervix using light). The doctor will use a fresh single use
      contact tube (a tube attached to the LightTouch device that helps hold it in place) and apply
      it gently to your cervix. This will transmit light much like a flashlight. The light will
      either reflect or bounce immediately off your cervix or it will enter the skin for less than
      a second, and then return back to the LightTouch device. Each reading will take about 5-7
      minutes, and up to two readings may be taken. You may also be asked to repeat the
      experimental test the same day, for example 2 to 3 hours after the first test, as part of
      another experimental procedure to study whether the device gives the same result twice in a
      row on the same woman (a repeatability study). If you agree to a second (LightTouch)
      procedure you will again have placement of the contact tube applied gently to your cervix and
      another test will be taken. This could take another 5 to 7 minutes of your time.

      Whether you agree to do one of the experimental tests or both of the tests, following the
      LightTouch experimental procedure(s), you will have a Pap smear of the endocervix (the doctor
      will use a small plastic brush remove cells from the endocervix canal). We will also test for
      human papilloma virus (HPV). HPV is a virus that is sexually transmitted is associated with
      abnormal Pap smears. The doctor will use two separate vials for these tests, one to take your
      Pap smear and the other to take more cells for an HPV test. Once the doctor takes your Pap
      smear and HPV test. The doctor will do the colposcopy exam using a colposcope to look at the
      cervix more closely to check for abnormal areas. The doctor will also apply acetic acid and
      Lugols if required. The doctor may also perform biopsy (remove one or more tissue samples
      you're your cervix) for later examination by a pathologist. If considered necessary, an ECC
      (Endocervical Curettage scraping of cells from the inside of the endocervix) will be
      performed if an abnormal area is seen.

      A video image (camera) will be used to capture locations of abnormal areas and compare with
      the readings from the spectroscopic image. Your overall study participation time will be
      approximately 30 minutes. If you are asked to participate in second test and agree, it will
      take place directly after the first test. The spectroscopy portion in which measurements are
      taken takes 5 to 7 minutes to complete. If you have the second study procedure this will take
      an additional 15-30 minutes making your overall participation time up to 60 minutes (one
      hour). You may be asked to re-test one time during the same visit if the information
      collected is bad because of movement or if the device did not work.

      The results of the LightTouch test will be compared with the results of your colposcopy and
      biopsy. The results of the LightTouch test test will not be used to plan your treatment. If
      your biopsy results show any abnormal changes, your doctor will discuss treatment options
      with you.
    
  