
    
      Aortic valve disease is a common, progressively debilitating condition with no effective
      medical treatment. Surgical aortic valve replacement (AVR) has been the standard of care in
      the presence of valve-associated symptoms which include heart failure, chest pain, and
      syncope; however, in November 2011, long-standing treatment algorithms were disrupted with
      the United States Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA) approval of a less invasive
      transcatheter alternative to surgical aortic valve replacement (AVR) with a different profile
      of associated risks and benefits. This new technology has created a pressing clinical need
      for shared decision making tools to help translate the "average-patient" clinical trial
      results to more relevant "patient-specific" information that will empower individuals facing
      this important treatment decision.

      The overarching goal of this study is to develop a broadly applicable patient-centered
      paradigm for the treatment of medical illness. The corner-stone of this model is an
      open-access, web-based resource to engage patients, their caregivers, and clinicians in a
      personalized treatment discussion. To achieve this goal for patients with aortic valve
      disease, we will use existing Medicare-linked clinical data from the Society of Thoracic
      Surgeons (STS) and American College of Cardiology (ACC) national procedural registries. This
      work will be accomplished in direct collaboration with patient and caregiver coinvestigators
      and a diverse stakeholder panel to ensure wide utility and dissemination.

      Specifically, we will achieve the following three research aims:

      Specific Aim 1. Compare contemporary health outcomes with surgical versus transcatheter AVR
      among operable patients in the United States; Specific Aim 2. Create and assess a
      personalized decision assistance tool to evaluate expected health outcomes with surgical vs.
      transcatheter AVR for operable patients with aortic valve disease; Specific Aim 3.Develop and
      assess a personalized risk assessment tool to evaluate expected health outcomes with
      transcatheter AVR for inoperable patients with aortic valve disease.

      Additionally, we will achieve the general objective to create and evaluate web- and
      print-based educational resources for targeted dissemination to patients with aortic
      stenosis, their caregivers, and their healthcare providers.

      The proposed research will facilitate a better match of patients with existing treatments and
      empower patients to actively participate in their own healthcare decisions, thereby improving
      the care of patients with aortic valve disease and reducing overall healthcare expenditures.
      This study will serve as a model to promote personalized medicine among both cardiovascular
      and non-cardiovascular disease states.

      This study involves three primary comparisons. The first is a treatment comparison of
      surgical vs. transcatheter AVR on short and intermediate-term outcomes (stratified across
      important population subgroups)-important because the results will inform treatment
      discussions and decisions in vulnerable patients. The second is a comparison of outcomes
      across comorbidity sets using risk models-important because the resulting decision assistance
      tools will provide personalized estimates of risk to patients, caregivers, and providers as
      they select a treatment strategy. The third is an impact evaluation of an educational
      resource, including comparison of the change in treatment selection patterns and clinical
      outcomes across hospitals and geographic regions with high vs. low use of a web based
      educational resource-important because the comparison will provide critical pilot information
      to evaluate and tailor the resource impact.
    
  