
    
      Endometriosis is a chronic and progressive gynecological disease, with an estimated invention
      of between 8-10% of women of childbearing age in the Western world . The disease is
      characterized by the presence of tissue resembling endometrial tissue . The tissue cells that
      are in the uterine space can settle on different organs in the pelvis. The cells continue to
      respond to the hormonal cycle as if they were inside the uterus and in each menstrual can
      grow and bleed. At the same time, an inflammatory process can be associated with various
      symptoms of pain. Symptoms are not specific but usually cyclical according to menstrual
      timing and include: severe menstrual cramps, heavy bleeding, diarrhea and constipation,
      infertility, urinary pain, recurrent infections, fainting, intercourse pain, leg pain and
      more.

      The current practice is based on the removal of endometriosis lesions in surgery and / or
      drug therapy designed to suppress existing lesion activity and prevent lesion recurrence
      after surgery. To diagnose endometriosis in a definite way it is necessary to visually
      identify the lesions and by biopsy in surgery. In many patients, the symptoms of
      endometriosis can be treated pharmacologically and without surgery . Therefore, it is now
      widely accepted in many cases to treat pharmacologic anatomy empirically based on an
      estimated endometriosis-based diagnosis of appropriate anemia, gynecological examination, and
      vaginal ultrasound.

      Very little has been investigated regarding the integration of endometriosis phenomena
      through complementary medicine that includes herbs and acupuncture, despite the vast clinical
      knowledge and experience gained. In the present study, we would like to examine the effect of
      complementary medicine that would include a combination of herbal remedies for pain symptoms
      in women with endometriosis.

      In recent years, the Western world has begun to integrate complementary medicine in various
      treatments for chronic diseases and in particular endometriosis . The Chinese language review
      included 13 Chinese randomized clinical trials from 1994 to 2000. The studies included 1076
      women who received Chinese herbs alone or in combination with recognized drugs . The proposed
      mechanism is that the herbs are involved in regulation of the endocrine and immune system and
      which improve blood flow and anti-inflammatory activity .

      The ability of Chinese herbs to affect physiological changes indicates a mechanism of
      biological action of the herbs. However, the medicinal plants appear to have lower potency
      activity than synthetic drugs. They can contain an anti-inflammatory but less active
      ingredient than synthetic steroids.

      Research Rationale Endometriosis is a chronic disease of infertile women. The main treatment
      is based on hormone drug therapy and surgical treatment. There are patients who, despite
      these treatments, still suffer from symptoms of endometriosis. There are also patients who
      are medically balanced but have to stop treatment for various reasons and need another
      non-hormonal response. Herbs have been found effective in treating gynecological problems and
      especially in chronic pelvic pain. They may relieve the symptoms in those women who wish to
      avoid hormone or surgical treatment or who are not symptomatically balanced despite the usual
      treatments.

      The purpose of the study Investigate the effectiveness of treatment of symptoms and quality
      of life measures by the use of medicinal plants in women with symptoms of endometriosis.

      Preliminary Results Primary Endpoints Benefit of pain indices in women suffering from
      symptoms of endometriosis between patients taking herbal extract and patients taking Invo for
      4 months of treatment. Benefit is defined as a statistically significant improvement in VAS
      dimensions that will be examined by a daily journal and medical questionnaire.

      Secondary Results Secondary Endpoints Quality-Of-Life Benefit Defined as a statistically
      significant improvement in questionnaire indices.

      Also, a reduction in the use of painkillers and a lack of working days each month between the
      two groups.

      The research product:Chinese herbal extract and curcumin extract, which appear as nutritional
      supplements in the Ministry of Health database, the research product is packed in 800mg
      capsules.

      Intended use: Composition of 14 different nutritional supplements, in Chinese herbal formula,
      for the treatment of endometriosis and its symptoms. The formula is formulated according to
      Chinese medicine principles and aims to reduce inflammation of the pelvic organs and reduce
      the levels of pain caused by endometriosis disease.

      Objectives:Examine the Effect of Using Nutritional Supplements on Symptoms in Patients with
      Targeted Endometriosis Symptoms.

      Primary Endpoints:

      Benefit of pain indices in women suffering from symptoms of endometriosis between patients
      taking herbal extract and patients taking Invo for 4 months of treatment.

      Structure of the study:A prospective, double-blind, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      (randomized) placebo-controlled trial involving women suffering from endometriosis symptoms
      and meeting the inclusion and exclusion criteria and who agreed to participate in the study.
      The women will be randomly divided into the following two arms:

        1. Study Group - Taking a daily dose of dietary supplement extract capsules

        2. Control group - take a daily dose of Invo capsules Treatment efficacy will be measured
           according to a dedicated patient questionnaire with endometriosis symptoms that assess
           quality of life measures.

      The study population will include 60 symptomatic women treated at the Multidisciplinary
      Center for Endometriosis Therapy at Lynn Medical Center.
    
  