
    
      An excess of 5 million people die in the EU each year, with 77% of deaths resulting from
      chronic disease and illness. Of these 4 million deaths, many people will have died in pain or
      symptomatic distress, died alone, and/or died without structured health or social care for
      the patient and/or their family. Volunteer support represents an important and necessary
      community resource to enhance the experience of living at the end of life, and dying,
      however, a Cochrane review in 2015 concluded: "research is needed on the impact of training
      and support for palliative care volunteers on patients, their families, volunteers and
      palliative care services". Palliative care volunteer services are relatively uncommon and
      empirical evidence of the usefulness of such services in the hospital setting remains scarce.

      An EU H2020 funded study, iLIVE, will address this concern. The iLIVE Volunteer Study, one of
      8 workpackages within the iLIVE project, has developed an international hospital palliative
      care volunteer training programme, to support the implementation of palliative care volunteer
      services within five hospitals in five countries. The study will evaluate the implementation,
      use and experience of the iLIVE Volunteer Service across the five countries, embedded within
      the current iLIVE Cohort Study (ClinicalTrials.giv reference number: NCT04271085).

      Aim/Rationale:

      The aim of this study is to develop and evaluate the implementation of an international
      volunteer training programme to support patients dying in the hospital setting and their
      families.

      Objectives:

        1. Explore the experience and perceptions of the international hospital palliative and end
           of life care volunteer programme, including care delivery, from the perspectives of:

             1. Patients and their family members who receive the service

             2. Volunteers who deliver the service

             3. Health care professionals caring for patients who receive the service

        2. Assess the implementation and impact of a hospital volunteer service for dying patients
    
  