
    
      Cardiovascular disease is a major public health concern in the United States, where it
      accounts for 1 in 4 deaths every year. Vascular endothelial dysfunction is an early event
      leading to cardiovascular disease and can be caused by postprandial hyperglycemia.
      Cardiovascular disease is also characterized by metabolic endotoxemia. Metabolic endotoxemia
      describes increased circulating levels of gut-derived endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide; a
      bacterial product derived from Gram-negative bacteria in the intestines) that results from
      gut barrier dysfunction, a phenomenon that is common in metabolic syndrome. Studies in
      animals and humans have shown that consumption of resistant starch (a type of carbohydrate
      found in potatoes among other foods) can help to improve vascular and gut health. This
      clinical trial will therefore investigate the extent to which potatoes can improve microbiota
      composition, alleviate metabolic endotoxemia, and improve vascular function. It is
      hypothesized that 2-week daily ingestion of potatoes within a diet that meets the Dietary
      Guidelines for Americans will limit metabolic endotoxemia by decreasing gut barrier
      permeability and alleviating gut dysbiosis while separately improving vascular function by
      limiting postprandial hyperglycemia. This study will address the following objectives: 1)
      define changes in gut barrier function in association with improved gut microbiota
      composition, increased fecal short chain fatty acid (SCFA) production, and decreased serum
      endotoxin, 2) define changes in postprandial glycemic responses and endotoxemia, and 3)
      define changes in gut hormones that promote glycemic control and changes in markers of
      oxidative stress in relation to improvements in endothelial vascular function, all following
      2-week potato consumption. To test the hypothesis, all participants will complete a
      randomized cross-over trial where they will receive a potato or bagel along with a diet that
      meets the Dietary Guidelines for Americans for 2 weeks. They will then undergo a 2-h
      postprandial study to define the influence of potato consumption on vascular function,
      glycemic control, and endotoxin translocation. Upon completing the intervention, participants
      will undergo a gut permeability test, fecal samples will be collected for microbiota
      composition analysis, and blood samples will be collected to assess endotoxin and
      inflammatory markers. Upon successfully completing this study, it is anticipated that chronic
      consumption of potatoes will be demonstrated to be an effective dietary strategy to reduce
      metabolic endotoxemia, improve gut health, and improve vascular function.
    
  