
    
      Oral anticoagulation with vitamin K antagonists (OAC) is the standard care for reducing
      stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation. Just recently the direct, competitive thrombin
      inhibitor dabigatran has been approved by the FDA for stroke prevention in patients with
      atrial fibrillation. In a large multicenter trial it was shown that dabigatran was at least
      as effective as Vitamin K antagonists in the prevention of stroke without an increase of
      major hemorrhage.

      Approximately 6 % of patients who undergo coronary stenting and need DAT with aspirin and
      clopidogrel need in addition OAC for the reduction of cardiac, cerebral and systemic
      thromboembolic events5. These patients will therefore need triple therapy, a therapy which is
      associated with increased bleeding complications. Although phenprocoumon given solely without
      clopidogrel has no impact on ADP induced platelet aggregation, it has been shown that
      phenprocoumon significantly attenuates the antiplatelet effects of clopidogrel.

      ADP induced platelet aggregation measured with multiple electrode platelet aggregometry (MEA)
      is a marker for the efficacy of the clopidogrel therapy and (i) a low response (AUC ≥ 468) to
      clopidogrel has been associated with an increase of ischemic events such as stent thrombosis
      and (ii) patients with an enhanced response to clopidogrel (AUC ≤ 188) have higher bleeding
      rates.

      It is therefore crucial to evaluate whether an additional antithrombotic therapy such as
      dabigatran alters clopidogrel mediated ADP induced platelet aggregation. While it has been
      shown that intravenous administration of the direct thrombin inhibitor bivalirudin further
      reduces ADP induced platelet aggregation in patients on clopidogrel therapy, it is unknown
      whether dabigatran has also an impact on ADP induced platelet aggregation.

      To evaluate the impact of dabigatran on ADP induced platelet aggregation we will randomize
      patients with atrial fibrillation and the need for oral anticoagulation and current
      clopidogrel therapy for a two-week treatment with either dabigatran or phenprocoumon and we
      hypothesize that dabigatran is superior to phenprocoumon in the reduction of ADP induced
      platelet aggregation. Patients who are not concomitantly treated with clopidogrel are being
      studied in a different trial with a similar study design (Dabi ADP-1).
    
  