
    
      Primary objective:

      To determine the effect of AQ, SP and the AQ+SP combination compared with CQ treatment on the
      prevalence of peripheral parasitaemia on days 14 and 28 post treatment.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To compare the incidence of adverse events in the treatment groups.

        2. To compare the effect of study drugs on maternal haemoglobin on 14 and 28 days post
           treatment, and at delivery.

        3. To compare the effect of study drugs on peripheral and placental parasite densities at
           delivery.

        4. To compare the effect of study drugs on birth weight at delivery.

        5. To assess the effect modifications of gestational age, parity, gravidity, prior
           antimalarial use, presence or absence of symptoms at enrolment, baseline parasite
           density and baseline Hb on the parasitological and haematological responses to the test
           drugs.

        6. To assess the accuracy of the OptiMAL antigen test for detecting peripheral parasitaemia
           compared to microscopy.

        7. To compare the overall incidence of adverse pregnancy outcomes (abortion, stillbirth,
           congenital abnormality, prematurity and intrauterine deaths) in the study group to local
           rates obtained from St Theresa's Hospital's records.

      Study location and population:

      The study was carried out at the St. Theresa's Hospital in the Nkoranza district of the Brong
      Ahafo Region of Ghana. The St. Theresa's hospital is a general district hospital. It has a
      bed capacity of 80 and provides all basic medical services including adult medicine,
      paediatrics, surgery and obstetrics and gynaecology. The study enrolled pregnant women of all
      parities attending the St. Theresa's Hospital's antenatal clinic with a gestational age of 16
      weeks and above between March 2003 and September 2004.

      Methods:

      Antennal screening and enrolment:

      All pregnant women who attended antenatal clinics were screened for malaria antigens with
      OptiMAL dipsticks. Those with a positive antigen test were considered eligible, and after
      informed consent had been obtained from them 5mls of venous blood was drawn from an
      antecubital vein for baseline measurements of haemoglobin, white blood cell counts (total and
      differential), bilirubin, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase and
      gamma-glutamyl transferase and for making filter paper blood spots. Women were then assessed
      clinically and obstetrically with the view to enrolling them into the study. Pregnancy
      viability and gestational age were confirmed with ultrasound scanning by the study clinician
      or the principal investigator. Pregnant women with positive malaria antigen tests confirmed
      microscopically were randomised into four treatment arms if they satisfied all inclusion
      criteria.

      Follow-up schedule:

      Field workers visited the study women in their homes following the initial supervised drug
      administration at the antenatal clinic on post treatment days 3, 7, 14 and 28 and performed
      the following routines.

        -  Day 3 and Day 7: Obtained venous blood for filter paper blood spots, white cell and
           malaria parasite counts, and recorded any side effects.

        -  Day 14 and Day 28: Obtained venous blood for white cell and malaria parasite count,
           measurement of alanine and aspartate transaminases, bilirubin and for filter paper blood
           spots and recorded any side effects.

      Subsequently, pregnant women were seen at the antenatal clinic monthly and, for those with 32
      weeks and above of gestation fortnightly. At these visits, they were actively screened for
      peripheral parasitaemia using OptiMAL dipstick test. At any time before delivery if the test
      was negative, the woman remained on daily haematinics. If women who were already enrolled had
      positive antigen test confirmed by microscopy, they received another course of the treatment
      they were initially assigned to. Women were enrolled in the study only for the first episode
      of malaria detected during the antenatal visit. At delivery, midwives recorded birth weights
      and any stillbirths, perinatal deaths or congenital abnormalities. They also made slides from
      peripheral, placental and cord blood and sampled maternal blood for haemoglobin measurements.
      Any record of a congenital deformity was verified and confirmed by a clinician. The women and
      their babies were visited at home at six weeks post delivery to record any neonatal adverse
      events such as deaths or severe morbidity.

      Outcome measures:

      Primary

      1. Prevalence of parasitaemia on days 14 and 28 post treatment.

      Secondary

        1. Incidence of adverse drug events within seven days following treatment.

        2. Proportions of pregnant women withdrawn from the study due to the occurrence of adverse
           drug events (clinical and laboratory) by day 7 following initiation of treatment.

        3. Change in maternal haemoglobin concentrations at days 14 and 28 following treatment.

        4. Prevalence of peripheral parasitaemia at delivery.

        5. Prevalence of placental parasitaemia at delivery.

        6. Proportions of abnormal biochemistry and white blood cell values on days 14 and 28 post
           treatment.

        7. Sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, likelihood ratios,
           and the area under receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve for the OptiMAL antigen
           test.

        8. Incidences of adverse pregnancy outcomes in the study group.

        9. Prevalence of postpartum parasitaemia.

       10. Prevalence of postpartum anaemia.

      Sample Size:

      This was based on the assumption of a 28-day parasitological clearance of 90% for AQ, SP and
      the AQ+SP combination, and 78% for chloroquine (α = 5% power = 90%). Allowing for a 15% loss
      to follow-up, 225 pregnant women were recruited into each of the 4 treatment arms of the
      study giving a total study size of 900 pregnant women.

      Data and safety monitoring board:

      A data and safety monitoring board (DSMB) was constituted for the project. The board was
      responsible for:

        -  Regular monitoring of the data and safety issues concerned with the study.

        -  Reviewing the PI's reports on serious adverse events and making recommendations on
           further progress of the study.

        -  Reviewing the statistical analysis plan prior to breaking the study drug codes.
    
  