
    
      Background

      Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) stands as the sixth most common cancer
      worldwide. The overall 5-year survival is approximately 50 % due to often advanced clinical
      stage at diagnosis, high rate of treatment resistance, and high incidence of second cancers.
      Currently there are no useful biomarkers for surveillance or diagnosis of recurrent HNSCC.

      Liquid biopsy (LB)

      Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) is tumor-derived fragmented DNA circulating freely in the
      bloodstream. Apoptosis and necrosis due to rapid cell growth and increased cell turnover
      contribute to release of ctDNA in circulation of patients with cancer even without
      disseminated disease. ctDNA reflects tumor genome and may also reflect disease burden. Due to
      these properties and easy accessibility collection of ctDNA through venous blood has been
      termed as 'liquid biopsy'. Approximately 75-90 % of patients with localized or untreated
      HNSCC are expected to show ctDNA pre-treatment.

      Applications of liquid biopsy in HNSCC

      Potential clinical applications of liquid biopsy (LB) are manifold and include diagnosis of
      recurrence or progression, and disease surveillance. While ctDNA contains the same mutations
      present in original tumor, LB can be used to guide targeted therapies if local treatment is
      not feasible. In HNSCC, these features render study of LB attractive since early diagnosis of
      treatment failure increases possibilities for curative approach. ctDNA reflects tumor
      heterogeneity and findings in surveillance samples are more likely to characterize resistant
      subpopulations compared to pre-treatment changes. Recently, immune checkpoint inhibition with
      monoclonal antibodies against programmed cell death (PD-1) have demonstrated activity against
      recurrent or metastatic HNSCC. LB together with evaluation of expression of PD-1 ligand
      (PD-L1) can assess mutational load thus assisting in screening patients who may benefit from
      immunotherapy.

      Metabolic imaging - current standard for detection of recurrent HNSCC

      Increased metabolic activity detected in positron emission tomography-computed tomography
      (PET-CT) is currently the most sensitive technique to detect residual cancer or progression
      of HNSCC after curative treatment. High metabolically active tumor volume (MTV) is associated
      with treatment resistance and shows independent prognostic significance. While PET-CT shows
      excellent sensitivity, it may lead to false positive findings caused by inflammation or other
      conditions having increased cellular metabolic rate. Furthermore, metabolic imaging does not
      elucidate resistance mechanisms nor does it assist in planning of targeted treatments.
      Whether LB could assist or replace PET/CT in response monitoring and detection of recurrence
      remains thus far unknown.

      Study objectives

      i) To investigate whether MTV detected in PET-CT correlates to pattern and amount of genetic
      alterations in ctDNA of patients with HNSCC referred to radiotherapy (RT) or
      chemoradiotherapy (CRT) ii) To determine whether LB is more sensitive than PET/CT in
      detecting residual tumor three months after completion of RT or CRT iii) To evaluate
      exhaustive genetic landscape of patients with locally advanced HNSCC in order to characterize
      resistance or target genes for alternative treatments including (but not limited to)
      immunotherapy, antibodies against epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), and hypoxia- and
      virus-activated compounds iv) To validate a novel digital droplet polymerase chain reaction
      (PCR) technique for non-invasive surveillance of patients at high risk for recurrence of
      HNSCC
    
  