
    
      This is an interventional clinical trial at Ealing Hospital (UK) in patients with DM1 and DM2
      treated with insulin for at least 1 year, aged from 18 to 75 years inclusive, with a goal of
      95 patients randomized to the 'LH+ Intervention' arm and 95 patients randomized to the 'LH+
      Standard Care' arm. LH+ refers to the presence of clinically-confirmed LH about which there
      is little or no doubt as to its presence. The study takes place over 4 clinic visits, which
      form part of their usual clinical visits (spaced at 3-month intervals in Ealing). Each visit
      is described below.

      INTERVENTION The intervention consists of instructing patients in whom LH is detected and who
      are currently injecting into it to move injections to non-LH areas; reducing insulin doses
      initially by 10-20% to avoid hypoglycaemia and then titrating to target control; instructing
      these patients to correctly rotate sites (leaving 1 cm between injection punctures and
      allowing used sites to heal for 2-4 weeks before injecting in them again); instructing these
      patients to forego needle reuse; and instructing these patients to switch to 4 mmx32G
      needles. A battery of tools (described below) will be used to deliver and reinforce this
      training, including frequent contact by phone or other electronic means after the initial
      training.

      CONTROL Standard care means affording the patients randomized to the control arm the
      customary education and follow-up usually given at the centre. This would include appraising
      them of the presence of LH (if they were not previously aware) and stating that injections
      should not be given into that area. The training approach, tools and intensive follow-up
      given the Intervention arm patients will not be given to the Controls. Additionally, at their
      return visit (3 and 6 months), Control patients will be asked if they did indeed change their
      injection habits (e.g. stopped injecting into LH) since entering the study. Those who did and
      those who did not will be analysed separately to see if there is a difference in outcomes and
      both groups will be compared to the Intervention arm patients.
    
  