
    
      Background:

      Breast cancer patients who undergo chemotherapy are likely to experience lower life quality,
      side effects like nausea and vomiting and symptoms of anxiety or depression. At the same time
      their immune system is down regulated by a stress reaction following cancer diagnosis and
      also by the chemotherapy itself. Decrease of several immune factors is associated with lower
      survival expectancy.

      Hypnotherapy uses methods like relaxation, symptom-control techniques, imagination and
      working with inner resources. They can be used to bring positive change for patients both
      mentally as well as physically. Self-hypnosis techniques are used to bring back a feeling of
      self-efficacy which is impaired in most cancer patients who report to lose control over their
      body.

      Emerging evidence shows the effectiveness of hypnotherapy in reducing side-effects of medical
      treatments and improve mental health and quality of life of cancer patients. It was shown
      that hypnotherapy has a positive effect on several immune factors. But up to now it is not
      clear if there is also a positive effect on the immune system during chemotherapy.

      During Chemotherapy it is important that patients adhere as much as possible to the treatment
      schedule and to the optimal dosage. Due to chemotherapy side-effects or other reasons it
      happens regularly that treatment needs be delayed or dosage reduced which in turn lowers the
      efficiency of the chemotherapy.

      Objectives:

      This study is designed to evaluate if hypnotherapy has a positive effect on quality of life,
      side-effects of chemotherapy, symptoms of anxiety and depression, the immune system and the
      relative dose intensity (RDI) of female breast cancer patients during the course of
      chemotherapy.

      Study Flow:

      After patients have been diagnosed with primary breast cancer and were assigned to either
      adjuvant or neo-adjuvant chemotherapy they are asked if they want to participate in the study
      and are given all the necessary information and consent form. If they agree, they will be
      randomly assigned to either the control group or the intervention group following a computer
      generated randomization list. Before the first session of hypnotherapy they will be given the
      first questionnaires (T0). Those assigned to the intervention group will be contacted by a
      therapist to fix a date for the first session, if possible before the first chemotherapy
      cycle or shortly after the first cycle, when the side effects are not yet present. During 4,5
      months, patients will receive 6 cycles of chemotherapy and 10 session of hypnotherapy. They
      will have access to the standard of psycho-oncological care during the study. The control
      group will not receive any Hypnotherapy but also has access to the standard of
      psycho-oncological care.

      Measurement Points:

      T0 (Baseline) = After diagnosis and before the first chemotherapy cycle

      T1 = First cycle of chemotherapy

      T2 = Second cycle

      T3 = Third cycle

      T4 = Fourth cycle

      T5 = Fifth cycle

      T6 = Sixth cycle

      The duration of one cycle will be approx. 3 weeks, depending on the individual chemotherapy
      regimen.This means that the total time for the chemotherapy of one patient will last around
      18 weeks.

      There are no risks to be expected from the intervention itself. In the case of positive
      findings, the standard of psycho-oncological care can be updated by integrating structured
      hypnotherapeutic interventions into the treatment of patients with breast cancer.
    
  