
    
      This study involves 1 visit to Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC for Eustachian tube
      function testing and 2 visits, at approximately 6 months and at 12 months, after surgery to
      examine the ears.

      Entry (Visit 1; approximately 40-60 minutes) At the entry visit, the child's medical history
      will be reviewed to ensure he/she is eligible for the study. The parent will be asked
      questions about their family, including family size, pets, medical history, tobacco smoke
      exposure, education and occupation, and living conditions. They will also be asked questions
      about their child, regarding such things as breastfeeding, daycare, tobacco smoke exposure
      and allergies, and a detailed history of middle-ear disease will be recorded. The child will
      have an examination of the ears, nose and throat.

      Tympanometry will be done, which can help to tell whether there is fluid in the middle ear
      and whether there is an opening/hole in the eardrum. This is a common office procedure and is
      done by inserting a small probe (a rubber or plastic tube that measures ear pressure) half
      way into the ear canal and changing the pressure in the probe. That pressure change is small,
      can be felt but is rarely associated with any discomfort.

      The function of the child's Eustachian tube on the side of the eardrum that is going to be
      patched will be tested. A small ear plug will be sealed partway into the child's ear canal.
      This plug is attached to a machine that can change the pressure in the ear and measure the
      pressure at which the Eustachian tube opens and closes, as well as the ease of airflow
      through the Eustachian tube and the ability to open the Eustachian tube during swallowing.
      The tests only require that the child not pull the ear plug from his/her ear and perform
      certain (age-appropriate) procedures designed to open his/her Eustachian tube such as
      swallowing with an open and pinched nose, blowing against a closed nose and deep breathing.
      The total time for testing is about 20 minutes and this period is broken into times of rest
      and times of tests. If the child has holes in both eardrums that are going to be repaired,
      testing may take 40 minutes.

      After the entry testing: The child's ear surgeon will take a picture of the eardrum at the
      time of surgery to document the size of the hole. If the child does not require another
      surgical procedure after the surgery to close the eardrum because of failure of the hole to
      close or recurrence of ear problems such as infection or fluid in the ear, the child will
      have study visits for examination of the ears, nose and throat as well as tympanometry at
      approximately 6 months and 12 months after surgery. If he or she is being seen by the ear
      surgeon around these times, the study visit and their clinic visit can be done at the same
      time.
    
  