
    
      This study is a prospective, national, multicenter, non-controlled, non-randomized study in
      order to evaluate outcomes of the MSS reverse prosthesis used for the management of primary
      osteoarthritis, cuff tear arthropathy, massive cuff tear, or post-instability arthroplasty.

      Included patients, will have an oral and written information about the study, including the
      information note, during a preoperative visit. The surgeon will answer any questions that may
      arise and will collect their decision after sufficient time for the patient to reflect.

      Patients participating in the research will be able to withdraw their consent and ask to stop
      the study at any time and for any reason. The investigator should document the reasons as
      fully as possible.

      Patients will be followed according to the schedule below:

        -  V1 : Inclusion during a preoperative visit

        -  V2: Surgery maximum 4 months after inclusion

        -  V3: Follow-up visit at 3 months ± 1 month post-surgery

        -  V4: Follow-up visit at 12 months ± 2 months post-surgery

        -  V5: Follow-up visit between 24 months and 28 months post-surgery, marking the end of
           follow-up for the patient.

      The surgical technique for implantation of the Reverse Medacta Shoulder System total shoulder
      prosthesis will be performed according to the MyShoulder pre-operative planning (without
      custom-made guides). All procedures will be performed with conventional instrumentation
      according to each surgeon's current practice. It is possible to use the BIO-RSA technique to
      reposition the pre-morbid glenoid center. The stem that will be used is the short stem
      (cementless) with PE angulation at 145°.

      The following data will be collected at each of the 3 month, 1 year and 2 year :

        -  Post-operative complications as dislocation, glenoid loosening, infection, neurological
           damage, fracture.

        -  Survival of implants according to these definitions Revision: A procedure that removes
           all or part of the original configuration of the implant, one or more of the components
           except for the polyethylene insert* if it has been removed and restored Re-operation:
           Any surgical procedure that does not remove, modify or add any components to the system.

        -  Clinical examination: evaluation of post-operative mobility, Constant score. This
           examination corresponds to current practice.

        -  Medical Imaging: the results of the radiological examinations will be reviewed centrally
           by independent assessors. These evaluators will collect the available data from the
           radiographs of the AP view, axillary profile, or Neer/Lamy. The data from the scans will
           be analyzed by each investigator and by the software.

        -  Patient questionnaire If a follow-up visit is not made, the reason will be collected and
           noted in the patient record and on the CRF. The investigator will proceed to obtain the
           most exhaustive follow-up data possible

        -  The clinical examination will be replaced by the Self-Constant Questionnaire which will
           be sent to the patient for completion.

        -  The results of available radiological examinations will be collected.

        -  The patient questionnaires planned for the study (ISS score and OSS score) will be sent
           to the patient for completion.

      A web-based data collection medium will be used for this study. All the information required
      by the protocol will be collected in a e-crf. It requires only an Internet connection and a
      browser. A help document for the use of this tool will be provided to the investigators.

      Data management for the study will be handled by a CIC INSERM 1415 data-manager. The
      electronic case report form (eCRF) will be developed using Ennov Clinical® software. Data
      management will be done according to the standard operating procedures (edited in CIC INSERM
      1415. The Clinical Research Assistant in charge of the study will be trained in the use of
      the eCRF, then will be in charge of the training of investigators. Data relating to
      post-operative radiological data will be entered on the eCRF directly by the independent
      assessors commissioned for the centralized review of radiological examinations.

      Analyses will be performed with SAS Version 9.4 (or later). The statistical analysis will be
      performed according to a pre-established statistical analysis plan. Missing values will not
      be replaced by estimated values but will be considered as missing in the statistical
      analysis.

      A statistical analysis report will be written integrating all the elements to be reported.

      A clinical research assistant will ensure the rigourous conduct of the study, the collection
      of the data generated in writing, their documentation, recording and reporting, in accordance
      with the Promotion and Quality Control Unit of the Tours CHRU as well as the legal and
      regulatory provisions.
    
  