
    
      In order to prepare for the ageing population and its impact on the health care system, the
      National Institute for Sickness and Disability Insurance in Belgium (RIZIV) launched in 2010
      a subsidy programme (called Protocol 3) for innovative projects aimed at care and support for
      vulnerable older people with complex care needs. The objective of these projects is to reduce
      the risk and need for admission to a care institution/residential care centre. These are
      alternative and supportive forms of care for the elderly for which there is currently no
      allowance, which enable vulnerable older people to be cared for at home, which have a
      positive influence on the evolution of the older person's state of health and which improve
      the quality of life, which do not entail higher costs than those of a classic admission and
      which are scientifically evaluated.

      These Protocol 3 projects focus on vulnerable elderly people who are not admitted to a
      residential care centre, but who are at risk of a complex and/or long-term care situation. As
      a result of the complex care situation, there is also a great need for coordinated care
      between different care providers and/or there will also be supportive forms of care that
      ensure continuity of care. The expected added value of the care innovation projects should
      focus on: the importance of consultation and cooperation between the various stakeholders,
      the means to improve the competences of all relevant stakeholders, the means to organise
      customised care and the means to achieve continuity of care for the patient. The objective of
      the current study is to evaluate the phase 2 interventions, in particular: the adapted
      interventions case management and occupational therapy; and the newly introduced
      interventions in phase 3: health education, educational sessions for informal care providers
      and control visits at night.

      After all, an evaluation at the end of these projects is important in order to evaluate the
      added value of these care innovation projects and how they can possibly be structurally
      anchored. The starting point of this study is to learn in a qualitative way about the
      perceptions and experiences of patients and their informal carers about the benefits of the
      interventions, the barriers and facilitating factors of their implementation and the
      potential for improvement of these initiatives. The objective is to assess the extent to
      which patient needs are met by the interventions and what can be improved to consolidate the
      intervention or add more value to it.
    
  