
    
      Introduction and rationale:

      11-20% of patients undergoing abdominal surgery develop chronic abdominal pain. Adhesions are
      the most common cause of chronic abdominal complaints after surgery. Chronic pain from
      adhesions has devastating consequences for quality of life, and one in three patients with
      pain from adhesions is opioid dependent.

      Adhesions develop after up to 90% of laparotomies and 70% of laparoscopic surgeries.
      Obviously, not all adhesions cause pain. It is still poorly understood why adhesions cause
      pain in some patients, while other patients with adhesions experience no pain.

      In a recent study we demonstrated that in selected patients adhesion-related pain can
      effectively be treated by operation with adhesiolysis and application of an adhesion barrier.
      However, almost 50% part of patients with adhesion-related pain are not considered a
      candidate for surgical treatment, for various reasons.

      Exploring the mechanisms that contribute to development of pain in patients with adhesions
      could provide novel targets for medical therapies. These could greatly benefit many patients
      suffering from adhesion- related pain. Two factors that might explain why some patients with
      adhesions develop chronic pain are activation of molecular mechanisms involved in chronic
      pain and stimulation of nerve fibers present in adhesions. Specifically type C nerve fibres
      are associated with development of neuropathic pain. Further we will also explore differences
      in microbioma, which has recently been demonstrated to have an important role in a variety of
      abdominal conditions.

      Adhesion formation at the molecular level involves a complex interaction of mediators. One
      such mediator that might link adhesion formation to nociception is the pro-inflammatory
      peptide substance P.(1) Substance P in turn is mediated by Transient Receptor Potential
      Vanilloid (TRPV1), which is known to be upregulated in many conditions associated with
      chronic pain. There is currently much research in developing new analgesics targeting this
      receptor. Previous studies have shown that nerve fibres can be present in adhesive tissue.
      Presence of such fibres, and especially type C fibres might be responsible for a neuropathic
      type of pain. Stimulation of TRPV1 might also activate type C nerve fibre endings.

      Objective:

      Quantify and compare expression of molecular mediators (such as TRPV-1, SP, and the
      neurokinin receptor) and histological characteristics of adhesions from patients with
      postoperative adhesions with and without chronic abdominal pain. Comparison of microbioma in
      fecal samples between patients with adhesions with and without chronic abdominal pain

      Study design:

      This is a prospective observational cohort study.

      Study population:

      30 patients eligible for adhesiolysis because of chronic adhesion-related pain. Patients are
      recruited at the RadboudUMC, MUMC+ and Pantein hospital departments of surgery. These are
      patients with chronic pain after previous abdominal surgery who have been selected for
      operative treatment after evaluated with CineMRI. CineMRI is used to map adhesions. This
      technique has been established to provide insight in localization of adhesions in relation to
      the pain, and risk of bowel injury based on extensiveness of adhesions. The control group
      will comprise of 30 patients undergoing an abdominal reoperation during which adhesiolysis
      has to be performed for reasons other than chronic adhesion-related pain.

      Study procedures:

      Prior to surgery patients are requested to take a stool sample. During surgery histological
      samples of adhesions will be taken during adhesiolysis in both groups. In the control group
      histological samples of adhesions will only be taken if it does not require extension of the
      incision and if it is not accompanied with additional risk of intraoperative complications
      other than necessary for their planned surgery.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      Primary outcome mRNA expression levels of TRPV1 by quantitative polymerase chain reaction
      (qPCR) compared between patients with and without chronic pain. Secondary outcomes are TRPV1
      protein levels (measured by Westernblot), SP, and neurokinin expression, and the amount and
      types of nerve fibres found at histological assessment. Further we will explore microbioma in
      feca samples.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      Taking fecal and histological samples for this study does not result in additional operative
      risk. Adhesiolysis is often performed during any type of abdominal reoperation. Histological
      samples in controls are only taken from adhesions that are easily accessible and not from
      dense adhesions in close proximity to bowel or other vulnerable organs. No additional
      adhesiolysis apart from biopsy will be performed.
    
  