
    
      Research Protocol including:

      Research procedures:

      The aim of this research project is to test whether an enhanced PCMH model with more
      intensive management and intervention can improve patient outcomes and reduce costs related
      to chronic disease conditions.

      Project eligibility:

        -  Leland Medical Clinic patient

        -  Ages 18+

        -  Medicaid beneficiaries or are Medicaid eligible

        -  Diagnosis of diabetes and at least one other chronic condition, and an A1c value of 7.5
           or above

      Leland Medical Clinic patient records will be reviewed to identify potentially eligible
      patients and a flag will be put on their record for them to be approached at their next
      office visit for screening, or they could be actively contacted by the clinic by mail or
      phone.

      Once identified as meeting inclusion criteria, patients will be randomized into two additive
      intervention groups:

        1. Education

        2. Education + Home Visits

      The interventions are additive because if a patient is randomized into group 1, the patient
      will receive clinical care plus the educational intervention. Meanwhile, if a patient is
      randomized into group 2, the patient will receive clinical care, education and home
      visitation. All patients will receive the same level of clinical care regardless of which
      intervention group patients are randomly assigned.

      The first intervention category is an educational program which will be a 10-week series of
      classes with patients meeting once per week. Led by an interdisciplinary team, including
      dietitians, nurses, health educators, and community members. Topics of this intervention will
      include disease self-management support, healthy eating, cooking, exercise, and mental
      health.

      The second intervention category is comprised of education and home visits. A trained
      community health worker will conduct home visits to assist patients with social, economic and
      behavioral problems by referring patients, where appropriate, to: domestic violence services,
      employment placement, benefit enrollment, community action agencies (bill pay, utilities),
      ACA enrollment, homeless shelters, and housing authorities.

      Each patient's clinical outcomes will be measured at the Leland Medical Clinic during regular
      visits. For example, diabetes patients' HbA1C, LDL/HDL, systolic and diastolic blood
      pressure, and BMI levels will be recorded every 3 months. Patient satisfaction will also be
      recorded assessed using the SF-12 patient satisfaction survey, which will be administered
      every clinical visit.

      The subject population will comprise of Leland Medical Clinic's:

        1. Diabetes patients, age 18+ with an A1c of 7.5 or above who are enrolled in Mississippi
           Medicaid; and

        2. Diabetes patients, age 18+ with an A1c of 7.5 or above who are eligible for Mississippi
           Medicaid enrollment.

      Recruitment procedures:

      Leland Medical Clinic's electronic patient records will be reviewed to identify potentially
      eligible patients. Potentially eligible patients will be contacted by a study staff member,
      who will confirm eligibility, consent, and randomize them to one of three intervention
      groups.

      •Length of research procedure and time commitment required of subjects:

      The length of this pilot program will be approximately two years. The time length will
      largely depend upon the speed of recruitment (identifying, consenting, and randomizing). The
      time commitment required of patients will depend on which intervention group(s) a patient may
      be enrolled.

      If a patient is randomized to the education-only intervention group, a patient will meet for
      10 weeks for once per week.

      If a patient is randomized to the education plus home visitation intervention group, the
      patient will meet for the time commitments required for the education intervention (10 weeks
      for once per week) and participate in at least 10 weeks of home visits (the actual number of
      required home visits will depend on the needs of the patient).

      Location of the study:

      The study will primarily take place in Leland Medical Clinic regardless of intervention
      group. For patients enrolled in the home visitation intervention group, part of the
      intervention could occur within patients' homes or agreed upon locations.

      Methodology:

      Based on the results of a power analysis, a minimum of 90 patients or 45 per intervention
      group will be randomly assigned to an intervention group. Using patient clinical data,
      patient outcomes will be assessed every 3 months for a total of a year after a baseline
      measurement which will occur after group randomization.

      To statistically analyze these outcomes, differences-in-differences regression models will be
      performed with HbA1c, cholesterol levels (HDL/LDL), blood pressure levels (systolic,
      diastolic), and patient Body-Mass Index (BMI) as the outcome variables and using patient age,
      gender, race, and ethnicity as control variables.

      Description of who will gather the data and how they are/will be trained:

      Leland Medical Clinic will employ a dietitian and at least one home visitation community
      health worker. The dietitian and community health worker will collect individual patient
      process measures covering data pertinent to health education classes and the number of home
      visits.

      Clinical measurements, such as HbA1c, will be collected by clinic staff at Leland Medical
      Clinic.

      Sources of funding:

      Funding for this project is awarded annually by the Mississippi Division of Medicaid as
      approved by the Mississippi State Legislature.

      Benefits to the subject or to others:

      Leland Medical Clinic patients will benefit from this pilot program through enrollment in
      high-quality health interventions for managing chronic diseases. Patients living with chronic
      diseases will have an increased likelihood to receive chronic disease self-management
      education and case management. Patients will have an increased likelihood to be treated
      earlier and with appropriate care, which will improve patient health.

      Risks -

      • Describe the possible risks, discomforts, and inconvenience to the subjects and the
      precautions that will be taken to minimize them (include physical, psychological and social
      risks).

      There are minimal physical, psychological, or social risks to the subjects.

      • Describe appropriate controls, screenings methods, follow-up procedures.

      Leland Medical Clinic has installed data security protocols which includes controlling data
      access and password security. Leland Medical Clinic staff have completed background checks on
      all project team members. Project team were also trained in HIPAA procedures and compliance.
      This training will be repeated during the first quarter of each calendar year.

      • Describe what constitutes termination from the study before its completion.

      Subjects may be terminated from the study if:

        1. They die prior to the study's completion;

        2. Their participation causes a concern of a threat of physical or psychological threat to
           themselves, other study subjects, and/or study team members;

        3. They choose to opt-out of the study.

             -  Describe how confidentiality will be maintained including confidentiality of data
                collection and who will have access to the data.

      Leland Medical Clinic staff members and associated research members complete HIPAA/Privacy
      training annually. The clinic executes Confidentiality Agreements with its employees and has
      established controls regarding the use of Protected Health Information (PHI) maintained
      within all Information Systems which includes:

        -  Disallowing the disclosure of information/PHI to unauthorized persons without the
           appropriate consent of the information/PHI owner except as permitted under applicable
           DHA policy and/or Federal or State law;

        -  Limiting access to the information/PHI contained in, or obtained from, Information
           Systems to authorized users;

        -  Protect Information/PHI against accidental or unauthorized access, modifications,
           disclosures, or destruction through unauthorized access to any passwords, user
           identifications, or other information that may be used to access Information Systems,
           whether those systems belong to DHA or to private parties.

      Additionally, Leland Medical Clinic and DHA-affiliated researchers are governed by a Data Use
      Agreement (DUA) with the Mississippi Division of Medicaid. Data is transferred in a HIPAA
      compliant, secure environment. Access to the data is limited to health care professionals who
      have a relationship with the subjects, members of Leland Medical Clinic's project team and
      the project evaluators.

      Informed Consent

      Consent is not required as HIPAA permits disclosure as long as Leland Medical Clinic and
      DHA-affiliated researchers will be sharing patient data with only those health care
      professionals that also have a relationship with the individual who is the subject of the
      PHI. Further, the MS Medicaid Notice of Privacy Practices and the application form for
      Medicaid and CHIP authorize providers to share information with each other. Thus, the DHA can
      use an "opt out" approach to consent. HIPAA section 164.5220 allows us to share data unless
      the Medicaid beneficiary asks and the clinic agrees to stop sharing information.

      Although not required for this project as explained above, upon initial engagement, patients
      will be provided an enrollment form to review and sign. This form will explain to patients
      what is required of them and patients will be advised of how they may opt out of the program.
    
  