
    
      The clinical utility of transesophageal echocardiography is increasingly recognized in
      perioperative medicine. However, training in TEE is based on hands-on training in the
      operation room which is time consuming and therefore its use and experience is limited among
      anesthesiologists.

      Recent studies demonstrate that simulation-based education is also superior to a conventional
      didactic system and superior to hands-on teaching in the OR in terms of theoretical knowledge
      in echocardiography. So far there is no study evaluating the study effect in obtaining the 11
      basic TEE views as recommended by the American Society of Echocardiography (ASE) and the
      Society of Cardiovascular Anesthesiologists (SCA) between simulator training and training in
      the operation room in residents with no prior knowledge of echocardiography. According tot he
      ASE and SCA the principal goal of the basic TEE examination is intraoperative monitoring. The
      basic TEE examination focus on the 11 most relevant views, which can enable anesthesiologists
      to diagnose general hemodynamic instability and its etiology in surgical patients and can in
      further consequence influence surgical outcome. The 11 basic TEE views are easier to remember
      and faster to obtain than a detailed 20 view standard examination.

      Therefore the investigators want to assess if there is a difference in the study effect in
      obtaining the 11 basic TEE views and also in theoretical knowledge in 3 groups of residents
      with no prior knowledge of echocardiography:

      the simulation group (CAE Vimedix Simulator), the hands-on OR group and the online group
      (http://pie.med.utoronto.ca/TEE/).

      prospective randomized single-center study.

      The investigators want to include 51 anaesthesia residents (17 per group) in their first or
      second year of training with no prior knowledge of echocardiography in this randomized,
      Controlled single-centre study.

      Residents will be recruited by invitation for TEE training during their first or second year
      of residency in a large teaching hospital (AKH Wien).

      The study will be conducted during 3 consecutive study days with a final exam (theoretical
      and practical on the third day).

      The first study day will start with a lecture about the tested subjects, especially physical
      principles and heart anatomy. Then the students will complete a theoretical test (TT1) about
      basic knowledge for TEE, such as principles of ultrasonography, heart anatomy, indications as
      well as contraindications, patient safety and complications, probe manipulation and knowledge
      about basic pathologies (Severe hypovolemia, LV failure, RV failure, Tamponade, acute massive
      left-sided valvular regurgitation, circulatory arrest during resuscitation and after
      successful resuscitation.

      Afterwards the participants will be randomised. After that, all students will get introduced
      to a protocol, which explains the examination process.

      Group A will be introduced to the virtual TEE online (http://pie.med.utoronto.ca/TEE/), group
      B to the simulator (CAE Vimedix Simulator) and group C to the TEE training in the operation
      room.

      From now on each student in group B and C will receive 2 practical sessions รก 40 minutes
      within the next 2 weeks. Group A will study two times with the virtual TEE. The first
      practical session can be done on the first study day, the following one within 2 weeks and
      the final study day with the theoretical and practical test (TT2 and PT3) should be within 1
      week after the second training session. All teaching sessions will start with a practical
      test (PT1 and PT2). This test will contain the 11 basic TEE views.

      After the 2 teaching sessions all students will attend a second theoretical test (TT2) and a
      final practical tests (PT3). For the practical test the students should adjust and name the
      11 basic TEE views within 10 minutes.

      There will ba a follow up after 3 months with both a theoretical and a practical test (TT3
      and PT4).

      The investigators want to assess the pre- and post training scores of the theoretical
      multiple choice test and the practical test in all 3 groups. The multiple choice test
      consists of 50 questions with 1 point per question (max. 50 points) and the practical test is
      an evaluation of 11 basic perioperative TEE examination on the simulator (CAE Vimedix
      Simulator). Each view is evaluated on a scale of 0 to 10 according to predetermined criteria
      including image angle, overall clarity and visualization of 3 major anatomic structures
      pertinent to each view. Each view can receive a maximum score of 10 and each study a maximum
      of 109 (ME asc. aortic LAX has only 2 main structures). Further the time to adjust each view
      and the time to complete the basic TEE Examination will be assessed.
    
  