
    
      Rigid locked plating constructs can suppress fracture healing, particularly at the near
      cortex adjacent to the plate where interfragmentary motion is minimal. Dynamic fixation with
      Far Cortical Locking (FCL) screws reduces construct stiffness and induces axial
      interfragmentary motion to stimulate symmetric callus formation and healing. Two versions of
      FCL screws are commercially available, but the clinical durability of this novel concept has
      not been documented to date. This prospective observational study documented our early
      clinical experience with MotionLoc® FCL screws for stabilization of distal femur fractures to
      assess their durability and potential complications.

      Thirty-two consecutive patients with 33 distal femur fractures (AO/OTA types 33-A and 33-C)
      were prospectively enrolled at three trauma centers. Fractures were stabilized by plate
      osteosynthesis with MotionLoc® FCL screws without supplemental bone graft or bone morphogenic
      proteins. Thirty patients with 31 fractures were available for follow-up until union or
      revision. Follow-up visits at 6, 12, and 24 weeks comprised functional and radiographic
      assessment of implant fixation and fracture healing, including computed tomography scans at
      week 12. The primary endpoint was fracture healing in absence of complications and revision.

      There was no incidence of implant breakage or diaphyseal fixation failure. Thirty of 31
      fractures healed within 15.6 ± 6.2 weeks, as evident by bridging callus and pain-free load
      bearing. There were two revisions, one at 5 days post surgery to correct a mal-rotation, and
      one at 6 months post surgery to revise a non-union. Periosteal callus distribution at week 6
      was symmetrical, with similar amounts of callus at the medial cortex (35%) anterior cortex
      (30%) and posterior cortex (35%). In 23 fractures (74%), callus formation extended to the
      lateral cortex under the plate.

      Absence of hardware and fixation failure suggests that dynamic plating of distal femur
      fractures with FCL screws provides safe and effective fixation. Moreover, the amount and
      symmetric distribution of periosteal callus suggests that dynamic fixation with FCL screws
      may promote increased fracture healing over standard locked plating. However, this hypothesis
      on the stimulatory effect of dynamic fixation on fracture healing requires investigation in a
      future randomized control trial.
    
  