
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients with stage IIIA or IIIB non-small cell lung
           cancer treated with induction chemotherapy followed by radiotherapy with or without
           efaproxiral.

        -  Compare time to progression, response rate, and pattern of failure of patients treated
           with these regimens.

        -  Determine the safety of efaproxiral in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of efaproxiral in these patients.

        -  Compare quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to chemotherapy regimen, Karnofsky performance status (70-80% vs 90-100%), and
      disease stage (IIIA vs IIIB).

        -  Induction therapy phase: Patients receive 1 of the following induction chemotherapy
           regimens:

             -  Paclitaxel and carboplatin: Patients receive paclitaxel IV and carboplatin IV on
                day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for a total of 2 courses.

             -  Cisplatin and gemcitabine: Patients receive cisplatin IV on day 2 and gemcitabine
                IV on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for a total of 2 courses.

             -  Cisplatin and vinorelbine: Patients receive cisplatin IV on day 1 and vinorelbine
                IV on days 1, 8, and either 15 or 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for a total
                of 2 courses.

        -  Randomized phase: Within 42 days after completion of chemotherapy, patients are
           randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive efaproxiral IV over 30-45 minutes with supplemental oxygen
                and then undergo concurrent radiotherapy 5 days a week for 7 weeks.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive supplemental oxygen and undergo radiotherapy as in arm I.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, on days 1 and 16 of radiotherapy, monthly for 3
      months, every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.

      Patients are followed monthly for 3 months, every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3
      years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 659 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  