
    
      In Massive Weight Loss (MWL) patients the breasts often appear deflated following the
      prominent volume decrease. The breast is not only deflated, the supportive fibrous tissue is
      lax and the structural properties have changed. In the typical patient the breast base has
      sunk along with the inframammary crease and the shape of the breast is wide and flat with a
      significant ptosis.

      One way of helping these women is to offer a mastopexy with autologous augmentation. There
      are several different surgical techniques for treating the ptotic and deflated breast in MWL
      patients.

      In this study the investigators compare the investigators own technique, LOPOSAM, with Rubins
      Mastopexy with autologous augmentation.

      In Rubins Mastopexy, an extensive re-arrangement of the skin, fat and breast tissue is done
      and this is supposed to give good long term results. The procedure is however time consuming
      and extensive.

      The LOPOSAM technique is less extensive and therefore less time consuming and the
      investigators hypothesis is therefore that the technique has a lower complication rate.

      Women that is referred for mastopexy after MWL and meet the criteria for post bariatric
      surgery, set by the Danish National Board of Health, and is found to be a suitable candidate
      for mastopexy with autologous augmentation is invited to participate in the study.

      Sample size assessment has shown that 22 women (11 in each group) is needed and this number
      of patients is expected to be recruited in 6-9 months.

      The study design is a prospective randomized trial.

      Preoperative breast measurements and clinical photographs will be compared with measurements
      and clinical photographs at 3, 6 and 12 months postoperative

      The primary outcome is operation time but secondary outcomes include economics, breast
      measurements, cosmetic result and complication rates.

      With this trial, the investigators hope to demonstrate whether or not one of the two
      techniques is superior to the other and therefore should be the preferred technique.
    
  