
    
      The diagnosis persistent postural-perceptual dizziness (PPPD) entered the 11th edition of the
      World Health Organization's International Classification of Diseases (ICD-11 beta draft) in
      2015 following a consensus document on its diagnostic criteria created by the Behavioral
      Subcommittee of the Committee for the Classification of Vestibular Disorders of the Bárány
      Society (CCBS) between 2010 and 2014. The ICD-11 describes it as follows: "Persistent
      non-vertiginous dizziness, unsteadiness, or both lasting three months or more. Symptoms are
      present most days, often increasing throughout the day, but may wax and wane. Momentary
      flares may occur spontaneously or with sudden movement. Affected individuals feel worst when
      upright, exposed to moving or complex visual stimuli, and during active or passive head
      motion. These situations may not be equally provocative. Typically, the disorder follows
      occurrences of acute or episodic vestibular or balance-related problems, but may follow
      non-vestibular insults as well. Symptoms may begin intermittently, and then consolidate.
      Gradual onset is uncommon." In a previous systematic review of the literature, the authors
      discuss the pathophysiology and management of PPPD, including certain psychological risk
      factors. Anxiety has been suggested to play a pivotal role in the maladaptation cycle of PPPD
      in part by increasing body vigilance and both neuroticism and a pre-existing anxiety disorder
      have been suggested as predisposing factors for the onset of this maladaptation cycle. Such
      risk factors may allow the prediction of who might be at risk of developing PPPD after an
      acute vestibular injury and thus benefit from early treatment.

      As PPPD is a relatively new diagnosis, to date there is no study that comprehensively
      confirms the prevalence of anxiety, neuroticism and/or increased body vigilance in sufferers
      specifically. It is important to determine this in order to guide further research into
      treating and potentially preventing its onset.
    
  