
    
      This survey the invesgators designed as a cross-section study investigation, after the
      selection,the invesgators would adopt the methods of randomly drawing for 100 Beijing female
      citizens to process: questionnaire survey about the skin health, infrared thermal imaging on
      facing area, VISIA skin testing and Germany CK company skin testing etc. for integrated
      evaluation of skin health.

      This survey was designed as a cross-section study investigation, after the selection,the
      invesgators would adopt the methods of randomly drawing for 100 Beijing female citizens to
      process: questionnaire survey about the skin health, infrared thermal imaging on facing area,
      VISIA skin testing and Germany CK company skin testing etc. for integrated evaluation of skin
      health. Analyzing the constitution of volunteers and combining the test related to depression
      and anxious, psychology health evaluated the healthy states. Base on the data collected
      processed the statistic analyzing, comprehensive assessment the impact factor of skin health
      for establishing the Constitution-Psychology-Skin model and though this model to evaluate and
      forecast the skin health problem.

      Standards of included:

        1. Female,

        2. Ages between 18 or above, 55 or below,

        3. Informed consent, voluntary.

      Standards of excluded:

        1. Taking part in other surveys before the starting of this survey within 2 months,

        2. Obviously disturbance of consciousness,

        3. Suffering from endocrine systemic disease, mental disease or other severe systemic
           disease,

        4. Pregnant or lactation period,

        5. Researchers consider that would occur harmful toward volunteers or would affect the aims
           and the explanation of the results.

      The volunteers must require all the above standards would conform to the selection.

      Standards of retreat from this survey:

        1. Poor compliance, could not complete all the tests,

        2. Occur any special physiological and pathological changes which not suitable for funder
           process.
    
  