
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the safety and feasibility of adoptive transfer of TGFbDNRII-transduced
      autologous tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (autologous NY-ESO-1 TCR/dnTGFbetaRII transgenic T
      cells).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. NY-ESO-1 TCR/ dnTGFbetaRII transgenic T cell persistence by analyzing serial peripheral
      blood samples for the presence of T cells with the NY-ESO-1 TCR by tetramer analysis.

      II. To study T cell differentiation that correlates with higher anti-tumor responses.

      III. To test the hypothesis that NY-ESO-1 TCR/dnTGFbetaRII will constitute in cells more
      efficient in inducing tumor regression.

      IV. Determine objective tumor responses by immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in
      Solid Tumors (irRECIST) 1.1.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the role of microbiota on the therapeutic efficacy of the proposed therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of NY-ESO-1 TCR/TGFbDNRII-transduced TILs
      followed by a phase IIa study. Participants are assigned 1 to 2 cohorts.

      COHORT I: Patients undergo leukapheresis on day -6, and receive cyclophosphamide
      intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days -5 and -4. Patients then receive TGFbDNRII-transduced
      autologous tumor infiltrating lymphocytes IV over 15 minutes on day 0. Eligible patients who
      showed initial response/disease control, may receive a second TGFbDNRII-transduced autologous
      tumor infiltrating lymphocytes infusion at any time after progression is confirmed.

      COHORT II: Patients undergo leukapheresis on day -6 and receive decitabine IV over 1 hour on
      days -6 to -4 and cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -3 and -2. Patients then receive
      TGFbDNRII-transduced autologous tumor infiltrating lymphocytes IV over 15 minutes on day 0.
      Eligible patients who showed initial response/disease control, may receive a second
      TGFbDNRII-transduced autologous tumor infiltrating lymphocytes infusion at any time after
      progression is confirmed.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at weeks 1-4, 6, 8, and 12, at
      6 and 9 months, every 6 months for 5 years, and then yearly for 10 years.
    
  