
    
      Procedures The testing will be performed in the human performance laboratory at the
      University of Salford, Manchester. Upon arrival at the laboratory, the participants will be
      briefed through the study and the objectives of the investigations and the study equipment
      will be explained to them. They will be asked to sign the informed consent form, a health
      history questionnaire. The health history questionnaire consists of 13 questions
      investigating potential risks associated with the study.

      The individual will then be asked to change into their shorts and a comfortable t-shirt.

      Strength and arthrogenic muscle inhibition:

      The muscular inhibition of the quadriceps will be assessed, during a maximal isometric
      contraction (MVIC) of the quadriceps with the interpolated twitch technique. The participants
      will perform 5 times a maximal contraction of their knee extensor and additional electrical
      stimulation will be applied, which will be performed on an isokinetic dynamometer (Kin-Com)
      with a knee flexion angle of 90°. Then the participant will be asked to perform 5 times an
      eccentric quadriceps contraction at the angular velocity of 60 degrees/ second, through the
      full available range of motion (ROM) from 90 degrees knee flexion to maximum knee extension,
      while the quadriceps torque will be measured.

      Questionnaires:

      The participants with PFP will then be asked to fill in 3 different questionnaires:

      the KOOS, the AKPS/ Kujala score, and the Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia.

      After this recovery break, the posture and flexibility investigation will be executed. The
      examination of the foot posture will be performed by using the 6-item foot posture index
      (FPI-6). The patella alignment includes a lateral - medial displacement/ lateral -medial
      tilt), and a lateral-medial displacement assessment.

      Flexibility:

      The flexibility of the hamstrings and the soleus muscle will be assessed.

      Biomechanics:

      Following this, the researcher will attach 40 retro-reflective markers to the skin of the
      lower limb on both legs and attach surface electromyographic electrodes to four muscles as in
      figure 4 on both legs. The electrode placement will be performed according to the SENIAM
      guidelines. Suface EMG (sEMG) data will be collected of vastus medialis, vastus lateralis,
      biceps femoris and semitendinosus will be synchronised with the motion capture system on
      Qualisys.

      After a static 3-dimensional image from ten infra-red cameras will be obtained. The 3D
      kinematics of the ankle, knee, and hip joint and ground reaction forces (GRF) will be
      recorded for each participant during a running, a single leg squat and a step down task.

      Treatment:

      The 6 week treatment will be exclusively conducted by physiotherapists at the Salford Royal
      Hospital (Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, SRFT).

      Physiotherapist from the Salford Royal hospital will introduce the treatment programme to the
      participants. Additionally, each participants will receive a booklet with a detailed
      description of the treatment programme, as well as access to a password protected website
      (VIMEO) to watch the videos of all exercises.

      Assessment of the treatment outcomes after 6 weeks At the end of the 6 weeks exercise
      intervention, the participants with PFP will then attend the human performance laboratory at
      the University of Salford. The muscle strength, AMI, flexibility, posture assessment, as well
      as the clinical assessment of running and a step down task of each individual will be
      measured to investigate the change in AMI and functional performance due to the treatment.
    
  