
    
      Objectives. Co-occurrence of alcohol use disorder (AD) and posttraumatic stress disorder
      (PTSD) is common. Research supports exposure therapy as the front line treatment for PTSD as
      this approach is most likely to lead to sustained recovery from the disorder. However,
      individuals with AD are generally not offered exposure therapies because of beliefs that
      exposure would lead to engagement in greater alcohol use and other dangerous behaviors. Most
      research and clinical treatment for comorbid AD and PTSD (AD/PTSD) have involved coping
      skills based therapies that have generally not shown sustained reductions in alcohol use and
      PTSD symptoms. A growing body of evidence suggests these individuals with AD/PTSD are able to
      handle and benefit from exposure. This proposed trial will compare an integrated exposure
      psychotherapy to an integrated coping skills psychotherapy for the treatment of AD/PTSD. In
      addition, mechanisms of change for Veterans with AD/PTSD in both treatment conditions,
      including therapy process variables, changes in negative affect, and sleep problems, will be
      explored. This project addresses a critical barrier in the field - the widely held belief
      that individuals with AD and PTSD cannot tolerate exposure therapy, although it is the best
      practice treatment for PTSD. The fundamental rationale is to improve the evidence base that
      informs how patients with AD/PTSD can attain sustained recovery. The investigators propose a
      randomized controlled trial to evaluate an integrated exposure-based treatment for concurrent
      AD and PTSD. The primary aim will be to conduct a randomized controlled trial to evaluate the
      effects of integrated exposure psychotherapy when compared to a present-focused coping skills
      based intervention (Seeking Safety; SS) in 148 male and female Veterans who have AD and PTSD.
      The hypotheses are that at post-treatment both groups will show reductions in alcohol use,
      but the integrated exposure group will demonstrate greater reductions in PTSD symptoms than
      SS. At 5- and 8-month post-baseline follow-up, the integrated exposure group will have
      significantly fewer percent drinking days and fewer PTSD symptoms than SS. In addition,
      mechanisms of change in both treatment conditions will be examined.
    
  