
    
      The Enhanced Discharge Planning Program (EDPP) is an intervention designed to help older
      adults safely transition to the community after discharge. This is achieved through
      telephonic care coordination facilitated by social workers. EDPP social workers ensure full
      implementation of the discharge plan, assist with coordinating community resources and
      follow-up appointments, and intervene around other issues that may arise as a result of a
      complex transition.

      The EDPP intervention is currently being offered to some older adult patients discharged from
      Rush University Medical Center. Case managers refer older adult patients on selected units
      who they believe may be at risk for adverse events post-discharge. While this service is
      being provided to patients, it has not yet been formally evaluated. This randomized
      controlled trial will provide data necessary for a more rigorous evaluation of the efficacy
      of this intervention.

      Research Process

        1. Rush University Medical Center inpatients receive the Enhanced Discharge Planning
           Program information sheet in the Rush patient education packet.

           All Rush inpatients will receive an informational sheet about the EDPP study, with an
           exception of pediatric and labor/delivery inpatients. The sheet will be included in the
           patient education packets distributed by Rush. This will make patients aware of the EDPP
           program before they leave the hospital and prepare them for a call once they return
           home.

        2. Eligible patients are referred to the Enhanced Discharge Planning Program at their point
           of discharge via an electronic referral report through Epic.

           EDPP receives an electronic referral report of all patients meeting the specified
           referral criteria. Referral is dependent on discharge data recorded by Rush nurses and
           case managers in the Epic electronic medical record and generated at the point of
           discharge. The electronic system ensures a streamlined, standardized referral process by
           creating an automatic referral based upon documentation completed as part of nurse's and
           case manager's typical workflow. An anticipated 720 patients will be electronically
           referred during the duration of the study.

        3. The Enhanced Discharge Planning Program project coordinator receives the daily referral
           report and inputs patients into the block randomization scheme.

           The project coordinator will input referrals into the existing block randomization
           scheme after receiving the electronic report at the beginning of the day. Referrals will
           be copied into the scheme in the same order as reported - sorted by episode number - to
           reduce bias. Patients assigned to the intervention group will be forwarded to the EDPP
           social workers. The usual care group will be managed by the project coordinator and
           student interns under her direct supervision.

        4. The Enhanced Discharge Planning Program social worker contacts the intervention group to
           provide clinical care and obtain consent.
    
  