
    
      Before the research starts (screening): After signing the consent form, the participant will
      be asked to undergo some screening tests or procedures to find out if they are eligible to be
      in this research study. Many of these tests and procedures are likely to be part of regular
      cancer care and may be done even if it turns out that the participant does not take part in
      the research study. If the participant has had some of these tests or procedures recently,
      they may or may not have to be repeated.

        -  A medical history, which includes questions about the participant's health, current
           medications, and any allergies.

        -  Physical examination, which includes vital signs, height, weight, and disease assessment
           by the size of the participant's spleen, liver, and lymph nodes.

        -  Performance status, which evaluates how the participant is able to carry on with their
           usual activities.

        -  An assessment of the patient's tumor by CT (Computerized Tomography) scan, MRI or PET
           (Positron Emission Tomography) scans,

        -  Bone marrow aspirate and biopsy: A study tube (plastic cylinder container that contains
           biopsy material) will be drawn during this biopsy to further assess the participant's
           disease status.

        -  Blood tests, a maximum of 24 teaspoons will be collected.

        -  Urine test.

        -  A blood pregnancy test

        -  A Hepatitis B and C test, will require blood sample.

      If these tests show that the participant is eligible to participate in the research study,
      then the participant will be begin will begin the study treatment. If you do not meet the
      eligibility criteria, the participant will not be able to participate in this research study.

      Additional research procedures to be performed at the time of screening:

      • Blood tests, including baseline tests so that the investigators can measure any additional
      effect of the study drug and disease status

      After the screening procedures confirm that you are eligible to participate in the research
      study:

      If you take part in this research study, the participant will be given a study drug-dosing
      diary for each treatment cycle. Each treatment cycle lasts 28 days. The diary will also
      include special instructions for taking the study drugs.

        -  Study Drugs: The participant will first be given Idelalisib daily for two cycles of 28
           days each. Idelalisib will be given orally. Once the participant completes 2 cycles of
           Idelalisib, then the participant will start to receive a combination of Ofatumumab and
           Idelalisib. This regimen will continue weekly to complete 8 weeks (two more cycles).
           This will be followed by monthly Ofatumumab and Idelalisib to complete 4 additional
           cycles (eight total). The overall treatment period will therefore be 8 months, comprised
           of two months of Idelalisib followed by 6 months of Ofatumumab with Idelalisib. After
           completing the 8-month treatment, the participant will likely continue Idelalisib.
           Restaging with CT scans will happen after Cycle 2, 4, and a final restage will occur 2
           months after the completion of Ofatumumab. There will be a tumor response assessment
           done during a physical exam after Cycle 8.

        -  Clinical Exams: During all cycles the participant will have a physical exam and will be
           asked questions about their general health and specific questions about any problems
           that they might be having and any medications they may be taking.

        -  Scans (or Imaging tests): The investigator will assess the participant's tumor by CT
           scan. Restaging with CT scans will happen after Cycle 2, 4, and a final restage will
           occur 2 months after the completion of Ofatumumab.

        -  Bone marrow aspirate and biopsy: will be conducted to see if the bone marrow has tumor
           cells. A study tube will be drawn during this biopsy to further assess the patient's
           disease status

        -  Blood tests

      Additional Blood Tests:

      Blood Tests will be performed throughout the study so that the Investigator can measure any
      additional effect of the study drug and disease status. These tests will be taken on the days
      listed below before the participant receive study drug, on some days additional blood will be
      drawn after they receive study drug.

      Cycle 3 Day 1 Cycle 3 Day 8 Cycle 3 Day 15 Cycle 4 Day 21 (last weekly Ofatumumab dose) Cycle
      5 Day 1 (first monthly Ofatumumab dose) Cycle 8 Day 1 (last monthly Ofatumumab dose) 2 months
      after Ofatumumab therapy completed 6 months after Ofatumumab therapy completed

      Planned Follow-up:

      Once the participant has completed the study treatment, the participant will be monitored
      until they start a new type of treatment or are removed from the study. During this time the
      participant will meet with your research physician every 3 or 6 months.

      The investigator would like to keep track of the participant's medical condition for the rest
      of their life. The investigator would like to do this by calling the participant on the
      telephone once a year to see how the participant is doing. Keeping in touch with the
      participant and checking their condition every year helps the investigator look at the
      long-term effects of the research study.
    
  