
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is the most highly prevalent mental health disorder
      among U.S. military Veterans. PTSD is a chronic disorder that is associated with significant
      morbidity, mortality, disability, and costly health care expenditures. The clinical
      impairment associated with PTSD among Veterans is severe and associated with comorbid
      depression, suicidality, substance abuse, physical health problems, interpersonal violence,
      and neuropsychiatric impairment. Despite these pervasive health consequences, the current
      treatment services offered to Veterans do not adequately address PTSD. Several promising
      psychosocial interventions, including Prolonged Exposure (PE) therapy, have been developed
      for the treatment of PTSD. Although PE is one of the most widely used evidence-based
      treatments for PTSD, there is substantial room for improvement in outcomes and retention
      rates. For example, approximately one-third of patients dropout of PE treatment prematurely,
      and the highest dropout rates occur among Veterans. Consistent with the VA Office of Research
      and Development initiative to develop effective treatments for PTSD, identifying
      pharmacotherapies to enhance PTSD treatment retention and outcomes is critical. Accumulating
      data from the investigators' group and others suggests that oxytocin is a promising candidate
      to achieve this goal. Oxytocin is known to promote prosocial behaviors associated with
      successful psychosocial treatment outcomes (e.g., trust, safety, social cognition) and has
      demonstrated positive effects on extinction learning in animal and human stress models.
      Furthermore, recent neuroimaging studies show that oxytocin has the ability to ameliorate
      dysregulation of the corticolimbic brain circuitry, which is a central component of the
      pathophysiology and maintenance of PTSD. In the only study to date examining the feasibility,
      acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of augmenting PE with oxytocin, the investigators'
      group found that participants randomized to the oxytocin condition demonstrated lower PTSD
      and depression symptoms during PE, and had higher working alliance scores compared to
      participants randomized to the placebo condition. Therefore, the primary objective of the
      proposed two-site Phase II study is to examine the ability of oxytocin (vs. placebo) combined
      with PE therapy to (1) reduce PTSD symptom severity, (2) improve rate of PTSD symptom
      improvement, and (3) improve PE adherence and retention rates. To accomplish these
      objectives, the investigators will employ a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      trial and use standardized, repeated dependent measures of change at five time points
      (baseline, mid-treatment, end of treatment, and 3 and 6 month follow-up). The proposed study
      directly addresses the mission of the Veterans Health Administration Blueprint for Excellence
      in that it seeks to advance personalized and proactive mental health care opportunities for
      Veterans. Findings from this study will provide critical new information regarding the
      efficacy of oxytocin to augment psychosocial treatment for PTSD, as well as information
      regarding the neurobiological mechanisms underlying PTSD and positive treatment response.
      Participants may choose to complete this research study via home-based telemedicine (HBT)
      care (i.e. service delivery to patients in their homes using consumer friendly,
      video-conferencing technology). HBT sessions will be delivered via standard desk, laptop
      computer, tablet, or smartphone using VA approved applications. All procedures that take
      place via telemedicine will be performed and completed as though they were
      in-person/in-office
    
  