
    
      The prevalence of knee injuries has shown a striking increase of >24% over the last 5 years,
      affecting work performance, limiting mobility, and impacting military deployment health. This
      increase reflects the current high op-tempo and frequent deployments of a nation at war
      including activities related to military operations, physical fitness, and demanding
      training. We have shown that neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) improves quadriceps
      muscle strength. We have also shown that a pedometer-based protocol improves fitness. The
      overall objective of this project is to compare three treatment regimens for knee injury to
      the standard rehabilitation protocol as potential treatments for improving strength, work
      efficiency, and mobility in active duty military personnel with a knee injury. Our central
      hypothesis is that the combination of NMES and walking while wearing a weighted vest will
      demonstrate greater improvements in muscle strength, work efficiency, and mobility, as
      compared to the usual care alone. The rationale is that NMES combined with graduated strength
      walking could produce marked improvements in muscle strength and thereby enhance work
      performance, readiness and fitness, decrease physical symptoms and faster return to duty.
      NMES and graduated strength walking, simulate the current uniform in the theatre of operation
      (body armor).The specific aims are to compare the effectiveness of three treatment regimens
      to the usual care in improving: (1) muscle strength, (2) work efficiency, (3) mobility, (4)
      symptoms/pain, and (5) quality of life. After baseline testing, we propose to randomly assign
      male and female subjects (n=132) ages 18 to 50 years with a knee injury to one of 4 groups:
      1) NMES, 2) strength walking, 3) NMES and strength walking, or 4) usual care. All groups will
      receive 12-weeks of the intervention and 6-weeks of follow-up. Generalized estimating
      equation (GEE) methods will be used to build regression models for statistical analysis of
      longitudinal data. If the interventions are effective with respect to parameters of strength,
      mobility, work performance, and symptoms, recommendations for future treatments can be made.
      This is hugely important, given the rising rate of knee injuries and the possibility that
      provider-managed care would be critical for assisting our warriors in a rapid recovery and
      return to duty.
    
  