
    
      The study protocol was approved by the Institutional Research Board of the Memorial Hospitals
      of Kaohsiung Medical University and all patients included in the study gave written informed
      consent. Sixty patients with American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status I-III, ≧
      18 years of age, and needed double-lumen endotracheal tube (DLT) for thoracic surgery were
      enrolled in this study. Exclusion criteria were increased risk for regurgitation and
      pulmonary aspiration, history of gastroesophageal reflux, and pregnancy. Furthermore, when a
      tracheostomy or prolonged ventilation on ICU was planned, patients were also excluded. All
      tracheal intubations in the study were performed by two experienced (> 10 year) Board
      Certified anesthesiologists who each had experience of at least 300 tracheal intubations with
      each device before starting the study.

      After the patient had entered the operating room, standard monitoring including ECG, invasive
      blood pressure measurement on the radial artery and pulse oximetry were established. Patients
      were randomly assigned to direct MacIntosh laryngoscope group (Group M, n = 30) or GVL group
      (Group G, n = 30) by opening a sealed envelope after they had entered the operating theatre.
      Anesthesia was induced with propofol 2-3 mg.kg-1, fentanyl 2μg.kg-1, and rocuronium
      0.6mg.Kg-1. After achieving adequate muscle relaxation and anesthetic depth, DLT intubation
      was performed with direct laryngoscope or GVL. The bronchial and the tracheal cuff of the DLT
      were lubricated with SURGILUBE® sterile, surgical lubricant (E. FOUGERA & CO. Melville, New
      York, A division of Nycomed US Inc.) thinly before intubation.

      Measurements The demographic characteristics of both groups included age (years), gender
      (female/male), weight (kg), height (cm), body mass index (BMI), and ASA classification were
      recorded. The airway characteristics included the modified Mallampati classification, mouth
      opening (active and passive), and the thyromental distance were also recorded. Patients were
      measured of thyromental distance and incisor gap on maximal opening of the mouth and grading
      of The modified Mallampati classification in the operative room by another anesthesiologist
      not involved in the study. Passive mouth opening was measured after induction of anesthesia.
      After pre-oxygenation with oxygen 100%, patients received thiamylal 5 mg.kg-1 and fentanyl
      2μg.kg-1 for anesthesia induction and facilitated DLT intubation with rocuronium 0.8 mg.kg-1
      and propofol 1.0 mg.kg-1.

      The total time to calculate DLT insertion (T3) was separated into T1 and T2, respectively,
      defined as started after jaw opening when the GVL or the direct laryngoscope passed the
      patient's lips and stopped when three complete waves of end-tidal CO2 showed on the monitor
      of capnography and measured by an independent observer. T1 time interval was calculated from
      the jaw opening, placement of GVL or standard Macintosh laryngoscope, to the view of glottis
      opening. T2 time interval was calculated from intubator holding DLT to three complete waves
      of end-tidal CO2 showed on the monitor of capnography. The procedures to position of DLT were
      declared in brief as following: the distal 10-12cm of the DLT was curved to approximately
      90°; a conventional laryngoscope in group M and a Glidescope in group G to assist position
      DLT into trachea [4]; the tip of the DLT bronchial lumen was passed through the vocal cords
      and advanced into the glottis; to remove stylet of DLT; 180° counterclockwise rotation to
      facilitate the insertion of the bronchial cuff and tracheal lumen past the vocal cords; an
      additional 90° clockwise rotation to fit the tube into left main bronchus [5]. Grading of
      laryngo-pharyngeal tissues viewed by intubator according to the Cormack and Lehane
      classification (grades I-IV) that defined as grade I- complete glottis visible, grade II-
      anterior glottis not seen, grade III- epiglottis seen, but not glottis, and grade IV-
      epiglottis not seen [6]. The intubator determined the grades of laryngeal viewing either by
      direct laryngoscope or by Glidescope® with video monitor. The backwards upwards rightwards
      pressure (BURP) maneuver to optimize the glottis view was also recorded and the pressure
      grading was defined as none, light, and heavy.

      After the blade of laryngoscope or GlideScope® was removed, we examined blood coating on its
      surface. The oral cavity, pharynx and larynx for signs of lacerations or bleeding provoked by
      the intubation was also examined by another otolaryngologist 5 minutes later, who was not
      aware of the chosen technique to complete intubation.

      Hemodynamic parameters were recorded in the operating theatre after starting standard
      monitoring. Measurement of hemodynamic parameters included of time interval of baseline,
      intubation and post-intubation 1, 3 and 5 min, respectively. Anesthesia was maintained with
      sevoflurane. At the end of surgery, patients were trained to breathe spontaneously. The DLT
      was removed when spontaneous ventilation reached a tidal volume of 8 ml/kg and the patient
      could respond to simple verbal commands. The patients were interviewed by an independent
      investigator to determine whether they were suffering from a sore throat or dysphagia the
      next day of post-operation. We quantified the degree of soreness of the throat and dysphagia
      by using a visual analogue scale ranging from 0 to 10, with VAS 0 being rated as 'none', 1-3
      as 'mild', 4-6 as moderate' and 7-10 as 'severe'.

      Assuming a likely difference in mean times to intubate of 10 s with a SD of 10 s, an a priori
      power analysis revealed a group size of n = 27 was needed to detect a difference with a power
      of 0.8 at α-level of 0.05. Statistical analysis was performed using the Mann-Whitney U-test
      for non-parametric and univariate ANOVA for parametric data. Duncan's post-hoc test was
      performed where appropriate. Hemodynamic data were analyzed with ANOVA for repeated measures.
      Data are expressed as mean (SD) where applicable or actual numbers. SPSS 16.0.1 software
      (Apache Software Foundation, Forest Hill, MD, USA) was used for all statistical analyses.
    
  