
    
      The objective of the proposed study is to evaluate the feasibility of the
      Mindfulness/Acceptance-Based Smartphone App (MABSA) intervention in a randomized controlled
      trial (RCT) environment and to obtain generalized information (i.e., initial efficacy,
      recruitment, retention, adherence, satisfaction, and usability of the refined intervention).
      The expected results will provide the foundation for a prospective, fully powered,
      larger-scale RCT study. We previously developed the MABSA and pilot tested it in a single-arm
      study. Our central hypothesis is that the refined MABSA intervention would improve
      intervention satisfaction, app usability, and adherence and positively affect resilience,
      PTSD, mindfulness, experiential avoidance, and rumination. The specific aims of the proposed
      study are outlined below.

      AIM 1: To refine the previously developed MABSA intervention. The 6-week smartphone-delivered
      program will involve (1) daily audio-guided meditations on various mindfulness and acceptance
      exercises constructed based on the principles of acceptance and commitment therapy; (2)
      weekly support and feedback through phone calls and/or texting the intervention facilitators;
      and (3) ecological momentary assessment (daily monitoring of PTSD and resilience) to monitor
      the progression of treatment response (i.e., the trajectory of resilience and PTSD recovery).
      We will obtain qualitative feedback on program content and format through a pilot test of the
      prototype with a group of eligible college student veterans (N = 4). Upon revising the
      intervention based on participants' feedback, we will develop the intervention protocol
      manual for the RCT.

      AIM 2: To test the feasibility and acceptability of the refined MABSA intervention in a
      small-scale RCT for a prospective, fully powered, larger-scale RCT study. The small-scale RCT
      study will involve the following two groups of college student veterans: (1) the MABSA
      intervention group (N = 30) and the waitlist control group (N = 30). Upon collecting the data
      on recruitment, retention, adherence, intervention satisfaction, and app usability, we will
      determine the preliminary efficacy based on the following five outcomes: resilience, PTSD,
      mindfulness, experiential avoidance, and rumination. Qualitative feedback on the facilitators
      of and challenges to recruitment, retention, and adherence will be collected via exit
      interviews.
    
  