
    
      A Controlled clinical trial of pancreatoduodenectomy with mesopancreas dissection.A
      Prospective study comparing artery-first versus standard approach.

        -  Target population:

           -All cases of malignant obstructive jaundice within the above criteria.

        -  Sample size:

             -  It will be conventional sample size of about 40 cases minimum about 20 case for
                each group of the both procedures

             -  Techniques:

             -  The procedure at Assiut university hospital consists of artery-first with l
                dissection at the origin of the superior mesenteric artery and the celiac trunk all
                along their right side of the vessels versus standard approach.

             -  This allows a complete clearance of retro- pancreatic tissues.

             -  -En bloc resection of the primary tumor and regional lymph nodes through complete
                excision of the mesopancreatic plane, utilizing the artery-first approach.

             -  -The mesopancreatic plane consists of the pancreas head, the uncinate process of
                the pancreas, and the meso-pancreatoduodenum.

             -  All the tissues that lay in this triangular space (SMA down, CT up, and SMV-PV
                anterior) is cleared.

      Then the investigators continue the dissection along the right then anterior surface of the
      SMV and PV until reaching the dissected posterior surface the neck of the pancreas .

        -  Last step is the division of the neck of the pancreas.

        -  After the specimen is removed and before it is sent to the pathology the investigators
           put mark on each boundary of the specimen one towards SMA, another towards PV/SMV area
           and the last towards the posterior surface of the mesopancreas.

        -  This can guide the pathologist to identify the retro pancreatic margins and define
           whenever there is an R1 resection the exact area of invasion. Microscopic margin
           involvement (R1) will be defined as tumor within 1 mm of resection margin.

      While in standard approach at first kocharization of the duodenum ,then starting to asses the
      tunnel under the neck of the pancreas whether tumor infilterating PV/SMV axis and if not the
      investigators cut the neck of pancreas early in the procedure then continue to dissect the
      uncinate process and control pancreatoduodenal vessels and draining lymph nodes and LNS
      around portal vein and up to hepatic artery and we will add to the standard procedure the
      previously defined mesopancreatic triangle dissection which lies between SMA caudal, Coeliac
      artery cranial and PV/SMV axis anterior and the specimen will be marked and sent as previous
      to pathology.
    
  