
    
      1. Study design and plan

           1-1) Sixty envelopes will be prepared: Thirty envelopes of scopolamine patch for
           experimental group and 30 of placebo patch for control group. Each envelope will be
           tagged for QR code, randomly mixed and numbered from 1 to 60. QR code will be identified
           after discontinuation of study, so both researchers and subjects would not know in which
           group the envelope is belonged to.

           1-2) Patch will be applied under the ear of the opposite side of operation, at 9 p.m. of
           the day before the operation day.

           1-3) Nausea will be assessed by Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) immediate after arrival at a
           recovery room and the ward. After that, nausea will be continuously assessed every 4
           hour (4hr, 8hr, 12hr, 16hr, 20hr, and 24hr after surgery) and a number of vomiting will
           also be counted. Basic clinical characteristics and the number of antiemetic
           administration will be identified through medical records.

        2. Efficacy assessment

           2-1) Degree of nausea: Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) Subjects will describe their subject
           degree of nausea by VAS score, just immediate after arrival at a recovery room or the
           ward and 4hr, 8hr, 12hr, 16hr, 20hr, and 24hr after surgery. Respondents specify their
           degree of nausea by indicating a point along a continuous 10cm line between two
           end-points; left one is for "No nausea" and the right one for "Very severe nausea".
           Scoring is based on the length from left point and higher score means more severe degree
           of nausea.

           2-2) Number of vomiting Number of vomiting is counted from immediate after arrival at
           recovery room or the ward, 4hr, 8hr, 12hr, 16hr, 20hr, and 24hr after operation and will
           be recorded. If there is no vomiting, it will be recorded as "0".

           2-3) Number of antiemetic administration It will be recorded from immediate after
           arrival at recovery room or the ward, 4hr, 8hr, 12hr, 16hr, 20hr, and 24hr after
           operation. The kind of antiemetic used and the dosage or number of administration can be
           identified through medical records.

           2-4) Type of antiemetic and time of administration 2-4-1) PRN) Meckool 10mg/2ml 1amp IVs
           When VAS is more than 5 or when subjects want at minimum interval of 6hour and maximum
           of three times. If there is no improvement, it will be noticed.

           2-4-2) PRC) Nasea 0.3mg 1amp IVs

        3. Statistical plans

           3-1) General characteristics and clinical characteristics will be analyzed by frequency,
           percentage, mean value and standard deviation.

           3-2) Homogeneity of variances between experimental group and control group will be
           analyzed by Chi-square test, t-test and Fisher's exact test 3-3) Degree of nausea
           between experimental group and control group at recovery room or the ward, 4hr, 8hr,
           12hr, 16hr, 20hr, and 24hr after operation will be analyzed by Student's t-test.

           3-4) Number of vomiting and antiemetic administration between experimental group and
           control group will be analyzed by Fisher's exact test.

           3-5) Hospitalization period between experimental group and control group will be
           analyzed by Student's t-test.

        4. Experimental group of scopolamine patch application will be expected to have less
           severity of nausea and fewer numbers of vomiting or antiemetic usages. Ultimately, this
           may relate to hospitalization period and it will be decreased.
    
  