
    
      Prevalence of food allergy is estimated at 3.5% in Europe. In particular, peanut allergy
      prevalence in France is between 0.3% and 0.75%, when it is 1% in the US, UK and Canada.
      Peanut allergy is a severe allergy, second behind tree nut allergy in the general population,
      with a risk of fatal reactions. The risk is especially high for young adults. It is also a
      long lasting condition with only 20% of natural healing that happened most of the time
      between 6 and 8y.o. These last years, the only proposed "treatment" was an elimination diet.
      However, it has been proved that it makes allergy severity worse, and sensitization and
      reactivity increase with time. Elimination diet can also lead to the apparition of
      avoidant/restrictive food intake disorders, and has a major impact on patient habits, causing
      patient quality of life to decrease.

      In view of the risks and limits of an elimination diet and the low natural healing rate, a
      therapeutic alternative has been proposed with the development of peanut oral tolerance
      induction (OTI) protocols. As sublingual immunotherapies have low efficacies and as injection
      strategies have a high risk of severe allergic reactions, oral route is preferred. This
      strategy needs to ensure patients an increasing tolerance to the allergen, thus limiting the
      risks of anaphylactic shock at low doses, but also needs to ensure patient safety, with
      controlled risks of secondary reactions at home. It can be followed by young patients, its
      efficiency being increased. An OTI protocol is conducted at the allergy Unit of Saint Vincent
      Hospital of Lille (France) in standard care since 2006. It consists in daily giving small
      peanut doses to the patient, and to regularly increase those doses.

      For this OTI protocol, an oral food challenge (OFC) is performed. This OFC allows the
      determination of the threshold reactive dose, i.e. the minimum dose of allergen that induces
      an allergic reaction. A safe dose of peanut is then determined that will be regularly eaten
      by the patient. Every 6 months, a new OFC is performed and thus a new threshold reactive dose
      is measured, and the dose to be eaten by the patient updated. The protocol is followed until
      the patient reaches an ideal dose of 2942mg of peanut protein, corresponding to 14 peanuts of
      middle size, which is the maximum dose of peanut that can be found in standard product in
      France. Of course, the protocol can also be ended if the patient decided so.

      Although this protocol is performed in the allergy Unit of Saint Vincent Hospital, very few
      data are published on the subject. The aim of the study is to study the evolution of the
      threshold reactive dose and the evolution of the quantity of specific immunoglobulin E (sIgE)
      against peanut proteins (rAra h 1, rAra h 2 and rAra h 3) in patient that had followed the
      protocol.

      The main objective of this study is to study the clinical efficiency of peanut OTI by
      measuring the evolution of the patient threshold reactive dose.

      The secondary objective is to study the biological efficiency of peanut OTI by measuring the
      evolution of the dosage of sIgE against peanut proteins.

      As the OFC and the IgE dosage are a standard part of the OTI protocol, all the data are
      obtained from the medical records. The study is retrospective and thus observational.
    
  