
    
      The main objectives of this work are to generate proof-of-concept first-in-human metabolic
      imaging data using hyperpolarised MRI for patients with prostate cancer (n=15), renal (n=5),
      breast cancer (n=5), lymphoma (n=5) and cardiac diseases (n=5). Each cohort will provide
      sufficient value for high-impact publication and the essential preliminary data for
      subsequent individual grant applications. The findings will be correlated with conventional
      imaging and with clinical patient details and where applicable patient outcome. The study
      will take 3 years.

      The main ethical, legal and management issues from the study are;

        1. Hyperpolarised Injectable The investigators will be using a product to inject into
           patients that will be manufactured on site. This will be a GMP facility to ensure
           sterility. The methodology to do this is new. The investigators will have established
           safety through evaluation of the processes within the facility with institutional
           approval prior to utilisation of the product in patients. In addition, any product that
           is to be injected will be taken through a quality control module which will determine
           its pH, temperature, concentration and provided these are within specified safe
           parameters will allow the investigators to inject into the patient. The QC module itself
           will be validated/qualified prior to its use. Finally, solution produced for injection
           will go through a sterile filter and also be sent for culture. Patients will be
           monitored throughout the study and will be followed up after examination.

        2. MRI Safety

             1. The investigators will be using new MRI coils that allows transmission of
                radiofrequency signals into the body and collect them. A new coil is required
                because the investigators need them to be tuned to the frequency of 13C (usually
                MRI uses 1H).

             2. The investigators will be using new MRI software that has been programmed in house
                to generate the signals. This software has undergone in-house and institutional
                approval processes to confirm that it is safe for human use.

        3. Recruitment An information leaflet be dispatched to the volunteer and subsequent contact
           will be made to assess interest in participation and discuss arrangement for the study.

      35 patients will be recruited in the first instance in one of the following ways: A. Through
      identification at the relevant multidisciplinary team meeting (MDT) B. Patients with
      confirmed cancer or heart conditions who are attending for a clinical MRI scan (or from an
      imaging list) as part of standard care at UCLH.

      C. Direct referral from clinical colleagues D. Cancer or cardiology in-patients who are well
      enough and meet the recruitment criteria

      Only 25/35 patients will be injected with the hyperpolarised solution. The remaining 10/35
      (prostate cancer patients) will allow the investigators to optimise the MRI clinical scan
      technique and use of an endorectal MRI coil (to be inserted into the back passage). This
      optimisation will ensure that when patients with prostate cancer are evaluated with the
      hyperpolarised injectable, the best chance of detecting the hyperpolarised MR signal is
      provided.

      (4) Consent Patients will have had information > 24hours in advance of consenting to study
      and having the research MRI. Consent will be obtained by a member of the research team
      trained in taking consent. Interpretation services will be made available if the patient is
      not fluent in spoken or written English.

      (5) Data Management

        1. Unexpected Findings: Any unexpected findings in participants with known cancer (e.g.
           unknown metastatic disease) will be directly communicated to the clinical team.

        2. Confidentiality of Data: All data will be collated by the chief investigator and
           research team. Electronic data and images will be held on password protected databases
           and will be pseudo anonymised to avoid identification of patients. Adherence will be
           made to the data protection act 1998. Patient data will never leave UCLH. This system is
           compliant with UCLH data protection regulations.

           (6) Patient Burden/Benefit Patients will need to attend the hospital for the additional
           scan required for this study. The total amount of time that they will spend within the
           study is approx. 4 hours (including consent, preparation and monitoring). Patients will
           reimbursed for transport costs to enable them to attend for their scan.

           The investigators will where possible try to coincide the scan with a clinical
           appointment to minimise repeated attendances to hospital. There will be no direct
           benefit to patients of having undergone this scan. However, participants will contribute
           towards potential societal benefit if the technique is successful. The investigators
           will keep the doctors of the patients informed with the study results which can then be
           communicated to participants.
    
  