
    
      Presbyopia is an age-related progressive decrease in the ability to bring near objects to
      clear focus. It is attributed to changes in the accommodative apparatus in the visual system
      which includes the ciliary muscle and crystalline lens. Current Presbyopia management
      includes bifocal or multifocal corrections in spectacles or contact lenses that provide good
      focus over a range of object distances.

      Current LASIK refractive surgery algorithms using Excimer laser are a safe, effective, and
      precise way to treat ametropia in eyes with regular corneas. The LASIK procedure uses a
      microkeratome to create a lamellar resection of the cornea at an intended depth ranging from
      90 to 160 microns. The microkeratome is designed to maintain a "hinge" of tissue so that a
      flap of corneal epithelium and superficial stroma can be lifted to expose deeper stromal
      tissue while remaining attached to the cornea. The ablative energy of the excimer laser is
      then applied directly on the exposed corneal stroma to remove the required amount of tissue
      for a given refractive error. The amount of corneal tissue to be removed is determined by the
      magnitude of refractive correction and treatment area (optic zone). Once the laser ablation
      is completed, the flap is repositioned over the residual stromal bed.

      The presbyopic treatment consists of a standard aspheric treatment for distance vision and
      the so called SUPRACOR addition to correct near vision.

      The SUPRACOR addition provides a multifocal ablation with a central near addition with an
      aberration controlled transition zone towards the periphery, thereby allowing good focus over
      a range of object distances. This approach showed good near visual performance in hyperopic
      eyes (see also section 2.1).

      The SUPRACOR presbyopic treatment algorithm subject to this study has been specifically
      developed to prospectively generate a treatment file for the Technolas 217z100 laser that
      will provide Presbyopia correction among eyes with primary myopia or myopic astigmatism
      (distance correction).
    
  