
    
      Polypectomy is the basis of colorectal cancer prevention by interrupting the
      adenoma-to-carcinoma sequence. Most of the polypectomies are performed for diminutive (≤5mm)
      or small (6-10mm) colorectal lesions which represent >90% of the overall burden of resected
      polyps. Although the potential for neoplasia is usually size-dependent, recent evidence
      suggested that even diminutive and small polyps harbor a substantial risk of advanced
      neoplasia (in some series as high as 9-10%). Complete resection of neoplastic polyps is
      pivotal, as 8.8% to 50% of interval cancers may arise as a consequence of incomplete
      polypectomy. However, the ideal method to remove small colorectal polyps remains uncertain.
      Cold snare polypectomy has become standard technique allowing for comprehensive and safe
      resection of diminutive polyps, though significant incomplete resection rates have challenged
      the implementation of CSP for larger (in particular 8-10mm) polyps. Submucosal injection of a
      solution containing a staining dye could improve the outcome of cold snare polypectomy: a)
      lift of the lesion with submucosal chromoendoscopy could sharply delineate margins and
      facilitate capture and removal by using a cold snare, and b) formation of a submucosal
      cushion could minimize mechanical damage to the submucosal vessels, preventing the occurrence
      of immediate bleeding.

      Use of electrocautery is believed to reduce the risk of incomplete resection, although it is
      less attractive from a safety standpoint due to the risk of complications including delayed
      bleeding, post-polypectomy syndrome and perforation. Injection of a submucosal solution in
      order to lift the lesion (injection-assisted endoscopic mucosal resection, EMR) facilitates
      "hot" resection of sessile or flat neoplasms and allows for a deeper resection margin as
      compared to conventional polypectomy, while it minimizes electrocautery damage by creating a
      safety cushion. Despite it is highly efficient, EMR still carries a substantial risk of
      complications (in most series 7-8%) which has generally limited uptake of the technique among
      endoscopists for the removal of small polyps.

      Therefore, the investigators designed a randomized controlled trial to assess whether
      injection-assisted cold snare polypectomy may be noninferior to EMR for the resection of
      small (6-10mm) colorectal polyps.

      METHODS

      The study will be conducted in the endoscopy units of the Benizelion General Hospital
      (Heraklion, Crete, Greece) and the Konstantopoulio General Hospital (Nea Ionia, Athens,
      Greece). Consecutive subjects over the age of 18 years who agree informed consent and who
      have at least one polyp of eligible size (6-10mm) will be randomly assigned in two groups:

        1. Injection-assisted cold snare polypectomy (I-CSP). Polyps in this group will be resected
           with the cold snare technique after pre-lift of the lesion with a submucosal injection
           of methylene blue-tinted normal saline solution. The polyp and a small rim of normal
           tissue will be then snared closely and removed in a single piece without the use of
           electrocautery.

        2. Endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR). Polyps in this group will be removed in a single
           piece by using an "inject-and-cut" EMR technique. Methylene blue-tinted normal saline
           solution will be injected into the submucosal space followed by the application of snare
           cautery for lesion resection.

      All polypectomy specimens will be retrieved by suctioning into a polyp trap or by using
      retrieval forceps and send for histopathological examination.

      The polypectomy site will be rinsed with tap water and carefully inspected for residual
      polyp. Targeted biopsies will be obtained from any areas in the polypectomy site margin
      suspicious for residual tissue. Protrusions in the polypectomy base after I-CSP will be
      recorded and a biopsy will be taken for separate histological assessment.

      Histological evaluation of polypectomy specimens and post-polypectomy biopsy specimens will
      rely on the criteria of the World Health Organization and will be performed by experienced GI
      pathologists blinded to the polytectomy technique used and the endoscopic findings.
    
  