
    
      This research study is a Feasibility Study, which is the first time investigators are
      examining these drugs, Durvalumab (MEDI4736) and Oleclumab (MEDI9447) in patients with
      muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) cancer prior to surgery. Cisplatin-containing
      chemotherapy given before surgery is the standard of care in patients with MIBC because it
      increases the rate of cure after surgery. Participants may still be eligible for this study
      if their doctor determines that participants are able to receive cisplatin-containing
      chemotherapy, but the participants elect not to undergo chemotherapy before surgery,
      understanding the potential benefits of chemotherapy. The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug
      Administration) has not approved Durvalumab (MEDI4736) for localized bladder cancer prior to
      surgery, but it has been approved for other uses, including for locally advanced or
      metastatic bladder cancer after progression on platinum-containing chemotherapy. The FDA (the
      U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved Oleclumab (MEDI9447) as a treatment for
      any disease. Durvalumab is a monoclonal antibody (an antibody is a protein produced by the
      body's immune system) that works by blocking the Programmed Cell Death Ligand 1 (PD-L1), a
      protein on cancer cells that stops the body's immune system from killing cancer cells, to
      increase the body's immune response to prevent or slow down cancer growth. Oleclumab is a
      monoclonal antibody that works by reducing the amount of adenosine, a small molecule called a
      metabolite that binds to adenosine receptors on immune cells to regulate the immune system
      and suppress the immune response. Reducing the amount of immunosuppressive adenosine can
      increase the body's immune response to kill cancer cells. It is hoped that by combining
      Oleclumab with Durvalumab, an even greater immune response against the tumor will be
      generated. This research study is designed to see if the new anti-cancer drug Durvalumab
      (MEDI4736) with or without another new anti-cancer drug Oleclumab (MEDI9447) can be safely
      administered before surgery for bladder cancer
    
  