
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the leading cause of mortality among women living in the
      United States, regardless of race and ethnicity and is likely the leading cause of mortality
      among lesbians. However, in various reports since 1994, the National Institute of Mental
      Health, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the American Medical Association, the
      American Public Health Association, and the Institute of Medicine (IOM) have pointed out that
      health care and health research affecting lesbian women are inadequate. As women, lesbians
      share many of the same health concerns of all women. However, as emphasized in the IOM Report
      on Lesbian Health "factors assumed to place women at risk for or to protect them against
      health disorders may not be present at the same levels or operate in the same way for
      lesbians". The IOM report also recognizes that "women who self-identify as lesbian may also
      experience stressors not commonly faced by heterosexual women" and that "it is important to
      understand the factors that are unique to lesbians and their impact on lesbians' health".
      Data which do exist from household surveys and studies utilizing convenience samples indicate
      that women who identify as lesbian may differ from heterosexual women in several important
      factors which contribute to the development of CHD. However, to date there has not been a
      comprehensive examination of CHD risk in a large sample of women who identify as lesbian or
      an examination of how their pattern of risk factors or overall risk for CHD may differ from a
      sample of demographically similar heterosexual women.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study is a case-control, cross-sectional survey that includes both behavior (alcohol,
      smoking, substance use, physical activity) and physiological (lipids, blood pressure,
      adiposity) measures. Self-identified lesbian women will be age, education, and racially
      matched to heterosexual women. The study will test the hypotheses that the prevalence and
      pattern of coronary heart disease (CHD) risk factors are different between lesbians and
      heterosexual women. The study will also determine the absolute and relative risk estimates
      for CHD based on the Framingham multiple-risk-factor assessment equations, and test the
      hypothesis that lesbians are at increased risk of CHD compared to heterosexual women.
    
  