
    
      It is usually reported that there is a parallelism between changes in the bone structure and
      function and the muscle structure and function. Sarcopenia is frequently observed in
      osteoporotic patients. Bone formation increases or bone resorption decreases with exercise.

      One of the most important functions of bone bear mechanical loads include body weight. Bone
      must be strong enough to resist the mechanical loading. Mechanisms need to protect bone when
      bone is subject to excessive mechanical loading. These mechanisms may mainly focus on
      strengthening the bone and/or changing vectorial properties of mechanical loading applied
      bone.

      The vectorial properties of mechanical loading applied bone may be controlled by muscle
      contractions. Bone contains wide mechanoreceptor net constructed by osteocytes.
      So,distribution of the mechanical loading on bone cross-sectional area is possible to
      perceive. It may be also possible that inappropriate distribution of mechanical loading on
      bone crosssectional area is optimized by muscle contractions. To get this regulation, there
      should be a mechanism that muscle activity is controlled by central nervous system based on
      mechanical loading distribution on bone cross-sectional area. The investigators previously
      showed that bone can regulate muscle activity, based on its bone mineral density. According
      to this study result, it can be suggested there may exist a mechanism that bone sensing
      mechanical stimuli can send the signals to central nervous system and neuronally regulate
      muscle activity (bone myo-regulation reflex). (It is also well known that load-induced
      adaptive bone formation is neuronally regulated. Taken together, a general mechanism, bone
      reflex, may be defined that bone subjected to loading can neuronally regulate bone formation
      and muscle activity) Vibration has a strong osteogenic effect. Vibration-induced bone
      formation is neuronally regulated. Vibration can also effectively enhance muscle strength and
      power. Previous studies have shown that vibration increases muscle electromyographic (EMG)
      activity. It has been showed that bone has an effect on the increase in muscle EMG activity
      caused by vibration in healthy young adults in a study. In this study, it was reported that
      vibrations-induced increases in muscle electrical activity of flexor carpi radialis (FCR) was
      related to ultradistal radius bone mineral content (BMC) and the FCR H-reflex was suppressed
      or depressed during vibration. This findings were reported to support the assumption that the
      bone exposed to cyclic mechanical loading may neuronally regulate muscle activity.

      The aim of this study is to investigate effects of femur exposed to vibration on the rest
      muscle electrical activity of hip adductors in cases with postmenopausal osteoporosis.
    
  