
    
      This will be a prospective cohort study of individuals exposed to confirmed cases of Human
      Influenza A (H5N1) infection in China. The study will be conducted over a period of
      approximately one year. Adults and children, greater than age 1, who meet the eligibility
      criteria will be consented and enrolled in the study. These subjects will undergo up to two
      blood draws for serologic testing of the presence of H5N1 antibodies according to an
      algorithm. These subjects will also be administered a structured questionnaire for collection
      of demographic information, information on potential exposure to poultry, other birds or
      animals, or infected humans and any clinical symptoms. This questionnaire will have similar
      data elements to the questionnaires used in the past for collection by the China CDC. The
      questionnaires were administered in areas of China where there have been poultry and human
      cases, as well as, other high risk populations in non-outbreak areas. Enrolled participants
      will complete two study visits no more than one month apart with a third visit for those who
      test positive for influenza A H5N1 infection. Participants who consent to HIV testing will
      have a fourth visit to obtain their HIV test results. The primary study objective is to
      determine the prevalence of antibodies to avian influenza A (H5N1) virus among close contacts
      and health care workers associated with confirmed H5N1 infected individuals in China. The
      secondary study objectives are to: describe risk factors for human infection with avian
      influenza A (H5N1) virus in China; evaluate the incidence of seroconversion and increases in
      titer of H5N1 antibodies; describe risk factors associated with seroconversion and increases
      in titer of H5N1 antibodies; determine T-cell immune responses in H5N1 infected individuals;
      and determine the prevalence of co-infection of H5N1 and HIV-1. The primary endpoint is
      detection of avian influenza H5N1 infection as determined by a positive result on
      Hemagglutination Inhibition (HI) and confirmed by Microneutralization (MN). Corresponding
      with the secondary study objectives, the following will be assessed as secondary study
      endpoints: association of risk factors with avian influenza seropositivity, including
      demographic characteristics and various exposures to poultry, other birds, and to infected
      humans; H5N1 serum antibody titer seroconversion or a greater than or equal to 4-fold
      increase in titer; association of risk factors with avian influenza seroconversion, including
      demographic characteristics and various exposures to poultry, other birds, and to infected
      humans; HIV-1 infection as determined by ELISA and Western Blot assays and co-infection of
      H5N1 and HIV-1 as determined by both assays described above; and T-cell responses to H5N1 as
      determined by ELISPOT assay and ICS.
    
  