
    
      The infection of cardiac implantable electronic device site (including both pocket infection
      and deeper infections) is a common complication of electronic device insertion. Its incidence
      is estimated in different series as 0.2-0.7 per 100 device-years. The risk factors that raise
      the incidence of this complication are in the first place lack of or inappropriate antibiotic
      prophylaxis and repeated or recurrent manipulations with the device. Several comorbidities
      such as diabetes, renal insufficiency, heart failure, malignancy, anticoagulation treatment,
      and, non-surprisingly glucocorticoid treatment are the remaining risk factors for the
      infection. It is worth mentioning that over half of all cases of infection occur during the
      first year past implantation.

      About 75% of all device infections are caused by staphylococci (both S. aureus and coagulase
      negative staphylococci). The other causative organisms are streptococci, Corynebacterium
      species, Propionibacterium, gram-negative bacilli and fungi. Main source of infection appears
      to be pocket contamination by skin flora. In one study the swab specimens obtained from
      device pockets during the procedure rendered positive culture for coagulase-negative
      staphylococci in up to one half of the specimens even despite observant aseptic technique and
      appropriate antibiotic prophylaxis.Thus, the contamination leading to infection of the
      implantation site can occur during the procedure. Other possible paths for infection include
      erosion of the device or its leads through the skin and seeding of the device and its leads
      by systemic bacteremia. The treatment of this complication usually requires explantation of
      the infected device, intravenous antibiotic treatment and then implantation of a new device
      through the non-infected route.

      The principal approach to prevent device infection remain aseptic technique during the
      procedure and appropriate antibiotic prophylaxis. Different clinical trials showed that
      pre-treatment of elective patients before the device implantation with anti-staphylococcal
      penicillins or with first generation cephalosporins results in decrease in rate of infection
      with odds ratio about 0.2-0.25.Therefore, current recommendation is to pre-treat patients
      before implantation of the device with 2-3 gram cefazolin or 1.5 gram cefuroxime, or 15 mg/kg
      vancomycin or clindamycin 900 mg IV within 4 hours before the procedure. Currently there is
      no evidence regarding adjuvant antibiotic treatment after the implantation. In the face of
      lack of evidence, several medical centres in Israel either non-uniformly administer different
      antibiotic regimens following the implantation or refrain from routinely prescribing any
      antibiotics to the patients following the implantation.

      Objective:

      The investigators suppose that non-necessary antibiotic treatment entails several adverse
      outcomes including direct adverse effects of the antibiotics (e.g. allergy, gastrointestinal
      effects, QT-prolongation), and induction of resistance to antibiotics among the patient's
      microflora entailing further infections with resistant bacteria (e.g. urinary tract
      infections, diarrhea). Therefore, an evidence either warranting use of antibiotics following
      the implantation of implantable electronic device or refuting it should be established.

      Medications:

        1. cefalexin 500 mg qid,

        2. roxithromycin 150 mg bid Both medications are authorized in Israel for a variety of
           infections or infection prevention including prevention of implantable cardiac
           electronic device infection. Both medications are routinely prescribed in medical
           centres in Israel following implantation of cardiac electronic devices.
    
  