
    
      Frailty is defined as a biologic syndrome of decreased physiologic reserve and increased
      vulnerability to health stressors. The concept of frailty has recently emerged as a critical
      determinant in the field of cirrhosis and liver transplantation. Frailty impacts pre- and
      post-transplant clinical outcomes, including waitlist mortality, post-transplant mortality,
      frequency of hospitalizations and duration of hospital admissions. Although the impact of
      frailty in liver transplantation has been established in the literature, there is a lack of
      data supporting effective interventions to decrease frailty prior to liver transplantation.
      Moreover, the studies that have tested interventions to improve physical function have relied
      on frequent supervised physical therapy sessions and access to exercise equipment that it is
      not financially or logistically feasible for the majority of patients. Patient engagement in
      PT also remains a critical barrier to overcome to decrease frailty in preparation for liver
      transplantation. Developing a practical and effective intervention to consistently engage
      patients in physical activity and decrease frailty is essential to improving clinical
      outcomes in the pre- and post-liver transplant setting.

      The investigators goal is to pilot test a novel PT intervention to decrease frailty in
      pre-transplant patients. The investigators have designed a prototype "LIver FrailTy"
      intervention (LIFT) that includes: PT evaluation, an individualized home exercise
      prescription (HEP), daily text message reminders to exercise and weekly telephone check-ins
      with team members. The investigators will also employ "Realistic Effort Action Planning"
      (REAP), a form of personality-informed motivational interviewing in a subset of patients to
      potentially enhance patient engagement and adherence to the home-exercise prescription.

      The central hypothesis is that the LIFT (+/- REAP) intervention will 1) improve adherence to
      recommended levels of exercise in end-stage liver disease 2) reduce pre-transplant frailty
      and 3) will improve pre- and post-transplant clinical outcomes.
    
  