
    
      Patients will be divided into two groups, arm A and arm B according to two different methods
      adopted in their first needle, which refers to the modified wet suction technique or 5ml dry
      suction technique.Take the solid occupying lesion diagnosis accuracy as the research major
      indicator to compare the the modified wet suction technique or 5ml dry suction technique as
      optimal efficiency test. Take classⅠerror, a=0.05, class II error, β=0.2, power=0.8, suppose
      that the diagnostic accuracy of dry suction technique to the solid occupying lesions is 75%,
      the diagnostic accuracy of modified wet suction technique to the solid occupying lesions is
      85%, the minimum sample size are 248 patients with 5ml dry suction technique and 248 patients
      with modified wet suction technique, the 2x2 cross-over design is adopted, namely, each arm
      has 124 patients respectively. Considering factors including defluxion, 20% cases will be
      added to two arms, therefore, each arm has 148 patients respectively, the total number of
      patients is 296.

      The statistics experts generated randomized serial numbers（001-296）according to same-size
      allocation ratio between arm A and arm B with Statistical Analysis System 9.2(SAS 9.2), a
      statistical software in the randomized block method. The serial numbers are the randomized
      grouping numbers for the trial patients, block capacity is 8, totally 37 randomized block.
      One copy send to trial centers for patient allocating, and the another copy be saved by the
      trial applicant unit. Every trail centers will be responsible for the screening of qualified
      patients, rank them in visit time to get the randomized grouping number so as to determine
      them goes to arm A or arm B .The research people and patients in all trial centers should not
      know the randomized grouping number and relevant arms. The arm name will be sealed under
      scratch card. Every trial patients will get a unique randomized number, and it will not
      change through out the whole trial.

      Use the inclusion and exclusion criteria to observe the patients and do relative inspections,
      and confirm if the patients qualified or not to the trial. Record the result of last time
      test before the treatment. Although it is better to get the informed consent before doing all
      kinds of observation and tests, if for some reason, the medical imaging examination has
      completed,as long as the imaging examination was done within 3 weeks before the needle
      biopsy, it can still be collect as baseline data (imaging examination can be done at other
      hospitals, but the trial center should issue a new evaluation report 1 week before the
      patient join the trial group); other lab test items done at 2 weeks before the needle biopsy
      can still be collect as baseline data for pre-research use, but these tests should be done at
      the trail center hospital so as to guarantee the data trace ability.

      The investigator will puncture the lesion for four needle passes for all of them:For Arm
      A,5ml dry suction technique is adopted in their first needle, then modified wet suction
      technique/5ml dry suction technique/modified wet suction technique is operated
      successively;For Arm B, modified wet suction technique is adopted in their first needle, then
      5ml dry suction technique/ modified wet suction technique /5ml dry suction technique is
      operated successively.Well,the 5ml dry suction technique is conducted as follow:after the
      needle puncturing into the lesion under ultrasound scanning, remove the stylet and connect
      the needle to syringe with 5ml negative pressure aspiration, then the needle will be moved
      to-and-fro within the lesion 20 times. Suction will be released before the needle is
      withdrawn from the lesion.And the modified wet suction technique is conducted as follow:the
      needle whose stylet is pulled out will be flushed with 2ml saline solution before puncturing
      when the lesion has been found, then puncture into the lesions and replace syringe with 5ml
      negative pressure aspiration, then the needle will be moved to-and-fro within the lesion 20
      times. Suction will be released before the needle is withdrawn from the lesion.If no core
      tissues obtained or the operator determine insufficient specimen according to Macroscopic
      rapid on-site(MOSE) after the operations above, then remedy procedures will be done, and the
      punctuation process should be continued with the appropriate punctuation methods until the
      satisfactory specimens are obtained.Experts in cytology and pathology evaluate the specimen
      quality and make a diagnosis under the condition that they do not know punctuation methods.
      The evaluation and diagnosis of each specimen are made by two experts independently. If the
      two experts hold different opinions, they will make a conclusion after full discussion. If
      there are two or more cytological smears with same punctuation method, the highest-rate smear
      should be taken as the standard smear.Follow up (outpatient follow up or telephone follow up)
      the patients at 1 week, 12 weeks and 36 weeks after the needle biopsy and collect the
      patients clinical data and confirm their final diagnosis.

      Case Report Form(CRF) will be filled by the researchers, every involved patient must have the
      CRF filled. This will be audited by clinical monitor and handed over to data administrator to
      input and manage data, the first copy will be kept by the applicant, the second copy will go
      to the trial center, and the third copy will be kept by the trail researchers.The data input
      and management will be taken care by specially assigned person. In order to guarantee the
      data accuracy, data input will be done twice by two independent data administrators, by
      computerized and manual verifying, hand over the data to statistical experts to do blind
      check and statistic analyzing.For the questions and doubts within the case report form, the
      data administrator make DRQ and via the clinical monitor asking the researchers. The
      researchers will answer and feed back as soon as possible. According to the researchers
      answer, data administrator will do the data modifying, confirming or inputting, and when
      necessary send out DRQ again.After blind audition and confirming that the established data
      base is correct, major researchers, applicant and the statistic analyzing people lock the
      data. The locked data will not be changed, and the data base will be handed over to
      statistical analyzer to do the statistic analyze according to the statistic analyzing plan.
      Problems found after data locking can be modified during the statistic analyzing
      procedure.This will be done by specialized statistic analyzing people according to the
      predetermined statistic analyzing plan. The statistic analyze will be carried out according
      to intention principle confirmed full analysis set and per-protocol set principle. After
      completing the statistic analyzing, the statistic analyzer issue the statistic analysis
      report and send this to major researchers to write the study report.

      Statistic analyzing plan:（1）General principle①All statistical tests were two-sided. P<0.05 is
      regarded that the difference is statistical significance.② Description of quantitative index
      will calculate the mean and the criteria deviation, description of classification index will
      describe the number and percentage of each type.（2） Statistical Analysis Method：① For
      measurement data, compare these data with baseline value during the screening period, adopt
      the deviation t-test, the variance analysis of cross-over experiment or the rank-sum test of
      cross-over experiment to make a comparison between these data and baseline value.② For
      enumeration data, adopt the paired x2-test(including CMH-x2 test) or Fisher's exact test to
      compare these data of each group.（3）Defluxion Analysis：The total defluxion rate of each group
      and the defluxion rate caused by adverse events are compared by x2-test or Fisher's exact
      test.（4）Analysis of baseline value balance：The indexes of some baseline values such as
      demographic data, vital signs, history of diseases and basic treatment are compared by group
      t-test and x2 test to measure the balance of each group. Baseline evaluation is made to full
      analysis set( FAS) and per-protocol set(PPS).（5）Validity Analysis：The primary index of
      validity analysis is the diagnostic accuracy of the 5ml dry pressure and modified wet
      pressure to the solid space-occupying lesions. The secondary indexes of validity analysis
      include the punctuation specimen quality of 5ml dry pressure and modified wet pressure, the
      diagnostic rate of the first needle of 5ml dry pressure / modified wet pressure and the
      incidence of complications for modified wet pressure and 5ml dry pressure. The rates of each
      two arms and Youden indexes are compared by the approximate normal z-test or the
      central-effect-considered Cochran Mantel Haenszel-x2(CMH-x2 )text.(6)Safety Analysis:The
      incidences of adverse events/ adverse reactions (including complications from punctuation) of
      each arm are compared by x2-test or Fisher's exact test and describe the adverse events
      occurred in this experiment by the list and the normal/abnormal changes of laboratory text
      results before and after test and the relationship between abnormal changes of laboratory
      text results and this diagnostic research.(7) All statistical analyses are completed by the
      professional statistical analysis software, SAS version 9.2.
    
  