
    
      Epidemiological studies support that light to moderate alcohol drinking (10-20g per day), may
      reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD), stroke, dementia, depression, and all-cause
      mortality. In addition, moderate red wine consumption has recently shown to be inversely
      associated with a decline in global cognitive function and the domains of memory and
      flexibility. The claimed beneficial effects of the Mediterranean diet include prevention of
      several age-related dysfunctions including cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases.
      These effects have been related to the protection against cognitive decline associated with
      aging and disease by a number of polyphenols found in red wine and virgin olive oil.
      Neurodegenerative diseases, as all chronic degenerative diseases, are linked to inflammation
      and its inter-twined phenomena: the oxidation and the oxidative damage. The interrelationship
      among chronic degenerative diseases is also evidenced by the fact that vascular
      (cardiovascular) risk factors are associated to cognitive decline, and these vascular factors
      are currently the only known modifiable risk factors for Alzheimer disease.

      There is evidence suggesting that DOPET, also known as hydroxytyrosol (HOTYR), has a role in
      the cardioprotective and neuroprotective properties of wine. It is a phenolic compound
      present in virgin olive oil and wine, and it is a potent dietary anti-inflammatory and
      antioxidant molecule. Biological effects of HOTYR may explain in part some of the beneficial
      effects for human health that have been credited to moderate ethanol intake (in form of
      wine).

      The present project is not intended to provide support for the clinical use of moderate- dose
      alcohol as a treatment modality for CVD risk patients. Nevertheless, it will investigate a
      novel mechanism of action that may explain in part beneficial health effects associated to
      moderate alcohol consumption. This novel mechanism of action is mediated by compounds that at
      mid/long-term run are susceptible of a pharmaceutical and/or nutraceutical food development.
    
  