
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Although studies in 1992 with a sufficient number of minority patients were sparse, those
      available suggested that Black Americans had a higher case fatality from coronary heart
      disease, but lesser amounts of atherosclerotic coronary artery disease. A possible
      explanation for this apparent paradox was that myocardial ischemia might be more prevalent
      with less coronary artery atherosclerosis in Black Americans because of comorbid diseases or
      differences in coronary physiology. This could be secondary to excess hypertension and left
      ventricular hypertrophy in Black Americans but might also have been related to intrinsic or
      acquired differences in coronary artery autoregulation and vasoreactivity leading to
      depression in coronary blood flow and reserve.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The intracoronary Doppler flow velocity guidewire together with quantitative coronary
      angiography was used to study changes in coronary blood flow in blacks secondary to
      pharmacologic provocateurs known to induce arteriolar vasodilation. White Americans with
      similar demographic characteristics and equivalent amount of ventricular hypertrophy and
      coronary disease were similarly studied in a parallel fashion for comparison. A control group
      of normal white and Black Americans were studied to detect unexpected intrinsic differences.
      Both endothelium dependent and independent induction of coronary arteriolar vasodilation were
      studied. In 25 percent of patients with endothelium dependent defects in arteriolar
      vasodilation, retesting was performed after intracoronary infusion of L-arginine, the
      precursor of endothelium dependent relaxing factor. Finally, the possibility of a rightward
      shift in coronary artery autoregulation in chronic hypertension was investigated. This
      finding would necessitate that the lower limit of autoregulation occurred at higher diastolic
      pressures, resulting in a drop-off of coronary perfusion at normal physiologic pressures and
      ischemia.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  