
    
      "The Incredible Years" refers to a suite of developmentally appropriate, group-based
      interventions targeting parenting, children, and teachers. IY-ASD is an adapted version of
      the Basic parent training program, which uses a simple and low-cost format to develop skills
      in problem-solving coping, stress management, and communication. "The Incredible Years" has
      decades of evidence pointing to improved levels of parent stress, depression, and coping
      skills, as well as decreased negative child outcomes such as aggressive behavior in a broad
      array of diverse populations. The program has been used extensively in the United Kingdom and
      Sweden. Cost-effectiveness analyses have been performed with positive results in England.
      "The Incredible Years" is based on attachment theory and social learning theory.The goals of
      "The Incredible Years" parent intervention - communication, problem-solving, and stress
      management - are critically important to this population. Parents with children with special
      needs tend to interact with teachers, healthcare professionals, and other adults more often
      than parents whose children do not have disabilities. Thus, building a strong foundation
      early to begin to problem solve, communicate effectively, and navigate healthcare and special
      education systems can reduce some stress the parent might experience in the future.

      The Incredible Years Parent Program for Autism Spectrum and Language Delays (IY-ASD). IY-ASD
      will be delivered over a 14-week period. The current research aims to rigorously test IY-ASD
      in a community-based setting using a randomized design. The investigators will compare IY-ASD
      to a usual practice, a parent support group currently offered at Onslow County Partnership
      for Children, "Circle of Parents." "Circle of Parents" is an open group which is led by a
      parent leader. These groups generally meet weekly or biweekly. Participants are encouraged to
      share resources and other support both during groups, and between meetings. Free childcare
      and meals are also offered during "Circle of Parents" meetings. Using a randomized design,
      the investigators will evaluate a parent intervention for caregivers of children with Autism
      Spectrum Disorder (ASD), compared to a parent support group. Over a four-year period, the
      investigators seek to:

        1. Recruit approximately 105 parents and other primary caregivers to participate in either
           an IY-ASD or "Circle of Parents" group;

        2. Measure parenting stress, parent coping mechanisms, parenting practices, and child
           behavior of participants and their children, at baseline and posttest (pre- and
           post-intervention);

        3. Compare outcomes of parents completing IY-ASD versus those in "Circle of Parents" group;

        4. Evaluate changes in parent and child outcomes from post-intervention to 3-month
           follow-up in IY-ASD participants; and,

        5. Elicit information from IY-ASD participants to assess satisfaction and improve future
           use of IY-ASD in the ASD population.
    
  