
    
      Marijuana is the most commonly used illegal drug in the United States; more than 2 million
      Americans either abuse or are dependent on the drug. The development of a medication to
      reduce marijuana use and prevent drug relapse by lessening withdrawal symptoms has been a
      primary focus of research. However, there has been little emphasis on evaluating the efficacy
      of a treatment that specifically reduces marijuana cravings. This study will evaluate the
      subjective and physiological responses to marijuana-related cues versus non marijuana-related
      cues in order to better understand the effects of marijuana cravings.

      Participants will be divided into two groups. Group 1 will consist of 20 individuals
      diagnosed with marijuana dependence; Group 2 will consist of individuals matched by age
      range, gender and race to Group 1, and who are healthy volunteers and do not use marijuana or
      who report limited marijuana exposure. Participants in Group 1 will spend one night at the
      Psychiatric and Addiction Research Center at Detroit Receiving Hospital to control for
      alcohol and drug use for 12 hours preceding the next day's 2-hour study session. Participants
      in Group 2 are not required to spend the night, but are tested for drugs and alcohol prior to
      the session. During the study session, both groups will be shown a nature video and will be
      asked to handle and smell various items; these will act as the neutral, non marijuana-related
      cues. Next, the participants will watch a video of individuals smoking marijuana and will be
      asked to handle and smell marijuana-related items; these will act as the marijuana-related
      cues. Heart rate and skin temperature will be monitored continuously throughout the cue
      sessions with the use of electrodes and a skin thermometer. Prior to and after the cue
      sessions, blood pressure will be measured and questionnaires will be administered to assess
      drug cravings as well as related mood states. Prior to leaving the laboratory, the
      participants' vital signs will be evaluated to ensure that any cue-related physiological
      changes have returned to normal. Participants will have the option of talking to a clinician
      experienced in dealing with drug cravings following the end of the study session.
    
  