
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety of rituximab, yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan, high-dose
           melphalan, and autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in patients with
           previously treated multiple myeloma.

        -  Determine the effect of rituximab and yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan on the
           clonotypic B-cells at baseline and at B-cell recovery in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the response rate and progression factors (time to progression,
           progression-free survival, and duration of response) in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the effect of rituximab and yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan on the clonal
           plasma cells in the blood and marrow prior to high-dose melphalan.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan.

      Patients receive rituximab IV followed by a dosimetry dose of indium In 111 ibritumomab
      tiuxetan IV over 10 minutes on day -22. Patients with acceptable biodistribution receive
      rituximab IV followed by yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan IV over 10 minutes on day -14,
      high-dose melphalan IV over 1 hour on days -2 and -1, and undergo autologous peripheral blood
      stem cell transplantation on day 0. Patients also receive sargramostim (GM-CSF)
      subcutaneously beginning on day 0 and continuing until blood counts recover.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan until
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that
      at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Bone marrow, blood, and urine samples are collected at baseline and then periodically during
      study for biomarker correlative studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 5 years.
    
  