
    
      Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) accounts for 6% of all cancer related deaths in
      Denmark, and the 5-year survival rate is only 8%. PDAC develops from precursor lesions with
      pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (panIN) being the most common, and cystic lesions as a
      second precursor. Unlike panINs, which are too small for detection with current imaging
      modalities, cystic lesions of the pancreas are increasingly diagnosed due to the extended use
      of cross-sectional imaging. Pancreatic cystic lesions may be observed in up to 13.5% of all
      MRI scans and 3% of all CT scans. There are several types of pancreatic cysts and each of
      them requires individual management, ranging from no treatment over watchful waiting to
      surgical resection according to their malignant potential.

      Standard diagnostic workup includes cross-sectional imaging of the cystic lesions and, in
      selected cases endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) with aspiration of cyst fluid by fine needle
      aspiration (FNA), followed by cyst fluid cytology and tumor marker analysis. The diagnostic
      algorithm is based on International consensus guidelines established in 2006, and revised in
      2012 and 2017, integrating clinical features with EUS-findings. The level of evidence in
      these guidelines is unfortunately low. A recent meta-analysis concluded that EUS and cyst
      fluid cytology have low sensitivity (54-63%), whereas the specificity is acceptable (88-92%)
      for detection of mucinous cysts. Low sensitivity is mainly due to absence of sufficient
      cellular material in the cyst fluid for definite diagnosis. Tumor marker analysis of cyst
      fluid, such as carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), CA 72.4, CA 125, CA 19.9, and CA 15.3, have
      been studied extensively with CEA being the most accurate marker. A cut-off value of 192
      ng/mL for CEA distinguishes mucinous from non-mucinous cysts with a good, albeit imperfect,
      accuracy of 80%. However, the value will not differentiate between IPMN and MCN, and more
      importantly, it does not correlate with the level of dysplasia or malignancy.

      EUS-guided through-the-needle microbiopsy using the Moray™ forceps is a novel adjunctive. The
      device can be inserted through a EUS-FNA needle and used to obtain microbiopsies from
      different tissues in relationship to the gastrointestinal system. This instrument can be used
      in combination with EUS-FNA to subsequently obtain microbiopsies from the pancreatic cyst
      wall. Microbiopsies seem to represent a break-through in pre-operative classification of
      pancreatic cysts, as they provide histological material for examination of tissue
      architecture not readily accessible in FNA material. However, very little experience has been
      obtained hitherto. Even though this technique is currently described only in a few studies,
      it seems feasible and theoretically offers a higher quality of material than what can be
      obtained by EUS-FNA alone.
    
  