
    
      In several clinical situations and surgical procedures single-lung ventilation (SLV) is
      essential. Especially during thoracic surgery SLV and collapse of the operated lung, while
      ventilating the other side of the lung is the most frequented indication. In these cases the
      double lumen tube (DLT) is the most widely used device.

      The DLT consists of a proximal tracheal and a distal bronchial end, reaching into the left or
      the right side of the lung- dependent of the model of the tube. Endotracheal intubation with
      DLT, which are much larger and stiffer than conventional single-lumen tubes, are much more
      difficult to place and are especially likely to provoke airway injuries. Furthermore,
      placement of a DLT requires obligatory fiberoptic bronchoscopy and a certain level of
      experience. Tube misplacement after patients removal from dorsal (intubation-) to lateral
      position as well as during surgical procedure is relatively frequent. Tube displacement from
      its proper position above the carina, respectively in the main bronchus, may result in
      life-threating complications and airway lacerations.

      The anesthetist may detect tube misplacement from indirect clinical signs including increased
      airway pressure, oxygen desaturation, or difficulty performing SLV. In this clinical
      situations, verification of tube position using fibreoptic bronchoscopy is indicated.
      Fibreoptic bronchoscopy requires rigorous training and practice to maintain a high level of
      skill as well as expensive infrastructure.

      The VivaSight-DL (ETView Ltd, M.P. Misgav 20174, Israel) is a new DLT promising to exceed
      clinical performance of the conventional DLT. The VivaSight-DL is basically a left-sided DLT
      with an embedded video imaging device and light source at its tip and integrated cable with
      connector. However, after correct tube placement, the video imaging device is focused on the
      main carina, indicating the correct position of the bronchial cuff in the left main bronchus.
    
  