
    
      To participate in this study, Veterans must first be enrolled in the Resilience and
      Well-Being Program, a 5-week, group-based positive psychology program held at VA Puget Sound
      as part of standard care. After enrollment, Veterans may choose to enroll in this research
      study which evaluates the effectiveness of, and satisfaction with, the Resilience and
      Well-Being Program.

      This research study includes two study visits at VA Puget Sound and three assessments over
      the phone.

      Informed Consent Process

      This process will take place at the VA Puget Sound. A research staff member will review the
      details of the study with the participant and answer any questions s/he may have to see if
      they are interested in participating.

      Assessments

        1. Baseline Assessment: A research staff member will ask the participant a number of
           standard questions. The most straightforward of these questions will ask about age,
           gender, race, ethnicity, education level, employment status, marital status, and
           military service. Participants will also be asked questions about their medical and
           mental health treatment use, and any other health problems they may experience.
           Participants will also be asked questions about potentially stressful life experiences.

        2. Post-Group Satisfaction Survey: This survey will happen following the completion of the
           5-week group as long as a participant has attended at least one session. Participants
           will be asked to complete this survey in-person at the end of Session 5. In this survey,
           participants will be asked questions about how satisfying, engaging, and helpful they
           thought the program was; what they thought about the program, and whether they
           experienced any negative effects from participating in the program.

        3. Telephone Assessments: Throughout participation in the study, participants will be asked
           to complete three telephone assessments. Within each assessment, participants will be
           asked questions relating to:

             -  How the participant is feeling

             -  Satisfaction with life and well-being

             -  Positive and negative emotions

             -  Participation and satisfaction with social activities

             -  Problems related to very stressful experiences

             -  Physical pain and how it is affecting the participant's life

             -  Current and past mental health treatment use

             -  How likely the participant is to seek mental health treatment

             -  Changes in medications, psychological treatment, or new major life events

             -  How illness/injury has impacted the participant's life

             -  Whether the participant noticed any changes in their life after the group (once the
                group is over)

      The three telephone assessments will occur at the following stages of the study:

        -  Pre-Group Assessment must be completed before the first group session.

        -  Post-Group Assessment will occur at the end of the 5-week group period.

        -  5-Week Follow-Up Assessment will occur about 5 weeks after the end of the 5-week group
           period.

      Focus Group (Optional)

      Participants will be invited to complete a focus group that will last about 60-90 minutes six
      to eight weeks after the completion of the group to talk about their experiences and
      satisfaction with the program. Completing the focus group is optional, but encouraged, as
      researchers would like to receive participant feedback through open discussion to better
      improve this program for other Veterans. The focus group leaders will use prepared questions
      to help guide the flow of discussion.
    
  