
    
      It is well established that regular physical activity and cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF)
      training confers numerous health benefits and that a low level of CRF is a risk factor for
      coronary heart disease and cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality. It is generally accepted
      that CRF can be improved with the implementation of a regular aerobic exercise training
      program following standardized guidelines. However, it has also been shown that not all
      individuals respond positively to such exercise, indeed there is considerable individual
      variability in training adaptations including so-termed 'non-responders' and, in some
      instances, 'adverse responders'. This variability in training responsiveness is not well
      understood and may be attributable to various factors including absence of a set definition
      in the literature for incidence of response and lack of an individualized approach to the
      exercise prescription.

      It has been purported that a more individualized approach to the exercise prescription may
      enhance training efficacy and limit training unresponsiveness. For instance, it has been
      acknowledged as far back as the late 1970s that utilizing a relative percent method (i.e., %
      heart rate reserve [HRR]) to establish exercise intensity fails to account for individual
      metabolic responses to exercise. Nevertheless, the relative percent concept remains the gold
      standard recommendation for exercise intensity. It is both plausible and practical to think
      that an intensity set based on an individual's threshold measurement (i.e. ventilatory
      threshold) will not only encourage more positive physiological adaptations, but may account
      for some of the variability in training responsiveness by taking into consideration
      individual metabolic differences.

      Additionally, high intensity interval training (HIIT) has emerged as a potential time
      efficient strategy for health promotion. Current recommended guidelines of 150 minutes of
      moderate physical activity per week is reduced by half to 75 minutes if the week's activity
      is done at a vigorous intensity. It has been demonstrated that HIIT, when compared to
      moderate intensity continuous training (MICT), has resulted in equal or superior improvements
      in VO2max, insulin action and sensitivity, endothelial function, systolic blood pressure, hip
      and waist circumference and lipid oxidation. The American College of Sports Medicine suggests
      considering incorporating interval training after a period of initial conditioning (typically
      2-3 months) intermittently to avoid excessive orthopedic stress. Additionally, HIIT may
      require initial supervision in untrained and high risk individuals, and may transiently
      increase the risk of cardiac events in people with underlying undiagnosed CVD. Therefore, it
      seems pragmatic and consistent with current recommendations to combine the two types of
      training to achieve the greatest positive changes in cardiovascular and metabolic health.

      It has been common practice to quantify training responsiveness based on absolute changes,
      but this method fails to take into consideration biological variability (normal day-to-day
      biological fluctuations) and measurement error of the equipment. Consequently, currently
      there is not a clear consensus on best practice to prescribe a customized exercise
      intervention that takes into consideration individual characteristics and diagnostic
      information. Furthermore, it may be that a personalized definition of biological variability
      is warranted. This is congruent with the line of reasoning that a more individualized
      approach to the exercise prescription may enhance training efficacy and limit training
      unresponsiveness. Simply put - if we are looking at exercise prescription (i.e., the front
      end) from an individualized perspective, it would also make sense to look at training
      responsiveness (i.e., the back end) from an individualized perspective as well.

      Furthermore, classification and interpretation of training responsiveness may require a
      holistic view that integrates all exercise training outcomes. For example, in a recent study
      an adverse response in one single measure rarely resulted in higher overall risk of CVD. In
      fact, 10-year CVD risk increased in only three individuals (out of 332 individuals) as
      highlighted in this investigation. This finding has practical implications suggesting that
      although some individuals may have adverse or nonresponse cardiometabolic responses to
      exercise training, this may not always result in increased CVD risk and exercise may benefit
      these participants in different ways, such as improved cardiorespiratory fitness. Indeed, in
      the previously mentioned study, more than 40% (9/22) of 'adverse responders' concurrently
      increased cardiorespiratory fitness levels by 10% or more. Higher levels of cardiorespiratory
      fitness have been offered as an antidote toward other risk factors. Moreover, the literature
      suggests a 15% reduction in mortality for a 10% improvement in cardiorespiratory fitness.
      Taken together, it may be unintentionally misleading to categorize someone as an "adverse
      responder or non-responder to exercise" based on a single cardiometabolic factor when it is
      well known that regular exercise training confers a myriad of benefits. Clearly, the overall
      topic of training responsiveness to exercise warrants much additional study.

      45 low-to-moderate risk, sedentary men and women will be recruited and randomized to one of
      the following arms:

        -  MICT + HIIT exercise program (N = 15)

        -  MICT exercise program (N = 15)

        -  non-exercise control group (N = 15)
    
  