
    
      Children admitted to PICU need of analgesic and sedative drugs. Prolonged treatment can lead
      to undesirable effects as dependence and tolerance. Patients that have developed dependence
      may develop the withdrawal syndrome (WS) during the analgesics and sedatives weaning process.

      Withdrawal symptoms are due to central nervous system excitement, gastrointestinal
      disturbance, and sympathetic system activation. The incidence of withdrawal syndrome is
      variable between 17 and 57% a recent study reported an incidence of 64.6% of WS in Italian
      PICUs. The prevention strategies are addressed to the restriction of drug exposure and to the
      gradual tapering of infusion. However, these strategies have weak evidence of effectiveness.
      In this study, the investigators hypothesize that dexmedetomidine may be useful and effective
      during the weaning of analgosedation drugs in PICU, in preventing the withdrawal syndrome.
      The primary aim of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of dexmedetomidine in reducing the
      occurrence of the WS. Secondary aims are to evaluate the dexmedetomidine safety during the
      weaning, the effective dose range, and the efficacy in reducing the duration of the weaning,
      of the mechanical ventilation, and of the length of PICU stay. Efficacy will be compared
      among pediatric age groups, gender, race, Pediatric Index of Mortality (PIM3) score, and
      length of the analgosedation treatment.

      Patients admitted to the PICU that meets the inclusion criteria, will be randomly assigned to
      one of the two treatment groups: treatment A (dexmedetomidine) or treatment B (placebo).

      Twenty-four hours before the start of the weaning an intravenous infusion of
      dexmedetomidine/placebo will start. After 24 hours of dexmedetomidine infusion, the weaning
      regimen will begin following the subsequent indications: 10% reduction of the dose every 12
      hours. The withdrawal assessment tool version 1 (WAT-1) is the selected scale to evaluate the
      occurrence of the WS. Patients with a score of WAT-1 <3 continue the weaning regimen.
      Patients with a score ≥3 increase the dose of dexmedetomidine/placebo until the next WAT-1
      score control and temporarily stop the planned 10% dose reduction. If the next WAT-1 score
      decreased by at least 1 point from the previous score, the weaning program restarted (10%
      reduction) without further changes in the dose of dexmedetomidine/placebo until the
      subsequent score. The 'acute withdrawal crisis' will be treated with a rescue dose of the
      opioid and/or benzodiazepine in use repeatable until resolution of the crisis. Once
      analgesics and sedatives weaning is complete, dexmedetomidine will gradually discontinue.
      Five days after discharge from PICU, a follow-up visit will be performed.

      The sample size estimate is 80 participants for each of the two groups for a total of 160
      patients recruited within a period of two years.
    
  