
    
      This study will be registered at ClincalTrials.gov and reported according to the CONSORT
      statement.

      Setting: Clinical training will forego unaltered as current practice at the department of the
      individual resident's employment. The simulated training will be held as individual training
      sessions on the Schallware Ultrasound simulator (station 64; version 010013) placed at the
      Copenhagen Academy for Education and Simulation (CAMES), Rigshospitalet. Testing will be done
      on both the simulator at the Simulationcentre at Rigshospitalet, CAMES and on real life
      patients in the departments of radiology where the residents are employed.

      Population: Participants are residents embarking on the first year of their specialized
      radiological training before any formalized ultrasound training. Enrollment is voluntary and
      in collaboration with their department of employment.

      Intervention and controlled conditions:

      A total of 22 residents at the beginning of their specialized radiological education and
      before their focused ultrasound training are randomised for two educational groups.

      The simulation-based training modules will be in a recommend but not mandatory order starting
      with a general organ-identifying module and continuing with range of pathology modules with
      headlines: Introduction, Liver I, Liver II, Biliary System, Pancreas and Spleen, Urinary
      System, Vessels, Other Findings, and Mixed Cases.

      The clinical part of training will forego unaltered for both groups for six weeks and all
      participants will fill out a log of all scans performed and when supervised the supervisor
      will score their scans using the OSAUS score.

      The reviewer scoring the simulation-based test will be blinded. It is not possible to blind
      the reviewers of the clinical score (OSAUS) as it is the residents' clinical supervisors.
    
  