
    
      Trauma-related nightmares and sleep disruption that follow combat exposure are distressing
      and frequently treatment resistant symptoms that impair quality of life and overall function.
      These symptoms closely resemble core nighttime symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder
      (PTSD), and are increasingly recognized in returnees from Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) and
      Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF). Prazosin, a generically available brain active alpha-1
      adrenergic receptor antagonist, markedly reduced or eliminated combat trauma-related
      nightmares and sleep disruption in 23 of 25 combat-exposed returnees from OIF at Madigan Army
      Medical Center (MAMC). The use of prazosin in OIF returnees was based on clinical efficacy of
      prazosin for trauma-related nightmares, sleep disturbance, and overall function in Vietnam
      combat veterans with chronic PTSD. The only drugs FDA approved for PTSD are the selective
      serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) sertraline and paroxetine. However, SSRI effectiveness
      in combat trauma PTSD, especially for nighttime symptoms, remains questionable.

      This is a placebo-controlled clinical trial of prazosin vs. the SSRI paroxetine for combat
      trauma-related nightmares, sleep disturbance, and overall posttraumatic stress disorder
      (PTSD) clinical severity in OIF/OEF returnees. Both neurobiologic considerations and our
      preliminary clinical treatment data provide support for the proposed trial. Preclinical and
      clinical studies suggest a role for increased central nervous system (CNS) adrenergic outflow
      and/or responsiveness in PTSD pathophysiology. Possible mechanisms include alpha-1 adrenergic
      receptor-mediated effects on sleep physiology, corticotropin releasing hormone secretion, and
      disruption of cognitive processing.

      Here we propose a double-blind, placebo-controlled parallel group 12 week clinical trial of
      prazosin vs. paroxetine to test the following hypotheses:

      Hypothesis 1. Prazosin will be more effective than paroxetine or placebo for reducing
      frequency and intensity of combat trauma-related nightmares (as measured by the "distressing
      dreams" item of the Clinician Administered PTSD Scale [CAPS]).

      Hypothesis 2. Prazosin will be more effective than paroxetine or placebo for improving sleep
      quality (as measured by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index [PSQI]).

      Hypothesis 3. Prazosin will be more effective than paroxetine or placebo for improving
      overall clinical status (as measured by the Clinical Global Impression of Change [CGIC]).

      Hypothesis 4. Prazosin will be better tolerated than paroxetine as measured by days retained
      in the study and frequency of adverse events.

      Primary outcome measures will assess trauma-related nightmares, sleep disturbance and change
      in global clinical status: these will include the CAPS [59] Recurrent Distressing Dreams
      item, the PSQI (60) and the CGIC (58) score. Secondary outcome measures will include total
      CAPS score, the CAPS subscale scores (Reexperiencing/ Intrusions, Avoidance/Numbing, and
      Hyperarousal), the Nightmare Frequency Questionnaire (NFQ), Insomnia Severity Index, and
      measures of depressive signs and symptoms, quality of life, and number of study days
      completed.
    
  