
    
      1. Ethical committee approval will be obtained from Ethics committee of Faculty of
           Pharmacy, Damanhour University.

        2. All participants should agree to take part in this clinical study and will provide
           informed consent.

        3. Sixty female breast cancer patients, who are candidates for neoadjuvant chemotherapy,
           will be recruited from the Medical Research Institute, Oncology department, Alexandria
           University, Alexandria.

        4. The 60 participants will be randomly assigned into 2 arms:

             -  Control arm (n=30): will be treated with AC-Taxol regimen (AC: Doxorubicin 60 mg/m2
                IV + cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 IV) for 4 cycles every 3 weeks. Subsequent Taxol
                cycles (Paclitaxel 80mg/m2 IV) once weekly for 12 weeks.

             -  Metformin arm (n=30): will be treated with the AC-Taxol regimen mentioned above
                together with Metformin 850 mg tablets orally twice per day (1700 mg/day).

        5. All patients will be submitted to:

             -  Full patient history and clinical examination.

             -  Routine follow up before each chemotherapy cycle (complete blood picture, liver
                function tests, renal function tests).

             -  Routine Echocardiography before each chemotherapy cycle.

        6. All patients will be monitored for the incidence of chemotherapy toxicities during
           neoadjuvant therapy.

        7. After completion of the neoadjuvant therapy, participants will undergo surgical tumor
           removal. The excised tumor will be collected, and the following biomarkers will be
           measured:

           i. Ki-67 ii. Caspase-3 iii. TNF-α Also, pathologic complete response (pCR) will be
           assessed.

        8. Patients demographic data will be recorded with respect to age, weight and disease
           history.

        9. Statistical tests appropriate to the study design will be conducted to evaluate the
           significance of the results.

       10. Results, conclusion, discussion and recommendations will be given.
    
  