
    
      Interstitial cystitis/painful bladder syndrome (IC) or Chronic Prostatitis/Chronic Pelvic
      Pain Syndrome (CP/CPPS) is characterized by chronic pelvic pain and voiding dysfunction. IC
      or CP/CPPS remains an enigma within urology, with no known etiology or widely effective
      therapies. However, some IC, CP/CPPS, and depressed patients suffer bowel co-morbidities, and
      it is well established that the GI tract can influence bladder function, mood and sensation
      via pelvic organ crosstalk. Like other body sites, the gut harbors a rich microflora. Studies
      characterizing microbial diversity and relative abundance at a particular body site, the
      "microbiome," reveal that microbiomes play critical roles in normal cellular and organ
      function, and thus this importance is emphasized with the Human Microbiome Project (HMP), an
      NIH Common Fund initiative. CPPS patients suffer chronic pelvic pain and dramatically lower
      quality of life, yet diagnostic markers and effective therapies remain elusive for these
      costly syndromes. IC is a debilitating condition of pelvic pain and voiding dysfunction
      afflicting up to 8 million U.S. women where depression is a common co-morbidity, distinct
      from over-active bladder (OAB) patients lacking pain. IC etiology remains unknown, but
      urothelial lesions and lamina propria mast cells are associated with patient symptoms.
      Similarly, CP/CPPS afflicts 1 in 22 men in the U.S. with pain and voiding and sexual
      symptoms, again distinct from patients having only irritative voiding from lower urinary
      tract symptoms (LUTS). And although leukocytes are observed in prostatic fluid of some
      patients, the etiology of CP/CPPS also remains unknown. Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis
      (HPA) dysfunction has been implicated in female and male patients and cats with feline IC,
      and thus may be common among CPPS, but a mechanism that integrates pelvic pain, voiding
      dysfunction, HPA activity, and depression is lacking.

      Microbiomes are also dynamic and subject to skewing, and these changes are increasingly
      associated with diseases including Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, obesity, and possibly
      depression. Antibiotic therapies alter microbiomes, often causing temporary dysfunction and
      sometimes resulting in diseases such as colitis. Since IC or CP/CPPS patients often have a
      history of urinary tract infection (UTI), they typically receive multiple courses of
      antibiotics. This therapeutic history of IC or CP/CPPS patients may have adverse consequences
      for two reasons. First, potential skewing of the gut microbiome may alter normal sensory and
      functional homeostatic mechanisms, contributing to pain and voiding dysfunction. Second, an
      altered gut microbiome may foster uropathogen reservoir expansion, and our preliminary data
      demonstrate urinary E. coli isolates can induce chronic pelvic pain persisting long after
      microbial clearance. Together these lines of reasoning raise the provocative possibility that
      microbiomes contribute to IC, CP/CPPS, and depression directly by supplying uropathogens or
      indirectly through organ crosstalk dysfunction. Therefore, is an altered gastrointestinal
      tract microbiome associated with IC, CP/CPPS, and/or depression? Our team marries core NIH
      and NIDDK missions, digestive diseases and kidney/urologic, to address this novel question
      with synergistic expertise in clinical diagnosis of IC, CP/CPPS, and depression, quantifying
      GI tract microbiomes, and neural mechanisms of microbe-induced pelvic pain. Stool samples
      will be analyzed by 16S rDNA sequence and in silico metagenome analyses to identify taxa,
      abundance, and function. Computational tools will be used to identify taxa amenable to rapid
      evaluation of stool. Stool, serum, and urine will be evaluated for small molecules specific
      to CPPS, and these putative mediators will be tested in mice for effects on pelvic pain and
      urinary function.
    
  