
    
      Overview of Procedures: PACE-life will be integrated into the Schizophrenia Treatment and
      Evaluation Program (STEP) outpatient clinics in Raleigh, NC and Carrboro, NC. The group walks
      will occur in the surrounding area around the clinics on sidewalks, bike trails, and
      residential streets. Goal setting groups and all assessments will take place in a conference
      room at the clinic. Goal-setting will include setting goals for the upcoming week in terms of
      number of steps as well as how many intensity walks that individuals plan to complete.

      Assessments/Measures: The exercise intervention, PACE-Life, will last for 24 weeks and
      includes both group walks and independent walks (done at a location of the subject's
      choosing). Participants will be asked to complete assessments at screening, baseline,
      mid-point, post-test, and 1-month follow-up (approximately 28 weeks total).

      At Screening the following measures will be examined: Demographics, the Wechsler Abbreviated
      Scale of Intelligence (WASI), a licensed physician will complete a medical history and
      physical exam, Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire (PAR-Q).

      At Baseline, Mid-point, Post-test, and 1-Month Follow-up the following measures will be
      examined: Demographics, Minutes Spent Walking, the Short Form International Physical Activity
      Questionnaire (IPAQ), Steps/day, Cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF)- CRF will be measured using
      the 6-minute walk test (6MWT), Self-determination Basic Needs, the Basic Psychological Need
      Scale-in General, the Basic Psychological Needs in Exercise Scale (BPNES), the Mini
      International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) (Baseline Only), Resting Systolic/Diastolic
      Blood Pressure and resting heart rate (RHR), autonomous motivation will be measured with the
      Behavioral Regulation in Exercise Questionnaire-2 (BREQ-2), enjoyment of walking will be
      measured with the Physical Activity Enjoyment Scale (PACES), the UCLA Loneliness Scale,
      Weight, BMI, and Waist/hip Circumference.

      At the conclusion of the open trial, the investigators will administer a brief questionnaire
      to the subjects regarding satisfaction and acceptability that will have both forced choice
      and open-ended questions.

      Intervention- Groups will occur twice per week for 30 minutes for the entire intervention
      without changes in frequency and duration. The intensity, however, of both group walks and
      home-based walks will increase throughout this intervention in a stepwise fashion to create
      an exercise dose response to maximize impact on CRF.

      Fitbits: All participants will be provided a Fitbit that is labeled with a participant
      number. All Fitbits are paired to a Fitbit account. Data from Fitbit devices can be synced to
      the corresponding account and accessed through Fitbit.com. Participants will be provided
      information about their accounts should participants want to look at the data but will be
      asked not to change any of the settings as the investigators will be using data for tracking
      steps/day and minutes spent walking.
    
  