
    
      This study is to determine if a locally applied immune response modifier will eliminate high
      grade dysplasia in Barrett's esophagus. Barrett's esophagus is a premalignant condition
      caused by chronic reflux of gastric contents into the lower esophagus. Present practice is to
      do a periodic esophagoscopy on patients with Barrett's esophagus and take biopsies in search
      of dysplasia. If the pathologist reports low grade dysplasia, the patient usually receives
      more intensive surveillance. If the pathologist reports high grade dysplasia, the patient and
      his physician are faced with a dilema. High grade dysplasia is carcinoma in situ and there is
      a strong propensity for such patients to progess to frank carcinoma of the esophagus.
      Carcinoma of the esophagus is a miserable disease which is difficult to treat and leads to
      death in about 95% of the cases at 5 years. The present standard for patients with high grade
      dysplasia is to recommend esophagectomy. Esophagectomy is a major surgical procedure with
      significant associated morbidity and mortality. Porfimer sodium(Photofrin) photodynamic
      therapy is effective in eliminating high grade dysplasia in Barrett's esophagus. It has been
      approved by the FDA but it is not widely utilized because of its complexity and expense.
      Other modalities such as endoscopic mucosal resection and endoscopic thermal ablation
      techiques are being studied. Although endoscopic techniques are much safer than surgery, they
      all are uncomfortable and carry some risk. Many patients with Barrett's esophagus are elderly
      and most with high grade dysplasia do not live long enough to develop cancer. This fact has
      made some gastroenterolgists recommend intensive surveillance as an alternative to the above
      mentioned therapeutic modalities. Intensive surveillance in this setting means endoscopy with
      biopsies every 3 months with specific therapy recommended only if frank cancer is found. This
      study is based upon the fact that intensive surveillance is an acceptable way of following
      these patients. The only difference is an oral agent will be added in hopes of getting rid of
      high grade dysplasia. If high grade dysplasia could be eliminated by an oral medication it
      would be a quantum improvement over what we have. The present belief is if high grade
      dysplasia is eliminated there would be no progression to cancer.

      852A is an immune response modifier being developed by 3M Pharmaceuticals. It is thought to
      exert its therapeutic effect by simulating alpha interferon. 852A is similar to the immune
      response modifier imiquimod(Aldara). Imiquimod is presently approved by the precancerous
      dermatological condition, actinic keratosis. It is very effective. Treatment is simply
      applying 5% imiquimod cream twice weekly to the skin lesion for 16 weeks. It seems reasonable
      that if an immune response modifier will eliminate precancerous lesions of the skin by local
      application, the same should be true for precancerous lesions of the esophagus. In this study
      852A will be swallowed to see whether it can eliminate high grade dysplasia from the
      esophagus.

      Entrance into the present study would be predicated on the confirmation of high grade
      dysplasia in Barrett's esophagus. If the prospective subject meets all of the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria set out in the protocol, endoscopic ultrasound of the esophagus would be
      done. If endoscopic ultrasound shows no invasion into the submucosa the patient would be
      asked to sign an informed consent. Once entered into the sudy the subject would be given the
      study drug twice weekly, 3-4 days apart, for 8 weeks. 852A will be supplied in sterile vials
      by 3M Pharmaceuticals. Five mg of 852A will be mixed with sterile 5% dextrose in water to
      give a final volume of 30 ml. The patient will promply swallow the study drug after it is
      mixed. The subject will then assume a recumbent position for 30 minutes in hopes that the
      medication will stay in contact with the mucosa of the esophagus long enough to get an
      effect. All doses of the study medication will be given in the principal investigator's
      clinic. After the first dose is given that patient will stay in the clinic under observation
      for 4 hours. Observation includes taking the temperature, pulse, and blood pressure every
      hour. If there are no adverse effects after the first dose, the observation period after
      subsequent doses will reduced to one hour. Laboratory tests will be repeated 1,2,4 and 8
      weeks after the first dose is given. As set out in the study protocol, if the patient has any
      significant adverse event or laboratory deviation, the subject would be dropped from the
      study. Throughout the study the subjects will be treated with a double dose of a proton pump
      inhibitor to control gastric acid reflux.

      After 8 weeks of therapy the study medication will be stopped. Four weeks thereafter and 12
      weeks from the beginning, repeat endosocpy with biopsies will be done. If biopsies show no
      residual high grade dysplasia, the patient will be continued in an intensive surveillance
      program. Intensive surveillance means endoscopy with biopsies every 3 months for 1 year, then
      every 6 months for 1 year then yearly for 3 more years. If high grade dysplsia persists after
      8 weeks of treatment or cancer is found, the patient would be referred for conventional
      therapy. Likewise, if high grade dysplsia recurs or cancer is found during the intensive
      surveillance program, the subject will be referred for conventional therapy.
    
  