
    
      The investigators reason that Regadenoson treatment will reduce COVID-19-induced lung injury
      by inhibiting hyperinflammation. Our overarching goal is to demonstrate that Regadenoson
      treatment increases survival by reducing hyperinflammation and pulmonary function. The
      investigators will test the hypothesis that Regadenoson elicits clinical improvement and
      enhances survival compared to placebo control patients with COVID-19. The investigators
      hypothesize that the survival benefit of Regadenoson will be additive or synergistic with the
      anti-viral drug, Remdesivir. Remdesivir and Dexamethasone are currently standard of care and
      would remain so.

      Specific Aim 1: will determine the initial high dose followed by low dose continuous infusion
      that is safe and feasible in moderate to severe COVID-19 patients. Even if the dosages that
      the investigators will use in moderate to severe COVID-19 patients has been proved to be safe
      in myocardial perfusion imaging patients, sickle cells disease and lung transplantation
      patients, it is still unclear whether it is safe in COVID-19 patients. Therefore, our primary
      endpoint for this Aim will be safety. For the first 6 patients, the investigators will be
      looking at any drug related side effects and toxicity of Regadenoson as the investigators did
      in lung transplantation trial.

      Specific Aim 2: will determine the potential efficacy of Regadenoson infusion in moderate to
      severe COVID-19 patients. If Regadenoson infusion is safe and feasible in the moderate to
      severe COVID-19 patients in Aim 1, the investigators will test its efficacy in 34 moderate to
      severe COVID-19 patients in a randomized controlled trial of regadenoson versus placebo
      control. The primary endpoints of this specific aim are: 1) Proportion of patients alive and
      free of respiratory failure through the 30 day trial. Respiratory failure is defined based on
      resource utilization requiring at least 1 of the following modalities, 2) Endotracheal
      intubation and mechanical ventilation, 3) Oxygen delivered by high-flow nasal cannula
      (heated, humidified, oxygen delivered via reinforced nasal cannula at flow rates >20L/min
      with fraction of delivered oxygen ≥0.5), 4) Noninvasive positive pressure ventilation or
      CPAP, 5) ECMO.

      Specific Aim 3: will explore the mechanisms of the effects of Regadenoson infusion in
      moderate to severe COVID-19 patients. If Regadenoson is proved to be effective on treating
      moderate to severe COVID-19 patients in Aim 2, the investigators will continue the study in
      this Aim. The investigators will measure 1) the plasma levels of Regadenoson in the collected
      blood samples (these will be done only on the first 6 patients as the investigators need
      specific time points and want to limit non routine blood draws); 2) the levels of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1, IL-6, IL-12, IL-8, INF-γ, etc) and anti-inflammatory
      cytokines ( IL-4 and IL-10), and 3) the levels of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MM-9) and
      tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1) in blood samples which will be collected
      from COVID-19 patients at prior baseline lab draws and also next day am routine labs. For the
      first 6-patients the investigators will ask for 2- additional study lab draws, one at the
      conclusion of the 30-min infusion and one at 4-hours into the 6-hours slow continuous
      infusion. The investigators may limit this to 3 if there are no dose limiting toxicities. The
      investigators are asking for up to 6 in the safety aim 1 in case one of the 3 has a dose
      limiting toxicity the investigators would then provide to 6 total. 5 of 6 would need to be
      without dose limiting toxicity to continue with the additional 34 patients.
    
  