
    
      Depression is a psychiatric disorder frequently found in Parkinson's disease (MP), affecting
      approximately 40-50% of patients and assuming the characteristics of major depression in 17%
      of cases. Depression can also precede the onset of motor symptoms, playing an important role
      in the clinical course of the disease. Indeed, the presence of depression has been associated
      with greater disability, a more rapid cognitive decline, a higher mortality and a heavier
      burden for families and caregivers.The mechanisms underlying depression in MP are still not
      completely clarified, but autopsy and functional anatomy studies have demonstrated the
      presence of alterations in the limbic system and in noradrenergic and serotonergic nuclei of
      the brainstem.This dual nature accounts for the partial ineffectiveness of the common
      antidepressants that do not target alterations of the dopaminergic system.

      Vortioxetine is a new antidepressant, which inaugurates the class of "multimodal"
      antidepressants, able to exert modulation of serotonergic receptors, inhibit serotonin
      reuptake, modulate other neurotransmitters such as norepinephrine, dopamine, acetylcholine
      and histamine.

      Currently, tricyclic antidepressants and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors represent
      the most common pharmacotherapy for depression treatment in PD patients. Although, they can
      induce or increase motor disability and other PD symptoms. It is of paramount importance
      finding a novel therapeutic approach able to positively impact on depression without
      worsening motor dysfunction. Therefore Vortioxetine can represent an innovative drug in the
      treatment of depression in PD thanks to its ability to increase dopaminergic
      neurotransmission in brain structures usually associated with depression.

      This is a pilot, single centre, open label, ITT study which will be conducted at the l'IRCCS
      San Raffaele Pisana, under the responsibility of Fabrizio Stocchi, Principal Investigator.

      The study will be conducted in accordance with the guidelines for Good Clinical Practice, in
      line with the law on the processing of patients' personal data and the principles of the
      Helsinki Declaration.

      Patients will receive informed consent before they are included in the study.

      Study population will include patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease in stage I-III of
      the disease, suffering from sustained depression. 20 consecutive PD outpatient referred to
      the center for the study of Parkinson's disease and movement disorders of the IRCCS San
      Raffaele Pisana will be enrolled.

      Since this is a pilot, monocentric study, calculation of the sample size is not required.
    
  