
    
      Early detection of ischemia and necrotic bowel which leads to perforation is vital in
      improving morbidity and mortality associated with NEC. Abdominal radiography, the standard
      imaging algorithm for monitoring of NEC, has a low sensitivity of 40% in the diagnosis of
      severe NEC with necrotic bowel. There is a dire need to introduce better imaging tools such
      as CEUS to the clinical setting that can detect NEC at an early stage and prompt therapeutic
      implementation. CEUS enables safe, serial monitoring of dynamic quantification of bowel
      perfusion at the bedside.

      Sulfur hexafluoride lipid-type A microspheres (LumasonTM, Bracco Inc) is an FDA-approved
      ultrasound contrast agent. The study duration per subject will be approximately 15 minutes
      including the time to prepare LumasonTM contrast agent and perform the CEUS, as well as the
      60 minute monitoring period after the first and second injection of LumasonTM. CEUS will be
      performed at the time of suspected or diagnosed NEC, and at the time of surgery (for subjects
      undergoing surgery as part of clinical care) or at short-term follow-up of clinical condition
      (approximately 1 week after the first scan) for a total of two CEUS exams of 1 hour and
      15-minute duration each.

      Injection of LumasonTM contrast agent will be performed via the existing peripheral
      intravenous line or central line using the FDA-recommended dose of up to 0.03 mg/kg.
      Contrast-agent injection will be performed twice per CEUS scan to ensure image quality and
      test reproducibility. In the case of more stable patients without an IV line, a peripheral IV
      line will be started to conduct the investigational CEUS. Two bolus injections will performed
      to evaluate for dynamic bowel perfusion and several 2-minute cine clips as well as static
      images will be acquired during the exam.

      Qualitative analysis with visual assessment and quantitative analysis of the acquired CEUS
      scans will be performed and interpreted by the PI. The scans will be assessed for diagnostic
      quality of images, artifacts encountered, and the presence of additional contributory
      diagnostic information.
    
  