
    
      The use of corticosteroids is one of the methods put forward for the strengthening and
      speeding up the process of labor. After identification of glucocorticoid receptors in human
      amnion, the role of corticosteroids in starting the process of labor has been studied in
      numerous studies. Some of them discussed the relation between dexamethasone injection and
      labor induction but still there is insufficient data. So by the end of this study it may be
      possible to assess the effect of intramuscular dexamethasone injection on shortening the
      induction delivery interval.

        -  Type of Study: Randomized Clinical Double Blind Trial .

        -  Study Setting: The study will be conducted at Ain Shams Maternity Hospital.

        -  Study Population: Full term patients who attend to the labor ward in El Demerdash
           Maternity Hospital and scheduled for induction of labor.

        -  Sample Size: Sample size was calculated using PASS® version 15.0, setting the power (β)
           at 0.02 and the significance level (α) at 0.05. Data from previous reports (Kashanian et
           al., 2008) indicated that mean Induction-Active phase Interval in women receiving 8mg of
           dexamethasone before induction of labor and controls was 3.09±1.5 and 4.21±1.8 hours
           respectively. Calculation according to these values produced a minimal sample size of 70
           patients to be randomized equally to both groups. Assuming a drop-out rate of 15%, a
           minimum drop-out inflated enrollment sample size of approximately 80 women will be
           needed.

        -  Ethical Considerations: The study will be approved from the Ethical Committee of the
           Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Faculty of Medicine, Ain Shams University.
           Informed written consent will be taken from all women before recruitment in the study,
           and after extensive explanation and clear discussion of risks and benefits.

        -  Study Procedures: A total of 80 women undergoing induction of labor will be included in
           this study after taking their consent for this clinical trial after full explanation of
           the trial.
    
  