
    
      Patients will be screened amongst arteritic patients who have undergone a positive treadmill
      test in Angers University Hospital, defined by a premature test stop caused by muscular pain
      associated to trans-cutaneous pressure of oxygen (TCPO2) drop.

      After signing the informed consent, patients will take two treadmill tests in a week-span.
      According to randomization, patients will undergo the "remote preconditioning" procedure or
      the "control" procedure before the first treadmill test. The following week, in respect to a
      cross-over strategy patients will undergo the other procedure before the second treadmill
      test.

      Only the study nurse will be advised of the procedure to do. Investigators will not be
      informed about the allocated procedure. Patients will not be informed about the procedure
      supposed to have a beneficial effect.

      The treadmill test will be run according to a calibrated protocol. After a 2-minute stand-up
      resting period, the treadmill will progressively speed up to a 3.2km/h during one minute.
      This stage will be maintained with a 10% slope for 14 minutes. Then, the treadmill's slope
      and speed will increase progressively every minute according to a calibrated protocol. The
      test duration will be measured from the start of the walk to the patient's request to stop
      because of pain in the lower limbs.

      TCPO2 will be measured before and during the test on the glutei and the legs. Tissue
      oxygenation on both lower limbs will be measured by Near Infra-Red Spectroscopy (NIRO-200NX
      system). Oxygen consumption will be analysed throughout the test.

      A blood sample will be drawn just before the start of the test, that is 5 minutes after the
      end of the last cuff deflation. A second blood sample will be drawn 2 minutes after the
      patient's request to stop walking. These blood samples are composed of one 3ml tube to
      measure out blood lactate level, one 6ml ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA) tube and a
      5ml plain tube. These two last tubes will be centrifuged and subsampled to build up a
      bio-collection stored at the local Biological Resources Center.
    
  