
    
      The non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is increasing and associated with obesity, diabetes and
      hyperlipidemia in recent years. Aerobic exercise indeed reduces adipose, hepatic insulin
      resistance and hepatic fat. However, diaphragmatic breathing improves cardiopulmonary
      function, the oxygen content of the body and therefore reduces inflammation of cells. The aim
      of this study is to ameliorate hepatic inflammation by using diaphragmatic breathing
      exercises instead of aerobic exercise to reduce the fat in liver inflammation. The project
      intends to be accomplished within three years because of the ideal exercise leaves an
      uncertain question for curing non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Hence, with the literature
      and empirical data analysis to review and identify the strength of patients' motion and
      duration, carry out a pilot observational study by including 20 patients, then teach
      diaphragmatic breathing exercises in the first year of the project. Observe the initial
      correlation measurement, the variables of the following one month and three months. For the
      second year, develop the training of diaphragmatic breathing process with assisting device
      (Diaphragmatic breathing-facilitated exercise device). Use diaphragmatic breathing exercise
      assisting device in a 12-week program of diaphragmatic breathing on randomized clinical
      trial, verifying the impact of this item interventions on patients' metabolism indicators in
      the final year.The project includes people who are over 20 years old without the
      non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Taking liver function, body mass index, the thickness of
      subcutaneous fat, heart rate variability, metabolism indicators are mainly study measured
      variables. Regression Analysis helps understand the correlation between breathing exercise
      and indicators related to the disease. With the intervention of diaphragmatic breathing
      assist device, the program extensions to the two-factor analysis of variance (two-way ANOVA)
      as the results of verification. The study results can provide a reference for clinicians,
      thereby improving the prognosis of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease people.
    
  