
    
      Participants will be stratified into four main treatment groups, depending on whether
      retinoblastoma is present in one or both eyes and disease grouping [early or advanced,
      Reese-Ellsworth (R-E) group I-V, and International Classification A-E]. Additionally,
      participants will be invited to participate in exploratory research objectives that address
      cognitive and functional development of children with retinoblastoma, the pharmacokinetics of
      topotecan in young children, and evaluation of ototoxicity, including genetic analysis.

      TREATMENT PLAN

      STRATUM A:

        -  Children ≥ or equal to 6 months old at time of enrollment - 8 courses of vincristine and
           carboplatin, given at 3-4 week intervals.

        -  Infants < 6 months old at time of enrollment - Therapy will consist of six courses of
           chemotherapy; three courses of vincristine and carboplatin, given at 3-4 week intervals,
           alternating with 3 cycles of vincristine and topotecan, given at 3-4 week intervals.

      Focal treatments will be administered at the discretion of the treating team. Focal therapies
      will include cryotherapy, laser photocoagulation, thermo-therapy and plaque radiotherapy.

      STRATUM B:

        -  Participants without extensive sub-retinal (SR) seeding, treatment will consist of two
           up-front courses of vincristine and topotecan, given at 3-4 week intervals.

        -  Participants without SR seeding: ≥ or equal to partial response after 2 cycles, will
           receive three additional courses of vincristine-topotecan (VT) and six courses of
           vincristine-carboplatin, given at 3-4 week intervals.

        -  Participants without SR seeding and < partial response after 2 cycles VT will receive 6
           courses of vincristine-carboplatin-etoposide (VCE), given at 3-4 week intervals.

        -  Participants with extensive sub-retinal (SR) seeding will receive two up-front courses
           of subconjunctival (also called subtenon or periocular) CARBOplatin and systemic
           topotecan, given at 3-4 week intervals.

        -  Participants with SR seeding: > or equal to partial response after 2 cycles will receive
           three additional courses of vincristine-topotecan, and six courses of
           vincristine-carboplatin, given at 3-4 week intervals.

        -  Participants with SR seeding: < partial response after 2 cycles will receive 6 courses
           of VCE, given at 3-4 week intervals.

      Focal treatments will be administered at the discretion of the treating team. Focal therapies
      will include cryotherapy, laser photocoagulation, thermo-therapy and plaque radiotherapy.

      STRATUM C:

      Participants with unilateral (unifocal or multifocal) advanced (R-E IV-V and IC D-E)
      intraocular disease will undergo enucleation. Adjuvant therapy will be based on
      histopathology:

        -  low risk participants: Participants in whom the enucleated eye does not show
           extra-retinal disease (see definition of intermediate and high risk below); will not
           receive any additional treatment.

        -  intermediate risk participants: Participants in whom the enucleated eye shows presence
           of tumor in the anterior chamber, invasion of the ciliary body/iris, massive invasion of
           the choroid, and invasion of the optic nerve beyond the lamina cribrosa with concomitant
           invasion of the choroid, will receive 4 courses of adjuvant chemotherapy with
           vincristine-carboplatin-doxorubicin (VCD).

        -  high risk participants: Participants in whom the enucleated eye shows involvement of the
           sclera, or involvement of the optic nerve at the level of the cut-end, will be treated
           with 6 courses of chemotherapy, with alternating courses of VCE and VCD.

        -  High-risk participants with extra-ocular extension (i.e. tumor extending beyond the
           sclera/cornea or beyond the cut end of the optic nerve) will be candidates for
           external-beam radiation therapy (EBRT) to the entire orbit, including the optic nerve,
           administered after 2 or 3 courses of treatment. Patients with extra-ocular extension may
           be considered for enrollment on an alternative therapeutic protocol for metastatic
           retinoblastoma (or best clinical management).

      STRATUM D:

      Management of participants with bilateral retinoblastoma is often complex; and some
      participants will have one eye enucleated upfront due to advanced disease. The decision for
      enucleation will be made after thorough consideration by the treating team. The treatment of
      the remaining eye will depend on a combination of two factors: a) R-E group of the remaining
      eye, and b) Histology of the enucleated eye. Though we have accumulated some information
      regarding the use of vincristine, cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin in the treatment of
      intraocular retinoblastoma, it is not considered standard of care. Therefore, participants
      with intermediate and high risk features will be treated with 6 courses of vincristine,
      carboplatin, and etoposide (VCE). Those participants in whom the enucleated eye shows only
      low risk histology will be eligible to proceed with either stratum A or stratum B therapy.
      For those receiving stratum B therapy, consideration of periocular carboplatin will be
      allowed. External beam or proton beam radiation therapy will be considered for patients with
      extra-ocular extension.

      Focal treatments will be administered at the discretion of the treating team. Focal therapies
      will include cryotherapy, laser photocoagulation, thermo-therapy and plaque radiotherapy.
    
  