
    
      Background:

      Investigators were awarded a grant to develop a lifestyle resource called HEAL ABC - the
      Healthy Eating and Active Lifestyle After Bowel Cancer. This resource is based on prevention
      guidelines of World Cancer Research Fund and American Institute of Cancer Research. The
      resource was developed in cooperation with a psychologist and so has incorporated behaviour
      change theory. Investigators organised focused groups with patients and healthcare
      professionals, and amended the resource based on their feedback.

      In this study, investigators will test the HEAL ABC resource and the HEAL ABC intervention
      for its practicality before further studies will be conducted.

      HEAL ABC consists of 10 booklets and supportive materials. The order for using the booklets
      is not specified. Participants will be assigned their first booklet based on the one they
      perceive to be the easiest for setting an incremental goal and achieving it. This means the
      participant starts with the booklet of the highest self-efficacy and after the participant
      achieves successful behaviour change, he or she can move more confidently to the next
      booklet. During the follow up period, participants will use the follow up booklet which helps
      them to continue with changes they have made and encourage them to set a new goals.

      Participants in the intervention group will receive a supportive telephone call every two
      weeks during the intervention period (three months) and once a month during the six months
      follow up.

      Participants allocated to the control group will given information about publicly available
      resources on healthy lifestyle recommendations. No additional support will be provided.

      Primary Question/Objective:

      Is it feasible to run a definitive RCT to determine the effectiveness of HEAL ABC? This study
      will address questions around suitability and practicality of using the HEAL ABC resource and
      the ability to run an intervention in relation to adherence, recruitment, retention rates and
      the ability to collect relevant data.

      Secondary Question/Objective:

      Adherence to intervention and the motivations, barriers and facilitators of CRC survivors to
      follow HEAL ABC.
    
  