
    
      Stroke is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. It determines a substantial
      socioeconomic burden. Stroke can lead to varying degrees of oropharyngeal dysphagia (25-85%
      of patients) and respiratory muscle dysfunction associated with an increase in medical
      complications such as bronchoaspiration pneumonia, malnutrition and death. The respiratory
      muscle dysfunction is a common functional abnormality in chronic respiratory diseases such as
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), heart failure, multiple sclerosis in which it
      has been shown to modify the expected survival. Dysphagia is present in a significant
      proportion of patients admitted to Rehabilitation (up to 85% depending on series) in the
      subacute phase of stroke. There is no drug able to restore the swallowing function and
      inspiratory and expiratory muscle function in these patients. Consequently, neurological
      rehabilitation is the mainstay of treatment of these disorders.

      Amino acids (AA) are essential for proper protein synthesis. Skeletal muscle represents the
      largest reserve of body AA, which may be used according to metabolic needs. Within this group
      of compounds, the most involved in muscle metabolism are glutamate, aspartate, asparagine,
      valine, leucine and isoleucine. A pathobiological association between decrease in muscle
      glutamate and diaphragm dysfunction in patients with chronic respiratory diseases has been
      demonstrated in chronic respiratory patients. Moreover, glutamate levels of the diaphragm can
      be restored as a result of muscle training, playing a decisive role as a precursor of certain
      AA (glutamine and alanine), and glutathione in patients with COPD. Other studies have defined
      that glutamine may be a biomarker of training response in healthy individuals. Several
      publications have reflected the decrease of glutamine and glutamate as a result of different
      diseases and in some cases have tried to supplement this deficit.

      Muscle dysfunction is defined as a function impairment (decrease in strength and/or
      resistance) of muscles whose main consequence is muscle fatigue. Although exercise training
      has been used successfully to restore function in patients with some chronic illnesses and
      frailty, there is little evidence of the beneficial effects of an overall muscle training in
      stroke patients. Regarding peripheral muscles, a high-intensity training improves strength
      and endurance of lower limbs muscles (paretic and non paretic) in stroke patients.
      Dysfunction of the diaphragm and other respiratory muscles has important clinical
      implications. It associates with susceptibility to hypercapnic ventilatory failure,
      ineffective cough, and even higher incidence of repeated hospital admissions and mortality.
      Therefore, respiratory muscle weakness described in some stroke patients justifies the need
      to train respiratory muscles because there is no general exercise (bicycle, legs, arms) able
      to induce an overload enough to achieve training effect on respiratory muscles.
    
  