
    
      This registry study will provide Ontario centres access to a new Positron Emission Tomography
      (PET) tracer, [18F]-DCFPyL, to improve our ability to identify areas of prostate cancer
      recurrence in men who have undergone surgical removal of their prostate gland (radical
      prostatectomy) or radiation of their prostate (external beam radiation, brachytherapy or a
      combination of both) and there is a suspicion of recurrence of the cancer. Men with suspected
      persistent or recurrent disease can be identified on the basis of a rising Prostate Specific
      Antigen (PSA) blood test, or the presence of node positive disease at the time of their
      surgery, or a PSA blood test continues to be detectable within 3 months after their surgery.
      It is the aim of this study to determine if [18F]-DCFPyL PET/CT can potentially identify
      areas of prostate cancer recurrence not seen with usual imaging (bone scan/CT scans) and
      impact the management of the disease. A report of the results of the [18F]-DCFPyL PET/CT will
      be provided to the participating physicians to determine a treatment plan. As part of the
      patient eligibility for [18F]-DCFPyL PET/CT participating physicians will complete a
      questionnaire after the [18F]-DCFPyL PET/CT information is provided to report how the results
      impact patient management. Actual interventions following completion of the [18F]-DCFPyL
      PET/CT will be tracked by linkage to provincial registries. Six centres across Ontario will
      participate in the registry study which is expected to take 4 years to complete with an
      additional one year of follow-up to capture patient outcomes.

      PREP Phase 2 was initiated to investigate the hypothesis that conventional imaging is not
      adding to the information provided by PSMA PET/CT alone. PREP Phase 2 will retain the same
      study design as Phase I but will remove bone scan and computed tomography as criteria for
      entry into the study except for those patients with higher PSA (>10 ng/ml).

      Identical cohort sizes will be accrued in Phase 2 to permit comparison of detection rates
      with similar confidence intervals with and without conventional imaging. Transition to PREP
      Phase 2 occurred when overall accrual to PREP exceeded 80% of target.
    
  