
    
      Patients of the Department of Neurosurgery, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, undergoing
      surgery for sellar lesions were prospectively included. The study protocol was approved by
      the local Ethical Committee. Informed written consent was given by the participants or the
      next-of-kin in each case. Exclusion criteria comprised of those below 18 years of age,
      pregnancy and a drug intolerance.

      Patients baseline information included age, gender, clinical presentation, and preexisting
      medical conditions. In four different cohorts of patients, S100B was measured:

        1. ICU TBI, patients treated on the ICU with brain injury

        2. ICU tumor, patients treated on the ICU because of an intracranial tumor

        3. ICU surgery, patients treated on the ICU following surgery without brain injury

        4. ICU control, patients treated on the ICU without TBI, tumor or surgery

      The performed diagnostic tests included blood, cerebrospinal fluid and urine samples. In all
      subjects, blood (4 mL), cerebrospinal fluid (4mL) and urine (4mL) samples were collected
      daily as part of the clinical routine at 6:00 AM.

      Samples were immediately centrifuged for 10min at 1.300xG and 4°C and stored at a temperature
      of -80°C until the assays were performed. Analysis was performed with commercially available
      kits on automated immunoanalyzers (LIAISON® Sangtec®100 by chemiluminescence immunoassay,
      Diasorin). The sensitivity of the assay was 0.02ng/ml.

      In all cohorts the clinical status was documented with Glasgow Coma Score (GCS), and the
      outcome was assessed applying the Glasgow Outcome Score (GOS) or the Karnofsky Status Scale.
      The radiological work-up included a computed tomography (CT) or a magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI). In brain injured patients, the CT was classifiied by the Marshall and Rotterdam Score.
      Extracranial injuries or surgical procedures were documented

      Statistical analysis was performed with SPSS, and p<0.05 was accepted as significant.
    
  