
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Achalasia is a disorder of esophageal dysmotility characterized by dysfunctional peristalsis
      and increased lower esophageal sphincter (LES) tone. Achalasia is further divided into three
      subtypes using high-resolution manometry (HRM) following the Chicago Classification. Type I,
      or classic achalasia, and Type II achalasia are both characterized by aperistalsis and
      increased LES tone and are thought to be a spectrum of the same disease process with Type II
      evolving into Type I.

      Per-oral Endoscopic Myotomy (POEM) was first developed in 2008 as a treatment for achalasia.
      The technique involves a trans-oral approach with a flexible endoscope. An endoscopic
      incision is made in the esophagus and a submucosal tract is created towards the LES and
      gastric cardia to expose the underlying muscle of the LES and distal esophagus. The inner
      circular muscle is then dissected to create a myotomy and the tract is then closed with
      endoscopic clips. By creating a myotomy, the increased LES tone is improved, allowing food to
      pass into the stomach in order to relieve the dysphagia caused by achalasia.

      Unlike Type III achalasia, where POEM myotomy length is determined by HRM, the standard
      myotomy length in Type I/Type II achalasia is typically 8 cm. The rationale for the 8 cm
      myotomy is derived from the Heller myotomy procedure which is a laparoscopic surgery approach
      in which the teaching has been to perform at least a 5 cm myotomy in the esophagus and an
      additional 2-3 cm myotomy in the gastric cardia. However, the purpose of the myotomy in POEM,
      is to reduce the LES tone. The clinical efficacy of the procedure comes from the myotomy of
      the high pressure zone within the LES, which is only 2-3cm in length. This is much shorter
      than the current standard POEM myotomy length. There are a few potential pitfalls regarding
      longer myotomy lengths in the esophagus and in the gastric cardia. A longer esophageal
      myotomy may result in esophageal wall strain in the area weakened by esophageal myotomy
      resulting in a blown out myotomy which is identified by the presence of a pseudo-diverticulum
      endoscopically. Longer gastric cardia myotomy has been thought to lead to an increased rate
      of gastroesophageal reflux in patients undergoing POEM. There are no data looking at shorter
      myotomy lengths in POEM for Type I and Type II achalasia. Our anecdotal experience at
      Northwestern when performing short myotomy during POEM has not resulted in any difference in
      procedural efficacy.

      STUDY ENDPOINTS:

      Upon enrollment, patients will complete the Eckardt study questionnaire and the GERDQ
      questionnaire on the initial visit. Enrolled subjects will complete POEM as per clinical
      standard of care with the following specifications. Patients will be randomized to receive a
      short myotomy of 4 cm or standard myotomy of 8 cm. Following POEM, patients will be followed
      in clinic per standard of care and study questionnaires will be administered at follow-up
      visits. The Eckardt Symptom score is validated for research use in achalasia and is the tool
      with which we monitor success rates for treatment of achalasia. We will also monitor GERD
      symptoms with the GERDQ questionnaire. The endpoints for this study following randomization
      and completion of 30 POEM procedures are:

        1. 3, 12 and 24-months of follow-up to monitor Eckardt score for all 30 participants

        2. 3, 12 and 14-months of follow-up to monitor safety and GERD for all 30 participants

      PROCEDURES INVOLVED:

      Patients will be recruited from the pool of patients seen in esophageal clinics and endoscopy
      centers at Northwestern's Digestive Health Center who are specifically consented to undergo
      POEM for Type I or Type II achalasia and also in patients with EGJ outflow obstruction that
      demonstrate features of achalasia. Involvement with the study will not determine or affect
      eligibility or recommendation for POEM in the treatment of achalasia. Upon enrollment,
      patients will complete all study questionnaires on the initial visit - these include our
      GERDQ questionnaire and our Northwestern Esophageal Quality of Life Survey.

      Following enrollment, 30 patients will be randomized to receive either a 4 cm or 8 cm
      myotomy. Randomization will occur via computer randomization software. At the time of the
      procedure, the endoscopist will be given the randomized grouping in an opaque envelope
      (either 4 cm or 8 cm myotomy). Participants will then undergo Per-Oral Endoscopic Myotomy as
      per standard of care with flexible endoscope using an anterior approach. The only difference
      in the procedure will be the length of the muscle layer dissection (myotomy). Fifteen
      subjects will undergo the standard 8 cm myotomy, which includes 7 cm myotomy of the esophagus
      and 1 cm myotomy of the gastric cardia. Fifteen subjects will undergo a short 4 cm myotomy,
      which includes 3 cm myotomy in the esophagus and a 1 cm myotomy of the gastric cardia. All
      participants will undergo intra-operative functional monitoring as is standard of care at
      Northwestern to ensure adequate response to myotomy. If the shorter myotomy is insufficient,
      the patient can undergo standard-length myotomy.

      Participants will be monitored as per standard care before, during and after POEM procedure.
      Post-procedure follow-up for both groups will adhere to standard of care. Data will be
      collected on a prospective data from EPIC electronic health care records. Data collected will
      include demographic information, imaging results, functional studies (specifically EndoFlip
      and HRM) as well as questionnaire data.
    
  