
    
      Participants will first complete the online screening and those who qualify to complete the
      study will be contacted via telephone (see above for telephone recruitment and consent
      procedure). After providing informed consent, on the first day, participants will be randomly
      assigned to either a TUS treatment or a TUS sham condition (placebo), and the study will be
      double blind. Participants in the TUS treatment condition (with sham or treatment unknown to
      both participant and experimenter) will have TUS stimulation at the right fronto-temporal
      area five times within seven days or ten times within fourteen days.

      Participants will sign up for the first five sessions first but will be reminded participants
      may withdraw from the study at any time. Should participants choose to continue with the
      second week of treatment, participants will be scheduled for another five sessions. In other
      words, participants will have the option of completing 10 days of the procedure. The
      procedure does not differ between week 1 and week 2. However, participants will be
      compensated less for week 2. Participants will have the option to continue into week 2, as
      participants may find that the treatment is benefiting them. The first, fifth, and tenth days
      of the study will take approximately 2 hours and the second, third, fourth, sixth, seventh,
      eighth, and ninth will take only one hour.

      In the sham condition, the ultrasound probe will be placed at the right fronto-temporal area
      five times over the course of seven days or ten times over the course of fourteen days
      without the stimulation. Prior research has shown that stimulation at this area induces
      positive mood change and is implicated in positive mood. On the first, middle, and last day
      of the procedure (day 1, 5, 10), EEG data will be collected. On the second, third, and fourth
      day as well as sixth through ninth days of the procedure EEG data will not be collected and
      only TUS stimulation will occur. Collecting EEG data at these points will allow for
      comparison of resting electrical brain profiles from the beginning of the study to the end of
      the study. Additionally, the investigators will assess state mood and rumination before and
      after TUS, as well as depressive and anxiety symptoms at the end of each day. The state mood
      and rumination will allow us to examine the mood effects of TUS, whereas the depressive and
      anxiety symptoms questionnaires will allow us to examine any changes in these important
      profiles over the course of the study.
    
  