
    
      Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a deforming and disabling infectious disease that causes
      elephantiasis and genital deformity (especially hydroceles). The infection affects some 120
      million people in 81 countries in tropical and subtropical regions with well over 1 billion
      people at risk of acquiring the disease. LF is caused by Wuchereria bancrofti and Brugia spp.
      (B. malayi and B. timori), nematode parasites that are transmitted by mosquitoes. The World
      Health Organization (WHO) developed a plan for LF elimination that is based on using novel
      approaches to rapidly map endemic areas and 4 to 6 annual rounds of MDA with antifilarial
      medication. A recent summary from WHO reported that more than 4 billion doses of MDA were
      distributed between 2000 and 2012. Thus, the Global Program to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis
      (GPELF) is the largest infectious disease intervention program attempted to date based on MDA
      (Ottesen, Hooper et al.

      2008). MDA has worked better in some areas than others. There are a number of challenges
      faced by GPELF. These include (among others) inability to conduct MDA programs in areas of
      Africa where L. loa is coendemic because of the unacceptable risk of Serious Adverse Events
      (SAE's) with IVM in persons with heavy L. loa infections (Hoerauf, Pfarr et al. 2011), the
      limited macrofilaricidal activity of current MDA regimens (especially ALB + IVM) that
      necessitate repeated annual rounds of MDA (Geary and Mackenzie , Hoerauf, Pfarr et al. 2011),
      and the difficulty of achieving high compliance rates for MDA over a period of years
      (Hoerauf, Pfarr et al. 2011). It is clear that new (or reformulated) drugs and/or dosing
      schedules for LF MDA have the potential to greatly improve the number of countries that will
      successfully eliminate LF by the WHO target date of 2020. This is especially important for
      areas of Central and West Africa where MDA has not been implemented because of the possible
      co-infection with L. loa and logistical and financial challenges to delivering annual doses
      of IVM + ALB MDA to millions of individuals over multiple years.
    
  