
    
      Introduction One of the cornerstones of pre-operative assessment is an accurate clinical
      history. In pediatric anesthetic practice, the history is typically obtained from an
      accompanying parent. A letter from the patient's primary care physician may accompany the
      child for elective cases, but typically contains general information and may omit recent
      illnesses. In addition, parents may underplay or deny respiratory problems such as upper or
      lower respiratory tract infections, asthma, cough or snoring as the norm for a particular
      child and not understand their importance in pre-operative assessment.

      The Clalit Health Services HMO is Israel's largest health insurer and has a comprehensive
      online patient database for healthcare workers to use for patient care. The Ofek patient
      electronic record system allows the physician to view patient community and hospital records,
      including special investigations and drug prescription and purchases, updated in real time.
      Recently, the system was upgraded to view patient records from all of the four Israeli HMOs.
      This has enabled the treating physicians' electronic record access to any patient that may
      present.

      The investigators see this development as a major advantage. Moreover, in the pediatric
      pre-anesthetic assessment setting, the clinical history may be verified by the Ofek system.

      Aim To compare the details obtained at pre-anesthetic clinical history given by parents of
      children undergoing surgery to those obtained using the Ofek electronic patient record
      system. In addition, we would like to inquire into the reasons that discrepancies may exist
      between clinical histories and the electronic patient record and the clinical impact of those
      differences on clinical decision making.

      Methods Two hundred children and parent/s will undergo pre-anesthetic clinical history
      taking. Each parent and child will be screened pre-operatively by a senior anesthesiology
      resident using the Meir Medical Center Anesthesia pre-operative pediatric assessment form.
      Thereafter, the resident will open the electronic patient file using the Ofek system and
      additional information, if present will be noted. Parents will be asked, where relevant, for
      the reason additional information gleaned via Ofek was omitted during the direct questioning.
      If the clinical history and/or Ofek resulted in changes in patient management, this will be
      noted as well.

      Data to be collected will include the number of discrepancies between clinical history and
      information obtained using Ofek and the reasons for those differences will be noted. In
      addition, the source of all information whether obtained via clinical history or Ofek will be
      noted. If information obtained by either of the abovementioned means results in changes in
      clinical management, these will be noted as well. The data collected from parents and Ofek is
      done so without any connection to the study.

      Statistical analysis Comparisons between nominal variables will be analyzed by Chi-Square and
      derivatives of it (McNemar, Kappa). Continuous parameters - by paired tests -parametric and
      non-parametric,each as appropriate. Reliability between "Ofek" and clinical history will be
      measured by Intra-Class Coefficients and coefficient of variations (CoV). All statistical
      procedures, each as needed.
    
  