
    
      Currently there are no therapeutic guidelines and no proven therapy available to reduce
      hypoglycemic episodes post RNY gastric bypass. A study done in 1988 (n=8/ patients with
      partial gastrectomy and hypoglycemia) showed improvement in plasma glucose level and peak
      insulin response in patients suffering from this complication and who were given Glucomannan
      soluble fiber with a standard meal. Glucomannan is a natural, odorless soluble fiber that is
      found in the konjac plant. The konjac glucomannan is the most viscosity food gum in nature.
      It has about ten times the viscosity than the cornstarch. Unfortunately no further studies
      have been done so far to validate or support this therapy in patients with RNY gastric
      bypass. This study will be the first one to see effectiveness of Glucomannan, exclusively in
      patients who are post RNY gastric bypass and have a diagnosis of postprandial hypoglycemia.

      Visit 1: consent and screening bloodwork: Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH), Free T4,
      Cortisol, Creatinine, and Insulin-like Growth Factor (IGF)

      Visit 2: iPro Continuous glucose monitor (CGM) device will be placed and will be worn for
      next 5 days. The subjects will maintain a diet history and will be given a One Touch
      glucometer and strips to check their blood glucose at home four times a day for next five
      days and log this onto the System Patient Log (included).

      Subjects will undergo a mixed meal tolerance test (MMTT), a, which includes consumption of a
      after a standard meal (Boost) and scheduled blood draws over 3 hours.

      Visit 3: The subject will return to the research coordinator for the iPRO® Continuous Glucose
      Monitor (CGM) removal and data download from the device. After physical exam and vital sign
      measurement, a new iPro® CGM device will be placed and will be worn for next 5 days. The
      subjects will maintain a diet history and will be given a One Touch glucometer and strips to
      check their blood glucose at home four times a day for next five days and log this onto the
      System Patient Log (included)

      Subjects will undergo a MMTT, which includes consumption of a after a standard meal (Boost) +
      5 grams of Glucomannan soluble fiber powder and scheduled blood draws over 3 hours.

      For the next five days subjects will take 5 grams (1 teaspoon) of Glucomannan soluble fiber
      (provided by the investigator) three times a day with meals.

      Visit 4: The subject will return to see the research coordinator for the CGM removal and data
      download from the device. At this time the study is completed.
    
  