
    
      The study will be a double blind 12-week controlled trial with two groups, one taking active
      drug (naltrexone) and the other receiving placebo. Patients on both groups will be assessed
      for GD symptoms and severity, major comorbid psychiatric disorders and related
      psychopathology (impulsivity, craving and locus of control), and eye-tracking patterns prior
      to and one hour after the administration of the first dose, one week after and at treatment
      completion.

      On the active drug group, naltrexone will be prescribed on flexible dose mode, receiving 50mg
      per day on the first week, with an increase of 25mg each week until a maximum of 200 mg per
      day or as much as tolerated by the patient.

      On the first day of evaluation patients will first be interviewed to check GD diagnosis and
      screen other medical conditions that may exclude patients from the trial. The selected
      individuals will be randomly assigned to either naltrexone or placebo group; After that they
      will answer several questionnaires and have the first eye tracking assessment. Each
      individual will receive either placebo or naltrexone and be assessed 1 hour after drug
      administration.

      After the first week patients will have the third eye tracking assessment, as well as several
      questionnaires On the next weeks patients will be constantly monitored for side effects and
      gambling symptoms.

      On the twelfth week patients will have the fourth and last eye tracking assessment During the
      12-week trial both groups will have psychoeducational sessions, on weeks 2,4,6 and 8. During
      sessions patients have access to audio-visual material and receive Self-help material, this
      intervention is based on Hodgins proposal (Hodgins DC et al, 2005).

      Adherence will be verified by counting pills consumed by the patient. In the weeks without
      face-to-face medical assessment, patients will be evaluated by telephone interview to monitor
      adverse effects of medication. If the evaluator identifies a worrying adverse reaction, the
      patient will be advised to anticipate the face-to-face interview.
    
  