
    
      Background:

      Alveolar soft part sarcoma (ASPS) is a rare, highly vascular tumor accounting for less than
      1% of soft tissue sarcomas. There is no effective systemic treatment for patients with
      metastatic ASPS. Little is known with regards to relevant molecular markers as potential
      therapeutic targets. Cediranib (AZD2171), a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)/KIT
      tyrosine kinase inhibitor, has recently demonstrated antitumor activity in early phase
      clinical trials, which included 7 adult and 3 pediatric patients with ASPS.

      Objectives:

      Adult patients:

        -  To determine the response rate (Partial Response (PR) + Complete Response (CR)) of
           AZD2171 in adult patients with ASPS.

        -  To compare gene expression profiles between pre-treatment and post-treatment biopsy
           specimens.

      Pediatric patients:

      -To determine if pediatric patients with ASPS will experience at least a minimal response
      rate when treated with AZD2171

      Eligibility:

      Patients must have histologically or cytologically confirmed metastatic alveolar soft part
      sarcoma.

        -  Less than 16 years old. Body surface area (BSA) must be greater than or equal to 1.04
           m^2 and subject must be able to swallow tablets.

        -  Adequate organ function.

      Design:

      Adult patients will be treated with AZD2171 at 30 mg by mouth once a day for 28 days (28-day
      cycles). Pediatric patients (< 16 years old) will be treated with 12 mg/m^2/day once a day
      for 28 day (28-day cycles).

      Blood pressure will be monitored weekly for the first 2 cycles then every 2 weeks for the
      remainder of the study (unless patients have experienced elevated blood pressure requiring
      drug therapy).

      Computed tomography (CT) scans will be performed at baseline and every 2 cycles for restaging
      during the first 18 months; after 18 and 36 months, restaging CT scans will be performed
      every 3 or 4 cycles, respectively.

      The study will be conducted using an optimal two-stage design in both pediatric and adult
      patients. The portion in adults will rule out an unacceptably low 5% clinical response rate
      (PR+CR) in favor of a modestly high response rate of 25%. In pediatric patients, the study
      will rule out an unacceptably low 5% overall clinical response rate (CR + PR) in favor of a
      higher response rate of 35%.

      Optional biopsies will be performed in adult patients only at baseline and after 3-5 days of
      treatment (Day 3 (D3)-Day 5 (D5)) to evaluate early drug effect. A third optional biopsy
      after completion of 4 weeks of therapy (between Cycle 1 Day 28 (C1D28) and Cycle 2 Day 7
      (C2D7)) may be collected with the intention of providing further information about disease
      response to treatment. Depending on results of initial gene expression profiles, the timing
      of the biopsies may be adjusted, but without change in total number of biopsies per patient.

      In a retrospective pilot study, CT scans from 20 consecutive off-study patients will be
      re-reviewed. Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) imaging measurements will
      be compared to volumetric density (Total Volume of Viable Tumor, TVVT) CT measurements. The
      objective is to establish whether volumetric density/percent necrosis algorithms such as TVVT
      more accurately assess extent of disease and response to therapy than standard RECIST
      criteria.

      The total accrual ceiling is 73 participants (60 adult and 13 pediatric patients).
    
  