
    
      Selecting a treatment strategy for patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease (CAD)
      requires integrated consideration of symptom burden, patient preferences, and practice
      guidelines. In many clinical scenarios, there is equipoise regarding the need to
      revascularize (percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) vs. medical management) and/or the
      type of revascularization (PCI vs. bypass surgery). Patients may have minimal direct input in
      the decision to proceed to a revascularization procedure, especially in the case of ad hoc
      PCI.

      There is little guidance in the literature regarding strategies to improve patient
      participation in revascularization decisions. There is no shared decision-making tool to
      provide accessible information to the interventional cardiologist prior to PCI. An
      educational program that provides basic information regarding CAD and revascularization
      procedures could lead to improved patient knowledge and informed participation in these
      critical decisions. A clinical survey that assesses patient symptom burden and preferences
      could provide valuable information to physicians at the time of angiography. The
      investigators aim to test a clinical tool that addresses both of these needs and can be
      administered in the pre-procedure area immediately prior to angiography. If successful, this
      tool could lead to greater informed patient participation in revascularization procedures and
      improved patient satisfaction.

      First, the investigators will conduct a pre-post analysis. The first 100 enrolled patients
      will undergo usual care without the use of the decision-making tool. Surveys prior to
      angiography and at 3 months will test knowledge and decisional self-efficacy. Subsequently,
      200 patients will utilize the decision-making tool and will complete the same surveys.
      Comparison of these groups will test the ability of the decision-making tool to improve
      knowledge about CAD and accurately assess preferences.

      Among the 200 patients utilizing the decision-making tool, patients will be randomly assigned
      to have, or not have, their preferences shared with the interventional cardiologist at the
      time of catheterization. This randomized portion of the study will test the impact of patient
      preferences on treatment decisions.
    
  