
    
      1. Prior to participation in the study, the purpose and procedures of the study, including
           possible image and video recordings, will be explained to the subjects.

        2. Subjects will then be required to give written consent for their participation and will
           receive a copy of their consent form.

        3. The following 2-part research protocol uses a similar experimental protocol (learning a
           balance task) on individuals with transtibial amputation (Part 1), and individuals with
           and without chronic diabetes (Part 2).

      Part 1:

      The experiment will take place over a 4-day period including screening and baseline testing
      (Visit 1), balance training (Visits 2 and 3), and retention testing (Visit 4; at least 24
      hours after Visit 3). On Visit 1, the investigators will assess aspects of health and
      functional capacity to assess participation eligibility and establish baseline
      characteristics of the participants. In addition to medical history and anthropometric
      measurements, the assessment will consist of clinical surveys of quality of life, physical
      activity level, balance confidence, and fear of falling. Ambulatory performance will be
      quantified. Additional amputee-specific measures will be used to assess functional
      characteristics unique to the population.

      Balance training will begin on Visit 2. The balance task involves standing and maintaining
      balance on a stabilometer, which consists of a platform (1.3m long by 1.4m wide) connected to
      a single axis that allows bi-directional sway (Lafayette Instrument Co.; Figure 1). The
      maximum angular deviation of the platform is 18°. A safety harness is provided to prevent
      falls but does not provide support during the performance of the task. The load on the
      harness will be monitored with an S-type strain gauge (Delsys Inc., Massachusetts, USA)
      connected in series to the harness tether. Participants are required to maintain balance with
      feet in a medial-lateral orientation while standing on the balance board and looking straight
      ahead. A potentiometer monitors the sway angle of the platform. An integrated timer measures
      time in balance, which is defined as when the platform angle is within ± 5° of
      horizontal.[52] The primary outcome measure is time in balance (sec.) for each 30s trial. The
      secondary outcome measure is platform angular deviation from horizontal (RMSE; degree).

      Participants will be randomly assigned to 2 attentional focus groups. Depending on group
      assignment, participants will receive either internal or the external focus instruction on
      where to direct their attention while training to perform the balance task. During training,
      the assigned instruction will be reinforced at the beginning and after every 5 practice
      trials. Participants will be blinded to the purpose of the intervention and study design
      until debriefing at the end of the study.

      The training will take place over a 2-day period (Visits 2 and 3, with at most 2 rest days
      between the visits), the investigators will monitor the changes in balance task performance
      over 40 total practice trials (20 trials each visit). The balance training in each of the 2
      visits consists of twenty 30s trials with a 90s rest interval between trials. During the rest
      interval, the platform will be locked to provide a stable surface or the participant can
      choose to step off the platform to sit down and rest when needed. After each 5 trials,
      participants will be given feedback regarding their performance (time in balance). No
      additional feedback will be provided. This protocol has been validated in the older adult
      population (mean age 69.4 years) in a previous study (Chiviacowsky et al. 2010). After each
      training block of 5 trials, the participant's self-perceived direction of attentional focus
      and spontaneous comments during the practice will be checked. The retention test will be
      performed at least 24 hours after the 2nd training day (Visit 4). The retention test will
      consist of performing 10 trials of the same balance task during which the participant will
      not receive any instructions, reminders, or feedback. An additional 10 trials of skill
      transfer task will be performed with reduced resistance to the balance platform.

      Part 2 (individuals with diabetes):

      The procedure of Part 2 of this research is identical to Part 1. The main differences, in
      addition to the different participant population are described below.

      In addition to the baseline health and functional capacity assessments as described in Part
      1, the investigators will assess all participants' sensorimotor function using an established
      knee joint reposition sense test on a Cybex Norm dynamometer (Computer Sports Medicine Inc.,
      Stoughton, MA, USA). This test assesses participant's ability to reproduce a joint angle
      using only proprioception. The test performance will be measured as the absolute error in
      degrees between the reproduced and target angles. This specific test was chosen to quantify
      the lower limb sensorimotor function because previous studies have shown it to be predictive
      of mobility outcomes in older adults in general and in those with diabetes. The investigators
      will determine individuals with diabetes-related sensorimotor impairment if the error is
      greater than 3.65°.

      Individuals in the experimental and control groups will be randomly assigned to receive
      either internal or external focus instructions during the balance training (4 subgroups;
      Table 6). The experimental protocols and procedures will be the same as in Aim 1, including
      the screening (Visit 1), balance training (Visits 2 and 3), and retention and skill transfer
      testing (Visit 4; at least 7 days after Visit 3).
    
  