
    
      Despite significant improvements in diagnostic and preventative measures, the incidence of
      sepsis has continued to escalate rapidly in hospitalized patients, with mortality rates
      ranging between 10 - 54%, depending on the level of severity. The earliest possible
      identification and assessment of sepsis patients entering the Emergency Department (ED) is
      therefore crucial in providing the patient with the most appropriate management and treatment
      strategy at the earliest time point possible. Indeed, an early identification of patients
      with an infection and at a high risk of cardiovascular and organ dysfunction can lead to an
      earlier individualised treatment, a potential reduction in the number of clinical
      complications, and an overall decrease in hospital mortality.

      Adrenomedullin (ADM), a 52 amino acid peptide, is a member of the calcitonin peptide family
      and is widely expressed in many tissues and organs, although its main sources of production
      include the endothelial and vascular smooth muscle cells. Adrenomedullin can act as both a
      hormone and cytokine (often termed a "hormokine") in an autocrine and paracrine manner, and
      its potent vasodilatory and hypotensive response is elicited through an initial increase in
      cyclic adenosine monophosphate levels, and a subsequent production of nitric oxide.

      The importance of adrenomedullin in homeostasis is illustrated by its central role in the up-
      and down-regulation of cytokines and other mediators, as well as its own stimulatory and
      inhibitory effect on cytokine production. Indeed, Interleukin (IL)-1β and tumour necrosis
      factor (TNF) are two of the most potent stimulators for adrenomedullin production and
      adrenomedullin itself is up-regulated by hypoxia, bacterial products and shear stress,
      amongst many other factors.

      Finally, adrenomedullin has been shown to have a variety of physiological functions,
      including immune-modulating, direct bactericidal, diuretic and potent vasodilatory activity,
      and in healthy conditions, circulates at low picomolar concentrations. However, plasma levels
      are significantly up-regulated in many diseased states in proportion to disease severity such
      as hypertension, renal failure, lower respiratory diseases and septic shock, due to either
      damage to the endothelial cells or microvascular and microcirculatory impairment.

      This allows clinicians to determine the patients most at risk of developing complications
      upon their admission to the ED or ICU, in order to rapidly triage and administer the most
      effective treatment, in the shortest space of time.

      However, reliable measurement of ADM is challenging due to a number of issues, such as a
      short half life of 22 minutes, rapid degradation by proteases and binding to complement
      factor H. The measurement of its stable precursor molecule, MR-proADM, provides a solution to
      these problems, since reliable measurements in relation to adrenomedullin can be made in a
      1:1 ratio, thus allowing changes in protein concentrations to be determined.

      The majority of deaths in patients suffering from sepsis occur due to multiple organ failure,
      related to the primary infection. However, complications leading up to initial organ
      dysfunction and failure include factors such as an impaired microcirculation, enhanced
      microvascular permeability, a decrease in the number of perfused capillaries, endothelial
      cell apoptosis and an abnormal systemic blood flow to organ systems. Few tools currently
      available have the ability to accurately assess these early physiological changes.

      The vasodilatory and microcirculatory properties of adrenomedullin are therefore of
      significant importance during the pathophysiology and progression of sepsis, with increased
      levels being shown to lead to a decreased vascular resistance and a significantly increased
      microvascular blood flow in the liver, small intestine, kidney and spleen. Indeed, the
      production of adrenomedullin has been shown to have:

        -  protective properties against endothelial permeability and consequent organ damage

        -  protective effects in organs in response to bacterial induced shock

        -  the ability to stabilize the microcirculation in inflammation - a hallmark of organ
           failure

        -  the ability to restore endothelial stability in infected organs due to prevention of
           undesired inflammatory decompartmentalization.

      Crucially, the body can facilitate the localized cellular production and release of
      adrenomedullin in order to meet the specific perfusion requirements of individual organs,
      which can be crucial in maintaining blood supply.

      Whilst current benchmarks of sepsis which include lactate and SOFA scores can accurately
      assess the degree of tissue hypoxia and organ dysfunction at any given time point, elevated
      MR-proADM levels can accurately reflect the early microvascular changes that occur in the
      build up to subsequent organ damage and dysfunction, the majority of which are extremely
      difficult to detect using standard clinical techniques, biomarkers or severity scores.

      The clinical use of MR-proADM

      Thus, MR-proADM levels can provide the treating physician with an accurate reflection of
      abnormalities in the microcirculation before the patient develops any form of organ
      dysfunction or adverse clinical signs become apparent, thus providing an earlier warning of
      any developing complications associated with the infectious condition. Indeed, even when
      diagnostic biomarkers such as PCT, CRP or lactate are either initially low or decreasing
      satisfactorily, patients might still be at considerable risk of further complications, which
      can be highlighted through elevated MR-proADM values. In these cases, an immediate transfer
      to a more intensive ward or department and an early, rapid and goal directed therapeutic
      treatment would most likely be required in order to achieve the best possible clinical
      outcome for the patient.

      On the other hand, resolving issues in the microcirculation/endothelium can be indicative of
      an improvement in clinical status, and illustrated by low MR-proADM values. Accordingly, even
      in the presence of elevated laboratory or other biomarker values and poor clinical signs, the
      patient in question may develop no further physiological complications apart from the
      pre-existing microbial infection itself, which when treatment is correctly initiated, can
      facilitate an earlier transfer onto a less acute ward, consequently saving the healthcare
      provider valuable resources such as physician time, hospital beds and overall financial
      budget.

      The results of the SIDED study (doi: 10.1186 / s13054-019-2329-5) showed that MR-proADM
      measurement at presentation could accurately assess disease severity and identify specific
      patient populations based on the likelihood of subsequent disease progression. This was of
      particular importance in patients with few pathophysiological signs and symptoms, as
      indicated by low SOFA, qSOFA or NEWS scores, where initial treatment may either be withheld,
      delayed or insufficient. Our study therefore, for the first time, highlights the use of
      MR-proADM in potentially identifying this patient population in order to initiate appropriate
      treatment strategies at the earliest opportunity.

      Based on the results of this study, two clinically important uses for MR-proADM can be
      proposed: (i) an early escalation of treatment in patients with MR-proADM concentrations ≥1.5
      nmol/L, thus identifying an already high level of disease severity or a high potential for
      further development and progression, and (ii) a decreased number of hospital admissions
      allowing a safe increase in out-patient treatment in patients with MR-proADM concentrations
      <0.9 nmol/L.

      Samples of the biomarkers were in SIDED study retrospectively analyzed in a device that is
      not routinely used in the ED (Kryptor, Thermo Fisher, Germany). The availability of MR-proADM
      at the point of care could facilitate its widespread use in all EDs. This study is conducted
      to confirm the results of the SIDED study by using a device at the patient's bedside (Samsung
      IB10 platforms) that allows the quantitative determination of the MR-proADM and procalcitonin
      biomarkers, instead of using a Kryptor platform, and obtaining the biomarkers results in no
      more than 20 minutes.
    
  