
    
      Background:

        -  Adenocarcinoma of the prostate is the most common cancer diagnosis in American males,
           and the second leading cause of cancer death.

        -  The proposed vaccine strategy represents a third-generation design that elicits a T-cell
           immune response to cells expressing PSA and has been shown to break tolerance to this
           self-antigen, and cause objective response and PSA declines in patients with metastatic
           AIPC.

        -  This strategy also utilizes an antibody to CTLA-4 that may block the normal signals to
           down regulate the immune response following active vaccination.

        -  Anti CTLA-4 antibodies have been associated with autoimmune events that are generally
           manageable and have been associated with clinical response.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine the safety and tolerability of a combination of a fixed dose of vaccine and
           anti-CTLA4, which will be dose escalated.

        -  To evaluate immunologic response (as measured by an increase in PSA specific T-cells
           measured by ELISPOT in HLA-A2+ patients), and clinical response (as measured by RECIST
           and PSA consensus criteria).

      Eligibility:

        -  Must have metastatic androgen insensitive prostate cancer with no bone pain requiring
           narcotics and have had no more prior chemotherapy.

        -  Life expectancy greater than or equal to 6 months. ECOG 0-1

        -  Should have no autoimmune diseases; no evidence of being immunocompromised; no serious
           intercurrent medical illness; no cardiac disease; no prior splenectomy.

        -  No prior treatment with MDX-010 (Ipilimumab).

        -  No brain metastasis, history of seizures, encephalitis, or multiple sclerosis.

        -  No serious hypersensitivity reaction to egg products.

      Design:

        -  This is an open label, phase I safety trial with sequential cohorts of patients all
           receiving a fixed dose of PSA-TRICOM vaccines and sargramostim, with dose escalation of
           MDX-010 (Ipilimumab).

        -  PROSTVAC -V/TRICOM (vaccinia) 2 x 10(8) pfu subcutaneously will be administered as the
           initial priming vaccine on day 1 of cycle 1 only.

        -  PROSTVAC -F/TRICOM (fowlpox) 1 x 10(9) pfu subcutaneously starting on day 15 followed by
           monthly boosting vaccination. Sargramostim 100 mcg per day will be administered
           subcutaneously at the vaccination site on days 1-4 of each vaccine cycle (prime and
           boost).

        -  MDX-010 (Ipilimumab) will be administered, as per the assigned dose level, as a
           90-minute intravenous infusion on the same day as the monthly boosting vaccinations with
           PROSTVAC-F/TRICOM (fowlpox). After 6 courses of MDX-010, patients may receive
           Maintenance dose of MDX-010 every 3 months until there is evidence of disease
           progression or toxicity, for up to an additional 12 months (equivalent to 4 additional
           MDX-010 courses).

        -  Monthly boosting vaccinations with PROSTVAC-F/TRICOM (fowlpox) and sargramostim may then
           continue until patients meet off study criteria.
    
  