
    
      METHODOLOGY

      Study setting:

      The interprofessional intervention applying blended learning will be conducted at the higher
      education institution's interactive learning facilities, while the online interprofessional
      intervention will be conducted in an online learning environment in collaboration with the
      teaching-learning company of the Finnish Dental Association.

      Study design:

      This is a nonrandomized pre-post quasi-experimental study. The participants in this study
      will participate in interprofessional mentoring education. Participants will self-assess
      their level of Competence in mentoring, which includes seven dimensions; mentor
      characteristics, mentor motivation, mentoring practices in the workplace, reflection during
      mentoring, goal-oriented mentoring, student-centered evaluation and constructive feedback.
      There will be three assessment time points: at baseline (before education, T0), immediately
      after the education (T1), and 3 months after the education (T2). The control group will not
      receive any educational intervention. The interventions and control group will be used the
      same self-assessment instrument and assessment time points.

      Study size:

      The intervention and control groups will include 60 participants per group. The 60
      participants in the intervention group will be further divided into two groups: one group (30
      participants) completing the blended learning module and the other group (30 participants)
      completing an online learning module.

      Study duration:

      The intervention will be conducted for a duration of 6 months. More precisely, the blended
      learning module will be offered twice, in spring 2019 and spring 2020. The online learning
      module will be conducted during spring 2020 and autumn 2021.

      Sampling of participants

      Recruitment:

      An announcement about both interventions will be published in Finnish journals of dental
      health care and the official journal of the Finnish Dental Association. The mentors can then
      choose which form of education was more convenient in terms of time and location. The blended
      learning approach will be offered once per year in the springtime, while the online mentoring
      education is available throughout the year.

      Intervention:

      Blended learning approach to mentoring education for dental health care professionals for
      participants (dentists and dental hygienists) in the intervention group comprises completion
      of specialist lectures, discussions, interprofessional group work and self-reflection. The
      mentoring education will last five weeks, include four face-to-face seminars (2+2 days) and
      self-reflection assignments lasting an estimated two days.

      The online mentoring education for participants (dentists and dental hygienists) in the
      intervention group comprises of completion of represents a collaboration between members of
      the dental association, specialist lectures and the coordinator of the dental association.
      The online mentoring education environment, Priima, includes videos of specialist lectures,
      e-learning materials, along with assignments concerning reflection skills and
      participant-based evaluation. In addition, the learners will be informed that they could get
      in touch with the coordinator of the association if necessary.

      Control:

      The participants in the control group are dentists and dental hygienists who are listed as
      working at health care centers on the Finnish Dental Association site
      (tkharjoittelu.hammaslaakariliitto.fi) and participate in student mentoring. Data concerning
      the control group, which did not receive any educational intervention. The control group
      represents dentists or dental hygienists from randomly selected organizations, while all of
      the participants will be selected from subdivisions of the 2007 NUTS (Nomenclature of
      Territorial Units for Statistics). Control group randomization will be performed via Research
      Randomizer (https://www.randomizer.org/#randomize) and ensured that participants in the
      intervention groups are similar with respect to both known and unknown prognostic factors.

      Sample size:

      The target of participant selection is to obtain a sufficiently large sample size that
      represents a highly heterogeneous study group so that concrete conclusions about the
      effectiveness of the educational interventions can be drawn. A power analysis applying
      settings outlined in the latest study was used to calculate the appropriate sample size, with
      the results indicating that 60 participants per group (intervention and control group) would
      provide a sufficiently large Cohen's d effect size.

      INSTRUMENTS AND DATA COLLECTION

      Intervention: The blended learning module and online learning module for mentoring education
      for interprofessional dental health care professionals.

      Instruments: Mentors' Competence in mentoring will be measured using the self-assessment of
      the Mentors' Competence Instrument (MCI), which includes seven mentoring competence
      sub-dimensions and 45 items.

      Finnish language versions of the questionnaire will contain the following sections:

        1. Sociodemographic data:

             -  Sex

             -  Age

             -  Education background

             -  Year of completion of education

             -  Job title

             -  Place of work

             -  Work experience

             -  Role of mentor

             -  A time when last mentored a student

             -  A most recent case of mentoring

             -  Previous participation to mentoring education

             -  Experience of previous mentoring education

        2. Competence in mentoring using MCI, which contains 45 items divided into 7 sections

             -  mentor characteristics

             -  mentor motivation

             -  mentoring practices in the workplace

             -  reflection during mentoring

             -  goal-oriented mentoring

             -  student-centered evaluation

             -  constructive feedback

      DATA COLLECTION

      Intervention group

        1. Blended learning approach to mentoring education for dental health care professionals;
           Baseline questionnaire (T0): Paper-based questionnaires will be administered to
           participants in the intervention group on the day of study recruitment before mentoring
           education. A researcher will provide details to participants on the completion of the
           questionnaire.

           The online mentoring education (T0): Online questionnaire will be administered to
           participants in the intervention group by giving a weblink with the cover letter of the
           questionnaire outlines to the study purpose, protecting participant anonymity, and
           contact details of the researchers.

        2. Post-course questionnaire (T1): A blended learning approach to mentoring education for
           dental health care professionals; Paper-based questionnaires will be administered to
           participants in the intervention group immediately following completion of the mentoring
           education.

           The interprofessional online mentoring education (T1): Online questionnaire will be
           administered to participants in the intervention group immediately following completion
           of the mentoring education.

        3. Follow-up of the 3-month questionnaire (T2): A blended learning approach to mentoring
           education for dental health care professionals; Paper-based questionnaires will be sent
           to participants via post to participants' home addresses. The online mentoring
           education; An online questionnaire will be sent to weblink to participants via
           participants' email.

      Control group

        1. Baseline questionnaire (T0): Paper-based questionnaires will be sent in sealed envelop
           to participants of the control group during the timeline of the intervention group's
           mentoring education.

        2. Post questionnaire (T1): Paper-based questionnaires will be sent in sealed envelop to
           participants of the control group after five weeks of the baseline measurement.

        3. Follow-up of the 3-month questionnaire (T2): Paper-based questionnaire will be sent in
           sealed envelop to participants of the control group after three months of the baseline
           measurement.

      ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS

      All phases of the study will follow guidelines for ethical research. The study will not
      require a statement from the ethics committee, as the research will not violate the
      participants' physical integrity and/or cause physical or mental harm. Permission for data
      collection was obtained from the organizations where education will be conducted.
      Participants will be informed of the study's purpose, the voluntary of their participation
      and of their right to withdraw from the study, protection of participants' anonymity, and
      contact details of the researchers. Answering the questionnaire was taken as an informed
      agreement to participate in the study. All of the collected data will be coded according to
      the key code in questionnaires T1, T2 and T2. The results of the study will be reported
      according to the CONSORT 2010 Statement and the TIDieR checklist. Process evaluations of the
      designed interventions will be reported in accordance with the Medical Research Council (MRC)
      guidelines. Respondent confidentiality will be assured throughout the study.

      Data analysis

      Data will be analyzed with SPSS (V. 22.0, IBM Corporation, Armonk, NY). Data will be analyzed
      using descriptive statistics, the Mann-Whitney U test and pre-and post-test changes will be
      assessed using the Wilcoxon Signed-Rank test. Parametric data analysis methods will be used
      for sensitivity testing. In this study, will be used two-tailed testing and the significance
      level will be set at a p-value <0.05.
    
  