
    
      Plan of investigation The study will be a single blind randomised controlled trial. Patients
      will be recruited from those attending the difficult asthma clinic at the Belfast City
      Hospital and deemed non-adherent (see below). Difficult asthma will be defined as; 1.
      persisting asthma symptoms (Asthma control score >3)(ACS), despite detailed assessment and
      management; 2. minimal maintenance therapy of long acting B2-agonist and inhaled steroids (
      800 mcg BDP or equivalent) and 3. at least 1 course of systemic steroids in the preceding 12
      months.

      Non adherence will be defined as prescription filling of <50% of prescribed anti-inflammatory
      inhaled therapy utilized in preceding 6 months (from GP prescription records). All subjects
      will be invited to take part and give consent to take part in the study.

      Exclusion criteria will be medication adherence, a condition other than asthma contributing
      to persisting symptoms; current smoker; significant co-morbidity due to condition other than
      asthma. Primary Outcome measure Improvement in adherence to steroid therapy before and after
      intervention (both 7 day prednisolone (serum assay) and inhaled steroid therapy (prescription
      counting).

      Secondary outcome measures Improvement in Asthma Control Scores (ACS) Improvement in asthma
      Quality of Life Questionnaire (AQLQ) Improvement in Lung function Reduction in courses of
      rescue steroid Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale These are all routinely measured as part
      of the difficult asthma service. Study design Pre run-in period

        1. Assessment of inclusion / exclusion criteria

        2. Full informed consent Run-in period (1 week)- All participants Week 1 Prednisolone
           course - 7 day course

      1. ACS/Forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) on Day 1 (Lung function breathing test) 2.
      Serum prednisolone/cortisol and urinary cortisol/creatinine ratio on Day 7 - measures
      adherence to prednisolone 3. Asthma control score/FEV1 Day 7 Randomisation Patients will be
      randomized into two groups either control (usual care) or intervention group using a random
      number generator.

      Intervention

      Intervention Group- A nurse-led programme of intervention will be devised. It will have two
      stages incorporating:

        1. Semi-structured audio taped interview to identify individual reasons for non-adherence
           and assessment of readiness to change behaviour.

        2. An individualised package incorporating:

             1. Asthma education programme to address any specific gaps in asthma knowledge or
                requests for information

             2. Motivational interviewing based on stages of change model to encourage change and
                adherence

             3. Psychological therapy involving (a) relaxation therapy (b) cognitive behavioural
                techniques looking at negative and catastrophic thoughts and (c) panic cycle
                adapted to respiratory patients Patients will be seen regularly (individual needs
                determine time spans) for a period of 3 months.

      Control group - standard asthma management. Outcome measures Primary outcome measures
      Adherence will be determined at baseline, 3 and 9 months by prescription filling to define
      outcome after completion of programme. During the period of follow-up, when a further 7 day
      course of prednisolone is indicated on clinical grounds, serum prednisolone/cortisol and
      urinary cortisol/creatinine ratio will be measured on completion of course.

      Secondary outcome measures These will be measured at 3 and 9 months There are currently 200
      patients attending the difficult asthma service at Belfast City Hospital Trust all of whom
      fulfil our definition of difficult asthma. No data is available in this specific population
      regarding adherence with inhaled therapy but based on adherence with prednisolone and
      adherence data with inhaled therapy in other severities of asthma, we would anticipate that
      over 50% will be variably adherent to therapy. 1-6 months - Screening population / liaising
      with primary care / psychological intervention training 6 months-18 months - Patient
      recruitment and intervention package delivered 18-36 months- Follow-up and data analysis.
    
  