
    
      The surgical approach to the hip is reportedly an important factor influencing implant
      stability and postsurgical muscle functioning. Reviewing the literature, controversial
      studies towards minimally invasive hip surgery can be found. Currently, none of the
      approaches can be considered superior, but the trend is towards minimally invasive
      techniques, as it is generally accepted that muscle trauma and damage of the periarticular
      structures should be minimized. However, a surgical approach that causes no damage to
      surrounding muscle is unrealistic. Whether the muscle is stretched, transacted or partially
      torn, injury will occur.

      Aim of the present investigation is to analyse the amount of muscle trauma in relation to the
      surgical approach and to the individual postoperative functional recovery. The investigation
      will compare the MIS anterior approach with the MIS anterolateral approach to the hip. The
      investigators questioned, which technique would be the less invasive? Pain and functional
      performance will be measured using the Harris Hip Score, the Western Ontario McMaster, and
      the UCLA (University of California) Activity Score. Subject quality-of-life will be
      determined by evaluation the Short-Form 36 Health Survey. Standard radiographs of the hip are
      required to be captured before surgery and at 3, 6 and 12 months postoperatively. MRI scans
      will be performed to evaluate tendon defects, fatty atrophy and changes in the muscle
      cross-sectional area. Next, the patients will be referred for hip sonography, performed by a
      radiologist who is experienced in imaging of the musculoskeletal system who will be unaware
      of the clinical examination results of the patients. Moreover gait analyses will be performed
      preoperatively, 3 and 12 months after surgery. Pre- and postoperative standard blood tests
      and specific serum trauma markers will be obtained.
    
  