
    
      Patients with surgically treated peri-implantitis enrolled in a maintenance program at the
      Specialist clinic, Institute for Clinical Dentistry, Dental Faculty, University of Oslo, will
      receive SPiT by the use of an oscillating chitosan brush (LBC, BioClean, Labrida AS, Oslo,
      Norway). Subjects with at least two not-adjacent implants of similar brand and defect
      configuration registered with suppuration or Bleeding index score 3-2 (Roos-Jansaker et al.,
      2007) on at least 1 of 6 surfaces (mesiobuccal, buccal, distobuccal, mesiolingual, lingual,
      distolingual) will be invited to participate in the current pilot study.

      Baseline examinations and treatment:

      Radiographs of the implants showing clear projections of the implant threads at the mesial
      and distal surfaces will be taken using standard Eggens holders

      The following clinical registrations will be performed at six sites (mesiobuccal, buccal,
      distobuccal, mesiolingual, lingual, distolingual) of the included implants by the blinded
      examiner:

      Suppuration: the presence or absence after light pressure against gingiva/mucosa or following
      gentle probing of the peri-implant pocket.

      Plaque: the presence or absence recognized by running a probe across the marginal surface of
      the implant (Mombelli, van Oosten, Jr, & Lang, 1987).

      Gingival bleeding: registered according to the Modified Sulcus Bleeding Index (mBI) (Mombelli
      et al., 1987).

      PPD: recorded with a pressure- sensitive probe (20 g) (University of North Carolina probe,
      Aesculap, Braun, Tuttlingen, Germany).

      Bleeding index score: measured at the implants after probing at six sites, and graded (0-3):

      0 = no bleeding,

        1. = spot bleeding,

        2. = line bleeding

        3. = profound bleeding within 30 seconds after measurement of PPD. Presence of keratinized
           mucosa: registered at the mid buccal site as "adequate" ≥2 mm, "inadequate" <2 mm
           (Moraschini, Luz, Velloso, & Barboza, 2017).

      All included implants receive the following treatment:

      Repeated oral hygiene instruction if needed Submucosal debridement with a chitosan brush
      (LBC, BioClean®, LABRIDA AS, Oslo, Norway) seated in an oscillating dental drill piece
      (ER10M, TEQ-Y, NSK Inc., Kanuma Tochigi, Japan) for 3 min followed by copious irrigation with
      sterile saline Supramucosal polishing using polishing paste and rubber cup Following
      treatment, if local anesthesia was not applied, the subjects will be asked to grade the level
      of pain experienced on a 10 cm visual analogue scale (VAS).

      3-, 6- and 9 weeks following baseline At the 3-week follow up, an equal number of included
      implants are determined "test-" and "control-" by flipping of a coin.

      At these time points, all implants are clinically examined by a blinded examiner and receive
      supramucosal polishing, but only test-implants receive submucosal debridement as described
      above (see figure 1) VAS scales are registered

      12 weeks (3 month) following baseline At these time point, all implants are clinically
      examined by a blinded examiner and receive supramucosal polishing as well as submucosal
      debridement as described above (see figure 1) VAS scales are registered

      16 weeks (4 month) following baseline All implants are clinically examined by a blinded
      examiner and receive supramucosal polishing, but only test-implants receive submucosal
      debridement as described above (see figure 1) VAS scales are registered

      24 weeks (6 month) following baseline At these time point, all implants are clinically
      examined by a blinded examiner and receive supramucosal polishing as well as submucosal
      debridement as described above (see figure 1) VAS scales are registered

      36 weeks (9 month) following baseline At these time point, all implants are clinically
      examined by a blinded examiner and receive supramucosal polishing as well as submucosal
      debridement as described above (see figure 1) VAS scales are registered Radiographs are taken
      according to the baseline examination

      Figure 1: Timeline of the clinical trial
    
  