
    
      This study is about to determine effectiveness of breathing exercises for pregnant women
      during the second stage of labor on maternal pain, duration of labor, dyspnea, oxygen
      saturation SPO2 and the first-minute Appearance, Pulse, Grimace, Activity and Respiration
      (APGAR) scores.

      Two sessions will be given to pregnant women in Intervention group. One session breathing
      exercises training will be given during first stage of labor by the investigator. During
      training all participants in Intervention group will be instructed to perform breathing
      exercises during the second stage of labor. The main components of breathing exercises during
      training will be as fellows (A) First, fill your stomach and then your lungs with air while
      breathing in; (B) Feel the expansion in the stomach; (C) Make sure the muscles from your
      stomach to your knee are relaxed, as if you are urinating while breathing out; (D) When there
      is pain, perform deep abdominal breathing exercises, and take a deep breath in and hold as
      much as you can; (E) Try to push the baby downward; (F) You can do it by holding your breath
      or breathing out quite slowly from your mouth; (G) The most important point in this stage is
      that you should not fill up the stomach with air, and you should push downward to deliver the
      baby; (H) You should continue the pushing until the pain is relieved. The participants will
      be observed during second stage of labor and their breathing will be monitored.

        1. During the second stage of labor maternal labor pain will be assessed by Visual Analogue
           Scale.

        2. Duration of second stage of labor will be counted by turning on the stop watch on the
           start of second stage and it will be stopped at the end when baby will be delivered.

        3. Dyspnea will be monitored by dyspnea scale after performing breathing exercises during
           second stage of labor.

        4. Oxygen saturation will be monitored by pulse oximeter during second stage of labor.

        5. APGAR score of newborn will be marked in 1st minute after the birth.
    
  