
    
      Background:

      Pressure ulcers (PrUs) are the most frequent significant medical complication after spinal
      cord injury (SCI). PrU prevalence, morbidity, mortality, and recurrence rates are high, and
      most persons with SCI will have at least one serious PrU during their lifetime. VA costs of
      treating the almost 3,500 unique Veterans with SCI and a severe ulcer at an SCI Center in
      2010 was just under $400 million.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this randomized clinical trial (RCT) was to determine whether a
      multi-component self-management (SM) intervention increases the use of skin-protective
      behaviors and reduces skin worsening in Veterans with SCI, compared to an education control
      (ED) intervention. Secondary outcomes included PrU knowledge, self-management skills,
      communication with providers, self-efficacy, community integration and days on bedrest.
      Another objective was to conduct focus group interviews with patients and providers and to
      analyze transcripts of SM group sessions to determine barriers and facilitators with regard
      to spinal cord injury and pressure ulcer prevention.

      Methods:

      This was a multi-site efficacy intervention study with a single blind prospective randomized
      design. Descriptive statistics were used to summarize demographic and key variables.
      Supplemental focus group interviews were conducted with patients with SCI (n=35) and SCI
      providers (n=39). Focus group interviews and SM group calls were transcribed verbatim and
      analyzed using constant comparative techniques.

      Study participants included Veterans hospitalized for Stage III/IV PrUs at or below the level
      of injury, from six VA SCI Centers around the country (Long Beach, Houston, Milwaukee,
      Augusta, Hines and St. Louis). Prior to discharge, PrU risk factors were identified and 1:1
      PrU education was provided. Randomization and the behavioral interventions began at
      discharge. The number of randomized subjects were 72 in the ED group and 72 in the SM group
      (n=144). The analytic sample included subjects with complete data (n=92).

      The intervention included 8 site coordinator-initiated calls using didactic (ED) or
      Motivational Interviewing (MI) strategies to address PrU risk factors. The second component
      included telephone group calls that included either didactic information about SCI or SM
      skills including: 1) knowledge about the medical condition; 2) self-monitoring; 3)
      problem-solving skills; 4) skill for managing the effects of the condition; 5) adherence to
      necessary health behaviors; and 6) self-advocacy with health care providers. ED subjects
      received general health information and were not instructed in any specific problem solving,
      self-monitoring or SM techniques. The ED intervention was comparable to the SM with respect
      to natural history/ time, dosing, measurement processes, attention, therapeutic alliance,
      social support, and in receiving a manualized treatment with specific therapist procedures.
      Self-reported outcome data were obtained by phone at 3 and 6 months, and from mailed photos
      of study ulcers.

      Status:

      Study is complete. Additional analyses are ongoing and future manuscripts are planned.
    
  