
    
      Insulin titration remains a demanding challenge in the treatment of type 1 diabetes mellitus
      (T1DM). The two most significant advances in terms of insulin dosing where the introduction
      of continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) and continuous glucose monitoring (CGM)
      sensors. CSII allows to diligently titrate hourly basal rates of insulin, which tremendously
      increased insulin and meal-time flexibility. CGM sensors provide continuous documentation of
      glycemic excursions without the need for patients' activity.

      The most recent development was to enable communication and data sharing between CSII and
      CGMS. The idea was to create an autonomous system that measured current glucose
      concentrations and issued an adequate insulin dose to the CSII device. These systems were
      entitled "closed loop systems" or "artificial pancreas" (AP).

      In general, APs have three components: the CSII device, a CGM sensor, and a "decision-making"
      algorithm integrated in a microprocessor.

      In 2006, the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation (JDRF) launched the "AP Project" and has
      been funding development in this area since that time. In 2013, the threshold suspend feature
      was approved by the American Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as part of the MiniMed 530G
      CSII and Enlite sensor CGM. Threshold suspend autonomously stopped basal rate insulin
      infusion if hypoglycaemia was imminent. It is categorized as hybrid closed loop (HCL) AP
      system. HCL autonomous adjusts basal rate insulin infusion yet requires active bolus
      application by the patient. Several trials confirmed its safety and efficacy in children and
      adults with type 1 diabetes. In clinical trials, general safety was high, glycemic control
      increased and the incidence of hypoglycaemia was significantly reduced. Based on these
      promising data, the FDA approved the Medtronic 670G as the first HCL automated insulin
      delivery system in the United States. In 2018, Medtronic 670G was approved in the European
      Union and in Switzerland for the treatment of patients with T1DM.

      In 2013, an initiative called the "Open Artificial Pancreas System (OpenAPS)" gained
      significant attention in the diabetes community.(9) OpenAPS was designed to quickly spread AP
      technology to patients with diabetes without awaiting clinical trials and FDA approval.
      OpenAPS is based on a privately shared software program, which enables access and transfer of
      CGM data to a data cloud, the so called "Nightscout" software. Soon thereafter, the
      "Do-It-Yourself Pancreas System" (DIYPS) software was created. DIYPS is a "decision making"
      algorithm for insulin delivery. DIYPS was combined with the Nightscout-software and allowed
      communication between Medtronic CSII and CGM sensors, data retrieval and issuance of
      insulin-dosing. With this update, the DIYPS system and Nightscout-software together became a
      hybrid closed loop AP system, better known as "OpenAPS".

      In Switzerland, OpenAPS gained considerable interest in technique-affine patients with T1DM,
      and there already are patients with T1DM using openAPS at our department, despite the
      recommendation to use only approved medical devices. The number of patients using OpenAPS
      might be small at the moment but is growing, and diabetes care experts are asked to respond
      to this trend. It is necessary to evaluate safety of OpenAPS in diabetes, which are free of
      charge, to be used "at your own risk", but regulate sensible parameters like insulin dosing
      in the treatment of diabetes.

      The aim of the present study is to evaluate accuracy and performance of an individually build
      OpenAPS in the fasting and the postprandial state and to compare each step of dose titration
      with the Medtronic 670G system as an approved HCL reference system.

      The investigators aim to recruit 15 participants in an open label, single-center, single-arm,
      observational study. Insulin injection will only be provided by the Medtronic 670G HCL system
      (Basal rate insulin). The OpenAPS system will be worn contemporaneously, calculate
      recommended basal rate insulin adjustments but will not inject insulin. The maximum treatment
      period will be 2 weeks per patient.
    
  