
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of umbilical cord blood (UCB)-derived CD4- and
           CD25-positive T-regulatory (Treg) cell infusion followed by double unrelated donor UCB
           transplantation in patients with high-risk leukemia or other hematologic diseases.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the speed of neutrophil and platelet recovery at day 42 in these patients.

        -  Determine the incidence of "double chimerism" (e.g., engraftment of both UCB units) at
           day 21 in these patients.

        -  Determine the risk of severe grade III-IV acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) at day
           100 in these patients.

        -  Determine the risk of chronic GVHD at 1 year post transplantation in these patients.

        -  Determine the probability of survival at 100 days and 1 year post transplantation in
           these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, dose-escalation study of CD4- and CD25-positive umbilical
      cord blood (UCB)-derived T-regulatory cells (Treg).

        -  Preparative therapy: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) over 1
           hour on days -9 to -7 and cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -8 and -7 (1 hour
           after fludarabine infusion). Patients then undergo total-body irradiation (TBI) twice
           daily on days -5 to -2.

        -  UCB-derived Treg infusion: Patients receive UCB-derived Treg cells IV on day -1.

        -  Double unrelated donor UCB transplantation: Patients undergo double unrelated donor UCB
           transplantation by IV infusion on day 0.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive cyclosporine IV over 2
           hours or orally 2 or 3 times daily beginning on day -3 and continuing until day 100,
           followed by a taper to day 180, in the absence of GVHD. Patients also receive
           mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) orally or IV twice daily on days -3 to 30 or 7 days after
           engraftment, whichever is later, in the absence of acute GVHD*. If no donor engraftment
           occurs, MMF may be continued at the discretion of the attending physician.

      NOTE: *If the patient has acute GVHD requiring systemic therapy, MMF may be stopped 7 days
      after GVHD is controlled (e.g., resolution of skin rash, vomiting, and diarrhea).

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of UCB-derived Treg cells until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience nonhematologic dose-limiting toxicity within 48 hours of
      Treg cell infusion. At least 6 patients are treated at the MTD.
    
  