
    
      Background Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer in Denmark with approximately 4700
      new cases each year, with an increased incidence during the last decades. Almost 70% of the
      patients are treated with breast conserving surgery (BCS) and breast irradiation.
      Unfortunately, 5.9 % of the patients treated with BCS will experience local recurrence after
      9 years. The strongest predictor for local recurrence is a positive pathologic resection
      margin. Therefore it is important intraoperatively to be able to evaluate the margin width of
      the resected specimen precisely. The challenge during BCS is to remove the primary invasive
      breast cancer, with negative resection margin, free of invasive tumor and DCIS, Ductal
      Carcinoma In Situ. Some have concluded that lack of accurate imaging especially of the DCIS
      is the main reason for positive margins and repeat surgery, as the DCIS often, but not in all
      cases, contains microcalcifications that can be detected on mammography (x-ray of the
      breast). Consequently, 17%-25% of the patients will need a second or a third surgery. Repeat
      surgery has been associated with higher surgical risk, poorer cosmetic outcome, and increased
      psychological and economic burden for both patients and the society. Finding an optimal
      imaging method to obtain adequate resection margins close to or during BCS that can reduce
      the number of repeat surgeries, is therefore strongly needed.

      Definition of resection margin status

      A safe macroscopic surgical resection margin is, according to the Danish Breast Cancer
      Group´s (DBCG) guidelines, defined as a margin width ≥ 5mm minimizing the risk of leaving
      residual tumor. In many institutions in Denmark, a perioperative evaluation of the tumor is
      performed as a macroscopically assessment by a pathologist. This is a ressource demanding
      procedure and X-ray of the specimen is used instead. A radiological, positive resection
      margin is defined as a margin width of 0 mm, that leads to a re-excision during the same
      surgical procedure, and additional breast tissue is removed at the exact same area of the
      patient's breast. This procedure aims to avoid the discomfort of a repeat surgery. The
      perioperative radiological assessment of the resection margins is afterwards confirmed
      microscopically, where a positive margin at our institution is defined as "tumor on ink",
      meaning tumor cells in the inked resection margin with 0 mm to the margin. A positive margin
      will trigger a repeat surgery, either a new BCS or a mastectomy where the whole breast is
      removed. For DCIS, a margin-width of less than 2 mm is considered positive, and the patient
      will be offered repeat surgery according to guidelines. A distance from the invasive
      carcinoma to the resection margin of < 2 mm, but not "on the ink" is surgical considered
      sufficient and the patient will according to DBCG guidelines, not require a repeat surgery,
      but will instead be offered additional boost to the subsequent radiotherapy. The result of
      the final histopathology is, however, not available until 7 workdays after the initial BCS.
      Guidance of a more optimal perioperative methods to evaluate the resection margins during BCS
      would, therefore, be highly desirable, and could potentially lead to a decreased rate of
      repeat surgery and hence save several patients from the discomfort of a second surgical
      procedure.

      Intraoperative imaging methods for margin assessment

      Various methods to assess resection margins have been investigated such as frozen section
      analysis, imprint cytology, macroscopically evaluation and imaging with x-ray, micro-CT
      scanning or ultrasound of the resected tumor margins. All have, however, their limitations,
      either because they are time consuming, or simply because they are not accurate enough to
      predict resection margin status. The imaging modality X-ray has been reported in several
      studies to have a high specificity, predicting negative margins up to 95%, but unfortunately
      a low sensitivity of only 21%. That means that the method is particularly good to predict a
      negative margin. The X-ray is less sensitive when it comes to predict a positive resection
      margin, with the final histopathology as a reference method. The lower sensitivity is due to
      the fact, that x-ray has difficulties, when it comes to detect the breast tumor in a very
      dense normal breast tissue, most common for young women. The X-ray evaluation also has the
      disadvantage of only delivering a 2D solution to a 3D problem. The other imaging method
      currently in use is ultrasound that has a high sensitivity of 80% but a low specificity of
      59% to predict positive resection margins (Ramos M. et al).

      A new method called Micro-CT (micro-Computed Tomography) can provide 3D imaging of the
      resected tumor and the microcalcifications that helps to asses all margins of the resected
      tumor. Unfortunately, there is a high interobserver variability reported with this method.
      Furthermore, it is difficult to differentiate between tumor and normal breast tissue in the
      resected margins in some of the cases, which makes it impossible for the radiologist to
      determine if the margins are positive or negative. This may be one of the reasons for, why
      this method does not perform so well with a sensitivity range of only 38%-56%.

      Digital Breast Tomosynthesis (DBT) is a novel method for assessment of resection margins
      based on X-ray technology. DBT provides images of the resected tumor with a large field of
      view of the specimen and a high resolution, that allows the radiologist to examine the
      resected specimen in one millimeter increments both in 2D and 3D, where the extent and the
      shape of the tumor and the microcalcifications are better defined than on conventional 2D
      mammography. Only few clinical studies have investigated DBT for evaluation of resection
      margins with the most recent study with 98 patients included (Park KU. et al). This study
      reported a high performance of the DBT with a sensitivity to predict positive margins of 93%,
      and a specificity of 78%, to predict negative margins, with the final histopathology as a
      reference method.

      Objectives

      The overall objective of the present study is to investigate if adequate resection margins
      can be obtained with use of DBT of the resected margins during BCS to reduce the rate of
      repeat surgery and avoid further unnecessary complications and psychological stress for the
      patients.

      Hypothesis

      Does intraoperative DBT improve assessment of the resected margins compared to standard
      method with X-ray? The final histopathology will be used as a reference method.

        1. DBT can contribute to obtain negative resection margins and thereby reduce the need of
           repeat surgery as compared to X-ray.

        2. The performance of DBT predicting resection margin status is more accurate compared to
           the standard method with X-ray.

      Study participants

      The study participants will be recruited at the Department of Plastic and Breast Surgery at
      Aarhus University Hospital after they have been diagnosed with operable invasive breast
      cancer and scheduled for BCS. The study participants will receive separate information
      leaflet about this project that respects the applicable regulatory requirements. The page
      describing the rights of the patient participating in a health research project will also be
      handed out to the patient by the breast surgeon. The breast surgeon will obtain the informed
      consent from the patient and mention in the patient's medical record, that the patient has
      given consent to participate in this project.

      Randomization

      The study participant will be randomized to either the DBT or the standard method (X-ray) by
      the breast surgeon in the system REDCap®. REDCap® is a secure web platform that can build and
      manage online databases and surveys that will also be used for the data management of this
      project. The randomization will be performed by the breast surgeon during the first
      consultation with the patient, as soon as the patient has given oral and written consent and
      is included in each trial.

      Handling of the resected breast tumor

      The study encompasses tissue being procured as part of the normal diagnostic procedure. The
      material will, as all tissue collected for diagnostic purposes, be kept in the existing
      clinical biobank at the Department of Pathology, at Aarhus University Hospital during as well
      as after the closure of the study. A research biobank will therefore not be established

      Safety

      There are no side effects and no risk of radiation for the investigators in the DBT-trial, as
      the resected tumor will be located inside the DBT or in the X-ray that is a closed system,
      ex-vivo, with no radiation exposure to the technical staff or to the study patients.

      Statistics and analysis

      A sample size of 123 study participants was calculated as necessary to detect a reduction
      from 20% in the X-ray-group to 7% in the DBT-group with a statistical power of 80% and a 5%
      level of significance. The investigators expect a few patients may drop-out for different
      reasons, and estimated that a total number of 250 patients are enough to be included in the
      DBT-trial.

      The statistical analyses and calculation will be made primarily by the investigator Irina
      Palimaru Manhoobi (IPM) using STATA® where after the work will be reviewed by a statistician
      to ensure a high quality of the statistical work.

        1. The occurrence of positive resections margins, re-excisions and repeat surgery will be
           compared between groups using the Fisher exact test.

        2. The performance of the tested and the standard method: The sensitivity, specificity,
           Positive Predictive Value (PPV) and the Negative Predictive Value (NPV) compared to the
           reference method will be calculated with the McNemar Chi-Square test.

      A two-sided p-value of less than 0.05 will be considered statistically significant.

      Data management

      The study participants will be identified from the Central Personal Register system (CPR)
      with permission obtained the 1st of April 2020 from the Danish Data Protection Agency (DDPA)
      / "Region Midtjyllands interne fortegnelse over forskningsprojekter" with case number
      1-16-02-141-20. The informed consent from all study participants gives the investigator,
      sponsor and the representants of the sponsor, the direct access to the below described
      clinical data from the medical record (EPJ) Electronical Patient Journal, that is important
      to perform this project. All clinical data will be transferred anonymously to the secure web
      application for data management in "RedCap" that is administered by Aarhus University. The
      investigator IPM is responsible for the data management. The study is in according to the
      guidelines of the Helsinki Declaration II, GCP guidelines and the Danish Legislation
      regarding clinical trials and legislation regarding personal data.
    
  