
    
      Introduction:

      Angiogenesis, the growth and proliferation of new blood vessels, is an important aspect of
      the vascular proliferation found in tumor growth, wound repair, inflammatory states, and
      ischemic sequel in the ocular angiogenetic diseases. Intraocular neovascularization, the
      major eventually complication of diabetic mellitus, may result in vitreous hemorrhage,
      tractional retinal detachment, neovascularization glaucoma and eventually blindness. The
      involved factors include basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), insulin-like growth factor-I
      (IGF-I), vascular endothelial cell growth factor (VEGF), and Connective tissue growth factor
      (CTGF)/Cysteine-rich protein (Cyr61)/Nephroblastoma overexpressed gene (CCN) family. VEGF is
      a primary angiogenic factor that mediates ischemic-induced retinal neovascularization. VEGF
      level are elevated in the vitreous fluid in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy
      (PDR). The unselective anti-VEGF antibody bevacizumab has been used for the treatment of
      diabetic retinopathy.

      Problem:

      In spite of its potent anti-VEGF property, it does not completely inhibit ischemia-induced
      retinal neovascularization. Several other factors which were detected to have increased
      vitreous levels in the PDR patients might participate in the angiogenic process of diabetic
      retinopathy. One of the member of the CCN family, connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), was
      found to be involved in the angiogenesis and fibrosis mechanism of PDR. It is unclear if the
      other factors in the CCN family might also control the development of retinal angiogenesis
      and fibrosis.We measured vitreous cysteine-rich 61 (Cyr61) levels in PDR patients,
      non-diabetic patients,and PDR patients pretreated with bevacizumab. We further correlated the
      cysteine-rich 61 levels with different stages of PDR. Concomitant VEGF level was also
      measured to better understand the interaction of different factors.
    
  