
    
      Penicillin allergy is the most common drug allergy reported by patients. Approximately 10% of
      the population and 20% of inpatients carry a label of penicillin allergy. However, only
      <5%-10% of them have a confirmed allergy following comprehensive investigations. Reported
      penicillin allergy leads to higher medical costs and excess complications and presents a
      major challenge to antimicrobial stewardship. There is a high demand for allergy services
      however penicillin allergy testing (including skin testing and oral drug challenge) is not
      routinely available for inpatients even in major centres. Consequently, patients with a
      penicillin allergy label receive alternative antibiotics such as carbapenems,
      fluoroquinolones, and vancomycin for the treatment of common and serious infections and for
      pre-surgical prophylaxis. Patients with penicillin allergy label have longer hospital stays
      and higher rates of infections with Clostridioides (Clostridium) difficile, VRE and MRSA in
      comparison with patients without a documented allergy.

      Direct oral amoxicillin challenges are safe and effective in delabeling patients stratified
      as low risk for penicillin allergy in large pediatric and adult studies. Low-risk penicillin
      allergy histories include patients who have had isolated nonallergic symptoms (eg,
      gastrointestinal symptoms) or patients solely with a family history of a penicillin allergy,
      pruritus without rash, or remote (>10 years) unknown reactions without features suggestive of
      an IgE-mediated reaction.

      The study investigators seek to determine the safety and efficacy of a single-dose oral
      penicillin challenge pilot program in adult in-patients with self-reported penicillin allergy
      admitted to hospital under the internal medicine Clinical Teaching Unit (CTU). Identified
      patients that fulfill the exclusion and inclusion criteria will be reviewed at the time of
      discharge for suitability, as per the algorithm, modelled after a previous study of similar
      design. Based on patient's reported allergy, and upon obtaining informed consent,
      participants will receive a supervised challenge of amoxicillin 250 mg once orally and
      subsequently observed for 1 hour before discharge home. After antibiotic challenge, patient
      outcome will be defined as (1) tolerated oral challenge with no adverse drug reaction or (2)
      adverse drug reaction.

      By challenging carefully selected low risk patient that are unlikely to be truly allergic
      while in hospital, the study doctors can delabel patients of their "penicillin allergy" and
      as a result cut health care expenditures and promote good antimicrobial stewardship. In the
      future this model could be implemented generally as an inpatient or outpatient penicillin
      allergy program where low risk patients, who do not require referral to an allergist, are
      expeditiously delabeled.
    
  