
    
      Chronic aortic aneurysms are permanent and localized dilations of the aorta that remain
      asymptomatic for long periods of time, but continue to increase in diameter before they
      eventually rupture. Left untreated, the patients' prognosis is dismal, since the internal
      bleeding of the rupture brings about sudden death. Although successful treatment cures the
      disease, the risky procedures compromise spinal cord blood supply acutely and permanently,
      frequently leading to paraplegia, particularly for aneurysms involving crucial segmental
      arteries, i.e. thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms of Crawford type II & III. Although various
      strategies have achieved a remarkable decrease in the incidence of paraplegia, it is still no
      less than 10-20%.

      However, it has recently been found that the deliberate staged occlusion of the segmental
      arteries to the paraspinous collateral network finally supplying the spinal cord can trigger
      arterial collateralization, thus stabilizing blood supply from alternate inflow sources and
      preventing ischaemia.

      This has been translated to a clinically available therapeutic option, 'minimally invasive
      staged segmental artery coil embolization' (MISACE), which proceeds in a 'staged' manner to
      occlude groups of arteries under highly controlled conditions, after which time must be
      allowed for arteriogenesis to build a robust collateral blood supply.

      PAPA-ARTiS is a multi-national, prospective, open-label, two-arm, randomized controlled trial
      to demonstrate, that a minimally invasive staged treatment approach can reduce paraplegia and
      mortality in patients undergoing thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm (TAAA) repair.

      Patients with planned aneurysm repair will be included in the study and will be randomized
      1:1 in the control group or the MISACE-group. The control group receives treatment as per
      standard institutional protocol - open or endovascular repair without MISACE. In the
      MISACE-group, segmental arteries will be occluded in one to three sessions some weeks before
      the definite repair. Segmental arteries are occluded with coils or plugs.This induces
      arteriogenesis and the building of a robust collateral network ultimately supplying the
      spinal cord. During aneurysm repair, these new arteries provide an alternate blood supply to
      the spinal cord and thereby help prevent paraplegia.
    
  