
    
      SCOL study is designed as a prospective observational study. We will monitor patients with
      scoliosis suitable for TIVA with BIS monitoring after the approval by the ethical committee
      of the University Hospital Brno and the Faculty of Medicine of Masaryk University in Brno,
      Czech Republic. The study period is planned from 1st September 2020 to 31st December 2024.
      Anaesthesia will be maintained following standardized local protocol for scoliosis surgery,
      include preoperative preparation and premedication. General anaesthesia will be performed in
      TIVA mode,combining propofol and remifentanil with titration to the target BIS value. Motor
      evoked potentials will be measured and evaluated by members of operating team
      perioperatively. The evocation of reproducible motor evoked potential and the actual value of
      amplitude and latency at different BIS levels (40 - 60) will be monitored. Motor evoked
      potentials (MEP) reproducibility will be based on standardized orthopaedic practice,
      according to the amplitude, latency of the MEP. The reproducibility will be monitored in
      defined surgery phases: before skin incision at the different BIS levels, next after screw
      application, rod applications, after distraction and the last one before wound suturing. At
      the same time, the BIS value is recorded.

      In addition to the MEP reproducibility, investigators will measure the amplitude and latency
      value. These parameters and actual BIS value will be monitored in each patient after the
      recovery from neuromuscular blockade (TOF ratio value above 90%) to eliminate the influence
      of neuromuscular blockade on neurophysiology monitoring. Due to individual variability in the
      MEP latency and amplitude in these patients, the initial MEP value will be set as the default
      (100%), and other values will be expressed as a percentage.

      Other monitored parameters in this study will be blood loss, blood derivates and transfusion
      products administered to the patient in first 24 hours after surgery, the time between the
      end of the surgery and extubation, neurological complications, number of surgical revisions
      and a total length of hospitalization.

      The annual number of scoliosis operations at the University hospital Brno is around 130
      patients. It is the largest surgery centre in Central Europe.
    
  