
    
      There is a need for better screening of kidney transplant patients for rejection. Patients
      with kidney transplants are routinely tested (creatinine, urine protein, histology and donor
      specific antibody (DSA) as standard of care to detect rejection, but these tests are not
      adequate. Rejection is often missed by these tests (false negatives) and other processes such
      as acute kidney injury can produce false-positive results. Moreover, histology has a high
      interobserver disagreement diagnosing rejection, and cannot accurately assess acute injury. A
      definitive molecular assessment of rejection and injury in kidney biopsies has emerged - the
      Molecular Microscope® Diagnostic System (MMDx) - developed by the Alberta Transplant Applied
      Genomics Centre, University of Alberta. Now a new screening test is being introduced: the
      monitoring of donor-derived cell-free DNA (DD-cfDNA) released in the blood by the kidney
      during rejection. The Natera Inc DD-cfDNA Prospera® test is based on the massively multiplex
      PCR that targets 13,392 single nucleotide polymorphisms and targeted sequences are quantified
      by Next Generation Sequencing. The Prospera® test done on kidney transplant recipients
      detected "active rejection" and differentiated it from borderline rejection and no rejection.
      It is likely, however, that DD-cfDNA test may miss some T cell-mediated rejection (TCMR)
      cases and the distinction between early and fully developed antibody-mediated rejection
      (ABMR) was not tested. No study has actually examined the DD-cfDNA results in kidney
      transplants with acute or chronic kidney disease (AKI and CKD). DD-cfDNA measurements have
      only been correlated with histology, a flawed standard. DD-cf-DNA test must now be calibrated
      against MMDx that is based on global gene expression, the new standard for biopsy
      interpretation. The present study will calibrate centrally measured (Natera Inc) DD-cfDNA
      levels obtained at the time of an indication biopsy against the MMDx measurements of TCMR,
      and ABMR (early-stage, fully-developed, and late-stage), AK, and atrophy-fibrosis. We will
      compare blood DD-cfDNA measurements in 600 samples at the time of 300 indication biopsies to
      the MMDx results, as well as central assessment of HLA antibody (One Lambda) in 300 blood
      samples, interpreted as DSA by the center based on the tissue typing results. This study is
      an extension of the INTERCOMEX ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01299168
    
  