
    
      In this multiple baseline single case experimental design with phase shift, up to 100
      participants will be screened to identify 12 eligible individuals to participate in all study
      procedures. After the baseline assessment, participants will be randomized (1:1 ratio) to
      either a two or four-week baseline phase (assessment-only). Participants will then be
      randomized (1:1 ratio) to either a 12-session CPT intervention or a 6-session self-compassion
      intervention. All participants will complete one orientation session at the beginning of the
      first treatment phase. Following a second three-week baseline phase, all participants will
      then shift into the alternate intervention. Participants will be invited to complete a
      post-treatment and one-month follow-up assessment. In total, participants who take part in
      this research study will be in this research study for up to 34 weeks and will attend up to
      20 in-person study visits.

      Individuals interested in participating in this study will complete a phone screening to
      determine if they are likely to be eligible and can be scheduled for an in-person diagnostic
      intake to take place at the Stress Trauma and Recovery Research Collaborative (STARRC) within
      the UK Clinic for Emotional Health (i.e., the PI's research lab space located on Waller
      Avenue in an office park rented by the University of Kentucky) or via HIPAA compliant Zoom.
      All participants will be provided with details regarding the phone screen questions and will
      be required to provide implied consent over the phone before proceeding with the phone
      screen.

      During the intake session, the participant will first be given a written and verbal
      description of the study and informed consent. The consent form will be presented to the
      participant on a tablet, or remotely, through REDCap in which they will be asked to provide a
      digital signature. They may request a paper copy if preferred. If consent is provided, they
      will be given the option to be emailed a copy. The PI or designated staff will discuss the
      informed consent form with the participant volunteer. The consent process will take place in
      a quiet and private room or online via HIPAA compliant Zoom. Participants may take as much
      time as needed to make a decision about their trial participation and may take the document
      home if desired. The person obtaining consent will thoroughly explain each element of the
      document and outline the risks and benefits, alternative treatment(s), and follow-up
      requirements of the study. Participants will be informed that they can withdraw from the
      research at any time. Procedures and consent forms will comply with the requirements of the
      UK Institutional Review Board and Office of Research Integrity's Best Practices for Remote
      Informed Consent. The experimenter will then complete a consent post-test with participants.
      If a participant screens out of the study due to a consent capacity issue, any data from that
      participant that may have been previously collected during the phone screening and/or online
      surveys will not be used.

      Participant privacy will be maintained and questions regarding participation will be
      answered. No coercion or undue influence will be used in the consent process. No
      research-related procedures will be performed prior to obtaining informed consent. All
      signatures and dates will be obtained. A copy of the signed consent will be given to the
      participant. Signed electronic consents will be maintained and stored through REDCap and will
      be separated from participant data. We do not have reason to expect that participants are
      likely to have impaired consent capacity in this study. However, in a previous study our lab
      conducted where we did have this expectation we included a consent capacity evaluation
      document and found that we liked using it as an extra check that participants were aware of
      the study details and what they were agreeing to, and could state back to us in their own
      words what they could do if they became uncomfortable or decided they wished to take a break,
      skip sections, or discontinue the study. It is now our lab's standard operating procedure to
      include this measure in all in-person studies.

      Any study personnel member who obtains informed consent from a patient will not serve as that
      participant's assigned therapist.

      Upon referral to the study via the recruitment methods described above, participants will
      complete a brief telephone screening. The screen will predominantly be conducted by trained
      undergraduate/post-baccalaureate research/clinic assistants, however the PI, Co-Is, or a
      supervised graduate students/post-doctoral scholars may also conduct the phone screens.
      Screening forms for individuals who are deemed to be ineligible for the study will be
      shredded. Likely eligible participants, determined by the phone screen, will be invited to
      attend the intake in-person in the PI's research lab at the Clinic for Emotional Health or
      via HIPAA-compliant video conferencing service (i.e., Zoom via the UK HealthCare portal). As
      described above (see "Informed Consent" section), a study assessor (i.e., doctoral students
      in clinical psychology/post-doctoral scholar/PI/Co-Is) will review study procedures with
      potential participants and ask them to provide their informed consent. After informed consent
      is provided, an interview-based diagnostic assessment will be administered in order to
      confirm clinical inclusion/exclusion criteria. This assessment visit will be video or
      audio-recorded provided participants give their consent for this.

      Next, participants will be asked to complete a battery of self-report questionnaires, which
      will assess symptoms of anxiety/depression, level of functioning (e.g., quality of life),
      experiential avoidance, self-compassion, and perceptions of how their history of sexual
      trauma have impacted their life. Those who are deemed ineligible after this assessment will
      be withdrawn.

      Eligible participants will then be randomized to either a two- or four-week baseline where
      they will complete weekly measures of PTSD symptoms mental contamination, trauma-related
      shame and guilt, and symptoms of anxiety/depression. This battery will be repeated each week
      during therapy sessions, along with additional post-session ratings about treatment
      credibility and therapeutic alliance. Participants will then be randomly assigned to one of
      two treatment orders (CPT, SC or SC, CPT) and will be scheduled for their next study session
      either in-person or via HIPAA compliant Zoom. All participants will first be scheduled for a
      therapy orientation session prior to beginning either CPT or SC. The therapy orientation
      session will be used to develop rapport between the therapist and participant, and will
      involve an interview to assess for details of the index traumatic event and experiences of
      trauma-related mental contamination. Following completion of each treatment (12 or 6
      sessions), participants will be asked to provide satisfaction ratings and written qualitative
      feedback on their experience with the treatment they received. Participants will then enter a
      second three-week return to assessment period where they will continue to complete
      questionnaires weekly before beginning the second treatment module. Participants will also
      complete a post-treatment questionnaire packet and continue to track their symptoms weekly
      for three weeks following the conclusion of treatment via self-report.

      All therapy sessions will last for approximately 60-90 minutes in duration. It is important
      to note that the therapeutic strategies involved in both treatments are all common,
      evidence-based cognitive-behavioral- or mindfulness-based strategies. The treatments involve
      reading from an established manual (Cognitive Processing Therapy for PTSD or Compassion-Based
      Therapy for Trauma-Related Shame and Posttraumatic Stress) and completing homework
      assignments outside of the treatment session. These treatment sessions will be audio- or
      video-recorded provided participants give their consent for this; this will allow study staff
      to rate sessions for fidelity to the protocol and will be used for clinical supervision.

      All self-report questionnaires will be completed online via REDCap. This survey platform is
      designed specifically for collection of research data, and therefore meets the privacy
      standards imposed on health care records by the Health Insurance Portability and
      Accountability Act (HIPAA). Questionnaires will be completed on-site using a study iPad or
      participants will be sent a link via email to complete the survey batteries during their own
      time. Finally, although we anticipate that most patients will prefer to complete these
      measure electronically, we can provide paper and pencil versions of the questionnaires if
      requested.

      Data collection will be accomplished via phone screening questions, diagnostic interview, and
      self-report questionnaires attached below. Through these measures we will collect data
      regarding participants' experiences with psychological symptoms, life functioning, and
      treatment satisfaction.

      The measures will be administered according to the following schedule:

      Intake and Final Treatment Sessions:

      Diagnostic Interview for Anxiety, Mood, and Obsessive-Compulsive and Related Neuropsychiatric
      Disorders (DIAMOND) interview (Only at Intake) Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating Scale (CSSRS)
      with SAFE-T Risk Assessment Demographics (Only at Intake) PTSD Checklist for DSM-5 (PCL-5) -
      Weekly Posttraumatic Experience of Mental Contamination (PEMC) - Weekly Trauma-Related
      Symptom Inventory (TRSI) - Weekly Trauma-Related Guilt Inventory (TRGI) - Weekly Overall
      Depression Severity and Impairment Scale (ODSIS) - Weekly Overall Anxiety Severity and
      Impairment Scale (OASIS) - Weekly Centrality of Events Scale (CES) Self-Compassion Scale
      (SCS) Obsessive Compulsive Inventory-Revised (OCI-R) Brief Experiential Avoidance
      Questionnaire (BEAQ) Quality of Life Enjoyment and Satisfaction Questionnaire-Short Form
      (Q-LES-Q) Patient Satisfaction Form (final treatment sessions only)

      Treatment Orientation Session:

      Treatment Services Tracking Form (Intake only) Trauma Interview

      Pre-Session (Weekly):

      PCL-5 - Weekly PEMC - Weekly TRSI - Weekly TRGI - Weekly CSSRS - Weekly (in-person sessions
      only) Treatment Services Tracking Form - Weekly (in-person sessions only)

      Post-Session (Weekly):

      ODSIS - Weekly OASIS - Weekly Helping Alliance Questionnaire-II (HAQ-II) - Patient and
      Therapist CEQ (post-1st treatment sessions only)

      The goal of Aim 1 is to collect descriptive information regarding prevalence of trauma
      history and PTSD, perceptions of connections between trauma history and substance use, and
      interest in trauma-informed treatment. This information will be utilized to a) support the
      feasibility of a future grant application and b) identify potential patients for the
      treatment portion of the study.

      Though the primary focus of Aim 2 is to collect data regarding feasibility, acceptability,
      and patient feedback regarding areas of modification to inform a future grant proposal, we
      plan to utilize a randomized, nonconcurrent multiple baseline design across participants
      (Barlow et al., 2009; Kazdin, 2011). This is a form of single-case experimental design that
      provides a time and cost-effective method of evaluating initial efficacy or effectiveness of
      an intervention while controlling for the passage of time and repeated assessment in small
      numbers of patients. Patients will be randomized to either a 2- (n=3) or 4-week (n =3)
      baseline assessment phase where weekly self-report measures will be completed prior to
      initiating each treatment. Randomizing to varying baseline periods enables assessments of
      whether symptoms change (only or more rapidly) when the intervention is applied (i.e., each
      participant acts as their own control). Participants will also be randomly assigned to the
      order that they receive the treatment, with a 3-week return to baseline between treatments to
      allow us to examine how symptoms change within each intervention period. This design allows
      for causal inferences and controls for many threats to internal validity. Consistent with
      established guidelines, quantitative data analysis will primarily be conducted via visual
      inspection of graphed data within- and between-subjects to evaluate the magnitude and rate of
      change across the baseline and treatment phases (Barlow et al., 2009; Kazdin, 2011). This
      will be supplemented by examining within-person mean difference effect sizes for each outcome
      using a d-statistic developed for single case designs and calculating the percentage of
      patients who evidence reliable change on symptom measures (Jacobson & Truax, 1991; Shadish et
      al., 2014).
    
  