
    
      Neutropenia is a low count of the type of white blood cells that fight bacterial infection.
      It is a common toxicity of chemotherapy given for cancer. When complicated by infection, it
      can necessitate urgent admission to hospital, and can be life-threatening. Recovery of
      neutrophils is necessary prior to delivery of further chemotherapy. The information available
      on the changes of neutrophils during chemotherapy is limited by the frequency of blood tests
      which have historically required a venous blood sample and hence are burdensome to the
      patient.

      There are point-of-care medical devices which measure the white blood cell count from a
      capillary finger-prick sample, and can be used in the patient's home. The investigators aim
      to use such a device in this trial to; (i) observe the changes in white cell counts following
      chemotherapy delivery, (ii) determine if changes in the white cell count in the early days
      during chemotherapy can be used as a predictor of severe neutropenia and its complications.

      This trial forms part of a larger project in which the investigators are exploring the role
      of home blood count monitoring in the management of severe neutropenia and its complications,
      and exploring the potential for home blood count monitoring to be used to optimise the dose
      intensity and density of chemotherapy.

      This is a non-randomised trial in adults with solid tumours, recruiting from Leeds Teaching
      Hospitals NHS Trust only. Consenting participants are required to have regular finger-prick
      blood tests up to a maximum frequency of daily for the duration of the first cycle of
      chemotherapy, most commonly 3 weeks. A nurse will visit the participant at home and use the
      Hemocue® WBC DIFF to perform the test.

      This trial is funded by a Technology Strategy Board (Innovate UK) Small Business Research
      Initiative grant.
    
  