
    
      Main study investigator:

      Dr. Pedro Ojeda Clínica de Asma y Alergia doctores Ojeda C/ Oquendo, 23 28006 Madrid, Spain
      T1.: +34 91 562 32 62 T2.: +34 91 562 67 27 F.: +34 91 562 53 96 e-mail:
      drojeda@telefonica.net

      Objectives

      Primary objective

        1. To show that a topical microemulsion is superior to a sterilized saline solution to
           prevent deterioration in the health related quality of life, in patients with
           intermittent or persistent allergic rhinitis due to sensitization to birch, olive tree
           or grass pollen.

           Secondary objectives

        2. To explore the effect of a topical microemulsion, as compared to a sterilized saline
           solution, for the prevention of nasal and ocular symptoms in patients with intermittent
           or persistent allergic rhinitis due to sensitization to birch, olive tree or grass
           pollen.

        3. To explore the effect of a topical microemulsion, as compared to a sterilized saline
           solution, in the utilization of symptomatic medications, in patients with intermittent
           or persistent allergic rhinitis due to sensitization to birch, olive tree or grass
           pollen.

        4. To assess the patient's satisfaction with a topical microemulsion treatment, as compared
           to a sterilized saline solution, in patients with intermittent or persistent allergic
           rhinitis due to sensitization to birch, olive tree or grass pollen.

        5. To assess the safety of a topical microemulsion, as compared to a sterilized saline
           solution, administered to patients with intermittent or persistent allergic rhinitis due
           to sensitization to birch, olive tree or grass pollen.

      Study design:

      Randomized, controlled, double-blind, parallel, multicentre multinational clinical trial, to
      show superiority of an active therapy as compared to a control therapy.

      Study disease:

      Intermittent or persistent Allergic Rhinitis.

      Data from the drugs/interventions to be studied:

      This is a clinical investigation study of a Class 1 medical device product. This is a
      prospective study of an active medical device versus a control medical device.

      Study population and total number of subjects:

      It was considered feasible to recruit 10 patients patients per center, and therefore the
      study should be conducted in 10 centers. To get treatment balance within each center, a total
      of 100 patients should be recruited.

      In order to participate in the study, eligible candidates must fulfill all the following
      inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria:

      Inclusion criteria

        1. Patients of either gender, aged 18 years or older.

        2. With previous diagnostic of allergic rhinitis or rhinoconjunctivitis due to
           sensitization to birch, grass or olive tree pollens. Patients sensitized to other
           inhaled allergens might be included provided that these other sensitizations are not
           relevant to the patient's clinical symptoms or they are not exposed to these other
           allergens.

        3. Having suffered from allergic rhinitis symptoms (severe enough to require symptomatic
           medication usually prescribed for this condition) in previous years, but otherwise free
           of symptoms at inclusion.

        4. Residing during the months from March to July of 2011 in a geographical area in which
           the exposure to birch, grass or olive tree pollens is relevant (average pollination
           peaks of 100 grains/m3 of air during the previous specific pollen season).

        5. Providing written informed consent to participate in the study.

      Exclusion criteria

        1. Known asthma of any origin (intrinsic or extrinsic, the latter due to any kind of
           allergenic trigger).

        2. Allergic rhinitis or rhinoconjunctivitis whose symptoms are exclusively due to the
           sensitization to other inhaled allergens different from those referred in the inclusion
           criteria, sensitization to pollens that may interfere with the patient's allergic status
           during the study period (e.g., plane tree pollen).

        3. Rhinitis or rhinoconjunctivitis of allergic characteristics presenting in the spring
           season but with negative allergy study (skin prick tests (SPT)).

        4. Asymptomatic sensitization to birch, grass or olive tree pollens.

        5. Sensitization to birch, grass or olive tree pollens, but having had mild symptoms during
           the spring of 2010, not requiring the use of symptomatic medication.

        6. Sensitization to birch, grass or olive tree pollens but only presenting with asthma
           symptoms.

        7. Concurrent participation in another clinical trial at the time of this study.

        8. Co-morbid conditions that, in the investigator's judgment, preclude them from
           participating in this study.

        9. Continuous treatment with antihistamines, corticosteroids, immunosuppressants or any
           other drug that may alter the occurrence and/or severity of allergic symptoms.

       10. Individuals that, even if they meet the inclusion criteria, are concurrently under
           treatment with allergen-specific immunotherapy or have received this treatment within
           the last 36 months.
    
  