
    
      Twenty patients will be randomized into each group. In all University Hospitals the treatment
      protocol will be same. Randomization will be performed using a sealed envelope technique.

      Before surgery all patients will be examined clinically. After conventional radiographs all
      patients will be examined with magnetic resonance imaging showing cyst's size, anatomy,
      location and adjacent structures.

      If the aneurysmal bone cyst is large or in difficult location, embolization by the
      radiologist can be used preoperatively.

      Surgical technique:

      Surgery will be done by experienced paediatric orthopaedic surgeons. Normal orthopaedic
      exposures will be used. The cyst is opened so that square window is done to the cortex. A
      sample to the pathologist is collected, also intraoperative frozen section is used to confirm
      the diagnosis. A mechanical curettage with use of a curette and a high speed burr is used to
      inspect the whole cavity. The tumour is resected as thoroughly as possible. After curettage
      5% phenol is inserted to the cavity and it is neutralized with saline. Cyst volume is
      evaluated using saline (ml). Then the cyst is filled with morsellized femoral head allograft
      or bioactive glass (BG-S53P4) according to randomization. The biggest granule size 2-3,15mm
      is used for femur, tibia, pelvis and humerus. If the cyst volume is below 10ml in these
      places then smaller granule size (1-2mm) is chosen. If the cyst is in hand region then the
      granule size is 0,5-0,8mm. At the end of the operation the window's roof is inserted back.
      All the time X-ray is used to ensure that the whole cyst is treated properly. Osteosynthesis
      will be performed whenever it is necessary to prevent a pathological fracture.

      After surgery the diagnosis will be confirmed histopathologically.

      All patients will receive standard anesthesia.

      Postoperatively an X-ray will be taken. Radiographic controls after surgery will be held at 1
      Mo, 3 Mo, 6Mo, 12Mo and 24Mo. Three months control and two years control will be accompanied
      with MRI.

      If the cyst is found after a pathologic fracture, the fracture is healed first with the cast
      +/- traction and MRI will be taken before surgery.
    
  