
    
      Caring for elderly people with dementia imposes a heavy strain on care providers like family
      caregivers and puts them at risk of psychological and physical morbidity. A variety of
      psychosocial interventions have been developed which aim at improving caregiver emotional and
      physical health. These interventions differ in terms of treatment delivery (individual or
      group format) and content (education, symptom appraisal, problem solving, skill building,
      stress management or behavior modification). Systematic reviews and meta analyses have
      concluded that individualized programs have a greater impact than group interventions, and
      problem solving or behavior modification strategies are superior to education alone.
      Structured multi-component interventions may also reduce the risk of patients home
      admissions.

      The intervention program "Resources to Enhance Alzheimer's Caregivers Health -second step"
      (REACH II) is a multimodal, individualized and structured multi-component intervention
      program for family caregivers and was successfully evaluated in a multisite, randomized and
      controlled trial in the USA. The overall objectives of REACH II are to identify and reduce
      modificable risk factors to enhance the well-being of the caregivers and to enhance the
      quality of care. It takes place at caregivers home and focuses on 5 domains that are
      important to caregivers: reducing depression, decreasing burden, improving self care,
      enhancing social support, and managing problem behaviours.

      Since there is a lack of effective treatment programs for family caregivers of demented
      persons in the German Health system respectively care system the purpose of the present study
      is to adapt and to implement REACH II to the care system conditions of a medium-sized East
      German town (Leipzig). To test the effects of this adapted intervention program the present
      study is design as unisite, randomized and controlled trail. Primary outcome is reducing
      family caregiver burden.
    
  