
    
      The study was carried out after obtaining ethical approval from the Department of surgery,
      Cairo University Hospitals, Egypt. Patients with varying stages of diabetic foot ulcers in
      the hospital were screened and included in the study. 65 diabetic patients with Grade I and
      II ulcers were selected according to Wagner classification, ages ranged between 50 to 60
      years of age, BMI of 30 free from any metabolic-related medical conditions such as
      nephropathy, cardiomyopathy, recent myocardial infarction and pulmonary problems. Patients
      were randomized into two groups; Group (I) who received medical treatment with Helium-Neon
      Laser therapy (HNLT), (ASA Medical laser device (manufactured by ASA Terza- Via Alessandro,
      Italy) and Group (II) who received medical treatment with Infrared Laser therapy (ILT),
      (PHYACTION 792/796 manufactured in The Netherlands by Uniphy BV). The nature of the therapy
      was described and explained to the patient. A written informed consent was obtained prior to
      implementation of the study. Patients were subjected to detailed medical examination.
      Glucosylated Homoglobin (HbA1c) was obtained for patient screening.

      Outcome measures Ulcer surface area was calculated by getting the impression of the ulcer
      floor using a sheet of cellophane paper. The imprint of the ulcer floor is transferred to
      graphing paper where ulcer size was plotted and diameter was recorded. Ulcer size was
      measured at the beginning of the study, after 4 weeks, and after 8 weeks at the end of study.

      The position of patient was a comfortable position with disclosure of the affected foot.
      Transparent plastic films were double sterilized and directly placed flat and connected to
      the skin at the ulcer area with nullifing any motion or misrepresentation of the affected
      foot. The margins of the ulcer were followed by the same investigator to set up the
      measurements reliability16.
    
  