
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most common type of cancer in men and the seventh
      in women and is the third most common cause of death from cancer worldwide. The overall
      incidence of HCC remains high in developing countries and is steadily increasing in most
      industrialized countries.

      Trans-arterial chemoembolization (TACE) is the most used treatment for patients with
      un-resectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), because it improves median survival and tumor
      response. The application of drug-eluting bead to this procedure has significantly increased
      TACE efficacy, while reducing systemic drug leakage, liver toxicity and adverse events. These
      beads deliver the toxic drugs directly to the arterial capillary bed of the tumor, and
      release them in a controlled manner. This method lower the systemic exposure to
      chemotherapeutics, while increasing their local concentration, resulting in a greater tissue
      necrosis than classic trans-arterial chemoembolization.

      TACE is indicated for patients with multinodular liver cancer that have no vascular invasion
      and extrahepatic diffusion. TACE is also strongly suggested for patients with un-resectable
      liver primary tumor (HCC and cholangiocarcinoma) and chemo-resistant liver metastases, mainly
      from colorectal cancer carcinoma (CRC), and is widely performed in 32% of patients with
      un-resectable HCC at initial diagnosis and in 58% of those with recurrent HCC. It appears,
      moreover, to be particularly useful if carried out with new embolization materials, such as
      doxorubicin.

      Trans-arterial chemoembolization is constantly improving; from the original conventional TACE
      using Lipiodol and sponge particles, some years ago it evolved into precision TACE, thanks to
      the availability of drug-eluting microspheres. Microspheres retain the ability to bind
      positively charged chemotherapeutic drugs (i.e.: doxorubicin) and release them in a prolonged
      and sustained kinetic at tumor site while determining a permanent embolization of the feeding
      arteries. Consequently, less systemic exposure of drug is observed, with a benefit for the
      patients in term of toxicity, quality of life and hospitalization.

      Recently, new drug-eluting beads in polyethylene glycol has been made available, termed
      LifePearl Polyethylene glycol drug eluting microspheres (Terumo, Microvention, Tustin, CA,
      USA), which are offered as a syringe presentation, for an easier loading process. More
      interestingly, LifePearl are precisely calibrated, in a range ≤ 50 micron, potentially
      leading to a more distal and targeted distribution into the tissues; in addition, they are
      endowed with a prolonged time in suspension after dilution in contrast medium, which makes
      the administration more smooth, predictable and reproducible. Because of the above
      improvements, LifePearl are now widely used in several hospital for the Transarterial
      chemoembolization as everyday clinical practice, for the hepatic intra-arterial infusion of
      doxorubicin or irinotecan respectively for the therapy of primary and metastatic liver
      cancer.

      The aim of this study is to collect data on efficacy and tolerability on a large series of
      patient of different Italian hospitals in order to support the validation of LifePearl with
      robust and consistent clinical evidence. Since TACE in treating HCC is considered a more
      common and accepted approach, this study will be focused on evaluating treatment efficacy and
      safety of LIFDOX for un-resectable hepatocellular carcinoma.
    
  