
    
      Subjects will have a screening visit for history, medication usage, and blood work; those who
      qualify will be offered participation. Subjects will be instructed to consume their usual
      diet, including at least 200 g carbohydrate, and not to engage in strenuous physical activity
      for the 3 days prior to a study. After an overnight fast they will present to the CRU at the
      Stedman Building on the Center for Living campus and have intravenous catheters placed in
      both forearms, one for infusion of test substances and the other for blood sampling; the
      sampling arm will be warmed with a heating pad to improve venous blood flow. All studies will
      start following withdrawal of several basal samples over an extended period:

        1. Glucagon infusion in fasting and hyperglycemic subjects: dose finding. Subjects receive
           graded doses of intravenous glucagon after a 12-14 hour fast. Doses will start at 10
           ng/kg/min and be increased to 50 and 100 ng/kg/min at 30 minute intervals. Glucose
           concentrations will be measured at the bedside using a YSI glucose analyzer. Plasma
           samples will be collected at 10 minute intervals for assay of insulin, C-peptide, and
           glucagon. These pilot studies will provide insight into the relative sensitivity of
           hepatic glucose production (fasting study) and insulin secretion (glucose infusion
           study) to glucagon. These studies will include up to 10 volunteers each.

        2. Effects of glycemia to mediate glucagon-stimulated hepatic glucose production (HGP) and
           insulin secretion. Following placement of intravenous catheters subjects will have an
           infusion of saline with a tracer dose of deuterated glucose for the remainder of the 300
           minute protocol. [6, 6]2H2 glucose will be started as a 4 mg/kg bolus over 5 minutes
           followed by a continuous infusion of 0.020-0.4 mg/kg/min. After a 2 hour equilibration
           period to label the glucose pool, subjects will have A) saline infusion, B) initiation
           of a hyperglycemic clamp, C) infusion of exendin-(9-39) 750 pmol/kg/min and a
           hyperglycemic clamp. The clamp will be generated with the infusion of a 20% solution of
           dextrose enriched to 2% with deuterated glucose. The infusion rate will be started at 30
           mg/kg/h and adjusted every 5 minutes until the blood glucose reaches ~150 mg/dl; the
           infusion will be adjusted thereafter to maintain this level of glycemia. Blood samples
           will be taken at 10 minute intervals throughout the study to measure: enrichment with
           [6, 6]2H2 glucose, insulin, glucagon and C-peptide. After 120 minutes of A) tracer
           alone, B) hyperglycemia, or C) exendin-9 plus hyperglycemia, subjects will receive
           glucagon as an infusion of 10-100 ng/kg/min for 60 minutes.

      The primary outcome variables from these experiment will be HGP and insulin secretion. The
      hypothesis to be tested is that glucagon given at fasting glucose levels will cause a rapid
      rise in HGP and blood glucose (50-150 mg/dl over basal) with a secondary rise of insulin
      secretion that follows the change in glycemia; and that glucagon given at mild hyperglycemia
      will promptly stimulate insulin secretion and limit the response of HGP. The protocol and
      predictions of results are depicted below.
    
  