
    
      Eltrombopag is an orally administered, small molecule thrombopoietin receptor (TPO-R) agonist
      that stimulates platelet production by a mechanism similar, but not identical to endogenous
      TPO. Eltrombopag interacts with the transmembrane domain of the TPO-R (also known as C-MPL)
      leading to increased platelet production (Erickson-Miller, 2010; Sun et al, 2012).

      Eltrombopag is indicated for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in adult and pediatric
      patients one year and older with chronic immune (idiopathic) thrombocytopenia (ITP) who have
      had an insufficient response to corticosteroids, immunoglobulins, or splenectomy.

      Eltrombopag has also been approved for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in adult patients
      with chronic hepatitis C to allow for the initiation and maintenance of interferon-based
      therapy and for the treatment of cytopenias in adult patients with severe aplastic anemia
      (SAA) who have had insufficient responses to immunosuppressive therapy.

      This is an open label, single center pilot trial of eltrombopag in pediatric patients
      receiving cancer directed therapy for solid tumors. The purpose of this study is to explore
      the platelet supportive care effects and safety of eltrombopag in pediatric patients (ages
      one to 18 years of age) undergoing intensive chemotherapy for malignant solid tumors. The
      primary endpoint will be to determine the safety of eltrombopag in pediatric patients
      undergoing intensive chemotherapy for malignant solid tumors using CTCAE v5.0 criteria. The
      secondary endpoint will be to determine the efficacy of eltrombopag in pediatric patients
      undergoing intensive chemotherapy for malignant solid tumors. These objectives will be
      assessed by evaluating drug-related toxicities, the platelet response in patients and the
      proportion of subjects receiving eltrombopag who are platelet transfusion-free during the
      time period of chemotherapy.

      The study will enroll 10 subjects with histologically confirmed solid tumors, including but
      not limited to rhabdomyosarcoma, Ewing sarcoma, osteosarcoma, non-rhabdomyosarcoma soft
      tissue sarcoma, peripheral nerve sheath tumor, desmoplastic small round cell tumor,
      hepatoblastoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, higher grade neuroblastoma,
      medulloblastoma, or other rare malignant solid tumors.

      The cancer directed therapy will be part of standard treatment for each patient and will
      consist of two to four cycles of chemotherapy (or as many as clinically indicated per
      physician discretion) to reduce tumor burden, followed by surgery in the majority of cases,
      and/or radiation in a minority of cases, or both in rare cases at various times in the course
      of treatment. After recovery from the surgery and/or radiation, chemotherapy and eltrombopag
      will be resumed until completion. Each cycle of chemotherapy will be approximately two to
      four weeks (14 to 28 days) in length with chemotherapy administered for one to five days per
      cycle. The duration of chemotherapy varies by regimen and underlying malignancy.

      Patients will initiate eltrombopag on the first day following the completion of chemotherapy
      for each cycle (e.g., chemo is administered on Days 1-5, eltrombopag to start on Day 6).
      Eltrombopag will be administered daily and the dose will be age dependent (see Table 5).
      Children less than 6 years of age will receive a starting dose of 25 mg by mouth once daily,
      taken on empty stomach one hour before or two hours after a meal. For children greater than
      or equal to 6 years of age, the starting dose will be 75 mg by mouth once daily. Doses shall
      be reduced in patients of Asian ancestry (e.g., Japanese, Chinese, Taiwanese, or Korean): for
      those patients greater than or equal to 6 years of age, the starting dose will be 50 mg by
      mouth once daily and for those patients less than 6 years old, the starting dose will be 12.5
      mg by mouth once daily. Eltrombopag will be continued until the platelets are at least
      100,000/µL after the nadir.

      Subjects will be recruited from the UC Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center or when they are
      admitted to UC Davis Children's Hospital.
    
  