
    
      The investigators will conduct a pilot evaluation to understand the feasibility,
      acceptability, satisfaction and explore preliminary impacts of a preconception health
      program. The primary research question is: Is the preconception health program developed
      through the formative phase of this study acceptable and feasible to girls and caregiver
      participants? The program aims to improve the overall health and wellbeing of girls and their
      female caregivers by decreasing and delaying the initiation of substance use and risk
      behaviors associated with sexual initiation among adolescent girls. A second research
      question is: does the preconception health program have preliminary impacts on key protective
      and risk factors related to substance use and risky sexual behavior among girls and their
      female caregivers?

      The Preconception Health Program will consist of 11 sessions conducted with girls ages 8-11
      and their female caregivers. 5 of the 11 sessions will be taught to groups of 8-12 girls and
      their mothers, and 6 of the sessions will be taught to individual girl/female caregivers'
      dyads. The mix of group- and home-based lessons is based on findings from the formative phase
      about preference for certain topics to be taught in groups vs. individual dyads. Each of the
      sessions (group and individual) will be 60-90 minutes in duration and delivered by a trained
      Family Health Coach (FHC). Group sessions will take place at a local community center in a
      private room. Individual dyad sessions will take place in the girls'/female caregivers home
      or another private place of their choosing such as our local Johns Hopkins offices. The
      program will be conducted over 2.5-3 months with one session occurring every week for 11
      weeks. The total program duration is 660-990 minutes.

      To adequately assess the primary research question, the investigators will enroll 60 dyads,
      grouped into three cohorts of 10 dyads each, who will complete satisfaction questionnaires
      after each of the program sessions and upon completion of the program. To assess preliminary
      impact on girls' risk for substance use and intention about sexual activity, including
      cultural connectedness, mother-daughter communication and psychological health and wellbeing,
      the investigators will deliver an evaluation conducted at baseline, upon completion of the
      intervention (post-intervention assessment) and 3 months following completion of the
      intervention (3-month follow-up assessment). The investigators will also assess program
      impact on female caregivers' substance use, parent-child communication and factors related to
      the female caregivers' wellbeing through an evaluation conducted at baseline, upon completion
      of the intervention (post-intervention assessment) and 3 months following completion of the
      intervention (3-month follow-up assessment).
    
  