
    
      Management of older persons living with HIV (PLWH) (≥ 50 years old) is becoming increasingly
      more complex as a majority is greater than 50 years old. Attempts to improve the quality of
      life of older PLWH using adjunctive therapeutics to combination antiretroviral therapy (cART)
      have largely been unsuccessful.

      While the impact of physical activity on brain health (assessed by neuropsychological
      performance and neuroimaging) has been well studied in older healthy HIV uninfected (HIV-)
      individuals and neurodegenerative conditions, few studies have concentrated on older PLWH.
      Both clinically and pathophysiologically, HIV associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND)
      differs from other neurodegenerative disorders seen with aging (e.g. Alzheimer's disease
      (AD). A positive association relationship between exercise and cognition has been observed in
      PLWH, but physical activity has been primarily examined using self-report questionnaires that
      are subjective and not quantitative. To date, no study has focused on the direct effects of
      exercise on neuropsychological performance or neuroimaging in PLWH.

      The objective of this proposal is to conduct a prospective controlled intervention trial to
      determine if an increase in physical activity through a monitored aerobic and resistance
      exercise (EXS) program improves brain health in older PLWH. We will quantify physical
      function (physical activity using cardiorespiratory capacity and actigraphy) and brain
      function [neuropsychological performance testing and neuroimaging (cerebral blood flow (CBF)
      and brain volume)] in older physically inactive PLWH at baseline and 26 weeks after
      randomization to either an EXS or a social-interaction stretching (SIS) program. In addition,
      we will obtain stool samples, serum markers of neurogenesis, glucose regulation, and systemic
      inflammation.

      A direct impact of these expected outcomes will be the adoption of a more physically active
      lifestyle by older PLWH and improved EXS guidelines and programs for older PLWH.
    
  