
    
      Design: This study was conducted as a single-centre, cohort study. All patients older than 18
      years of age who required veno-venous hemofiltration (CVVH) were consecutively screened
      forward (prospective) or backward (retrospective) from August, 2015 and until the expected
      sample size was reached.

      Study protocol: Before and after implementation of a new protocol, apart from the flow rate
      of any supplementation (Anticoagulant-citrate-dextrose solution, 5% sodium bicarbonate
      injection and 10% calcium gluconate injection), CVVH was performed using same standards,
      including devices (Aquarius or Diapact® CRRT), venous catheter (a double lumen 12-F catheter,
      Arrow International Inc., USA), haemofilter (DIACAP Acute L, 2.0 m2, B. Braun Melsungen AG,
      Germany), commercial replacement fluids (Na+113, Cl-118, Mg++0.797, Ca++1.60, glucose
      10.6mmo/l and zero bicarbonate; Qing-shan-li-kang pharmaceutical Co.,Ltd. Cheng-du, China)
      and Anticoagulant-citrate-dextrose solution-A (ACD-A) (Na+ 224, citrate 113, bicarbonate
      203mmol/l, Fresenius Kabi, Italy) as well as monitoring algorithm. The first sample of
      postfilter and systemic ionized calcium was done two hours after initiation of CVVH and every
      six to eight hours during the first 24 hours. Afterwards, these measurements were done
      according to clinical needs for maintaining normal ionized calcium levels and blood pH value.

      The group of fixed citrate concentration: ACD-A was administered in the prefilter ahead of
      the blood pump and the infusion rate was fixed and set to meet a circuit citrate
      concentration of 4 mmol/l. Calcium Gluconate 10% Injection was infused through the return
      line of the circuit and the substitution flow was initiated with 0.8 mmol calcium per liter
      total effluent flow and then be adjusted to obtain systemic ionized calcium levels between
      0.90 and 1.2 mmol/l. Sodium bicarbonate 5% injection was infused through the return line of
      the circuit and the substitution flow was initiated with 3.3% of replacement fluid flow and
      then be adjusted to obtain blood pH value in the normal range (7.35 to 7.45)

      The group of adjusted citrate doses:ACD-A was administered in the prefilter ahead of the
      blood pump and the starting infusion rate was 2.5 % of blood flow and then be adjusted to
      obtain postfilter ionized calcium levels of less than 0.40 mmol/l. Calcium Gluconate 10%
      Injection was infused through the return line of the circuit and the substitution flow was
      initiated with 7.3% of ACD-A flow, and then be adjusted to obtain systemic ionized calcium
      levels between 0.90 and 1.2 mmol/l. Sodium bicarbonate 5% injection was infused through the
      return line of the circuit and the starting infusion rate was 4% of replacement fluid
      flow,and then be adjusted to obtain blood pH value in the normal range (7.35 to 7.45)

      Statistical analyses: groups were compared by using Fisher's exact test, Student's t test or
      Mann-Whitney rank-sum test as appropriate. Circuit lifetime was evaluated with Kaplan-Meier
      survival analysis and survival curves distribution was compared with the Log Rank test.
      Univariate and multivariate analysis were used to identify factors associated with mean
      filter lifetime in all group patients.
    
  