
    
      The ongoing studies in rats indicate that a sympathetically-derived neuropeptide,
      neuropeptide Y (NPY), potently inhibits the activity of the capsaicin-sensative class of
      nociceptors (i.e., "pain" neurons). It is not know whether these results, generated from
      rodent studies, occur in human tissues under normal or inflamed conditions. We plan to test
      the hypothesis that NPY inhibits the initiation of neurogenic inflammation, as measured by
      reduced release of substance P, from capsaicin-sensitive class of petidergic neurons
      innervating normal and inflamed dental pulp. Such actions would be physiologically and
      clinically significant, since inhibition of exocytosis from peripheral terminals of
      nociceptive primary afferent fibers would likely alter neurogenic inflammation, local
      vasodilation and , possibly pain. Our research strategy takes advantage of a uniquely
      innervated tissue: dental pulp. Application of any physiologic stimulus to human dental pulp,
      including thermal, osmotic, chemical or mechanical, produces only pain. Thus, virtually all
      sensory neurons that innervate pulp appear to be nociceptors. Accordingly, application of
      drugs to pulpal sensory neurons targets a population of sensory neurons consisting
      predominantly of nociceptors.

      The research questions are as follows:

        1. Determine the capsaicin concentration-response curve from evoking the release of
           immunioreactive substance P (iSP) from normal and inflamed dental pulp.

        2. Determine the effect of NPY on altering basal and capsaisin-evoked release of iSP from
           normal and inflamed dental pulp.

      We will evaluate the hypothesis that NPY inhibits capsaicin-sensitive neurons in humans using
      microdialysis probes implanted into anesthetized dental pulp, with release of immunoreactive
      substance P (iSP) as our dependent measure. This study will include patients who have elected
      to have a root canal procedure performed or to have a tooth extracted.
    
  