
    
      According to the International Society of Lymphology, lymphoedema needs to be treated with
      Decongestive Lymphatic Therapy (Consensus Document ISL 2013). This is a two-stage treatment
      programme. During the first or intensive phase, lymphoedema has to be maximally reduced. This
      phase consists of skin care, manual lymph drainage (MLD), multi-layer bandaging and exercise
      therapy. The second or maintenance phase aims to conserve and optimise the results obtained
      in the first phase. It consists of skin care, compression by a low-stretch elastic sleeve,
      exercises and lymph drainage. Skin care, multi-layer bandaging, elastic sleeve and exercises
      are treatment modalities that (after instructing the patient) can be performed by the patient
      herself. MLD has to be applied by a physical therapist and hence entails a big financial cost
      for the patient and the Health Care (Kärki et al 2009). The effectiveness of MLD applied
      during the intensive phase has been investigated by 5 randomised controlled trials, but there
      is conflicting evidence. So, further investigation is warranted to determine the relative
      benefit of MLD. The effectiveness of MLD applied during the maintenance phase has never been
      investigated (Devoogdt et al 2010, Oremus et al 2012, Huang et al 2013, Ezzo et al 2015).

      A possible explanation why MLD is not obviously proven to be effective, is that MLD is
      applied in an inefficient way: during MLD, hand manoeuvres are applied on all lymph nodes and
      lymphatics that may be anatomically present. After axillary dissection and/ or radiotherapy
      (for the treatment of breast cancer), the lymphatic system is damaged: lymph nodes are
      removed and often fibrosis of the superficial lymphatic system occurs. As a result, rerouting
      of the lymphatic drainage occurs. Rerouting is patient-specific, consequently, it is possible
      that the traditional MLD needs be abandoned and a tailored approach needs to be established.
      Lymphofluoroscopy can aid to apply a more efficient MLD. During lymphofluoroscopy, a
      fluorescent substance is injected subcutaneously in the hand and it visualizes the transport
      of lymph from the hand up to the axilla and it demonstrates alternative pathways towards
      other lymph nodes.

      A second explanation why the traditional method of MLD is not proven to be effective, is that
      research has shown that MLD with high pressure (vs low pressure) is more effective to improve
      lymph transport, as well as gliding (vs no gliding). During the new method of MLD (or
      fluoroscopy-guided MLD), the therapist only performs hand movements on functional lymphatics
      and lymph nodes. In addition, the hand movements are applied with higher pressure and lymph
      transport through the lymph collaterals is stimulated by applying strikes across the skin.

      Therefore, the main scientific objective entails examining the effectiveness of
      fluoroscopy-guided MLD versus traditional MLD versus placebo MLD, applied as part of the
      intensive and maintenance phase of Decongestive Lymphatic Therapy, for the treatment of BCRL
    
  