
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the activity of MK-2206 (Akt inhibitor MK2206) in patients with recurrent or
      persistent endometrial cancer classified by phosphoinositide-3-kinase catalytic alpha
      (PIK3CA) mutation. Activity will be ascertained by the proportion of patients who survive
      progression-free for at least 6 months after initiating therapy or who have objective tumor
      response.

      II. To evaluate the efficacy of MK2206 in patients with serous tumors using a composite
      endpoint of complete and partial response by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) and progression-free interval of 6 months or longer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the duration of progression-free survival and overall survival. II. To
      determine the nature and degree of toxicity of MK-2206 as assessed by version 4 of the
      National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria For Adverse Events (CTCAE) in
      these cohorts of patients.

      III. To explore the associations between select biomarkers and response to MK-2206 such as
      progression-free survival, objective tumor response, and overall survival as well as patient
      characteristics such as histological cell type.

      IV. To explore the development of feed-back loop activation (post-treatment biopsy biomarker
      analysis) and target inhibition using MK-2206 via analysis of pre-treatment and
      post-treatment biopsies in select patients enrolled in the trial.

      V. To determine the duration of progression-free and overall survival, following initiation
      of therapy with MK-2206.

      VI. To determine the toxicities of MK-2206, as assessed with the revised NCI CTCAE version 4.

      VII. To explore the association between select biomarkers and response to MK-2206 such as
      progression-free survival, objective tumor response.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive Akt inhibitor MK2206 orally (PO) once weekly. Courses repeat every 28 days
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 years.
    
  