
    
      Postoperative delirium is a common condition, occurring in 10-70% of surgical patients after
      major surgery. To date, few studies have examined events in the postoperative period as
      contributing factors to postoperative delirium. We recently completed a study in over 500
      geriatric surgical patients to examine whether the mode of postoperative analgesia delivery,
      medication types, and the severity of postoperative pain may impact the occurrence of
      postoperative delirium. In this study, 46% of patients developed postoperative delirium on
      either the first or second postoperative day. By multivariate logistic regression, variables
      which had independent association with postoperative delirium included age ≥80 years,
      moderate to severe preoperative resting pain, and increased level of resting pain
      postoperatively in comparison with preoperative baseline. When the analysis was focused on
      patients who used Patient Controlled Analgesia (PCA) alone for postoperative pain control,
      the amount of narcotic used (hydromorphone) was significantly higher in those with
      postoperative delirium as compared to those without, suggesting that inadequate pain control
      and/or the central effects of opioids may be associated with postoperative delirium. Since
      increasing the doses of opioids in the elderly patients will likely lead to unwanted side
      effects such as respiratory depression, the addition of a non-opioid agent may result in a
      narcotic-sparing effect, and also reducing pain postoperatively.

      Gabapentin is a structural analog of gamma-amino butyric acid, and has been used as an
      anti-convulsant and anti-nociceptive drug. It is not metabolized in humans (therefore no
      hepatic enzyme induction), and is eliminated from the body by renal clearance. In animal
      studies, gabapentin has been demonstrated to be effective in reducing both allodynia and
      hyperalgesia, and may have selective effect on the nociceptive process involved in central
      sensitization. Gabapentin has been successfully used in the treatment of neuropathic pain and
      other painful conditions. Recently, there is substantial evidence to suggest that gabapentin
      also may be useful in the treatment of postoperative pain. To date, there have been nine
      randomized clinical trials of gabapentin versus placebo including a total of over 700
      patients. Taken together, these studies reported that gabapentin given perioperatively
      significantly reduced postoperative analgesic requirements, and had minimum side effects. The
      only reported significant side effects in these trials were mild sedation in two studies. In
      patients with epilepsy, gabapentin can be introduced at therapeutic doses, and presents no
      safety or serious side effect issues. Since gabapentin has negligible protein binding, it has
      no interactions with other medications. It is recommended that metabolic and laboratory
      monitoring is not necessary, and excellent cognitive profile is evident. At UCSF, gabapentin
      has been used safely in a relatively large number of patients on an empiric bases in the
      postoperative period, typically in surgical patients with substantial chronic pain, and more
      recently, in patients who have undergone spinal surgery as an adjuvant agent to narcotics to
      relieve postoperative radicular pain (personal communication with Peter Koo, Clinical
      Pharmacist at UCSF). Typically, patients are started on gabapentin 300 mg po TID on the first
      day, rapidly escalating to 600 mg TID on the second day, and finally to 900 mg TID the third
      day until discharge. The UCSF experience suggests that gabapentin is well tolerated with
      minimal side effects.

      Hypothesis

      We hypothesize that intensive pain management postoperatively using an adjuvant agent,
      gabapentin, will lead to a decrease in the amount of postoperative pain experienced, thereby
      resulting in a decrease in the incidence of postoperative delirium in older patients
      undergoing noncardiac surgery.

      Our specific aims were to: 1. Assess whether the administration of gabapentin was associated
      with decreased occurrence of delirium, 2. Determine the extent to which gabapentin-associated
      reductions in pain and/or opiate use reduced the occurrence of delirium, and 3. Determine
      whether the administration of gabapentin was associated with shorter hospital stays. We
      hypothesized that intensive pain management postoperatively using an adjuvant agent,
      gabapentin, would lead to a decrease in the amount of opioids received, a decrease in
      postoperative pain experienced, thereby resulting in a decrease in the incidence of
      postoperative delirium.
    
  