
    
      Nonischemic cardiomyopathy is considered as a variety of structural and functional myocardial
      disorders in which the myocardium is abnormal in the absence of diseases such as hypertension
      and coronary artery, valvular, and congenital heart diseases. Classification of
      cardiomyopathies is complex, with many available systems. The American Heart Association
      broadly divides them into primary and secondary types. The European Society of Cardiology
      classifies cardiomyopathies into several distinct morphologic and functional phenotypes, each
      of which can be further subclassified into familial and nonfamilial forms . There is an
      overlap between genetic and acquired cardiomyopathies, especially in the category of dilated
      cardiomyopathies.

      Cardiomyopathy has a prevalence of 0.02% of the population with annual death rates up to
      25,000 in the United States. Nonischemic cardiomyopathy is more common in younger individuals
      and women.

      Although echocardiography is the simplest imaging technique used for screening, diagnosis and
      classification of cardiomyopathies on the basis of morphology, it is operator dependent , has
      no tissue characterization capabilities and limited field of view especially in obese/chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease patients, influenced by acoustic window, is not adequate in the
      evaluation of the right ventricle or extra-cardiac associated chest manifestations where
      magnetic resonance is superior in this issue . Transesophageal echocardiography has a better
      acoustic window, but it is an invasive procedure.

      In comparison, cardiac multidetector computed tomography is less useful for the assessment of
      such cases currently because multidetector computed tomography involves radiation exposure
      and contrast medium- related problems and provides less information (ie, hemodynamic
      information, tissue characterization such as fibrosis) than magnetic resonance imaging does.
      Computed tomography would be more appropriate in specific requests to detect coronary
      calcification, exclude coronary artery disease and in those cases with contraindications for
      magnetic resonance imaging, such as a pacemaker.

      Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging has been established as the best three dimensional imaging
      modality with the ability to assess cardiac morphology, ventricular function, perfusion,
      viability and imaging characteristics of the surrounding vasculature without ionizing
      radiation. The accurate treatment of patients with cardiac disorders has created the need for
      accurate and reproducible measurements of cardiac chamber volumes and function. Cardiac
      magnetic resonance has the ability to provide this information as well as assess oedema,
      perfusion, viability and vascular anatomy.

      The high soft-tissue contrast, availability of a large field of view, multiplanar acquisition
      capability and lack of ionizing radiation are particularly appealing features of Cardiac
      magnetic resonance.

      There are certain technical challenges unique to cardiac magnetic resonance image as rapid
      and complex motion of the heart and pulsations of the surrounding great vessels. In addition,
      the effects of respiratory motion and systolic ventricular blood velocities up to 200 cm/s
      further complicate cardiac imaging. These challenges are generally solved by implementation
      of electrocardiography (cardiac) gating; navigator echo respiratory gating; breath-hold
      techniques; rapid, high-performance gradients; improved field homogeneity; and advanced pulse
      sequences. electrocardiography gating can be either prospective or retrospective.

      Several Cardiac magnetic resonance sequences are available for the evaluation of Nonischemic
      cardiomyopathy, each providing specific information. Depending on the clinical suspicion, the
      cardiac imager can add specific sequences to form a Cardiac magnetic resonance protocol
      tailored to that particular disease process.

      Delayed myocardial enhancement, being one of cardiac magnetic resonance imaging sequences, is
      not specific for myocardial infarction and can be used in many other cardiac diseases.
      Delayed enhancement in nonischemic myocardial disease generally, unlike in ischemic heart
      disease, has no particular coronary artery distribution and is often midwall rather than
      subendocardial or transmural . Moreover, in the acute phase, the first-pass perfusion study
      usually does not show any focal perfusion defect in nonischemic cardiomyopathy but instead
      may show normal results or early increased enhancement.

      Cardiac magnetic resonance has now established itself as a crucial imaging technique in the
      evaluation of several cardiomyopathies. It not only provides comprehensive information on
      structure and function, but also can perform tissue characterization, which helps in
      establishing the etiology of cardiomyopathy. Cardiac magnetic resonance is also useful in
      establishing the diagnosis, providing guidance for endomyocardial biopsy, accurate
      quantification of function, volumes, and fibrosis, prognostic determination, risk
      stratification, and monitoring response to therapy.

      One of the most important added points in in investigator(s) research is to assess extra
      cardiac chest manifestation in by one session of magnetic resonance imaging session with high
      accuracy and least cost.

      Echocardiography is the best available gold standard for cardiomyopathic patient as in
      multiple previous studies, so it well be done for each patient in investigator(s) study for
      comparison.
    
  