
    
      Background:

      Video review was first introduced in healthcare in the 1980s to improve emergency teams'
      management of critical situations by having them review their own performance on video in a
      debriefing session. Video debriefing offers an opportunity to review the care delivered in
      high-stake, high-risk, and time-critical situations. Video debriefing has been found to
      improve the performance of neonatal resuscitation teams and trauma teams; however, video
      debriefing has not generally been accepted in the delivery ward. A recent PhD project
      developed a method for systematically filming obstetric emergencies, in two Danish hospitals,
      where informed consent had been obtained from all participants. In addition, the project
      developed a method for systematically assessing obstetric teams' clinical performance during
      postpartum hemorrhage

      The aim of the study is to examine the effect of real-life video debriefing on obstetric
      teams' management of major postpartum hemorrhage.

      Material and methods:

      The study will be conducted at two Danish hospitals, Aarhus University Hospital (5,000
      deliveries per year) and Horsens Regional Hospital (2,300 deliveries per year).

      All delivery rooms have been equipped with an automatic recording system that enables filming
      of all postpartum hemorrhage. Video recording requires informed consent from all
      participants. Women expecting to deliver will be invited to provide informed consent for
      video recording. If a woman declines the invitation, the cameras will be covered up according
      to our protocol. If video recording occurs, all participants will be asked to give informed
      consent again.

      Video debriefing will be conducted by educated facilitators of debriefing. Debriefings will
      follow a protocol and will focus on teams' clinical performance and non-technical skills. The
      main focus of the debriefing protocol will be clinical debriefing with a main goal of
      improving clinical performance and patient care.

      Videos will be included as follows: 1) Baseline video inclusion, before introducing real-life
      video debriefings of team performance; 2) During the start-up of the debriefings in an
      exploratory study; 3) After real-life video debriefings have been introduced as standard
      procedure.

      Perspectives:

      This project is the first to evaluate the implementation, feasibility and use of real-life
      video debriefing in obstetric care. Results from this project can revolutionize the ability
      to learn from clinical cases and can guide how video can be introduced in ways acceptable to
      women, relatives and healthcare providers.
    
  