
    
      After surgery on the head, the dura, a membrane that covers the brain, must be closed in
      order to prevent CSF from leaking outside of the dura. When CSF leaks outside the dura, this
      can increase the risk of infection, cause painful headaches or complications that may require
      another surgery to repair the leak. Typically, your study doctor will close the dura with
      sutures (surgical stitches) and sometimes a piece of muscle, fat, or other soft tissue taken
      from another place on your body. However, it is still possible that CSF will continue to leak
      through small suture holes even when all appropriate precautions have been taken.

      Dural surgical sealants have been developed to assist surgeons in stopping CSF leaks when
      standard measures following brain surgery are not effective. Sometimes, the leak seals on its
      own and there is no need for a surgical sealant.

      This study is for participants who have a CSF leak after standard measures are used to close
      the dura at the end of their surgery. The decision to use a surgical sealant will be made
      when your surgeon finds that after stitching and using standard measures to close the dura,
      there is still a leak.

      However, if your surgeon finds a CSF leak after he or she applies the standard stitches and
      tissues, and you have signed this informed consent, then you will be randomized to receive
      one of two surgical sealants (Randomized means like a flip of the coin). You will be selected
      to receive either Adherus™ Surgical Sealant or DuraSeal™ Surgical Sealant and your post
      surgery progress will be evaluated during study visits and with study tests. Adherus™
      Surgical Sealant is an investigational device that has been developed to stop CSF leaks. It
      is being studied to find if it is just as effective and safe as DuraSeal™.

      Adherus™ is made of two components that form a gel when they are combined. The gel is applied
      after the study doctor closes the incision. The gel acts as a thin, elastic barrier intended
      to prevent CSF from leaking until the dura tissue has properly healed on its own. The gel is
      then absorbed by the body over several months and excreted or removed from the body through
      the urine. This is the second study of Adherus™ in people in the United States.

      If you choose to participate, you will have screening tests to see if you qualify to enroll
      in the study. Not everyone who is screened for the study will be able to participate. The
      device you receive will be determined by a random selection process. Neither you nor study
      personnel or your doctor can decide which device you receive. You will not be told which
      device you received until study completion. In addition, if your study doctor does not use
      any sealant at the end of your surgery (you may not have any CSF leak or the study doctor
      decides to use another closure procedure) then your study participation will be complete.

      If you choose to participate and have screening tests to qualify you to enroll in the study,
      your surgery will be performed according to the regular standard of care. If CSF leaks from
      your dura after it is stitched closed by your study doctor and you continue to meet study
      entry measures, then your study doctor will apply the assigned study treatment to try to stop
      the leak. After the surgery, you will be seen 4 times over the next 4 months. You will be in
      the study for up to 5 months.
    
  