
    
      Overarching Goals

      The overarching goals of FIRST AID - LTC are two-fold:

        1. Improve rational antibiotic prescribing by physicians to minimize harms among LTC
           residents.

        2. Advance the science of audit-and-feedback to improve physician prescribing practices.

      Specific Aims

      To improve rational antibiotic prescribing in LTC:

        1. by decreasing unnecessary initiation of antibiotic treatments among Ontario LTC
           residents, as well as the variability in initiation rates across LTC prescribers.

        2. by decreasing unnecessary prolonged duration of antibiotic treatments among Ontario LTC
           residents, as well as the variability in prolonged duration treatment use across LTC
           prescribers.

      To advance audit-and-feedback implementation science:

      1. by evaluating whether a dynamic audit-and-feedback report highlighting antibiotic
      prescribing can lead to greater reductions in antibiotic use, than a static paginated report

      Anticipated Contributions to Health-Related Knowledge

      Although the literature is inundated with trials examining the impact of audit-and-feedback
      compared to usual care, there is a need for studies to improve audit-and-feedback delivery.
      FIRST AID-LTC will test optimal delivery and peer comparison techniques for
      audit-and-feedback. The knowledge learned can be extrapolated to antibiotic interventions in
      LTC in other provinces across Canada, as well more broadly to inappropriate medication
      prescribing practices in LTC.

      Anticipated Contributions to Health Care, Health Systems and Health Outcomes

      FIRST AID-LTC will lead to immediate reductions in excess antibiotic use in Ontario LTC
      facilities, which in turn should result in substantial reductions in direct drug costs, as
      well as downstream complications of allergy, organ toxicity, C. difficile infections and
      antimicrobial resistance. With easy transferability to other Canadian provinces, the
      improvements in cost-savings and patient outcomes could be massive in scope.
    
  