
    
      1. INTRODUCTION

           1.1. Theoretical Framework

           Schizophrenia is a chronic mental illness characterized by significant clinical
           heterogeneity and a long evolution over time, determined by periods of psychotic
           exacerbation and phases of stabilization. The semiology of this nosological entity is
           established in positive and negative symptoms, with variable levels of dysfunction and
           clinical presentation, and having an essential impact on the patient's quality of life.
           Similarly, surrounding the schizophrenic spectrum, the existence of the associated
           neurocognitive impairment stands out, prevailing the disorders of social and
           occupational functioning, as well as a significant degree of disorganization.

           Many theories have tried to elucidate the origin of schizophrenia, where the complexity
           of its etiopathogenesis is a determining factor in establishing an appropriate,
           specific, and effective therapeutic approach. However, despite numerous defined
           aetiological premises, the dopaminergic hypothesis is considered the final common
           pathway of all of them, converging numerous associated pathogenic mechanisms, where
           low-grade systemic inflammation and oxidative stress stand out.

           Undoubtedly, the traditional therapeutic approach has perceived the role of nutrition as
           a minor intervention in psychiatry, especially in psychotic disorders such as
           schizophrenia. However, the advances established in the last decade, mainly associated
           with the development of the holobionte theory and the evolution of metagenomics, as well
           as the presence of new dietary patterns of low nutritional quality in different western
           societies, have contributed significantly to the global understanding of the role of
           nutritional patterns on the functioning of the Central Nervous System (CNS), as well as
           on the possible mechanisms or etiological pathways of psychiatric disorders.

           In this regard, it is necessary to highlight the role of the intestinal microbiota (IM)
           and the intimate relationship it exerts on the numerous functions of the body, such as
           the development and maturation of the CNS, nutrition, immune response or systemic
           inflammation. This effect is carried out through various established communication
           pathways: vagal nerve (primary), intestinal hormones, cytokines, exosomes, and
           microRNAs. Thus, the existence of possible modifications in the concentration of this
           biota (considering average concentrations around 10^13 CFU/g), may trigger homeostatic
           alterations or aggravate pathogenic conditions, a fact commonly called dysbiosis. This
           concentration of microbiota is fundamentally determined by dietary patterns, genetic
           factors, iatrogenic antibiotherapy, type of breastfeeding (maternal or formula), age,
           exercise, and continuous stress, among others.

           As a consequence of these discoveries, the concept of the "Microbiota-Intestine-Brain
           Axis" emerges. This term refers to the two-way communication pathway established between
           the CNS, the gastrointestinal tract, and the MI, mediated by the microbial metabolites
           of dietary products such as dietary fiber, tryptophan or arginine, as well as by
           endocrine and neuronal mechanisms. The close relationship established between MI and the
           CNS lies in the production of a multitude of neurotransmitters essential for normal
           neuronal functioning, such as serotonin, GABA, dopamine or noradrenaline, among others.
           Similarly, MI exerts essential trophic, metabolic, and protective functions, which are a
           determining factor in the normal neuropsychiatric function.

           Thus, according to the theory of low-grade systemic inflammation, when a state of
           dysbiosis occurs in the symbiote MI, it generates a cascade of pro-inflammatory agents,
           such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a bacterial endotoxin, capable of modifying both the
           integrity and the permeability of enterocytes. This alteration triggers the release of
           pro-inflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor ἀ [TNF-ἀ] or interleukins type 6 or 1ß
           [IL-6, IL-1ß], both capable of altering intestinal tissue integrity), originating
           synergies between inflammation, increased oxidative stress and imbalance of energetic
           homeostasis. This cascade of reactions causes an increase in neurodegeneration and
           excitotoxicity, mediated by the vagus nerve. Thus, it has been shown that the activation
           of a state of low inflammation is related to a worse prognosis of schizophrenia
           concerning positive and negative symptoms, cognitive performance, and loss of brain
           volume. Similarly, alterations in specific pro-inflammatory cytokines or state markers
           have been described, especially in psychotic relapses or prodromal phases (IL-6, TGF-ß,
           among others), as well as a decrease in their concentration after the introduction of
           antipsychotic treatment, with consequent clinical improvement.

           1.2. Justification

           Existing scientific production shows a high rate of disability and morbimortality in
           people suffering from some psychiatric disorder concerning the rest of the general
           clinical population, especially in those patients with a severe and long-term mental
           disorder (LTMD), highlighting dysfunctions of the psychotic and affective spectrum:
           schizophrenia and bipolar disorder (respectively). This morbidity and mortality rate in
           the psychiatric population is up to 20% higher and, quantitatively, represents an
           average of 25 years of life lost. Besides, patients with LTMD have a life expectancy of
           less than 20% (57 years in men and 65 years in women). It is estimated that the relative
           risk (RR) of this disease is 2.41 higher for mortality from any causes, these being
           mainly comprised of cardiovascular, infectious, respiratory, and endocrine diseases (60%
           of premature deaths in this clinical population). Also, the leading established causes
           of mortality are closely linked to the development of the Metabolic Syndrome (MS), also
           called insulin resistance syndrome. The MS is considered a determining factor in the
           physical health of the patient, tripling the incidence of cardio-metabolic diseases.

           The main etiopathogenic determinants of this fact are the factors inherent to the
           disease itself, as well as genetic factors, resistance to adequate care in terms of
           physical health and lifestyles followed by these patients (far removed from those
           considered healthy).

           Despite the magnitude and severity of the problem, interventions aimed to modify
           lifestyles do not play an essential role in therapy and are not part of the usual
           clinical practice with the psychiatric population. This fact could be explained by the
           lack of understanding of the multiple mechanisms and etiological factors involved in the
           neurogenesis of schizophrenia, and leads to a multidisciplinary approach, but
           essentially psychopharmacological and psychotherapeutic. It is, therefore, vital to
           address modifiable factors such as dietary patterns, which have evidenced to be an
           efficient therapeutic intervention to improve both the psychopathological dysfunction
           and the physical health of the subjects and can be considered as an addition to the
           conventional therapeutic approach.

           In this sense, some dietary interventions carried out to modulate intestinal microbiota
           in psychotic disorders through the use of so-called "psychobiotics". This term refers to
           the set of substances that include probiotics and/or prebiotics and whose administration
           causes health benefits in psychiatric patients. Probiotics include microorganisms of the
           intestinal biota, which, provided in adequate quantities, offer a benefit for the host
           (highlighting the genera Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium, among others). On the other
           hand, prebiotics are non-digestible dietary fiber (mainly fructooligosaccharides and
           oligosaccharides, inulin or pectins), which are substances that promote optimal growth
           and development of probiotics in the gastrointestinal tract, reducing pathogenic
           microbiota, through the production of short-chain fatty acids (SCFA).

           It is worth noting the growing effort to highlight the role played by prebiotics and or
           probiotics in the microbiota-intestine-brain axis, which is currently a relevant object
           of study. In this regard, adequate dietary planning in psychiatric patients with
           psychopathological dysfunction and at risk of iatrogenic metabolic syndrome, could be
           considered as a therapy of choice in these subjects, improving altered clinical patterns
           and difficulties in the patient's vital and functional performance. Similarly, adequate
           nutritional management could be used as an adjunct to antipsychotic pharmacotherapy and
           the cardio-metabolic approach, reducing the number of homeostatic drugs or even
           replacing them in cases of intolerance in the target population.

           In short, the future of the development of Mental Health is determined by the need for a
           multimodal approach, where nutritional factors represent the cornerstone in achieving
           optimal results in health, level of functionality, and, therefore, quality of life of
           patients. Likewise, dietary modulation has the added value of improving the morbidity
           and mortality associated with schizophrenia, with optimal levels in terms of
           cost-effectiveness, better than those shown by the approaches currently used.

        2. RESEARCH QUESTION AND OBJECTIVES

           Could the modulation of the dietary pattern through the optimal incorporation of
           prebiotics and probiotics improve the nutritional and cardio-metabolic status of
           patients diagnosed with schizophrenia spectrum disorders, as well as improve their
           clinical impact in psychopathological terms?

           2.1. Research hypotheses or assumptions

           The integration of non-digestible dietary fiber and fermented dairy products into the
           conventional eating pattern of the psychiatric population diagnosed with schizophrenia
           (in any of its variants), can improve the nutritional status and, consequently, the
           level of physical health of these patients. Likewise, this prebiotic and probiotic
           content would allow the improvement of the psychopathological state in those clinical
           areas altered by the underlying mental disorder.

           2.2. Objectives

           2.2.1. Main objective

           - Determination of the nutritional and cardio-metabolic efficacy of a prebiotic and
           probiotic dietary intervention in patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorders

           2.2.2. Specific objectives

             -  To determine the baseline nutritional status of the target population.

             -  To identify the usual dietary patterns in this population, clarifying the
                nutritional value of the main dishes consumed, as well as their link with the
                physical health status of individuals.

             -  To know the existing scientific evidence regarding the construction of determinants
                (explicit and implicit) that influence the microbiota-intestine-brain axis.

             -  To evaluate the psychopathological impact of the incorporation of prebiotics and
                probiotics in the habitual dietetic-nutritional pattern in patients diagnosed with
                the spectrum of schizophrenia.

             -  To evaluate the cardio-metabolic impact of a standardized dietary planning with
                high prebiotic and probiotic content, adapted to the inherent characteristics of
                the psychiatric population.

             -  To develop and validate a program that allows for the detection of areas of
                improvement, establishing assessment strategies, and an appropriate action plan in
                Mental Health, which allows for adequate dietary care through the use of
                psychobiotics.

        3. MATERIAL AND METHODS

           3.1. Study design

           A two-arms, double-blind, randomized in balanced blocks clinical trial of six months of
           intervention, will be carried out in psychiatric patients diagnosed with schizophrenic
           spectrum disorders (without distinction by type) -n=50-. The control group will be made
           up of those participants who will receive conventional dietary advice (n=25) on an
           individual basis. In the intervention group (n=25), this advice will be established
           individually through intensive nutritional guidance offering a food pattern with a high
           prebiotic and probiotic content. In both intervention groups, educational material of
           visual support will be used during the sessions. The dietary intervention will be
           designed and supervised by qualified personnel with recognized competencies for this
           type of intervention (nurses and dietitians) and will be agreed upon through serial
           interviews and focus groups. In this sense, these focus groups will be applied to
           improve the established dietetic-nutritional intervention, guaranteeing its correct
           adaptation, according to the study population.

           The study will begin with a group session for the presentation of the research project
           in the health center and/or psychiatric service consultation. During the development of
           the study, data will be collected on the psychopathological state (Positive and Negative
           Syndrome Scale -PANSS- and Personal and Social Functioning Scale -PSP- scales), and
           blood test (hemogram, lipid profile, etc.). Measures will be taken at the beginning
           (basal), at three and six months. The estimation of intestinal microbiota and the usual
           nutritional pattern will also be assessed at the beginning and six months, using a stool
           test and a validated Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ), respectively. To evaluate the
           degree of adherence, participants in the IG will fill a specific weekly record of the
           main dishes/food consumed. At least, anthropometric parameters will also be analyzed
           monthly (BMI, blood pressure, heart rate, abdominal perimeter).

           3.2. Statistical analysis

           Quantitative variables will be presented with mean and standard deviation, and
           qualitative variables will be shown in frequencies and percentages.

           The Kolmogorov-Smirnov test will be used to compare the goodness of fit to a normal
           distribution of data from quantitative variables. For the contrast of bivariate
           hypotheses, the Student t-test will be performed for two means, while for qualitative
           variables, the Chi-Square and Fisher's exact test will be used, when necessary.
           Likewise, for the analysis of three or more means, the ANOVA of repeated means will be
           used. On the other hand, the correlation between quantitative variables will be verified
           through the Pearson's coefficient r. Finally, if the criterion of normality or
           homocedasticity is not met, the non-parametric versions of the above tests shall be
           performed.

           Logistic regressions will be carried out to determine which variables can determine the
           improvement of the nutritional pattern and physical health through the Food Frequency
           Questionnaire, as well as blood and stool analytical values. Similarly, this analysis
           will be established concerning the psychopathological status through the PSP and PANSS
           scales, both of which have a discrete quantitative and nominal result values, according
           to established cut-off points and clinical interpretation. Raw and adjusted odds ratios
           (ORs) will be calculated. Log-likelihood, the goodness of fit statistic, Cox and Snell
           R2, Nagelkerke R2, and Hosmer-Lemeshow tests should be used to assess the overall model
           fit. The exponentiation will be used to calculate the beta coefficients.

           For all statistical analyses, an alpha error probability of less than 5% (p<0.05) will
           be accepted, and the confidence interval will be calculated at 95%. The software SPSS
           (version 25.0) and EPIDAT (version 4.2) shall be used for the statistical analysis.

        4. WORK PLAN

           An intervention schedule has been established, with a total duration of 6 months, which
           is divided into three blocks:

           4.1. Block 1

           This first block focuses on the selection of the target population according to
           inclusion criteria. Firstly, a group session to present the program and the methodology
           of the study will be carried out. During the first fifteen days of the study, a focus
           group with professionals to reach a consensus on the intervention will be held.
           Subsequently, the appropriate modifications will be made to improve and adapt to the
           dietary and nutritional intervention.

           Consequently, the recruitment and initial psychopathological and nutritional assessment
           of the participants will be carried out, using the Scale of Positive and Negative
           Syndromes (PANSS) and the Scale of Personal and Social Functioning (PSP). For the
           nutritional evaluation, the analytical and anthropometric basal determination of the
           participating patients will be carried out, as well as the evaluation of the habitual
           dietary pattern through a validated FFQ and weekly record of the main dishes and foods
           consumed. Similarly, an estimate of the intestinal bacterial flora is required employing
           stool culture.

           4.2. Block 2

           The second block includes the implementation of the 6-month individual nutrition
           education program (associated with two months of educational reinforcement, according to
           block 3). It will consist of eight sessions, the first four being biweekly, followed by
           four monthly, to which four sessions of educational reinforcement will be added to the 3
           and 5 months of study. The minimum duration of each session has been established for 30
           minutes. However, this length could be different, considering the characteristics of the
           participants. The control group will be made up of those participants who will receive
           standardized dietary advice. In this sense, the education content in the intervention
           group will be based on general principles of conventional dietary advice in an
           intensified manner, centered on the acquisition of specific knowledge about:

             -  - Underlying mental pathology, lifestyles and associated comorbidities

             -  - Immediate principles: Carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, fiber, vitamins, and
                minerals; energy needs; consumption requirements.

             -  - Water requirements.

             -  - Foodstuffs.

             -  - Description and justification of prescribed prebiotic and probiotic diet.

             -  - Culinary techniques: conservation of properties of the prebiotic and probiotic
                diet.

             -  - Optimal distribution and interchange of foods with high prebiotic and probiotic
                content.

             -  - Feeding in particular situations.

           In both the IG and the CG, visual support resources will be used during the development
           of the established sessions.

           4.3. Block 3

           Finally, to evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention, the modification in the
           nutritional, the cardio-metabolic, and the psychopathological area will be assessed. For
           doing this, researchers will carry out anthropometric determination, clinical
           evaluation, the performance of stool culture, and the study of the dietary pattern, as
           the investigators commented above.

           Likewise, in this block, an educational reinforcement (both in IG and CG) of what was
           treated in Block 2 will be offered, three and five months after the beginning of the
           block, every 15 days for the IG and monthly for the CG.

           Once the intervention is concluded, the analysis of the collected data will be
           performed, culminating in the development of the scientific production and the writing
           of the research report.

        5. RESULTS

           5.1.Expected results and outputs

           Firstly, it is expected to obtain the necessary information for the determination of the
           optimal dietary pattern for those participants in the study, thus allowing the
           development of a nutritional intervention with high prebiotic and probiotic content,
           appropriate for the population under study.

           Likewise, the aim is to ensure that all participants improve their health status through
           the adaptation of the feeding pattern, developing adherence to healthier lifestyles
           adapted to the conditions of each patient.

           Finally, it is expected to demonstrate that an adequate dietary modulation with a high
           prebiotic and probiotic content, leads to a significant improvement in the nutritional
           status and, therefore, the cardio-metabolic, of the participants, mediated by the
           microbiota-intestine-brain axis. Furthermore, it is presumed to reach a degree of
           evidence that allows establishing nutritional management as an effective therapeutic
           intervention in the psychopathological treatment of patients with schizophrenia spectrum
           disorders, in any of its variants.

        6. ETHICAL AND LEGAL IMPLICATIONS

      6.1. Risk-benefit analysis

      A priori, since the intervention will be based on expert opinion and founded on a solid
      scientific basis, it is not considered that the participants in this study could be exposed
      to any risk or discomfort, except the routine health monitoring and control. In this sense,
      it should be noted that most of the controls established are determined by non-invasive tests
      (validated questionnaires and scales, anthropometric measurements, stool culture, etc.),
      minimizing the discomfort caused during the development of the intervention. On the other
      hand, as an invasive measure, the possible side effects derived from blood extraction by
      venous puncture should be highlighted. Such effects are established infrequently, but should
      they appear, including dizziness, pain, or hematomas, among others.

      In terms of benefit, regardless of whether participants are assigned to the IG or the CG, the
      type of intervention carried out, whether it is conventional dietary advice or an educational
      program with a high prebiotic and probiotic content, will seek to modify lifestyles towards
      healthier ones, mediated by the improvement of the dietary pattern.

      Besides, if it is evident that the participants assigned to the IG present significant
      results in nutritional, cardio-metabolic and psychopathological terms, a cost-efficient
      solution will have been found for the health system, allowing people diagnosed with
      schizophrenic spectrum disorders to have access to lifestyle improvement plans and better
      tolerability to psychopharmacological treatment. This finding could alleviate the number of
      psychiatric consultations required by the need for dosage adjustments and/or associated
      physical health problems. In this way, a solution will be offered to the problems of
      accessibility (geographical, economic, etc.), level of dysfunctionality and morbimortality,
      of high incidence in this psychiatric population.

      6.2. Ethical principles

      The study will be carried out respecting the fundamental principles established in the
      Declaration of Helsinki (1964), the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights and
      Biomedicine (1997), the UNESCO Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights
      (1997). Researches will also follow the requirements established by Spanish legislation
      (Organic Law 3/2018 of 5 December on the Protection of Personal Data and the Guarantee of
      Digital Rights and Law 41/2002 of 14 November), which is the fundamental law regulating
      patient autonomy and rights and obligations in the field of clinical information and
      documentation. All the information analysed by the principal investigator of this study is
      subject to the maintenance of professional secrecy.

      In any case, each participant will be assigned a code as a registry, where all the relative
      data will be mechanized in an anonymous way, delimiting the access to the database only to
      the personnel linked to the development of the study, previous authorization of the
      investigator in charge of it.

      6.3. Informed consent Data will only be collected from those subjects who have previously
      signed the informed consent form, which is included in the Patient/Legal Representative
      Information Sheet (ANNEXES: Annex I and II), included in the presentation of the research
      project.
    
  