
    
      Polypharmacy increases the likelihood of being prescribed and harmed by high-risk
      medications. As noted in the 2014 National Action Plan for Adverse Drug Event (ADE)
      Prevention, polypharmacy both increases the likelihood of being prescribed high-risk
      medications and increases the likelihood that these high-risk medications will lead to
      adverse drug events. This pilot-phase study is intended to test clinicians' perceptions of
      EHR-based nudges designed to reduce high-risk polypharmacy among patients aged 65 years or
      more, thereby enabling investigators to refine the nudges, and to generate outcomes data that
      will inform power calculations for a subsequent larger study (the main study) of the nudges'
      effectiveness.

      In this pilot-phase study, the investigators will deploy 2 EHR-based behavioral nudges (a
      commitment nudge and a justification nudge) among 18 or more primary care clinicians in 3
      primary care practices (6 clinicians or more per practice) affiliated with Northwestern
      University for approximately 4 months. The 3 practices participating in the pilot will be a
      convenience sample of Northwestern-affiliated practices known to study investigators.

      The investigators will randomly assign each of the 3 participating pilot practices to 1 of 3
      arms: (1) commitment nudge, (2) justification nudge, or (3) both commitment and justification
      nudges. Randomization will be at the practice level, without replacement, thus assigning
      exactly 1 practice to each arm. All participating clinicians within a given practice will
      receive the same nudges.

      Northwestern-affiliated practices that do not participate in the pilot will constitute a
      fourth arm of this pilot study.

      The investigators will ask leaders of participating practices for their qualitative
      observations on how clinicians and patients experience the nudges (e.g., how the nudges
      affect workflows). The investigators also will collect data on the outcome measures before
      and during the approximately 4-month pilot period and compare these data to contemporaneous
      outcomes measures generated by Northwestern-affiliated practices that do not participate in
      the pilot.
    
  