
    
      The primary objective is the per-patient detection rate of 18F-DCFPyL in comparison with
      18F-Fluorocholine. Secondary objectives include the assessment of the impact on patient
      treatment management, the per-region detection rate, the sensitivity and specificity on a
      per-patient and per-region basis, the concordance rate between both tracers, and the safety.
      The study was initiated in July 2020, and the recruitment of the planned 217 patients has
      been completed in October 2020. The follow-up phase is ongoing. Typically, as part of the
      routine care practice, these patients receive appropriate treatment and follow-up. The
      investigating sites are therefore requested for the period of 7 months after the second
      tracer injection, to provide any results of subsequent biopsies, imaging studies, clinical
      findings, PSA measurements, and disease management, if performed in routine practice.
      Treatment decisions are locally made at the discretion of the referring physician based on
      all available clinical information, including the non-masked local reports of both PET/CT and
      any other imaging results. After completion of the study, a consensus will be obtained from a
      multidisciplinary independent board (truth panel), based on the surrogate standard of
      reference which will include all the above-mentioned available results. Assessments will be
      made on a per-region and per-patient basis. The truth panel will consist in 3 independent
      experts not otherwise involved in the trial. All above information will be sequentially
      presented to the truth panel experts. The order of presentation of 18F-FCH PET/CT and
      18F-DCFPyl PET/CT results will be randomized. The truth panel will have to assess the impact
      of each PET/CT examination on disease restaging and change in treatment intent, by filling in
      a patient management questionnaire after review of each PET/CT examination report.
    
  