
    
      Breast cancer affects 1 in 8 women in the United States and the majority are managed
      surgically as part of their primary treatment. Annually over 800 women at Hoag are treated
      surgically for breast cancer.

      Anxiety and fear are commonly associated with breast cancer diagnosis, with as many as 20% of
      breast cancer patients suffering from full blown depressive disorder and 10% from an anxiety
      disorder.(1) Mindfulness practices have demonstrated improvements in self reported well
      being, reductions in stress and fatigue, reduced reactivity to distressing thoughts and
      improvements in both sensory and affective pain components in a variety of chronic pain
      conditions including arthritis and chronic pain syndromes. (2) Adoption of Mindfulness Based
      Stress Reduction (MBSR) has shown improvements in psychological health for breast cancer
      survivors, (3) but significant reductions in pain levels have not been demonstrated. The
      limitations of MBSR (Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction) include significant time investment
      for patients as well as time and cost of care providers and health care systems. The effect
      of meditation and specific yogic breath work practices on pain has not been studied.

      Opioid addiction is a growing social problem. In 2016 over 2 million Americans over the age
      of 12 were estimated to suffer from addiction to prescription pain medications, leading to
      over 20,000 overdose related deaths. (4) The majority of these patients were women. Indicated
      use narcotic exposure has been reported as an initiation event for some patients in the
      development of opioid addiction, with over 5% of patients who initiated prescription pain
      medication at the time of surgery continuing to use the medications after the acute surgical
      process has resolved. (5) We propose to study the effect of meditation and breath work
      practice on the distress and perioperative pain of breast cancer patients undergoing primary
      surgical treatment for breast cancer. The benefit of meditation and breath work practice over
      standard MBSR practice includes lower burden on patients of time and therefore higher
      potential cost effectiveness and long term sustainability of patients adopting and committing
      to a regular practice. The breath work and specific meditation practices that will be taught
      could be a novel method to address perioperative pain, plus improve management of anxiety and
      stress during this period and beyond. If successful, this pre recorded meditation guidance
      that patients can utilize in home practice could be a cost effective addition to improve
      overall perioperative patient experience.
    
  