
    
      SUMMARY

      Rationale: The Lisfranc injury is a complex injury of the midfoot. It can result in
      persistent pain and functional impairment if treated inappropriately. In Lisfranc
      fracture-dislocation treatment options are primary arthrodesis of the midfoot joints or open
      reduction and internal fixation with retaining of the midfoot joints.

      Objective: The aim of the proposed study is to define optimal treatment for the Lisfranc
      fracture-dislocation, either primary arthrodesis or open reduction and internal fixation, in
      regard to the quality of life, complications, functional outcomes and cost-effectiveness. The
      investigators hypothesize that patients will have a better quality of life and fewer
      complications during follow-up when undergoing a PA for unstable fracture-dislocations in the
      Lisfranc midfoot joints compared to ORIF. Further, the investigators expect this approach to
      be more cost-effective than the operative stabilization with retaining the dislocated joints,
      as patients will be exposed to a reduced number of reinterventions and hospital stay and/or
      prolonged use of pain medication.

      Study design: A prospective randomized controlled clinical trial. Study population: All
      patients from 18 years and older with an acute (<6 weeks) traumatic fracture-dislocation in
      the Lisfranc midfoot joints, displaced or unstable with weight-bearing radiographs, and are
      eligible for either one of the surgical procedures. In total, this study will include n=112
      patients with Lisfranc fracture-dislocation.

      Intervention (if applicable): Patients with Lisfranc fracture-dislocation will be randomly
      allocated to treatment with either PA or ORIF.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The quality of life. Secondary outcomes: complications,
      functional outcomes, and cost-effectiveness.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit, and group
      relatedness:

      The expectation of this study is that operative treatment is beneficial for the patient with
      an unstable Lisfranc injury. The risk of specific complications is low and generally similar
      in both operative treatment modalities. PA is expected to have improved results in functional
      scoring systems with less secondary surgical procedures compared to ORIF. Literature
      indicates that both treatment options from the study are accepted for Lisfranc fracture
      injury. No clear advantage for one treatment option is found at present in the literature.

      The burden of the study seems to be not much higher compared to standard treatment because
      follow-up is standardized according to current trauma guidelines. The radiation exposure will
      not be different from the standard of care.
    
  