
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works
      in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being
      studied.

      How the Study Interventions work:

      Pembrolizumab: Pembrolizumab has been studied in lab experiments and in other types of
      cancer, and information from these studies suggests that it may be beneficial in this type of
      cancer. Pembrolizumab is a drug (an antibody) that may treat cancer by working with the
      immune system.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved pembrolizumab for this
      specific disease but it has been approved for other uses.

      Radiation (Re-irradiation): Radiotherapy destroys cancer cells using radiation aimed at a
      cancer from a machine.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved re-irradiation as a treatment
      option for this disease.

      Bevacizumab: Bevacizumab (also known as "Avastin") is designed to prevent or slow down the
      growth of cancer cells by blocking the growth of blood vessels.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved bevacizumab as a treatment
      option for this disease.

      In this research study, the investigators are looking to determine if this combination
      (pembrolizumab + re-irradiation) proves helpful in treating this cancer. If the participant
      has already been receiving bevacizumab, the participant will continue to receive this along
      with pembrolizumab and re-irradiation. By doing this, the investigators will look to
      determine if this combination (pembrolizumab and bevacizumab + re-irradiation) proves helpful
      in treating this cancer.

      This study will also test the safety and tolerability of this combination (pembrolizumab +
      re-irradiation) when given alone or with bevacizumab
    
  