
    
      Arsenicosis is a major health problem in Bangladesh. About half of the population are
      chronically exposed to high concentration of arsenic through contaminated drinking water. In
      arsenicosis, keratosis of palm and sole occur which reduce the working capacity of the
      patient and affect the socioeconomic condition. It also causes invasive skin lesions like
      Bowen's disease, squamous cell carcinoma, and basal cell carcinoma. Bowen's disease usually
      appears as a persistent reddened scaly patch on the skin and has a risk (3-5%) to develop
      squamous cell carcinoma. Keratosis can be treated by different topical preparations like
      salicylic acid, propylene glycol and oral antioxidant, zinc and folic acid, but treatment by
      these medicines require a longer time to relieve and thus reduce patient's compliance. On the
      other hand, treatment options available for Bowen's disease are expensive. Brinjal is a
      common vegetable which contains steroidal alkaloids, steroidal glycosides, delphinidine,
      nasunin and other biologically active compounds. These biologically active compounds are
      effective against human cancer cells by various mechanisms. One study shows that a topical
      cream prepared from brinjal peel extract is effective in keratosis and skin carcinoma. So,
      this study will be conducted to see the outcome of brinjal peel extract in severe palmar
      arsenical keratosis and Bowen's disease and to identify the compound that is responsible for
      the effect. The study will be an Open Phase- II Clinical Trial. It will be conducted in
      Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University and Bhanga Upazilla of Faridpur District.
      Extracts from brinjal peel will be collected by using a mixture of ethanol, chloroform and
      acetic acid as a solvent in Soxhlet extractor and rotary evaporator. Thin Layer
      Chromatography (TLC), Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) and Infrared (IR) of extract will be
      done to identify compound. Cytotoxicity assay will be done by using brine shrimp bioassay.
      Then a topical cream will be prepared from the extract and supplied at the field level
      through a temporary arsenic clinic at an interval of two weeks. Instruction will be given to
      the patients about applying the cream. Adherence and adverse effects of the cream will be
      monitored regularly through phone calls and during each visit. Photograph will be taken and
      size of the keratotic nodules as well as, lesions of Bowen's disease will be measured before
      the start and after completion of treatment. Clinical improvement will be assessed by the
      mean scoring of nodules and lesions and perception of patients about their improvement by
      using Likert Scale. Statistical analysis and results will be presented in tabulated forms and
      in different diagrams.
    
  