
    
      Purpose:

      To determine if a bilateral laparoscopically guided rectus sheath block improves pain control
      over conventional local anesthetic infiltration around port site incisions following
      laparoscopic appendectomy.

      Hypothesis:

      Bilateral rectus sheath block will improve post-operative pain scores following laparoscopic
      appendectomy for acute uncomplicated appendicitis.

      Justification:

      Children have significant pain after laparoscopic appendectomy and many receive
      post-operative opioids for analgesia. The Faces pain scale - revised (FPS-R) is a simple
      validated method of measuring post-operative pain in children. Ultrasound-guided bilateral
      rectus sheath block (RSB) has been shown to decrease pain scores in the early post-operative
      period following pediatric laparoscopic appendectomy and elective umbilical hernia repair.2,4
      The use of image-guidance for needle placement has improved both achievement of appropriate
      anatomic location of the block as well as analgesia associated with the block. Under
      ultrasound guidance, this extra step requires additional equipment, time, and sometimes
      dedicated personnel to complete. The investigators propose a bilateral RSB performed
      intra-operatively under laparoscopic guidance may alleviate the need for these extra
      resources while achieving the desired analgesic effects.

      The analgesic effect of the standard of care injection of local anesthesia is limited to the
      superficial layers of the abdominal wall. The rectus sheath block targets the nerves running
      within the fascia and provides a more complete block to the deep and superficial layers of
      the abdominal wall.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective: Determine if intra-operative laparoscopic guided bilateral RSB improves
      self-reported post-operative pain scores at 3 hours post-operatively.

      Secondary Objectives:

      Determine if intra-operative laparoscopic guided bilateral RSB improves self-reported
      post-operative pain scores in the PACU, at 6 hours post-operatively, and prior to discharge
      home.

      Determine if intra-operative bilateral laparoscopic guided bilateral RSB decreases
      intra-operative narcotic use, post-operative opioid use, and post-operative antiemetic use.

      Research Methods/Procedures:

      Randomization: Simple

      Blinding: Single-blind. Surgeon cannot be blinded to the intervention. Anesthesiologist,
      participants, parents, and nursing staff in the OR, recovery room, and ward will be blinded.

      Control: Standard of care infiltration of local anesthetic at incisions.

      Treatment and standard care arms will run in parallel.

      Standard Care: Intra-operative infiltration of 2ml of 0.25% Bupivacaine with 1:200 000
      epinephrine at each port site incision.

      Experimental Treatment: Bilateral RSB with up to 7ml of 0.25% Bupivacaine with 1:200 000
      epinephrine plus 2ml infiltrated around each port site incision as in the standard care
      group. The total volume used will not exceed 20ml or 2mg/kg, whichever is lower.

      Each participant will be followed in the recovery room and surgical ward and asked to report
      their pain level immediately after surgery, at 3 and 6 hours after surgery, and prior to
      discharge home. Each participant will have a scheduled follow up visit at 6 weeks with their
      operating surgeon where they will be asked about any complications experienced since
      discharge.

      Participation will be voluntary. Participants will receive standard of care if they choose
      not to participate in the study. Informed consent will be obtained from the participant's
      parent or legal guardian by the operating surgeon or delegate pre-operatively. Participants
      will be asked to provide assent.

      Plan for Data Analysis:

      100 participants will be required with a target of 50 in each group. Sample size calculations
      were completed based on an estimated 20% effect size with consideration for a potential
      10-15% dropout rate to achieve a power of 80% and alpha 5%. Effect size is estimated
      conservatively from data in previous studies showing an average 30% decrease in early
      post-operative pain scores.

      Data will be analyzed in an intent to treat manner using a linear mixed model. We have
      undertaken an initial consultation with a WCHRI biostatistician.
    
  