
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is an increasingly common cardiac condition that leads to a
      substantial burden on quality-of-life (QoL), an increased risk of cardiovascular events,
      hospitalisation and death, and significant healthcare costs for the NHS. In addition to
      anti-coagulation and considerations for rhythm control therapy, most patients with AF are in
      need of pharmacological control of heart rate. This aspect of care has not received stringent
      investigation, with treatment guidelines based on small crossover studies and observational
      data rather than robust controlled trials. Beta-blocker monotherapy remains the first-line
      option in the current NICE AF guidelines consultation document, with digoxin only for
      sedentary patients, although this recommendation is based on 'very low-quality evidence'. The
      benefit of different rate-control therapies on symptoms and other intermediate outcomes (such
      as left-ventricular ejection fraction [LVEF] and diastolic function) are unknown, as are
      their effects on clinical events such as hospitalisation. This situation is unacceptable in
      light of the potential benefits and risk of different rate-control options in AF. It also
      limits our ability to personalise treatment according to patient characteristics.

      The RAte control Therapy Evaluation in permanent Atrial Fibrillation (RATE-AF) trial is
      informed by a number of in-depth systematic reviews of management and clinical outcomes in AF
      patients. Taken together, this information provides a sound basis to plan a major randomised
      controlled trial (RCT). However as trials of rate-control in AF have typically been small or
      uncontrolled, further information is needed before designing a trial that can assess clinical
      outcomes. The RATE-AF trial will allow us to define appropriate primary and secondary outcome
      measures and their standard deviation in a contemporary population of patients with permanent
      AF. This information will allow us to estimate sample size, determination of recruitment,
      retention and adherence policies, and to ascertain the best methods of obtaining adverse
      event data and reliable economic costs for a larger trial assessing cardiovascular outcomes
      and hospitalization. The RATE-AF trial will also be the largest RCT of its kind, allowing us
      to compare the effect of beta-blockers and digoxin on QoL as initial rate-control therapy in
      patients with permanent AF. The long-term aim of the research is to answer key questions
      about how to initiate therapy, stratified by relevant patient characteristics such as
      systolic and diastolic cardiac function, baseline symptoms and concurrent medication. The
      research will also define the patho-physiological mechanisms underlying AF-related symptoms,
      left-ventricular function and their association with adverse clinical outcomes, and to
      identify clinical markers for the response to different rate control therapy.
    
  