
    
      This is a prospective cohort study and forms part of educational research intended to
      ultimately contribute towards a higher degree (MD or DPhil). The study is being co-ordinated
      through the Oxford Respiratory Trials Unit, Churchill Hospital, Oxford and has been developed
      by the study co-ordinator (Dr Corcoran) and Chief Investigator (Dr Rahman) with support from
      Professor Gleeson.

      This study will assess the efficacy of TUS in identifying extravascular lung water (EVLW)
      through the presence or absence of B-lines (also known as "comet tails") on ultrasound;
      whilst also determining whether TUS can distinguish between other pulmonary pathologies that
      may cause both a similar ultrasonographic appearance and respiratory compromise. A TUS
      protocol will be tested and validated in a stable patient population, concurrently assessing
      patient and operator satisfaction with the tool. It is intended that the results of this
      study will inform a larger second-phase study of a modified TUS protocol in the acute
      clinical setting (medical admissions unit +/- emergency department).

      Potential participants in this study will be screened from normal clinical care in the
      relevant departments at the Churchill Hospital, Oxford - i.e. specialist COPD and ILD clinics
      in the respiratory department; outpatient haemodialysis units in the renal department.
      Healthy volunteers will also be sought using advertisements placed on noticeboards in the
      Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust and selected Oxford University departments.

      All participants enrolled in the study will undergo CT and thoracic ultrasound scanning as
      per the study protocol. These are low-risk interventions with no harm expected as a direct
      consequence of participation in the study.

      Participants will also undergo baseline spirometry (if not done in the last month) and blood
      tests for the purposes of the study; these are also considered low-risk interventions with no
      harm expected as a direct consequence of participation in the study.

      The study involves only a single visit and therefore it should impose a minimal burden on
      participants, and for the majority of participants their study visit will be arranged to
      coincide with a pre-arranged trip to the hospital for normal clinical care (e.g. a regular
      haemodialysis or outpatient clinic visit).
    
  