
    
      With ever increasing numbers of released inmates, policymakers are developing policy
      initiatives and directing funding towards community reentry programs for recent parolees to
      decrease recidivism and improve health outcomes. These reentry programs are comprehensive
      efforts that coordinate social and medical services for recently incarcerated people to
      achieve these aims. Due to documented poor health outcomes in this population and the
      resultant costs on the public health system, provision of medical care will be an integral
      part of these reentry initiatives. The manner in which medical care is incorporated into
      community reentry programs and directed to recently released prisoners needs to be studied to
      guide architects of reentry programs, policymakers and allocation of funding.

      The Transitions Clinic (TC) was founded to address the medical needs of recently released
      prisoners. The TC is a pilot project designed to target primary care medical services to
      parolees in San Francisco and aid in coordination of medical and social services. It operates
      within the San Francisco Department of Public Health(SFDPH)-affiliated Community Health
      Network (CHN) and is part of the Safe Communities Reentry Council, a city-wide, collaborative
      effort of the Sheriff's office, Public Defenders' office and local community organizations to
      improve reentry services and outcomes for the 1500 annual parolees to San Francisco.

      The proposed project will prospectively examine the effectiveness of the TC in achieving
      increased primary care engagement, decreased acute health care utilization and decreased
      recidivism. After intake in the TC, patients will be randomized to continued,
      parolee-targeted care in TC versus referral to safety net medical providers for non-targeted
      care. We believe that the results of the study will assist policymakers by improving our
      understanding of the:

        1. effect of targeted and non-targeted medical care provision to post-release prisoners on
           primary care engagement and utilization

        2. effect of targeted and non-targeted medical care provision to post-release prisoners on
           inpatient hospitalizations and emergency room and psychiatric emergency service
           utilization.

        3. effect of targeted and non-targeted care provision to post-release prisoners on
           recidivism

        4. costs for provision of targeted versus non-targeted medical care to post-release
           prisoners (Do we want to do a cost analysis?)
    
  