
    
      An IPC is a silicone (rubberlike) tube that is inserted into the chest cavity to drain excess
      fluid that is in your chest. At MD Anderson, patients are told to drain their IPC every day.
      At other institutions, patients are told to drain their IPC less often.

      Before IPC Placement:

      Before you can have the IPC inserted, the following tests and procedures will be performed to
      help the doctor decide if you need to have an IPC inserted:

        -  You will perform a 6 minute walk test to learn your check your breathing ability and
           fatigue level. To perform the walk test, you will be asked to walk as far as possible
           around cones on a flat indoor course that is about 40 yards long. You will walk at your
           own pace and can take breaks at any time if necessary.

        -  After signing this consent, you will fill out 2 questionnaires asking questions about
           how you feel and any symptoms you may have. These questionnaires will take about 20-30
           minutes to complete.

      IPC placement:

      You will have an IPC placed to drain the fluid in your chest cavity. You will be given a
      separate consent for to sign for this procedure and your doctor will give you detailed
      instructions regarding the procedure itself.

      Study Groups:

      A chest x-ray will be performed right after the IPC placement. You will be randomly assigned
      (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups, after your chest x-ray or the following day when
      you return to clinic for follow up. Group 1 will have their IPC drained every day, and Group
      2 will have their IPC drained 3 times a week (Monday, Wednesday, and Friday or Tuesday,
      Thursday, and Saturday). You will be given detailed instructions on when and how to drain
      your catheter.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      Two (2) weeks after you receive the IPC, you will return to the clinic for a follow-up visit
      so the doctor can check your IPC for possible leaking, infection, and see how much pleural
      fluid has drained. After the follow-up visit at 2 weeks, you will come into the clinic every
      4 weeks until your IPC is removed. During each follow-up visit the following tests and
      procedures will be performed to see how your condition has changed:

        -  You will have a chest x-ray to see if the amount of pleural fluid has decreased and to
           see if your lung has re-expanded.

        -  You will perform the 6 minute walk test.

        -  You will complete the same 2 questionnaires.

        -  The IPC will be drained.

      After the IPC is removed, at 3 and 6 months, you will have follow-up visits at M. D. Anderson
      or at your local doctor's office. At these visits you will have chest x-rays to see if the
      pleural fluid has come back or not.

      The study personnel will contact you by phone, email or mail periodically during the study
      and at 3 months and 6 months after the IPC has been removed to check on your status. The
      phone calls, email, or mail follow-up will take about 5-10 minutes to complete. You will be
      asked how you are doing and if you have any questions or concerns that you may want to
      discuss with the your doctor. You will also be asked if you have had a chest x-ray since
      being off study. If you have had an x-ray, you will be asked to share the results with the
      study doctor.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 250 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  