
    
      Intercostal Bupivacaine block Intercostal block is a procedure during which a local
      anesthetic is injected to the intercostal space. This space includes the rote of the
      intercostal nerve. The purpose of the procedure is to block the neuropathic pain that
      developed due to inflammation and irritation of the nerve and other close structures. Some
      add steroids to the injection because of their anti-inflammatory effect.

      Bupivacaine is a local anesthetic. It belongs to a group of medicines called amide- type
      local anesthetics. It is a well-known medication with many years of documented use in local
      and regional anesthesia. Bupivacaine binds to the intracellular portion of voltage-gated
      sodium channels and blocks sodium influx into nerve cells. This block prevents
      depolarization. The lack of depolarization precludes initiation or conduction of a pain
      signal can occur.

      Study Aims This study will try to evaluate the difference in pain control during and post
      thoracoscopic surgery in patients who had bupivacaine intercostal block before versus after
      surgery.

      The study main end point is the amount of analgesic medication consumption by patients during
      and after thoracoscopic surgery.

      Secondary end points will include subjective patient's pain evaluation, length of hospital
      stay and post-operative complication.

      Inclusion Criteria Thoracoscopic surgery candidate. Over 18 years old. No known allergy to
      Bupivacaine. Patient is able to read understand and singe an inform consent.

      Exclusion Criteria Previous thoracic operation in the same side.

      Study plan The study cohort will be divided into two groups. Study group and control group.
      Each group will include 30 thoracoscopic surgery candidates. The participants will be
      randomly assigned to the research groups using a computer selection done by the study team.
      The participants will not know as to which group they are assigned. All participants will by
      recruited in the cardio-thoracic surgery department, CARMEL medical center, Haifa, ISRAEL.

      The basic thoracoscopic surgery approach uses three operation cuts the main Lateral surgical
      cut is less than 5 cm. Another lower cut of 1-2cmfor the video camera and a lateral
      subscapular cut of 1-2cm for lung retraction. No rib retractors are being used.

      During surgery the anesthesiology team is in charge of patient sedation and analgesia
      according to the local anesthesia department protocol.

      After surgery the thoracic team is in charge on patient analgesia treatment according to
      cardio-thoracic surgery department local protocol.

      Patients will randomized into either study or control group. In the study group the surgeon
      will perform an intercostal Bupivacaine block of 100ml over five intercostal spaces which
      include the operation cuts. The block will be done in the beginning of the surgery right
      after the insertion of the video camera to the pleural space. In the control group the
      surgeon will perform the same intercostal block at the end of the surgery just before closing
      the operation cuts. All other operation stapes and analgesic treatment will be the same for
      both groups.

      Follow up Patient follow up will include the perioperative hospitalization and will continue
      up to six months after discharge.

      Follow up will include analgesic medication usage, pain levels, demographic details, Hospital
      length of stay, post-operative complication and time to resume daily routine.
    
  