
    
      The study was a single blind, follow-up, randomized, controlled trial. Researchers recruited
      subjects from two general tertiary hospitals in Changsha, Hunan province, China. And the
      whole trail was on the basis of the CONSORT statements. The two hospitals provided similar
      conventional care for lung cancer patients. Study procedures were approved by the
      institutional review boards of all participating centers before data collection began. All
      patients were screened by researchers for eligibility and then enrolled in the study if
      eligible and if the provided consent.

      Potential eligible participants were identified by researchers according to medical records
      at the colorectal surgery unit in each hospital. The participants were recruited with
      informed consent, and researchers explained the study purposes, procedures, benefits, and
      risks involved orally. The participants were then randomly allocated to the intervention or
      the control group according to a computer-generated block randomization list. A sequentially
      numbered and opaque , sealed envelope system was used by a non-investigator. The generated
      random numbers were put into consecutively numbered and opaque sealed envelopes. When
      enrolling and randomising a new participant, the enrolling investigators opened the sealed
      envelope after participant's name was written on next available envelopes; the enrolling
      investigators were blinded to the trial design and study hypotheses.

      The researcher will recruit 74 lung cancer patient-caregiver dyads and randomly divide them
      into 2 groups: the control group, the dyadic intervention group. Among them, patients in the
      control group and caregivers received routine psychological care programs; patients in the
      intervention group had access to conventional care, in addition to receiving the 8-week
      dyadic MSC intervention sessions. The intervention was provided by trained nurses, including
      one researcher and one MSC therapist. The researcher was regarded as primary leader of the
      intervention sessions. The leader informed patients of the schedule for each session using
      the educational manual'Caring for ourselves, we are together' (developed by psychologists,
      nursing managers, experienced MSC therapist, oncology Nurse, and researchers).

      The MSC techniques include body scanning, breathing meditation, sitting meditation, walking
      meditation, loving-kindness practice, and self-compassion writing expression. Intensive
      training once a week, 1 hour each time, encourage students to use 15-20 minutes a day to
      learn these skills, the total training time per week is 2.5 hours. The intervention is mainly
      out-of-hospital intervention, supplemented by short-term in-hospital intervention (1-2 weeks,
      adjusted according to the patient's hospital stay). The in-hospital stage focuses on guiding
      the research subjects to understand the content of mindful self-compassion and emotions, and
      conduct basic mindful self-compassion training; the outside of the hospital focuses on the
      maintenance of mindful self-compassion training and the promotion of mindful life.

      Data were collected by a research assistant who was blind to the study design and allocation
      of participants. At baseline, before randomization, sociodemographic and clinical
      characteristics were collected from medical records and personal interviews. The two groups
      of participants completed surveys after each follow-up via face to face interviews at
      baseline (T0) and immediately after intervention (T1). The next two evaluations were
      performed at 1-month (T2) and 3-months (T3) after intervention via telephone contact.
    
  