
    
      Design: Prospective, randomized clinical trial, of 120 patients requiring a total shoulder
      replacement (TSR).

      Purpose: To collect and evaluate long-term clinical data on patients whose total shoulder
      replacement (TSR) is performed using the traditional surgical approach (called the
      subscapularis release approach) as compared to patients who have a TSR procedure done using a
      newer surgical approach (called the rotator cuff sparing approach).

      For patients with arthritis, TSR can successfully improve pain and restore function. As a
      result, TSR has become the treatment of choice for patients with shoulder arthritis. Despite
      these generally good outcomes, however, there are concerns that rotator cuff function is
      suboptimal after surgery. One of the rotator cuff tendons is usually cut during the TSR
      procedure to insert the prosthesis and then repaired at the end of the surgery. If the tendon
      does not heal adequately, patients may experience persistent weakness, pain, and even failure
      of the replacement. Recently, a surgical technique called rotator cuff sparing TSR has been
      described where the procedure can be performed without ever cutting any of the rotator cuff
      tendons. As such, there should be minimized risk to the rotator cuff function after the
      surgery. Our study proposes to enroll two groups of patients with shoulder arthritis. The
      first group will be treated with the traditional TSR procedure. The second group will be
      treated with this new rotator cuff sparing surgical technique for TSR where the rotator cuff
      is never violated. After surgery, we will examine motion, strength, and functional use of the
      shoulder. In addition, we will specifically test the rotator cuff strength after the surgery.
      In this fashion, we plan to test the hypothesis that rotator cuff sparing TSR can improve the
      rotator cuff function while maintaining the excellent pain relief and motion that is normally
      observed after the traditional TSR procedure.

      Enrollment: A total of approximately 120 subjects will be enrolled and treated at NYU
      Hospital for Joint Diseases. Subjects participating in the study will be randomly assigned to
      have their total shoulder replacement done using the traditional surgical approach (called
      the subscapularis release approach) or by the newer surgical approach (called the rotator
      cuff sparing approach). For each patient, a number will be created by a random number
      generator. Patients randomized to the even number (2) will receive a traditional TSA
      procedure that includes incision and repair of the subscapularis tendon during the procedure.
      Patients randomized to the odd number (1) will receive the rotator cuff sparing TSA.
      Regardless of the procedure, patients will remain "blind" to the type of procedure they
      received until completion of their 2 year follow up.

      Follow-Up Requirements: Office Visits: Patients' participation will involve five (5) office
      visits (after surgery) over a period of two (2) years. At each visit, as part of the
      patients' regular care, they will have standard x-rays of their shoulder. All patients will
      complete self-administered questionnaires to assess the clinical outcome of the surgery and
      patients satisfaction. The patient administered outcome questionnaires will include the
      SF-12, and Patient Assessment Case Report Form.
    
  