
    
      Crohn's Disease (CD) is an immunologically mediated chronic illness that has a relapsing and
      remitting course, most commonly presenting in the 2nd or 3rd decade and causing life long
      impairment of health and quality of life. Mainstay of clinical treatment for severe disease
      is combination of anti-inflammatory agents like 5-aminosalicyaltes and immunosuppressive
      medications like corticosteroids and newer anti-TNF antibodies like Infliximab. None of the
      drugs are, at present, curative and a relevant subset of patients are refractory to many of
      these pharmacologic approaches.

      Immunoablative treatment followed by autologous stem cell rescue (Autologous HSCT) has been
      tried in this refractory group of patients with successful results. Autologous HSCT works in
      this auto-immune setting through the eradication of effector/memory T-cell clones due to a
      direct immuno-ablative effect of drugs used in the preparative regimen; by leading to an
      immune-reset- recovering clones of T- cells from the infused stem cells do not mount an
      auto-immune response and are tolerant to 'self' antigens and, by upregulation of T regulatory
      cells (Treg, CD4+CD25+FOXP3+ or CD8+ FOXP3+) via change in cytokine mileu during transplant.
      Increased population of Tregs restricts the activity of self reactive effector T-cells.

      This pilot study is designed to gain on the success of previously published adult studies of
      autologous HSCT in refractory CD, with the aim to confirm the feasibility, safety and
      efficacy of HSCT and ultra low dose IL-2 when given post-HSCT in pediatric patients and young
      adults. IL-2 in very low doses has been shown to increase the proliferation of Treg
      lymphocytes and decrease inflammatory response. Hence, use of IL-2 post-transplant will
      result in significant and persistent increase in Treg population that may lead to more
      durable remissions after immunoablative therapy.

      This pilot will focus on the 'safety' of this treatment in pediatric population.Since, this
      combination of immuno-ablative therapy followed by ultra low dose IL-2 has not been studied
      in children with CD, therefore transplant related mortality (TRM) and severe toxicity (>
      grade 3 toxicity by NCI criteria) will be monitored for 100 days post-transplant in all the
      patients and stopping rules will be enforced in case of excessive toxicity or TRM (>10%).
      Correlative studies will be performed at specific time points to assess the cytokine and
      inflammatory markers, immune-reconstitution and quantitative Treg cells; while clinical
      assessments will be done for 1 year post-HSCT for disease activity, steroid free remission
      period to evaluate the 'clinical efficacy' of this procedure.

      The major aim of this pilot is to generate the preliminary safety and cytokine profile data
      to confirm the feasibility and benefit of autologous HSCT and IL-2 in children and young
      adults with refractory CD.
    
  