
    
      Background: In Africa, COVID-19 has the potential to cripple the continent's fragile
      healthcare systems and be devastating economically. It is unknown whether malaria infection
      worsens COVID-19, affects the acquisition of protective antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2
      virus, or contributes to its onwards spread by resulting in higher viral loads and/or longer
      duration of viral shedding. It is also unknown if the effective clearance of malaria
      parasites and/or the choice of antimalarials affects any of these potential associations. His
      study will determine if the antimalarial pyronaridine, in the fixed-dose combination of
      pyronaridine-artesunate, has a positive, negative or negligible effect on COVID-19 disease
      progression or duration of viral carriage and the seroconversion rate to SARS-CoV-2.

      Methods: A malaria treatment trial will be conducted nested within a larger observational
      COVID-19 cohort study in highly malaria-endemic areas in western Kenya and Burkina-Faso. The
      COVID-19 cohort study consists of approximately 708 newly diagnosed COVID-19 patient of all
      ages. They will be enrolled from a source population of approximately 4,720 individuals of
      all ages screened for SARS-CoV-2. It is anticipated that approximately 142 of the 708 cohort
      participants will be co-infected with malaria. These co-infected participants will be
      enrolled in the nested malaria treatment trial if they have uncomplicated malaria and are
      able to take oral medication. They will be randomized to receive either a standard 3-day
      treatment course of artemether-lumefantrine (the current first-line treatment) or
      pyronaridine-artesunate, a new highly effective antimalarial combination that is being rolled
      out as first or second-line treatment in western Kenya and Burkina Faso. All 142 patients
      will be followed for 42 days and nasal swabs and blood samples taken on days 1, 3, 7, 14, and
      28. Malaria smears will be taken on days 3, 7, 14, 21, 28 and 42. The primary endpoint is the
      rate of SARS-CoV-2 clearance by day-7.

      To limit the transmission of SARS-CoV-2, strict adherence to infection prevention and control
      (IPC) guidelines, including use of personal protection equipment (PPE), and measures for
      patient transport will be followed as per national guidelines in each country. Written
      informed consent/assent will be sought.

      Partners: This 18-months study is funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and is part
      of a collaboration between the Kenyan Medical Research Institute (KEMRI) in Kenya; the US
      Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC); the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine
      (LSTM); the Ministry of Health, Kenya; the Groupe de Recherche Action en Santé (GRAS),
      Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso; the Ministry of Health in Burkina Faso, and the London School of
      Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (LSHTM). LSTM and LSHTM will act as sponsors for the studies in
      Kenya and Burkina Faso, respectively.
    
  