
    
      At the time of first-episode, most people with schizophrenia have cognitive impairments that
      significantly contribute to poor functioning. Early intervention with cognitive remediation
      (CR), an evidence-based skills intervention that targets cognitive processes, is designed to
      enhance cognition and functional recovery in people identified as having cognitive health
      needs. Evidence suggests that provision of CR to those in the early stage of schizophrenia,
      and in the context of rehabilitation services, results in greater cognitive and functional
      gains.

      OnTrackNY (OTNY) is a New York-based Coordinated Specialty Care (CSC) program that provides
      early psychosis treatment to young people, between 16 and 30 years of age, who have
      experienced the onset of non-affective psychosis within two years of beginning treatment. CSC
      programs provide a significant benefit over usual care, but on average 50% of patients remain
      disabled after two years. OTNY, like many other CSC programs, provides cognitive health
      evaluation and supportive treatment but does not routinely offer CR. However, evidence
      suggests that when cognitive disability is promptly addressed, people show increased
      self-esteem, engagement in the community and sense of well-being. Therefore, the addition of
      CR to OTNY may allow treatment to proceed at a faster rate, promote more rapid engagement and
      mitigate challenges experienced by clients in school or work.

      This study aims to:

        1. Adapt a 12-week long CR intervention to 2 delivery methods using the input of experts,
           OnTrackNY mental health clinicians, and clients to improve the acceptability of the
           intervention content.

        2. Examine whether CR can enhance the cognitive and functional outcomes for people with
           first episode psychosis (FEP) receiving treatment in a CSC program and identified as
           having cognitive health needs.

        3. Compare the effectiveness of "in clinic/clinician-led" and "partial-remote/independent"
           CR delivery approaches.

      This study will occur in phases. In Phase 1, CR content and delivery will be adapted using
      the input of experts, and training manuals will be created for two intervention approaches.
      Phase 2 will involve training of mental health clinicians at two OnTrackNY programs to add a
      formal battery of cognitive assessments and adapted CR. One program will be assigned to
      deliver CR exclusively "in-clinic" with the aid of a clinician and the other
      "partial-remote/independent" (one in-clinic session per week with independent cognitive
      practice). Following quality improvement/program evaluation procedures, the investigators
      will refine CR based on feedback from providers and clients. Phase 3 will involve nine
      OnTrackNY programs where clinicians will be trained by researchers to conduct the formal
      cognitive assessment battery and CR, if applicable. Three programs will be randomly assigned
      to provide treatment as usual (TAU) and six will be assigned to TAU and CR (either
      "in-clinic/clinician-led" or "partial-remote/independent").

      Referral for cognitive health services will follow routine clinical practice through which
      clients and their clinicians document cognitive health needs and decide what intervention
      suits their needs. Clients will be given the option of enrolling in the program's CR
      intervention. Client characteristics, CR enrollment and outcomes will be made available for
      quality improvement monitoring and program evaluation in de-identified form. The
      investigators will examine outcomes for clients identified as having cognitive health needs.
      To address whether adding CR improves functional outcomes in CSC programs, the investigators
      will compare measures of community functioning and psychiatric symptom severity across
      groups. Functional outcome measures will be examined for the time most proximal to CR
      enrollment and every three months thereafter until study end (range 3-12 months of follow-up
      depending upon rolling enrollment). Cognition will be measured before and after completion of
      CR (an average of 3 months) to compare the effectiveness of the two CR delivery approaches
      and examine whether cognitive improvement is associated with improvement in functioning.
    
  