
    
      Due to continuous improvements in acute medical care, the number of patients surviving severe
      brain damage has increased over the past decades. While some patients improve significantly
      during the first days after the injury, other patients remain in altered states of
      consciousness (i.e. coma, unresponsive wakefulness syndrome or minimally conscious state).
      Acquired brain damage such as cerebrovascular diseases, traumatic brain injuries or
      hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathies are the main causes of severe impaired consciousness.The
      correct classification of the level of consciousness is of great importance, since the
      different states of consciousness are associated with different prognoses and treatment
      options. Patients who show minimal signs of consciousness (MCS) a month after the onset of
      the disease have better chances of regaining consciousness within one year than UWS patients.
      Within both categories (UWS, MCS), traumatic aetiologies in turn have a better prognosis than
      non-traumatic aetiologies. The prognosis usually begins with the admission of the patients to
      the intensive care unit of the acute care facility. But even in later treatment phases, a
      large number of patients regain consciousness, e.g. during post-acute early rehabilitation
      and even years after the disease. Numerous factors are associated with the prognosis (e.g.
      age, aetiology, duration of illness, functional status and state of consciousness). Although
      there are numerous studies on the prognostic factors and outcome of patients with severe
      brain damage, only a few have explicitly examined patients with initially severe and
      long-lasting impaired consciousness. The study therefore aims to identify factors that
      predict the medium and long-term outcome of patients with severe impaired consciousness in
      early neurological rehabilitation.

      Over a period of 36 months, 130 patients undergoing neurological early rehabilitation with
      impaired consciousness are included. It is a prospective observational study that is carried
      out in a single neurological rehabilitation centre (monocentric). Different routine data,
      disease severity and functional status are documented for each patient. In addition, MRI, EEG
      and evoked potentials are measured within the first week. The level of consciousness is
      recorded with the Coma-Recovery-Scale-Revised and serves as the primary outcome parameter.
      Complications, comorbidities, functional status and leve of consciousness are assessed
      weekly. After eight weeks, the measurement of the MRI, the EEG and the evoked potentials are
      repeated. After 3, 6 and 12 months, the Glasgow Outcome Scale-Revised is used to follow up
      the current status of the patients.
    
  