
    
      Crohn's disease (CD) is a lifelong disease that may present during childhood in 20 - 25% of
      patients. There seems to be a worldwide trend towards increasing incidence rates of CD,
      especially in children. Patients with CD suffer from diarrhea, abdominal pain, nausea,
      malaise, and chronic malnutrition, in children often accompanied by growth failure and
      pubertal delay. CD is characterized by a transmural, granulomatous inflammation, involving
      any part of the gastrointestinal tract in a discontinuous manner.

      Increased concentrations of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNFα) are found in the mucosa of CD
      patients , suggesting that TNF-α plays a pivotal role in the cytokine cascade of the
      inflammatory process. This key role of TNF-α has led to the development of biologic therapy
      based on the administration of monoclonal antibodies which bind and inactivate TNF-α.
      Infliximab (IFX, Remicade®) is a chimeric monoclonal antibody (75% human, 25% murine), while
      adalimumab (ADA, Humira®) is a fully human monoclonal antibody. Both antibodies bind with
      high affinity and specificity to soluble and membrane-bound TNF-α.

      Anti-TNF drugs have become an important treatment strategy for CD patients who do not respond
      to or are intolerant of treatment with immunosuppressants (azathioprine, methotrexate) and
      corticosteroids. Anti-TNF induction therapy can induce complete clinical remission within
      weeks, often accompanied by mucosal healing. Interestingly, response to initial anti-TNF
      treatment is higher in pediatric CD patients (about 80%) than in adult CD patients (about
      60%). Anti-TNF drugs do not cure CD: after their impressive initial effects, repeated
      infusions every 8 weeks or repeated subcutaneous injections every 2 weeks are necessary,
      while there is great concern about the long-term risks (infections, auto-immune disease,
      malignancy). Anti-TNF treatment is also increasingly used in ulcerative colitis, and has been
      shown to induce remission in active disease. For UC, the comparison between the efficacy in
      children versus adults is more difficult to report as studies in children are scarce. There
      are likely multiple host factors that influence the inter-individual variation in initial
      treatment response, such as disease phenotype, immune phenotype, and genetic background.
    
  