
    
      Acute kidney injury (AKI) occurs in almost 50% of patients treated in intensive care units.
      AKI mainly occurs after sepsis, acute ischemia, nephrotoxicity or hypoxia and leads to severe
      damage of the kidney and to an increased risk of mortality. The diagnosis of AKI is currently
      based on creatinine, urea and diuresis. Yet, novel markers may improve the accuracy of this
      diagnosis at an early stage of the disease, thereby allowing for early prevention and
      therapy, ultimately leading to a reduction of the need for renal replacement therapy and
      decreased mortality. Several potential biomarkers have been examined in the context of AKI in
      the last years [e. g. Cystatin C, a cysteine protease inhibitor, NGAL (neutrophil
      gelatinase-associated lipocalin), KIM-1 (kidney injury molecule 1), and IGFBP7 (insulin like
      growth factor binding protein 7) and TIMP-2 (tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 2)].

      These biomarkers may help to identify AKI earlier and more reliable in the future.

      However, recovery of renal function during/after AKI is not predictable with the classical
      biomarkers creatinine and urea. Only a few studies have analyzed the potential of several new
      biomarkers in the prediction of renal recovery during AKI including urinary hepatocyte growth
      factor (uHGF), urinary IGFBP- 7 and TIMP-2 or NGAL. Still, their ability to predict renal
      recovery remains unclear and in clinical practice, recovery of renal function is estimated
      empirically including the decision to discontinue renal replacement therapy. In a consensus
      statement from 2017 on behalf of the Acute Disease Quality Initiative Workgroup 16 it is
      stated that more research is needed to "determine optimal methods to assess functional
      recovery and identify novel biomarker(s) [...] that can inform ongoing injury and repair in
      AKD".

      In the ncRNA in renal recovery study we therefore aim to analyze the potential of microRNAs
      (miRNAs) and circular RNA (circRNAs) in predicting recovery of renal function in critically
      ill patients suffering from AKI. Non-coding RNAs emerged during the past few years as
      important regulatory molecules that allow a fine-tuning of gene expression and protein
      synthesis. This regulation is necessary to maintain homeostasis and its dysregulation is
      often associated with disease development. Non-coding RNAs are present in the kidney and in
      body fluids and their expression is modulated during AKI and their potential as biomarkers in
      various diseases has been shown. As ncRNAs are involved in injury and repair of kidneys, they
      may represent an interesting class of molecules with a potential as biomarkers and
      therapeutic targets in recovery from AKI.

      Blood and urine samples will be collected at 4 different time points (day 0, day 1, day 2 and
      day 7). Plasma miRNAs will be screened for differential miRNA expression by next generation
      sequencing (5 patients with early recovery versus 5 patients with no signs of recovery).
      Differentially expressed miRNAs will then be analyzed by qPCR in plasma and urine.

      The proposed study is aimed to better understand the pathophysiological basis of recovery
      from AKI and may form the basis of further studies for biomarker and therapeutics research in
      renal recovery.
    
  