
    
      The novel coronavirus (severe acute respiratory syndrome [SARS]-CoV-2), first identified in
      December 2019 in Wuhan, China, has since spread worldwide. Older adults and people with
      underlying medical conditions are at higher risk for developing serious complications and
      death related to SARS-CoV-2. However, another challenge is arising in regards to the
      long-term prognosis of COVID-19 survivors. Although limited, the available data on the
      medium-term outcomes of patients who survived COVID-19 all indicate prolonged symptom
      duration and disability in a large proportion of adults hospitalized with severe symptoms. In
      addition, these patients, a majority of whom were older adults or patients with pre-existing
      health conditions, spent ~10-15 days bedridden and under intensive treatment, which can have
      lasting consequences on metabolism and cardiovascular functions, mobility, and eventually
      lead to long-term disabilities. Upon discharge from the hospital, the main option for
      physical rehabilitation involves exercise training. Although, exercise training can be
      effective to restore physical function, it is oftentimes associated with low adherence.
      Considering the severe deconditioning accompanying hospitalization related to COVID-19, there
      is a critical need for the development of a rehabilitation strategy that is home-based and
      practical to individuals with diminished physical function. Accordingly, the goal of this
      project is to compare the benefits of home-based lower limb chronic heat therapy to exercise
      training on skeletal muscle metabolism, vascular function and functional capacity in older
      adults during their convalescence from hospitalization due to SARS-CoV-2. Late middle-age and
      older adults that have been discharged from a COVID-19 hospitalization will be randomly
      allocated to an exercise intervention group (EX, low resistance ~40 min, 3 times a week at
      home), a heat-treated group (HT, leg heated garments with skin temperature reaching ~40˚C,
      40-55 min, 5 times a week at home), or a control group (CT) for 8 weeks. Specific Aim 1 will
      test the hypothesis that local heat therapy in previously hospitalized COVID-19 patients can
      (i) enhance functional capacity, resulting in improvements in mobility and quality of life
      compared to a non-treated control group, and (ii) that these changes will be similar in
      magnitude to an exercise intervention. Specific Aim 2 will test the hypothesis that local
      heat therapy in the same patients can (i) enhance insulin sensitivity as a consequence of
      improvements in mitochondrial and vascular function compared to a non-treated control group,
      and (ii) that these changes will be similar in magnitude to an exercise intervention.
    
  