
    
      BACKGROUND: Osteoporosis is a progressive condition that causes a loss of bone mass, skeletal
      fragility, and fractures. Fractures result in pain, disability, deformity, and death.
      Osteoporosis is a major population health problem affecting 1.4 million Canadians, 25% of
      women and 12% of men over the age of 50 years. Current guidelines recommend aggressive
      secondary prevention in patients with osteoporosis who have suffered a fracture, because
      these patients have as high as a 20% risk of fracture in the following year, and because
      there are now proven efficacious treatments that can reduce this risk by 40-60%.
      Nevertheless, recent studies have shown that these patients are under-recognized and
      under-treated, demonstrating a care gap between evidence-based best practice and usual care.
      All patients with osteoporotic fractures (i.e., of the hip, vertebrae, or wrist) benefit from
      treatment. However, patients who present with a wrist fracture may be best suited to an
      intervention to improve secondary prevention practices, because wrist fractures are "sentinel
      events" in the natural history of osteoporosis: they are common, easily diagnosed, always
      present to medical attention, and occur years before the more devastating and costly
      fractures of the hip and vertebrae.

      OBJECTIVES: The primary objective of this study is to improve the quality of care for
      patients who present to the ED with osteoporosis and a fracture of the wrist, by increasing
      the use of proven efficacious osteoporosis treatment. This is the primary study outcome, and
      it is defined as starting any one of hormone replacement therapy, a bisphosphonate,
      raloxifene, or calcitonin within 6 months of a fracture of the wrist.

      HYPOTHESIS: A quality improvement intervention directed at patients and their primary care
      physicians will increase the use of proven efficacious osteoporosis treatment. The
      intervention itself has multiple components that include: a notification system and
      patient-specific reminders for primary care physicians, locally developed treatment
      guidelines endorsed by opinion leaders, and patient education and counseling. The study
      hypothesis will be tested by comparing the intervention to usual care controls, in a
      prospective nonrandomized controlled trial.

      SPECIFIC AIMS: To determine whether the proposed intervention can-

        -  1. Increase the use of proven efficacious osteoporosis treatment in patients with a
           fracture of the wrist,

        -  2. Increase appropriate use of bone mineral density testing,

        -  3. Increase patients' knowledge of osteoporosis and satisfaction.
    
  