
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of therapy with nivolumab alone or nivolumab +
      ipilimumab in resectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in the context of presurgical
      therapy.

      II. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of therapy with nivolumab + ipilimumab in
      potentially resectable HCC in the context of pre-biopsy therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the efficacy of presurgical nivolumab alone or nivolumab + ipilimumab therapy in
      HCC by estimating the objective response rate (ORR) and time to progression (TTP) per
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 progression-free survival (PFS).

      II. To estimate the conversion rate to surgery for arm 3 potentially resectable patients.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the immunological/biomarker changes in tumor tissues and peripheral blood in
      response to nivolumab alone or nivolumab + ipilimumab in HCC therapy (pre- versus [vs]
      post-treatment), and explore any potential association between these biomarker measures and
      antitumor response and immune-related response criteria (iRC) assessed by MD Anderson
      department of diagnostic imaging.

      OUTLINE: Patients with resectable tumors are randomized to 1 of 2 arms and patients with
      potentially resectable tumors are assigned to Arm C.

      ARM A: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 2 weeks for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo liver surgery on day 1 of week 7. Beginning 4 weeks
      after surgery, patients continue nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every 4 weeks for up to 2 years
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1 and nivolumab as Arm A.
      Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 3 cycles for nivolumab in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo liver surgery on day 1 of week 7.
      Beginning 4 weeks after surgery, patients receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes every 6 weeks
      and nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every 4 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM C: Patients receive ipilimumab and nivolumab as in Arm B. Patients undergo post-treatment
      biopsy on day 1 of week 7, then receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes every 6 weeks and
      nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every 4 weeks for up to 3 additional cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 4 weeks after surgery, patients
      receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes every 6 weeks and nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every 4
      weeks up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 and 100 days, then every
      9 weeks thereafter.
    
  