
    
      The North American Lung Cancer Study Group showed that Stage I (T1,N0,M0) non small cell lung
      carcinoma patients who have undergone complete surgical resection have a 60-70% five-year
      survival but have a 3.6% per year risk of developing a second lung primary cancer. Data from
      the Mayo Clinic on patients that underwent surgical resection for sputum cytology positive
      but radiologically occult lung cancer found that second primary lung cancers occurred at a
      rate as high as 5% per year in this patient population. In a collective review of 1406
      patients with occult or stage I completely resected lung carcinomas, the incidence of
      second-primary lung cancers was 11.4% (range 3-30%). The mortality from second-primary lung
      carcinomas in surgical patients is much higher than for the first tumor because treatment is
      both more limited and complicated as a consequence of their prior lung resection. Second
      NSCLC primaries are a particularly vexing treatment dilemma in patients who have undergone a
      prior curative, surgical resection because of their limited, residual pulmonary reserve.

      White light bronchoscopy (WLB) has been shown to be a useful tool in localizing
      radiographically occult lesions. However, Woolner et al. demonstrated that only 29% of
      carcinoma in situ (CIS) and 69% of micro-invasive tumors are identified by experienced
      bronchoscopists. In 1996 an endoscopic lung imaging system developed by the British Columbia
      Cancer Research Centre in conjunction with Xillix Technologies Corp., known as the LIFE-lung
      Fluorescence Endoscopy System was approved by the FDA. LIFE-lung bronchoscopy is performed
      with a helium-cadmium laser using blue light @ 442 nm for illumination and allows
      visualization of these differences in normal and abnormal tissue autofluorescence. Lam and
      others have shown that the tissue autofluorescence spectra of areas of dysplasia and
      carcinoma in situ differ significantly from those of normal bronchial tissues. Specifically,
      LIFE Bronchoscopy improved sensitivity of detection of metaplasia and dysplasia by 171% over
      current WLB. LIFE bronchoscopy's sensitivity for the detection of CIS is 500% greater than
      that of standard WLB.

      Fluorescence bronchoscopy using the LIFE system is identical to standard flexible
      bronchoscopy except that it utilizes blue light (from a Helium-Cadmium light source) in
      contrast to white light (commonly emitted from a Xenon or Halogen light source). Both
      fluorescent and reflected light are produced when the bronchial surface is illuminated by
      visible light, the difference is that with the LIFE-lung system, the image is reconstructed
      from emitted fluorescent light instead of from light reflected off of the bronchial surface.
      Emitted fluorescence and reflective light are separated by appropriate filters.
    
  