
    
      Background

      A training system using Multi-platform ICT (MP-ICT) tools offers reliable and easier access
      to information and training packages from different locations which can be implemented even
      in rural settings without access to internet. Platforms may be available online, and users
      can download the training content through a personal computer, a tablet or a mobile phone.
      The training content may be downloaded repeatedly afterwards, even in remote areas without
      access to internet.

      Our project aims to evaluate the performance of a continuous process of training and
      certification in neonatal resuscitation in primary and secondary health facilities in the
      departments of Ayacucho and Cusco, through the use of MP-ICT tools. It aims at providing
      proof of concept of the interventions, which then could be expected to be incorporated as a
      component of a national neonatal resuscitation program to be implemented nationwide.

      The traditional way to train and certify health care professionals is through administration
      of a theoretical expositive course, reinforced subsequently by a practical component. This
      modality requires face-to-face contact between trainers and trainees. Health workers need to
      move from their job site to the instruction sites, usually located in the capital city of the
      department or in the capital city of the country. This poses economic and logistic challenges
      to both health authorities and health workers, and results in erratic frequency and low
      uptake of training courses.

      Research hypothesis

      The use of multi-platform ICT strategies for training and certification in neonatal
      resuscitation will increase the proportion of children with heart rate equal or greater than
      100/minute at two minutes of life, as compared to standard training.

      Primary objective

      To evaluate the effects of the use of a Multi-Platform ICT strategies for training and
      certification on neonatal resuscitation in first and second level health facilities of
      Ayacucho and Cusco departments.

      Settings

      Ayacucho and Cusco are two Peruvian regions located to the south of the country. These
      regions cover areas of Andean highlands, but their territory is mainly on the Amazon
      rainforest. Also, in those departments there is the "Valley of the Apurímac, Ene and Mantaro
      Rivers", also known as the VRAEM, which is a geopolitical extremely poor area and one of the
      major areas of coca growing in Peru.

      According to Peruvian Registry of Institutions that Provide Health Services (RENIPRESS),
      Ayacucho has 418 and Cusco 848 registered health facilities.

      Study design

      The proposed study design is a randomized cluster trial. The Units of study and analysis will
      be first and second level health facilities from Ayacucho and Cusco departments. Each health
      facility will be a cluster. Clusters will be randomly assigned either to the MP-ICT course
      and certification package (intervention) or to the standard training and certification
      package (control).

      Sample size

      The investigators would require 12 clusters (health facilities), divided in 6 clusters for
      each one of two arms, and with an average of 334 deliveries per facility in the observation
      period.

      Assuming the occurrence of about 4,000 births during a period of 6 months of filed study
      observation, the investigators aim at discriminating a 4% difference in the proportion of
      newborns with heart rate equal or greater 100 beats per minute at 2 minutes of life between
      the intervention and the control group. The proposed power of study is 80% and the acceptable
      alpha error is 5%. The percentage for heart rate >100 bpm at 2 minutes of life, during
      suitable resuscitation using self-inflated bag is 90% and it is the expected value for the
      intervention group. For the control group it is expected at least 4 points below the value
      achieved in the intervention group (i.e. no more than 86%).

      Description of interventions

      Standard Training

      Standard training will be conducted through a theoretical-practical course, which will be
      administered once during the study period, to all health professionals of the selected
      facilities, according to the randomization. It is an 8-hour course, with 3 hours of theory
      (based on suggested readings) and 5 hours of practice, which will take place during a single
      day, approximately from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m according to the availability of the trained
      instructors and participants on suitable facilities for skills training. The course will be
      performed by staff of the Neonatal Unit of the Instituto Nacional de Salud del Niño (National
      Institute of Child Health, Lima, Peru), and will be coordinated by an Neonatal Resuscitation
      Program (NRP) instructor accredited by the American Academy of Pediatrics.

      Participants who have completed their attendance to theoretical sessions, participated in the
      simulated practices and approved the printed exams taken the same day will grant a Standard
      Certification. The practice will be evaluated qualitatively in terms of assistance,
      participation and performance of activities.

      Multi-platform ICT training

      The continuous process of training and certification in neonatal resuscitation will be
      developed as a multi-platform format, including theory rechargeable online and accessible
      offline, and will be complemented with simulated practices. The Practical Component will be
      made after the Theoretical one and the activities will be completed according to the
      availability of the trained instructors and participants on suitable facilities for skills
      training.

      The platform contains training packages, and links to review and download neonatal
      resuscitation tools, technical documents, and regulatory information. During the first three
      months of the project the platform is being improved and adjusted to the needs of the
      fieldwork in Ayacucho and Cusco. The adaptations include increasing hosting; ameliorate
      friendly usability, uploading packages and videos, improvement of examination and
      certifications, and tests for readiness. The MP-ICT resource will be user-friendly and can be
      accessed from remote locations through computers, personal portable devices and cell phones.
      It allows downloading of the different documents, and that facilitates learning and
      evaluation in an interactive and virtual way, without the physical presence of instructors or
      teachers. However, through the website the investigators can generate virtual meetings as
      forums or chat. In addition, the website will allow the programming of simulated practices,
      with the presence of the instructor.

      Authorized participants will be able to download the information for the theoretical
      activities in 4 packages: Package A, B, C and D: each one containing interactive tools as
      videos-360 and action mazes (as Quandary), and other videos, documents or short text to read
      in Spanish. After downloading this information, the tests are enabled in sequence: When
      approve part A and B, it will be enable part C and D. The interactivity is expressed in 360º
      videos allowing the user to change the observation point in a recorded environment. The
      interactivity for action mazes (like Quandary) has demonstrated that feedback-oriented
      interactive exercises increase higher-order cognitive skills.

      To be granted an MP-ICT Certification the trainee needs to have passed the online theoretical
      exam, assist to the practice and approve practical skills assessment.

      Randomization

      Computer-generated random numbers will be used to assign the selected health facilities to
      either MP-ICT training (Intervention Group) or to standard training (Control Group). There
      will be a matching process of health facilities by proportion of groups of non-medical
      professionals (nurses and obstetricians) and by availability of basic equipment and maternal
      and newborn care supplies, to ensure that health facilities are comparable. Once paired, they
      will be randomly allocated through a blocked randomization, to ensure a balanced distribution
      of facilities in each group.

      Effectiveness assessment

      After randomization of each facility, standard training or MP-ICT training will be conducted.
      Evaluations will include a baseline assessment of available equipment and supplies for
      neonatal resuscitation, immediately after enrolment and before training. To determine the
      duration of the effects of the intervention, the proposed outcome indicators will be
      evaluated six months after the training. The primary and secondary outcomes will be assessed
      intrapartum (within 5 minutes after birth) and postpartum (at 24 hours and 7 days, to know
      the outcome of the infant). The assessments will be based on an observation sheet, in which
      trained research assistants (registered nurses or equivalent local personnel) will record the
      activities conducted during the delivery and the birth, and the results of the neonatal
      resuscitation. The observation of performance in neonatal resuscitation can also be recorded
      randomly through videos, to verify the validity of the data collected by the research
      assistant. The videos will be reviewed by the field monitor and by one of the investigators.
      In order to comply with confidentiality requirements, the videos will be deleted after
      verification of information.

      Statistical analysis

      An intention to treat analysis will be performed, including all clusters as they were
      initially assigned, including premature withdrawals. Additionally, a per-protocol analysis
      will be carried out, where only clusters that have completed the study protocol will be
      considered. The primary outcome will be compared in each arm using chi-square if the variable
      of distribution is normal, or alternatively through the Fisher's exact test. Secondary
      outcomes will be compared using the Student's t-test or the Kruskal-Wallis test, the
      chi-square test or Fisher's exact test.

      Staff training

      The investigators will resort to local staff as research assistants including the field
      supervisor. They will conduct the preparatory work and the study procedures, including
      information presentations, informed consent administration, observation of case management,
      and completion of case report forms. Such personnel will be trained in the conduction of
      studies complying with the standards of good practice, before the study initiation.

      Ethical aspects and confidentiality

      The proposal, instruments and consent forms have been approved by the Ethics Committee of the
      Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia. Written authorization will be obtained from the
      authorities of the Regional Health Departments (DIRESAS) involved and from the authorities of
      the health facilities. Written informed consent will be obtained from the health
      professionals who will participate in the neonatal resuscitation training. Written informed
      consent of the mothers will also be obtained for the collection of birth and newborn data.

      The information obtained will be codified and personal identification data like names and
      date of birth will be deleted to protect confidentiality. Data access will be limited to the
      Principal Investigator and authorized Co-Investigators. The study documents will be stored in
      locked environments at the Centro de Investigación para el Desarrollo Integral y Sostenible
      (CIDIS) at Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia to which access will be granted only to the
      Principal Investigator and the Co-Investigators authorized by the Principal Investigator.
    
  