
    
      Two registries interlinked by the Swedish personal identification number The Swedish Registry
      for Renal Denervation: The Swedish Registry for Renal Denervation is an investigator -
      initiated academic online database, developed by our group and supported by the Swedish
      authorities. The registry contains 130 variables summarizing baseline patient
      characteristics, procedural details, as well as follow - up data. The database contains
      patient data from the seven Swedish university hospitals that have performed RDN since 2011
      exclusively, thereby providing a nation-wide data set with a follow-up of up to five years.

      The Swedish Primary Care Cardiovascular Database (SPCCD):

      SPCCD comprises data from 75 000 patients diagnosed with hypertension collected at primary
      care centres in the Stockholm and Skaraborg region during the time period 2001-2008. Patient
      baseline characteristics may be derived from the individual electronic medical records.

      Study objectives:

        -  To describe the incidence of the composite end-point of myocardial infarction, stroke,
           heart failure and cardiovascular death in patients with resistant hypertension treated
           with RDN as compared to conservatively treated resistant hypertensives.

        -  Our hypothesis is that RDN treated individuals will show a lower event rate in regard to
           the composite clinical end - point during the first 5 years of follow - up when compared
           to conservatively treated individuals with resistant hypertension.

      Inclusion criteria:

      - Patients fulfilling the criteria for resistant hypertension according to the criteria as
      applied in the Swedish Registry for Renal Denervation (Office BP >140/90 despite treatment
      with at least three antihypertensive drugs) with a follow up period period of at least 5
      years (SPCCD).

      Methods and statistical analysis:

      The primary end point of this study is the composite of myocardial infarction, stroke, heart
      failure and cardiovascular death in patients with resistant hypertension having undergone
      renal denervation (n = 300), compared to a control group of conservatively treated resistant
      hypertensives from the SPCCD. The necessary information about the diagnose codes for the
      events relevant for the primary end - point is made possible through the unique Swedish
      personal identification number and available through the Swedish population based registries
      for both the case - and control - group.

      In order to adjust for differences in the baseline variables age, sex, diabetes, coronary
      artery disease, heart failure, baseline blood pressure, duration of hypertension, number of
      hypertensive drugs, we will perform a propensity score matched analysis which will be
      performed in 1 : 3 fashion.

      Potential significance Despite the promising results of RDN in regard to several clinically
      relevant surrogate markers, including blood pressure, there are no outcome data available in
      the literature. Thus, the findings of this study may provide novel insights into the clinical
      effects of renal denervation and assess whether the sum of the previously observed beneficial
      effects may translate into an improved clinical outcome.
    
  