
    
      Many Americans suffer from back pain for which no specific cause has been identified. Doctors
      in the United States do not have a standard toolkit of helpful treatments for addressing
      non-specific back pain. This contributes to frustration and unrelieved suffering for many
      patients and a sense of helplessness for many doctors. Recently, researchers in England
      developed a tool called "STarT Back" which helps doctors identify the types of treatments
      that are most likely to help patients with different pain experiences. This tool divides
      persons with back pain into three categories based on their answers to 9 simple questions
      about their pain and its effect on their lives. Doctors can then recommend treatments that
      are most likely to be helpful for patients in each category. This method has not yet been
      tested in the United States where healthcare is very different than in England. This project
      will test an enhanced version of the method at Group Health, a healthcare system in
      Washington State.

      OBJECTIVES: A research team at Group Health will test how well an enhanced version of the
      STarT Back method works for patients with back pain. Since this method is new in the United
      States it is important to find out if it meets the needs of patients and doctors, and whether
      it can be easily used in the doctor's office.

      The goals of this project are to:

        1. Adapt the STarT Back method for use at Group Health, using its computerized health
           record system.

        2. See how well the method works in three Group Health clinics, compared with three similar
           clinics where the method is not in place. We will learn from patients and doctors
           whether the method improved the treatment process and provided patients with greater
           relief from their back pain.

        3. Share the results of this study with other groups, including patients, doctors,
           healthcare leaders, and other scientists.

      METHODS: It is important to understand whether using the method helps provide patients with
      more pain relief and improves their quality of life. We will invite patients visiting their
      primary care doctors for back pain to take part in the study. We will also ask doctors and
      care teams from these clinics to be part of this research. Patients who agree to be in the
      study will be asked questions about their back pain soon after their doctor visit and again 2
      and 6 months later. These questions will be asked in a telephone or mailed survey. This
      information will allow us to see if using this approach in doctors' offices reduces pain and
      improves quality of life. We will also ask a small number of patients more in-depth questions
      to find out if there are ways we can improve this approach. Persons with back pain will be
      part of the research team. They will give their opinions about all details of the study,
      including the strategy for implementing the approach, the questions we ask patients and
      doctors, and how we report the results of the study.
    
  