
    
      Critical limb ischemia is a frequent situation whose incidence can be evaluated to 500 to
      1,000 per million per year. Limb salvage is the main goal of therapy and is usually attempted
      by surgical or percutaneous vascularization procedures. However approximately 25 % of
      patients are not suitable for such procedures and it was estimated that less than half of
      these patients were alive without any major amputation after 6 months. In this setting cell
      therapy has been proposed to stimulate angiogenesis. The first significant experience in
      humans was reported by TATEISHI-YUYAMA et al who showed that autologous implantation of bone
      marrow mononuclear cells (BM-MNC) was safe and increased blood flow in ischemic limbs
      resulting in clinical improvement. The same authors did not observe any efficacy of
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PB-MNC). Subsequently other publications reported
      positive effects of PB-MNC which were harvested after previous treatment with haematopoietic
      growth factor to induce a mobilization of stem cells. However such a treatment could have
      deleterious effects in patients presenting with advanced arterial disease. In this context we
      propose a prospective bi-centric trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of autologous
      implantation of either BM-MNC or PB-MNC without previous mobilization with hematopoïetic
      factor, in patients with critical limb ischemia.

      The trial is designed in two steps : a first series of eight patients are treated with BM-MNC
      and the following eight will receive PB-MNC. An interim analysis is planned after these first
      sixteen cases. Based on this analysis, it will be decided to include 12 further patients with
      each type of cells.Patients are consecutively included as soon as they present with
      appropriate criteria and are not selected to receive one or another type of cells.

      Before implantation, MNC counts, differential and viability are determined. CD34+,
      CD34+/CD133+ and CD34+/CD133+/flk-1+ cells are counted by flow-cytometry.

      Clinical symptoms and TcPO2 are monitored 1, 2, 7 and 14 days, 1, 3, and 6 months after cell
      implantation. Blood cell count, C-reactive protein, Interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-α,
      myoglobin, and creatinin-kinase are determined at day 0, 1, 3 and 7 ; blood
      vascular-endothelial-growth-factor (VEGF) level and CD34+, CD34+/CD133+ blood cells are
      measured before and 72 hours after implantation
    
  