
    
      Background Lung cancer remains a major cause of cancer morbidity and mortality. In Denmark,
      the incidence has shown a slight, but robust decrease over the last 10 years in males, but
      the incidence in females continues to increase. The relative survival at 5 years is only 11%
      for men and 15% for women. While surgery is the treatment of choice in early stage disease,
      radiotherapy combined with chemotherapy is the only treatment modality with curative
      potential in patients with locally advanced inoperable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
      Unfortunately, the overall survival remains poor and loco-regional disease progression or
      recurrences are common. Clinical studies have indicated a radiation dose response
      relationship, suggesting a higher radiation dose would improve local control. However, in a
      recent randomized phase III trial RTOG0617, of standard-dose (60 Gy) vs. high-dose (74 Gy)
      concomitant chemo-radiotherapy the overall survival was lowest in the high-dose arm. While
      toxicity may not be the only explanation to the negative result of RTOG0617, an increased
      rate of high-grade toxicity in the 74 Gy arm is certainly of major concern: this trial
      furthermore highlights the limited current understanding of the mechanisms of treatment
      related toxicities and how they limit our attempts to increase local control.

      Radiotherapy-related side effects are severe, yet difficult to assess and quantify. CTC AE is
      the general golden standard tool for measuring adverse events. However, many patients have
      heart and lung related comorbidity prior to the radiotherapy and it may be difficult to
      completely distinguish comorbidity and treatment related toxicity, even if reliable baseline
      data exist. The symptomatology of pneumonitis correlates poorly with radiological findings
      and with a decline in lung function. Radiation induced heart toxicity is disputed in this
      group of patients and not all physiological responses to radiotherapy are fully understood.
      Serious or even lethal toxicities after high dose radiation therapy are underreported in
      prospective trials, most likely because the mechanisms and the time span of toxicity was
      different from the expected. A recent retrospective study13 described a positive correlation
      between the delivered treatment dose and an increase in lung tissue density after treatment,
      measured on consecutive follow-up CT scans. No correlation to clinical outcome was made.

      In conclusion, the understanding of radiation-induced pulmonary toxicity is still limited.
      Reliable measures of toxicity are highly warranted in order to perform prospective trials
      improving the therapeutic outcome of lung cancer patients.

      In DIBH radiotherapy, patients hold their breath during imaging for radiotherapy planning and
      during radiotherapy delivery. DIBH results in profound anatomic changes: tumour motion is
      minimised, the heart is drawn downward and the lungs are inflated and push the healthy away
      from the target volume. DIBH is now the standard treatment for patients with mediastinal
      Hodgkin lymphoma and breast cancer. This technique is simple, cost-efficient and spares the
      heart and lungs without any detriment to other healthy organs or to the target. However, lung
      tumours represent an additional challenge as they are mobile: their daily position must be
      assessed reliably in order to avoid underdosing the tumour and overdosing the healthy lung
      The investigators recently performed a pilot study based on 17 lung cancer patients, and
      found that most patients were able to maintain several consecutive deep inspiration breath
      holds of each 20 seconds throughout the course of radiotherapy. No a correlation between the
      FEV1 value and the ability to perform DIBH was observed. The range of FEV1 for the 17
      patients was 1.2 - 3.2 litres (44-67% of predicted value). The patients were planned in both
      DIBH and free breathing but treated in free breathing. DIBH plans resulted in a significantly
      lower lung dose. However, previously it was observed that for some selected patients with
      multiple targets, DIBH is not the best treatment option. This highlights the importance of a
      full investigation of the potential benefits and drawbacks of DIBH in lung cancer patients.

      The primary aim of INHALE is to investigate the feasibility of delivering safe and precise
      DIBH lung cancer radiotherapy. The secondary aims of INHALE are to investigate the potential
      of DIBH lung cancer radiotherapy to reduce treatment toxicity and to explore reliable and
      logistically manageable toxicity endpoints.

      Key research questions

      1a. Is DIBH well tolerated by lung cancer patients throughout their treatment?

      1b. Can the prescribed dose be delivered accurately and reproducibly to the target in DIBH?

      1c. Is DIBH safe?

        1. d. What is the overall survival and the local progression free survival for patients
           treated in INHALE?

        2. a. Is DIBH dosimetrically beneficial for all patients?

      2b. What is the extent of the dosimetric benefit of DIBH? 3a. Is it possible to measure
      radiation-induced lung damage (RILD) in lung cancer patients in a pragmatic way? 3b. Can
      image-based measures be used for the assessment of toxicity?

      Methods

      INHALE is primary a feasibility study. It will be based on prospective inclusion of 80
      patients with locally advanced NSCLC for treatment in DIBH. All patients with NSCLC referred
      for concomitant or sequential chemo-radiotherapy can be included in INHALE. For the secondary
      toxicity research questions, a historic cohort of approximately 350 patients with locally
      advanced NSCLC treated with concomitant or sequential chemo-radiotherapy in free breathing
      from 2009-2014 will be used for comparison.

      Treatment planning Imaging for the treatment planning will be performed according to local
      and national guidelines (www.dolg.dk) with the addition of a DIBH FDG PET/CT and two
      consecutive DIBH CT scans to measure reproducibility of the consecutive DIBHs. The DIBH FDG
      PET/CT will be acquired during the same session as the conventional FDG PET/CT (without
      additional use of PET-tracer).

      Audio-visual respiratory coaching will be applied to train the patients to hold their breath
      at a comfortable and reproducible inspiration level. Video goggles will be used during
      planning and during treatment, if treatment is applied in DIBH.

      Patients that cannot comply with treatment in DIBH will be treated in free breathing and
      registered as "non compliant".

      For all patients a DIBH as well as a free breathing plan will be calculated using volumetric
      modulated arc therapy technique, with constraints according to the national guidelines. The
      plan with the lowest doses to lung and heart will be chosen for patient treatment.

      Treatment Patients treated with conventional free breathing technique will be treated
      according to standard clinical procedures including daily set-up to tumour position by cone
      beam CT (CBCT). Patients treated with DIBH technique will be set-up with DIBH CBCT, a
      technique requiring 2-3 consecutive DIBHs. DIBH treatment will be delivered gated. In case a
      patient looses the ability to perform DIBH during the treatment course, the conventional free
      breathing plan will be applied for the remaining treatment fractions and the patient
      registered as non-compliant.

      The daily position of the target volume will be monitored on the CBCT, assuring precise
      delivery of the prescribed dose to the target(s). In case of differential motion between the
      treatment targets (i.e. change in the spatial separation of the primary tumour relatively to
      the lymph node metastases), these images will enable us to decide whether to proceed with the
      treatment or re-scan the patient and adapt the treatment plan accordingly.

      Follow-up Patients will be followed according to national guidelines with the addition of
      supplementary lung function tests. Furthermore, the patients will be asked to contact the
      department in case of pneumonitis symptoms, i.e. dyspnoea, cough and moderate fever. At each
      control visit, medication, symptoms and hospital admissions will be registered. All heart and
      lung related diagnoses will be registered for all participating patients during the follow-up
      period. Patients will be followed for five years or until death.

      Safety In case of any toxicity of grade 4 or 5, patient history and treatment plans will be
      reviewed. If association with treatment parameters is suspected, treatment constraints will
      be prospectively adjusted.

      Statistics The study is primary a feasibility study and for this mainly descriptive
      statistics will be employed. With regards to the analysis of frequency of dosimetrical
      benefit of DIBH, assuming an underlying benefit rate of 75%, the width of the observed 95%
      confidence interval based on binomial statistics is approximately 64%-84%. This is a
      sufficiently accurate estimate of the rate of benefit from DIBH to initiate a phase III trial
      and engage other centres in prospective testing.

      For the secondary research questions several candidate toxicity endpoints are tested and
      while the study is not powered to see a difference between the candidate endpoints, choosing
      the endpoint with the apparent best discriminatory power for a phase III trial should be
      expected to be the most effective strategy ('pick the winner' analysis). However, the
      potential statistical advantage will be balanced against a medical priority. In this way a
      maximum of knowledge from the data will be gained enabling the basis to formulate
      well-founded hypotheses for future studies in this field.

      Statistical analysis plan The resulting toxicity from DIBH will be compared to a historical
      cohort encompassing approximately 350 patients treated from 2009-2014 in free breathing at
      investigators' institution.

      A Cox proportional hazards model predicting the risk of RILD will be generated. We expect the
      model to involve performance status, smoking status, tumour size and -location as predictors,
      but the analysis will be based on a model reduction technique using backwards elimination,
      possibly assisted by forced entry. The resulting Cox model will be used to generate expected
      freedom from RILD curves. The predicted freedom from RILD can now be compared to the observed
      Kaplan Meier curve for the trial patients. The relative risk of RILD (observed vs. expected)
      can then be extracted. Bootstrap resampling or a published method using SAS software will
      obtain confidence bands on the expected outcome curve.

      Comparison with the historic cohort will be made both as an "intention to treat" analysis.
      The historic cohort will be identified in a database collected in a project already approved
      by the Danish Board of Health (sagsnr. 3-3013-569/1/) and the Danish Data Protection Agency
      (jour.nr. 30-1178) and administered by Lotte Nygård.

      Perspectives It is expected that one or more of the toxicity endpoints in INHALE will be
      solid enough to serve as a primary endpoint for a phase III trial of optimized radiotherapy
      of locally advanced NSCLC, enabling the radiotherapy society to gain solid evidence for the
      use of emerging technologies.

      Furthermore, DIHB holds the potential for synergetic combination with other new principles,
      e.g. dose painting with boost to radio-resistant areas of the tumour, as this technique
      requires that tumour motion is minimal in order to deliver the dose correctly.
    
  