
    
      Gastroschisis is the most common congenital abdominal wall abnormality in which the
      intestines are outside of body floating in the amniotic fluid. This is diagnosed by prenatal
      ultrasound at 18-20 weeks gestation. Gastroschisis occurs in 1 out of every 4000 births and
      the incidence is increasing. The majority of patients with gastroschisis have an
      uncomplicated neonatal course and recover well after surgical repair. However, subsets of
      gastroschisis patients have more complicated courses due to loss of intestine or blockages of
      the intestine These infants have a higher risk of death and long-term morbidity.
      Additionally, gastroschisis patients have an increased risk of in-utero fetal demise or
      stillbirth.

      The potential risk of pregnancy loss late in the third trimester has prompted some physicians
      to deliver gastroschisis patients prior to term. This results in an increased chance of
      additional prematurity-related complications. There is no consensus about the ideal time to
      deliver a baby with gastroschisis and practice patterns vary widely. It is unclear which
      offers the fetus a chance at a better outcome: early delivery to mitigate risk of stillbirth
      and intestinal injury versus delivery closer to term.

      Retrospective data published show inconsistent results on outcomes with early delivery or
      later gestational age delivery in gastroschisis. There have been two randomized, prospective
      trials with delivery early versus awaiting spontaneous labor. The first included 42 patients
      rendering the study largely underpowered. There was a trend towards decreased length of
      hospital stay and earlier time to full enteral feeding in the early delivery group, but this
      did not reach statistical significance. The latest study was stopped early because of
      futility and an increased risk of sepsis in the early group. There was no increase in sepsis
      in the early group in the first trial, and the study design of this trial varies greatly from
      both studies.

      Standard delivery times for uncomplicated gastroschisis are between 34 and 39 weeks
      gestation. As the current available literature does not adequately answer the question of
      optimal gestational age of delivery in patients with gastroschisis, the objective of this
      study is to investigate the hypothesis that delivery at 35 0/7 - 35 6/7 weeks in stable
      patients with gastroschisis is superior to observation and expectant management with a goal
      of delivery at 38 0/7 - 38 6/7 weeks. To test this hypothesis, we will complete a randomized,
      prospective, multi-institutional trial. Patients may be enrolled in the study any time prior
      to 33 weeks but will be randomized at 33 weeks to delivery at 35 weeks or observation with a
      goal of 38 weeks. The primary outcome will be based on a weighted composite comprised of
      intrauterine fetal demise, neonatal/infant death prior to discharge, respiratory morbidity,
      gastrointestinal morbidity, and sepsis. We will compare the rates of the composite outcome as
      well as the individual components to determine whether a significant difference between the
      two strategies can be detected. Secondary maternal outcomes include need for labor induction,
      need for cesarean section, and complications of delivery including infection, blood
      transfusions, and thromboembolic events. We will also evaluate antenatal test values, such as
      amniotic fluid index, estimated fetal weight, and intra- and extra-abdominal bowel dilation.
      Secondary neonatal outcomes include birth and discharge weight, central venous catheter days,
      sepsis, intestinal atresia, necrotizing enterocolitis, time to enteral autonomy, individual
      components of respiratory morbidity, need for caffeine, and length of stay.

      Given the unprecedented patient data being collected for the randomized trial, we plan to
      leverage the infrastructure built for this study to generate the largest prospective,
      multicenter database of gastroschisis-related (maternal, fetal, and neonatal) outcomes in the
      United States. The database will provide data for future development of both hypotheses and
      study design regarding gastroschisis-related outcomes. The associated biobank will collect
      blood from the neonatal participants to be stored and analyzed in future research.
    
  