
    
      The DOPPELHERZ (The influence of individualized resistance-endurance exercise training on
      maximal power output in outpatient cardiac rehabilitation) randomized controlled trial was
      performed at the Department of Prevention and Sports Medicine, Klinikum rechts der Isar in
      Munich, Germany. 70 patients eligible for and/or participating in cardiac rehabilitation were
      randomized to six months in an individualized combined exercise group (ICE) or group- based
      cardiac rehabilitation (GCR), considered usual care in this patient population.

      All patients gave written informed consent, the study protocol was approved by the local
      university hospital ethics committee, all procedures were conducted according to the
      Declaration of Helsinki.

      Participants: All patients were American Heart Association Class "C" (moderate to high risk)
      based on the presence of cardiac disease and maximal power output of <5 METs (corresponding
      to <1.4 W/kg body weight), who met eligibility criteria for CR at the time of recruitment.
      Patients with decompensated or highly symptomatic (NYHA IV) heart failure, acute illness or
      injury, cardiac hospitalizations within six weeks of inclusion, drug abuse, unstable blood
      pressure or arrhythmias, high grade valve stenosis or instable diabetes mellitus were
      excluded.

      Primary endpoint: The primary endpoint was change in maximal relative power output (W/kg)
      measured by CPX after six months.

      Exercise training program In both the intervention and usual care arms of the study, exercise
      training was prescribed twice weekly over a period of six months, and all exercise sessions
      were led by certified exercise instructors and monitored by physicians.

      Group-based cardiac rehabilitation (GCR): The GCR group performed regular exercise in a
      state-sanctioned cardiac rehabilitation group. This form of GCR is considered Phase III
      aftercare and has been described elsewhere9. Briefly, GCR patients received
      moderate-intensity heart rate targets from exercise cardiologists based on CPX results. The
      group-based program is offered for 90 minutes twice a week and is a combination of gymnastics
      (including endurance and resistance components), coordination and flexibility exercises, and
      includes educational components targeting diet and nutrition, stress and relaxation, methods
      for coping with CVD and behavioral and lifestyle change. The GCR sessions were conducted at a
      local university gymnasium and were performed in groups of up to 15 participants, as
      recommended by the German Federal Association for Rehabilitation.

      Individualized combined exercise (ICE): The ICE group participated in once-weekly
      individualized combined resistance-endurance exercise training for 60 minutes and once-weekly
      traditional group-based cardiac rehabilitation as described above. The ICE intervention
      included 30 minutes of endurance exercise at 60-70% VO2peak and RPE 11-14 and five resistance
      exercises (chest press, leg press, lat pull-downs, shoulder press and seated cable row)
      following the recommendations of the German Federation for Cardiovascular Prevention and
      Rehabilitation (DGPR) and targeting the large muscle groups at an RPE<16. For the first three
      months, patients performed two sets of 12-25 repetitions at 30-50% 1RM; after three months
      patients were retested and thereafter performed two sets of 8-15 repetitions at 40-60% 1RM.
      The ICE sessions were located at the university sports medicine rehabilitation center and
      performed in groups of not more than four patients. They were instructed at a maximum 2:1
      participant to therapist ratio.
    
  