
    
      The initiation of lactation in women depends on the growth of the glandular tissue of the
      breast (mammogenesis) and the differentiation of the mammary secretory epithelial cells
      (lactocytes) during pregnancy (lactogenesis I). After birth, the continuous nourishment of
      the fetus from the mother via the umbilical cord is replaced by the equally important but
      intermittent nourishment from the mother's breast. The onset of copious milk production
      (lactogenesis II) is closely coupled to the factors controlling the birth process. In mothers
      who have delivered pre-term, mammogenesis and lactogenesis I may be truncated and close
      consideration must be given to all physiological aspects of this complex process when
      assisting preterm mothers to establish successful lactation. In Singapore, the problem is not
      restricted to mothers of preterm babies. In a nation-wide survey by the Health Promotion
      Board in 2001, inability to produce enough breast milk was stated as the reason for not
      breastfeeding by 53% of mothers two months after birth.

      The hypothesis of this study is that early, regular and complete emptying of the breasts can
      hasten and improve the establishment of lactogenesis II after preterm and term deliveries.

      It aims to compare the effect of early and regular breast milk expression on the success and
      timing of establishment of lactogenesis II compared with routine breastfeeding practice in
      mothers after preterm and term deliveries.

      The second aim is to study the effect of early and regular breast milk expression on blood
      prolactin and progesterone levels in women after preterm and term deliveries.

      The final aim is to study the volume of breast milk produced and fed to babies after preterm
      and term deliveries.

      80 women with preterm deliveries (28 weeks to 36 weeks gestation) and 80 women with term
      deliveries (after 37 weeks gestation) will be recruited and randomised with minimization by
      the stratification factors of previous live births and breastfeeding experience.

      Groups A or C mothers will be given a breast pump to start expressing within one hour after
      delivery and thereafter every two to three hours besides breastfeeding their babies directly.

      Groups B or D mothers will breastfeed according to routine hospital protocol. Standard
      postnatal nursing care will be followed. 7 days of breast milk samples (of 1ml in the morning
      and one ml in the evening )will be collected at the end of the 8th day. The details of the
      delivery, birth weight, and neonatal condition will be collected prospectively at birth.
      Mothers will be given a neonatal feeding diary to record the frequency and amount of breast
      milk expressed, the frequency and duration of direct breast feeds, and any other fluids fed
      to their babies in the first week. They will be asked to record their own perception of when
      their breast milk flow was established. The babies will be weighed on Day 7.

      The primary outcomes are:

        1. Successful initiation of lactation as determined by lactogenesis II markers

        2. Successful initiation of lactation as determined by maternal perception

        3. timing of successful establishment of lactogenesis II.

      All statistical analyses will be conducted by SPSS 11.0. The differences in successful
      initiation of lactation as determined by lactogenesis II markers and the successful
      initiation of lactation as determined by maternal perception between the 2 groups will be
      assessed by Chi-Square or Fisher Exact tests. A logistic regression analysis will be
      performed to adjust for relevant covariates. 2 sample t-tests will be performed to determine
      the differences between the 2 groups in the timing of successful establishment of
      lactogenesis II, volumes of colostrums and milk expressed and fed and weight change in baby 7
      days after birth when normality assumptions are satisfied. Otherwise the Mann Whitney U test
      will be applied. A multiple regression analysis will be carried out to take into account
      relevant covariates. Statistical significance is set at p <0.05.

      Outcomes and advantages of the project:

        1. If early and regular expression of breast milk can speed up or improve the chance of
           successful initiation of lactogenesis II, it can be a useful aid to women planning to
           breastfeed their babies, especially if they deliver prematurely.

        2. This study will help us to determine the normal timing of establishment of lactogenesis
           II in Singaporean women after term and preterm delivery. Validated and precise breast
           milk markers of lactogenesis II will be used and compared with simple maternal
           perception. This knowledge will help dispel the many myths regarding Asian women and
           breastfeeding.

        3. Currently, the actual physiological nutritional requirements of a breastfed newborn is
           not known. In our study, the volume of breast milk produced daily and fed to the baby in
           the first week will be measured in after both term and preterm delivery. This can be
           correlated to the weight change of the newborns to determine how much breast milk a
           neonate normally requires.

      This will be the first of a series of collaborative projects on the various aspects of the
      science of human lactation between the Lactation Research Laboratory at the University of
      Western Australia and the Early Childhood Programming Group of the National University of
      Singapore
    
  