
    
      Background:

      While HPV DNA testing is a highly sensitive screening method for cervical cancer, it cannot
      differentiate between the majority of benign infections and few persistent infections linked
      to cervical precancer. Given the high prevalence of carcinogenic HPV DNA and higher risk for
      cervical precancer and cancer among HIV-infected women, there is a substantial need for
      screening tests that are both adequately sensitive as well as specific, so as to maximize
      detection while reducing false-positive referrals. Furthermore, the unique immunological
      milieu in HIV-infected women presents significant opportunities to study natural history of
      HPV-mediated cervical oncogenic process in the context of immunosuppression.

      Objectives and Methods:

      The primary objective is to evaluate the clinical performance of two novel biomarker assays
      for detection of histologically-confirmed cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2/3 or
      more severe (greater than or equal to CIN2 and greater than or equal to CIN3) among
      HIV-infected women. These tests include: (i) immunocytostaining by p16(INK4a)/Ki-67
      (biomarkers correlated with the oncogenic transformation of cervical cells following
      persistent carcinogenic HPV infection) and (ii) testing for HPV E6/E7 mRNA (expressed during
      progression of a transient to a transforming HPV infection). Secondary objectives include
      studying the association of risk factors and biomarkers with specific HPV genotypes and
      studying the interaction of HIV and HPV in cervical disease categories and in the context of
      immunosuppression.

      Eligibility:

      HIV-infected women, 18 years or older, with no history of previous treatment for cervical
      precancer/cancer, not currently pregnant, and able to provide informed consent.

      Design:

      This cross sectional study will be conducted in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical
      Research (ICMR), in three institutions, with substantial experience in conduct of clinical
      research on HIV/AIDS and HPV/cervical cancer: the National AIDS Research Institute (NARI) in
      Pune, the National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE) in Chennai, and the Jawaharlal Nehru
      Medical College (JNMC) in Belgaum. A total of 1000 HIV-infected women attending HIV care and
      treatment clinics in Pune (n=400) and Chennai (n=400), and Belgaum (n=200) will be recruited.
      According to routine practice, participants will undergo per-speculum examination and
      cervical specimen collection, followed by a detailed diagnostic colposcopy exam with biopsies
      as indicated for histological analysis. Cervical specimens will be used for liquid-based
      cytology as well as simultaneous independent assessment with p16(INK4a)/Ki-67 and HPV E6/E7
      mRNA testing. HPV DNA genotyping will be conducted by Linear Array HPV polymerase chain
      reaction. We will estimate the clinical performance (sensitivity, specificity, positive and
      negative predictive values, Youden s Index, and positive and negative likelihood ratios with
      95% confidence intervals) of individual tests and combinations for prevalent detection of
      histologically-confirmed greater than or equal to CIN2 and greater than or equal to CIN3
      among HIV-infected women. Additionally we will estimate age-specific and disease-specific HPV
      prevalence rates and HPV genotype composition, examine factors associated with greater than
      or equal to CIN2/greater than or equal to CIN3 lesions, examine the relationships of
      biomarker positivity at the HPV genotype-specific level, and evaluate the role of
      immunosuppression on HPV-mediated carcinogenesis. This study will permit validation of
      collection, transport, storage, and implementation protocols, allow evaluation of the field
      adoption and efficacy of these newer assays, describe the sensitivity and specificity of any
      of the tests or combinations with reasonable precision for a wide range of prevalence of
      greater than or equal to CIN3, and provide a resource for studies of HIV-HPV coinfection.
    
  