
    
      In both animal models and humans with spinal cord injury (SCI), synaptic efficacy between
      corticospinal axons and spinal motor neurons has improved temporarily after a short period of
      paired stimulation between motor cortex and spinal or peripheral sites. In a demonstration of
      closed-loop stimulation in SCI rats, target muscle electromyography (EMG) signals were used
      to trigger spinal cord electrical stimulation while performing physical retraining. Results
      showed that EMG-triggered stimulation plus physical retraining led to greater motor recovery
      than non-triggered stimulation or physical training alone. However, these studies used
      invasive direct spinal cord stimulation in rodent models. Whether this approach can work
      non-invasively in humans remains unknown.

      Twenty participants (10 able bodied and 10 SCI subjects) will be recruited. Each subject will
      undergo five different 20-minute interventions. Stimulation will be delivered at the motor
      cortex via transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), the median nerve, or both. Stimulation
      will occur either while the subject is passively at rest or triggered by reaching endogenous
      EMG threshold during a pinch task. Outcomes will be measured at baseline and every 20 minutes
      for one hour after the intervention.

      The investigators hypothesize that for at least 20 minutes after stimulation, one session of
      EMG-triggered stimulation will significantly improve motor evoked potential amplitude,
      increase cortical silent period duration, and decrease time required to complete a pegboard
      task compared with one session of passively delivered stimulation. The investigators further
      hypothesize that EMG triggered median nerve stimulation alone will provide equal or greater
      benefits as EMG triggered TMS or EMG-triggered paired stimulation.

      Hypothesis 1: One session of EMG-triggered stimulation will significantly improve motor
      evoked potential (MEP) amplitude, increase cortical silent period duration of APB, and
      decrease time required to complete a manual pegboard task compared with one session of
      passively delivered stimulation or one session of voluntary contraction alone for at least 20
      minutes post-stimulation.

      Hypothesis 2: EMG-triggered PNS alone will result in equal or greater effects than EMG
      triggered TMS or TMS+PNS paired stimulation. This would indicate that EMG triggered PNS might
      be used as a potential intervention to add during physical training, a setting in which TMS
      is difficult to apply.
    
  