
    
      This application proposes OnTrackNY as a regional scientific hub for the Early Psychosis
      Intervention Network (EPINET) program as part of NIMH's creation of a national learning
      health care system (LHS) for early psychosis care. As a continuation of the NIMH-supported
      RAISE-Implementation and Evaluation Study, OnTrackNY has grown into the 22-site (and still
      expanding) network under the leadership of Lisa Dixon, MD, MPH. OnTrackNY is a nationally
      recognized model for providing CSC for adolescents and young adults within two years of the
      onset of non-affective psychosis. OnTrackNY sites are located in licensed outpatient clinics
      at community agencies, state-operated facilities, and community and academic hospitals in
      urban, suburban, and rural areas throughout New York. This network has served over 1,600
      individuals to date, with 451 new enrollees in calendar year 2017. Thanks to its sponsorship
      by the New York State Office of Mental Health (OMH), OnTrackNY has progressed to meet its
      goal of providing CSC to any young person with early psychosis in New York State, regardless
      of ability to pay. OnTrackNY includes OnTrackCentral-the "hub"-a team of nine staff, who
      provide training and technical assistance to sites and manage data collection, and the 22
      teams which are its "spokes." From its inception, OnTrackNY has sought to deliver
      high-quality, data-driven, accountable care consistent with an LHS. (See Facilities for
      details on sites.)

      The Foundations of a LHS in OnTrackNY: Several factors facilitated OnTrackNY's LHS
      foundations: 1) OnTrackNY evolved from the data-oriented RAISE-Implementation and Evaluation
      Study; 2) its location within the Center for Practice Innovations, an OMH-funded and
      empirically driven technical assistance center for scaling up evidence-based practices housed
      within Columbia Psychiatry; and 3) a strong commitment by OMH to high quality, accountable
      care. OnTrackCentral obtains stakeholder input from clinicians, program directors and state
      administrators. All OnTrackNY teams are contractually obligated to follow established
      protocols requiring specific service components and standardized client- and site-level
      measures for treating first episode psychosis (FEP). OnTrackCentral provides ongoing
      technical assistance to support the model, identify programmatic gaps and problems, and
      facilitate practice-based learning and research.

      The Opportunity for OnTrackNY to Build a Better LHS: EPINET provides the opportunity to
      leverage the nascent LHS foundations of OnTrackNY and build a large, state-of-the-art LHS for
      early psychosis care. The investigators propose to expand and restructure the continuous
      quality improvement (CQI) process to: (Aim 1) include key stakeholders at every phase of the
      LHS and (Aim 2) provide accurate and appropriate delivery of real-time data to clients and
      providers to facilitate measurement-based care.

      LHS Frameworks and Conceptual Model: This LHS is based on the principles of the Institute of
      Medicine's (IOM) (now National Academy of Medicine) model for a continuously learning
      healthcare system which brings together stakeholders to review data and technologies to
      develop and apply strategies to improve quality and increase efficiency. The investigators
      will use the IOM's LHS model, operationalizing the components according to the six LHS phases
      described by the Group Health Cooperative. While this LHS model provides an aspirational
      roadmap for a cyclic improvement approach, significant knowledge gaps limit translation and
      implementation of knowledge into evidence-based communications, campaigns, guidelines and
      other tools, products, and interventions. The investigators will draw on the Knowledge to
      Action (KTA) framework, which guides knowledge translation and implementation activities
      within each phase of the LHS model. The KTA planning tool directs knowledge creation and
      action cycles through questions for stakeholders to consider during each LHS phase. Through
      an iterative process, knowledge creation begins with stakeholders, data and mixed methods
      practice- based research during the LHS Scanning and Surveillance phase. The Action Cycle
      outlines a process, representing the activities needed for knowledge to be implemented in
      practice. Knowledge is adapted to the local context, and barriers and facilitators to its use
      are explicitly assessed. Stakeholders are centrally involved in tailoring knowledge and
      interventions to those who will use it.

      This proposal will thus build a stakeholder-driven LHS that will establish the data
      infrastructure needed to promote measurement-based treatment within a structure supporting
      continuous quality improvement which, in turn, supports practice-based research-with the
      overall goal of improving care and outcomes for individuals with early psychosis. This
      EPINET-supported LHS will create an engine to optimize the potential of CSC to improve the
      lives of people with schizophrenia.
    
  