
    
      In South Korea, approximately 20,000 patients are found to experience cardiac arrest (CA)
      annually, with a reported survival rate of approximately 4.8% (2015). In patients who are
      resuscitated from cardiac arrest (CA), neurological prognosis is assessed based on whether
      the patient can independently perform a daily routine after leaving the hospital. It is an
      essential issue for patients, as well as their families and local communities. In this sense,
      research interest in achieving a good neurological prognosis in post-discharge cardiac arrest
      (CA) patients is increasing. The neurologic status of post-cardiac arrest (CA) patients, who
      are being considered for discharge from the hospital, is examined mostly using the Cerebral
      Performance Category (CPC) score, with a score of 1 or 2, on a scale of 1 to 5, indicative of
      good neurological status.

      Several previous South Korean studies have compared treatments using epinephrine only with
      those using epinephrine, vasopressin, and steroid during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)
      of cardiac arrest (CA)patients in the hospital. The vasopressin-steroid-epinephrine (VSE)
      group was reported to show a better return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC), lower
      whole-body inflammatory reaction, less cases of organ failure, and more cases of survival and
      hospital leave while showing better results of neurological prognosis. However, studies are
      lacking on treatment of cardiac arrest (CA) cases outside the hospital. In addition, because
      the three drugs of the vasopressin-steroid-epinephrine (VSE) regimen are used together, it is
      hard to identify which of them is most effective. Investigators are implementing a
      multicenter, prospective study to compare the use of vasopressin, steroid, and both
      vasopressin and steroid in post-cardiac arrest (CA) patients outside the hospital and examine
      the effects on ROSC and neurological score in this population.

      No South Korean study has been conducted on additional drugs of injection, other than
      epinephrine, in cardiac arrest (CA) treatment. In one study, steroid use in post-cardiac
      arrest (CA) patients with return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) was investigated by
      examining the levels of blood cortisol and adrenal corticotropic hormone. The researchers
      found that patients showing relatively poorer results in the exams recorded lower. Therefore,
      steroid use could be considered for patients with weaker adrenal function among those with
      post-cardiac arrest (CA) return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC), according to the study.

      This finding is consistent with the medical background of this present study. It is possible
      that steroid use not only assists the adrenal function in post-cardiac arrest (CA) patients
      but also positively influences their spontaneous circulation recovery and neurological
      prognosis. However, this research is also the result of a single-organizational retrospective
      study. To establish additional corresponding experiences, a multicenter prospective
      investigation is deemed necessary.

      As previously mentioned, several studies involving in-hospital cardiac arrest (CA) patients
      have been conducted. The present study will be the first to investigate these additional
      drugs of injection and associated prognosis in cardiac arrest (CA) patients outside the
      hospital, providing significant basic data.
    
  