
    
      This will be a Phase III, randomized, double-blinded, dummy-controlled, efficacy, and safety
      study of ThermoDox plus RFA versus RFA plus dummy infusion.

      The 50 mg/m2 ThermoDox or dummy infusion will be administered IV over 30 minutes. As part of
      blinded pre-medication ThermoDox treated subjects will receive 20 mg of dexamethasone orally
      48 hours prior to the drug infusion for infusion reaction prophylaxis. Subjects on the
      control arm will receive a matching dummy pre-medication pill orally at 48 hours prior to
      infusion of the study treatment. Thirty minutes prior to receiving the ThermoDox infusion,
      subjects will receive a blinded dose of 20 mg of IV dexamethasone, 50 mg IV diphenhydramine
      and either 50 mg of IV ranitidine or 20 mg of IV famotidine. Subjects on the control arm will
      receive a masked dummy pre-medication pill orally at 48 hours prior to infusion of the study
      medication, and a dummy infusion 30 minutes prior to dummy infusion of D5W (250 cc of 5%
      Dextrose solution). RFA will be initiated approximately at a minimum of 15 minutes after the
      initiation of study drug infusion and should be completed no later than 3 hours after study
      drug infusion initiation. The total length of the RFA procedure is proportional to the size
      of the tumor(s) involved and is anticipated to range from 12 to 60 minutes for each lesion
      with an estimated overall procedure time of less than 3 hours.

      Subjects with incomplete ablations will be re-treated to complete the ablation according to
      the treatment assigned at randomization. The completion of an ablation in this manner will
      restart the timeline of the study-related visits/procedures. This repeated ablation procedure
      cannot occur earlier than 21 days post-ablation but no later than 14 days after the first
      post-ablation CT scan assessment. These subjects will start over at screening (see Table 1).
      If a complete ablation is not achieved after these two study treatments, the subject will be
      considered a treatment failure and the patient will be discontinued and followed for survival
      only.

      Subjects who recur with local and/or distant intrahepatic HCC after a complete initial
      ablation will have met the primary endpoint of progression-free survival. However, if these
      subjects have lesions that are amenable to RFA the standard of care is to consider them for
      repeat RFA. Therefore, these subjects may receive treatment to which they were randomized if
      they continue to meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria of the protocol. Subjects who
      develop any extrahepatic lesion will have met the primary endpoint and will be discontinued
      from study treatment but will still be followed for overall survival.

      Dynamic Contrast CT imaging will be used to assess the effectiveness of the ablation therapy.
      The blind will be maintained at the level of CT scan reads. All protocol-specified CT images
      will be centrally read and assessed by the endpoint committee in a blinded fashion.
      Posttreatment CT scans will be obtained at months 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 and 12 and every three months
      thereafter until withdrawal. Adverse event assessments and laboratory examinations will occur
      at each visit. All subjects will be monitored throughout the investigational period.

      Patients that meet inclusion/exclusion criteria may be at risk for contrast-induced
      nephropathy (CIN) when undergoing the required CT with contrast procedures. The investigators
      must be mindful of the risk factors (e.g. diabetes, borderline renal function) associated
      with CIN and employ strategies to reduce the risk of CIN. In subjects with diabetes or
      borderline renal function (creatinine greater than 1.5 mg/dL) special precautions (e.g.
      hydration, contrast dose reduction, follow up creatinine determination) should be employed.
      An accepted procedure is adequate intravenous volume expansion with isotonic saline (1.0 -
      1.5 mL/kg per hour) for 3-12 hours before the procedure and continued for 6-24 hours.

      All randomized subjects will be followed for safety and overall survival.
    
  