
    
      Despite significant progress in the identification of mechanisms involved in motor neuron
      degeneration in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) and other motor system diseases, the
      actual pathogenesis and cause of these diseases remains unknown. Effective treatment of these
      diseases are dependent on the elucidation of their causes. The availability of diseased and
      control human tissues will be a critical resource for this research progress. . Samples of
      serum, spinal fluid, and urine from patients with motor system diseases can be used to study
      biochemical and genetic differences compared to tissues of neurologic disease controls and
      normal controls. Furthermore, the availability of autopsied CNS, PNS, as well as other
      tissues from patients with ALS or suspected ALS are useful for current and future research
      studies into the disease. Therefore, we propose to institute a Tissue Bank containing blood,
      urine, and cerebrospinal fluid donated from not only ALS and other motor neuron disease
      patients, but also those with other neurologic diseases and normals whose tissue can be used
      as controls. In addition there will be an autopsy band for post-mortem specimens of ALS and
      other motor neuron disease patients. Each specimen, whether from a living patient or autopsy
      will be de-identified and accompanied by a standard set of clinical information collected
      from the medical records in order that each specimen is characterized with the relevant
      clinical information to maximize the usefulness of the specimens.

      Once established, this tissue bank will provide a resource in which a large number of samples
      will be readily available and expedite research by circumventing the delays in collecting
      specimens prospectively. These specimens will be used for research in the ALS Center of Hope
      at Drexel University College of Medicine and shared with any outside investigator with a
      valid IRB approved protocol.
    
  