
    
      It is known that only 50% of patients with chronic diseases adhere to medical
      recommendations; at the same time, high patient adherence significantly improve the survival
      of patients with chronic diseases. The treatment duration required to achieve a significant
      reduction in the risk of cardiovascular complications is the subject of discussion, but
      studies demonstrate that long-term therapy for 5 years or more gives the greatest effect.
      Today, during the era of technological progress, there is a possibility to freely apply
      information and telecommunication technologies (e.g. cell phones, computer) in different
      fields, including medicine. Remote monitoring of patients by means of phone calls using
      structured questionnaires can also significantly improve clinical outcomes (mortality and
      cardiovascular hospitalizations) by 38%. Unfortunately, in the case of a long-term, usually
      lifetime, treatment, the use of such methods is still very limited on a large scale.

      This prospective observational program will help to explore the use of digital technologies
      and evaluate their effectiveness to increase patient adherence using an example of patients
      whose treatment scheme includes Omacor. Physicians and patients will be granted a personal
      access to the electronic data capture system. The physician will enter data about patients
      who signed the informed consent into the electronic system. At Visit 1 the patient will be
      given a card providing the personal access to his/her account in the electronic system. In
      addition to visits to the physician, the program specifies remote completion of the
      electronic form by the patient. Additional objective of the program includes raising
      patients' awareness about the disease due to familiarization with educational materials
      available in patient personal account in the electronic system.

      This study is a prospective observational program within the frames of which Omacor (Omega-3
      triglycerides [EPA/docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) = 1.2/1 - 90%]) is prescribed to patients with
      a history of myocardial infarction within a routine procedure as a part of the combination
      therapy (in combination with statins, antiaggregants, beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting
      enzyme inhibitors (ACE)) and/or to patients with hypertriglyceridemia. The population of
      observed patients will be limited to those who were prescribed Omacor for the first time or
      not earlier than 3 months after the last dose of Omacor and course of administration is at
      least 6 months. Discontinuation of the drug product administration by the patient is not the
      reason for exclusion of the patient from the study. For outcome measures which are
      applicable, further analysis will be performed in subgroups of patients with the different
      medication adherence rate: <0,5, 0,5-0,7, ≥0,8 at Visit 2 and Visit 3. Adherence rate will be
      calculated as the sum of days when patient taken the full prescribed dose of Omacor in period
      divided by the number of days in period.
    
  