
    
      Part A: A randomised controlled trial of 3HP vs 6H [enrollment starts concurrently with Part
      B]

      Justification: The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends at least six months of
      isoniazid (6H) for persons living with HIV. However, 6H remains poorly implemented in most
      high burden tuberculosis (TB) countries. In its 2015 guidelines, WHO includes 3HP as an
      latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) treatment option for high-income and upper middle-income
      countries with TB incidence rates <100/100,000. One trial comparing 3HP to 6H in a high
      burden country suggests that a single round of 3HP has less toxicity, better treatment
      completion rates, and similar efficacy in preventing TB. The purpose of comparing a single
      round of 3HP to 6H is to demonstrate the feasibility of implementing 3HP in high burden
      countries, to explore its safety and effectiveness, and to generate evidence to guide a WHO
      recommendation for the use of 3HP in high burden settings.

      Sample size: If we assume 85% of patients in the 6H arm complete treatment as defined above,
      with 400 patients in the 6H arm and 3600 patients in the 3HP arm we will have 82% power to
      detect an increase in treatment completion of 5% (To -90%) in the 3HP arm. If treatment
      completion in the 6H arm is 75%, we will have approximately 90% power to detect an increase
      in treatment completion of 7% in the 3HP arm.

      Analysis: Treatment completion will be compared by study arm using Fishers Exact test, and
      associated risk difference and 95% confidence interval (CI).

      Part B: A randomised controlled trial of 3HP vs p3HP [enrollment starts concurrently with
      Part A]

      Justification: A single round of 3HP has been shown to be non-inferior to 9 months of
      isoniazid (9H) in persons at high risk of developing TB in low and middle TB burden settings.
      Similarly, a single round of 3HP has demonstrated similar efficacy in preventing active TB
      when compared to 6H among HIV-positive, tuberculin skin test (TST)-positive adults in the
      high burden setting of South Africa. In high burden settings, 6H and 3HP provide protection
      of limited duration probably due to high ongoing transmission and reinfection. Continuous
      isoniazid preventive therapy has been shown to provide more durable protection in high burden
      settings, but is not currently policy outside of a handful of countries, and the actual
      uptake is poor. Giving 3HP periodically may provide durable protection, be easier for health
      systems to implement, and may be associated with better adherence and fewer side effects.

      Sample size: Assuming a cumulative TB incidence of 5% over 2 years in the control (3HP) arm,
      an overall loss to follow-up of 10% by year 2, a two-sided type I error of 5%, 1:1
      randomisation, a superiority comparison and 1800 participants per arm, we have 80% power to
      detect a 40% reduction in cumulative TB incidence from months 0 to 24.

      Analysis: The analysis will compare 3HP and p3HP with two years of follow up. Cumulative TB
      incidence will be determined by combining incident TB cases identified over the 24 months of
      follow up AND prevalent TB cases identified at the 12 and 24 month culture survey. Data will
      be reported as a risk difference and odds ratio and their associated 95% CIs, adjusting for
      randomisation strata. The secondary outcome comparing the effectiveness of p3HP to 3HP from
      month 13 to 24 (during which time the greatest effect is likely to be evident) will be
      conducting using the same analytic methods. The results of Part B will be disseminated
      subsequent to the results of Part A.
    
  