
    
      Investigator will compare patients in whom the nervous suture will be performed and patients
      in whom it will not. If a significant difference in oral sensitivity is noted between these 2
      groups, investigator can support our thesis: suturing the flap nerve increases its ability to
      regain sensitivity.

      All patients are first diagnosed in consultation and presented at a carcinologic
      multidisciplinary consultation during which an individually adapted treatment is proposed
      (according to the French "Plan Cancer"). If it consists in a surgery with reconstruction
      using free flap technique at the same time, Investigator then propose to the patient to
      integrate our study. The possibility to participate to this study is therefore proposed to
      the patient on the same day that the plan of treatment is presented. The patient has a period
      of reflection, minimal time necessary to mature his reflection and make their choice with
      their loved ones and decide if they agree to participate to the study. His answer is required
      the day before the surgery. This represents a reflection period of two weeks on average. If
      he accepts it, computer software (RedCap®) will determine at random if the surgical team will
      perform a nervous suture or not. As a result, two groups patients are then created: one with
      nervous suture and one with no nervous suture. By comparing these two groups, investigator
      hope to demonstrate that there will be more patients with a flap sensitive in the "with nerve
      suture" group than in the "without nerve suture" group.

      Investigator will then collect data from tests and questionnaires allowing us to judge the
      resensitization of the flap during follow-up consultations at 3, 6 months then at 1 year
      postoperatively in parallel follow-up consultations. That is to say that the patient
      therefore comes for a consultation as part of his cancer follow up and investigator take
      advantage of this time to carry out tests and questionnaires. This adds about 20 minutes of
      consultation time.

      A preoperative evaluation will be done before the surgery corresponding to the basal state
      calibration. During these consultations, investigator perform two tests and investigator will
      provide 2 quality of life questionnaires to fill out:

        -  The two-discriminating points test: two points are applied on the flap at different
           distances and the patient must indicate if he feels one or two points.

        -  The hot/cold test: hot water and cold water are applied on the flap separately, and the
           patient should indicate if he feels the temperature differences.

        -  The QLQ-C30 and EOTRC H&N 35 questionnaires: several questions concerning the quality of
           life are asked to the patient who must answer them as honestly as possible.

      After collecting all this information, investigator can compare the sensitivity of free flaps
      with or without nerve suture.

      In parallel, investigator will also evaluate the economic impact and cost that this can
      represent by comparing the operating and hospitalization times of patients in each group.
      Investigator believe that the operating time is not increased nor the length of
      hospitalization and therefore that there is no additional cost.
    
  