
    
      The study will be conducted at the "Laboratoire des Fièvres Hémorragiques Virales" in Donka
      National Hospital (Conakry, Guinea), which is the Reference Laboratory for Hemorrhagic Fevers
      in Guinea. The reference based population includes the regions of Conakry and Coyah. No
      specific invasive intervention is required for this research protocol and the study does not
      interfere with the management of the patients according to the ongoing practices in Donka
      Ebola Treatment Center and in Coyah Ebola Treatment Center. Each participant will be verbally
      informed before signing an informed consent. Clinical data will be collected and recorded via
      a source document questionnaire - Clinical Report Form - based on the routine clinical data
      already provided to the laboratory according to the practices. Another questionnaire will be
      submitted to the biologist and technicians involved in the study to assess the practicability
      of the FilmArray technology, compared to conventional techniques, in terms of time to
      results, duration of test manipulation, sense of personnel safety for specimen handling,
      overall workload after each day, and preference of lab professionals.

      As the main objective, analytical performance (sensitivity and specificity) and clinical
      performance (positive and negative predictive values) of the FA BioThreat-E test in whole
      blood will be evaluated in comparison with the QuantiTect® Probe RT-PCR (Qiagen) and the
      RealStar® Filovirus Type RT-PCR Kit 1.0 (Altona) both tests performed on serum.

      The status for EVD will be defined for each patient based on the result of routine testing:

        -  Positive patients: patients enrolled in the study showing positive results with the two
           routine PCR performed in the lab: QuantiTect Probe RT-PCR® and RealStar® Filovirus Type
           RT-PCR Kit 1.0.

        -  Negative patients: patients enrolled in the study showing negative results with the two
           routine PCR performed in the lab: QuantiTect Probe RT-PCR® and RealStar® Filovirus Type
           RT-PCR Kit 1.0.

        -  Equivocal patients: all other results showing a discrepancy between the two routine
           tests.

      As a secondary objective, the possibility of using the FilmArray (FA) BioThreat-E test on
      non-invasive specimens will also be assessed. Urine and saliva specimens will be analyzed by
      FA for confirmed positive cases only (based on routine testing), for patients able to provide
      saliva and/or urine specimens according to their health condition.

      This research protocol was approved by the Guinean Ethical Committee.
    
  