
    
      Purpose To compare the improvement in cognitive deficit after medical management and surgical
      management in the treatment of Chronic Rhinosinusitis.

      Hypothesis Cognitive deficit secondary to chronic rhinosinusitis will show a greater
      improvement with surgical management when compared to medical management.

      Cognitive deficit secondary to chronic rhinosinusitis will improve quicker postoperatively
      for patients offered endoscopic sinus surgery earlier than for those who are placed on long
      waitlists for surgery

      Study Design:

      This is a prospective cohort series to be conducted at the St. Paul's Sinus Centre. All
      patients recruited into the study would have been diagnosed with chronic rhinosinusitis and
      will be subjected to appropriate and standardized medical management. They will be subjected
      to surgical management if they are not completely relieved of their symptoms. Prior to
      medical or surgical management, they will be subjected to the modified mini mental state
      examination to assess their baseline and post treatment (medical and surgical) cognitive
      function.

      Data storage and safeguards The data will be stored on a password protected computer at St.
      Paul's Hospital in the Department of Otolaryngology on an encrypted Microsoft excel
      spreadsheet. The computer containing study data will be password-protected for access only by
      the principal investigator, co-investigator and study coordinator stored in a locked office,
      and backed-up remotely on to a secured hospital server. All hard copy documents will be kept
      in binders, in the Principal Investigator's office in a locked cabinet.

      Patients participating in the study will all be assigned random study ID numbers. The study
      code is not derived from or related to the information about the individual, i.e., name, SIN,
      PHN, hospital number, DOB, address, or unique characteristic. These numbers will be used on
      all study documentation. Participant names are being stored separately from study data in a
      master list with the study ID numbers.

      Data Monitoring Patients will continue to be assessed at routine follow up visits. Statistics
      will be completed after the study is complete on its objectives. Data will be also monitored
      on a continuous basis.

      Statistical Analysis

      Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize all demographic data, comorbidities, and
      adverse effects reported by the patients. Paired student t-tests will be applied to
      investigate the difference between the mean 3M Examination scores, MLK scores, SNOT-22
      scores, before commencement of each treatment arm and subsequent MLK scores, SNOT-22 scores
      after treatment is complete. A running total of the treatment costs for each patient will be
      maintained. One way Anova test will be applied to investigate the difference between the mean
      costs for each treatment arm. Probability values less than 0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant.
    
  