
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Reduce therapy for patients with intermediate-risk neuroblastoma while maintaining a
           3-year overall survival (OS) rate of ≥ 95% by using a response-based duration of therapy
           algorithm.

        -  Maintain an overall 3-year OS rate of ≥ 90% for patients within each group.

        -  Utilize loss of heterozygosity, prospectively, at 1p36 and 11q23 to refine
           risk-stratification and treatment assignment, allowing patients whose tumors lack these
           chromosomal abnormalities to receive a reduction in therapy, and compare the outcome
           with patients treated on COG-A3961.

        -  Reduce intensity of therapy for patients 365 to < 547 days (12-18 months) of age with
           stage 4 neuroblastoma and favorable biological features and maintain a 3-year event-free
           survival (EFS) rate consistent with that for patients < 1 year of age with stage 4
           neuroblastoma treated on COG-A3961.

        -  Reduce intensity of therapy for patients 365 to < 547 days (12-18 months) of age with
           stage 3 MYCN-nonamplified but unfavorable histology neuroblastoma and maintain a 3-year
           EFS rate consistent with that for patients < 1 year of age with stage 3,
           MYCN-nonamplified, unfavorable histology neuroblastoma treated on COG-A3961.

        -  Reduce surgical morbidity for patients with stage 4S neuroblastoma by allowing for
           biopsy only, rather than complete surgical resection, of the primary tumor.

        -  Systematically study the outcome of patients with stage 4S neuroblastoma who are unable
           to undergo biopsy for biology-based risk assignment.

        -  Determine if the extent of surgical resection correlates with the maintenance of local
           control, EFS and/or OS rates, and surgical complication rate.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the results of a standard retrieval approach for patients with residual
           disease after 8 courses of initial therapy.

        -  Determine the results of a standard retrieval approach for patients with progressive,
           nonmetastatic disease.

        -  Identify additional biological surrogate markers for disease relapse and/or metastatic
           progression.

        -  Describe the neurologic outcome of patients with paraspinal neuroblastoma primary
           tumors.

        -  Correlate surgical biopsy technique with adequacy of tissue acquisition for biologic
           studies and with complications associated with the biopsy procedure.

        -  Prospectively validate the prognostic ability of the International Neuroblastoma Risk
           Group image-defined risk factor system, and compare the institutional assessment of
           image-defined risk factors with that of central review.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups by
      risk-stratification based on age, stage (INSS stage 2, 3, 4, or 4S), MYCN status (amplified
      vs not amplified), histopathologic classification, tumor DNA index, and allelic status at
      chromosome bands 11q23 and 1p36.

        -  Initial chemotherapy: Courses of initial chemotherapy are administered every 21 days
           according to group assignment as outlined below:

             -  Course 1: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1 and etoposide IV
                over 1 hour on days 1-3.

             -  Course 2: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour, cyclophosphamide IV over 1
                hour, and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 15 minutes on day 1.

             -  Course 3: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day 1 and etoposide
                IV over 1 hour on days 1-3.

             -  Course 4: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour and doxorubicin hydrochloride
                IV over 15 minutes on day 1 and etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-3.

             -  Course 5: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day 1 and etoposide
                IV over 1 hour on days 1-3.

             -  Course 6: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour, cyclophosphamide IV over 1
                hour, and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 15 minutes on day 1.

             -  Course 7: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1 and etoposide IV
                over 1 hour on days 1-3.

             -  Course 8: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour and doxorubicin
                hydrochloride IV over 15 minutes on day 1.

                  -  Group 2: Patients receive 2 courses of initial chemotherapy. Patients with a
                     partial response (PR) (50-90% reduction in volume) to chemotherapy proceed to
                     observation. Patients without a PR receive 2-6 additional courses of
                     chemotherapy (beginning with course 3). Patients who do not achieve a PR after
                     additional chemotherapy proceed to retrieval chemotherapy.

                  -  Group 3: Patients receive 4 courses of initial chemotherapy. Patients with a
                     PR after chemotherapy proceed to observation. Patients without a PR receive
                     2-4 additional courses of chemotherapy (beginning with course 5). Patients who
                     do not achieve a PR after additional chemotherapy proceed to retrieval
                     chemotherapy.

                  -  Group 4: Patients receive 8 courses of initial chemotherapy. Patients under 12
                     months of age with stage 3, 4, or 4S disease who achieve a very good PR (VGPR)
                     (> 90% reduction in the volume of the primary tumor and resolution of
                     metastatic disease, with the exception of liver and skin metastases) to
                     chemotherapy proceed to observation. Patients 12-18 months of age with stage 3
                     or 4 disease [age 365 to < 547 days at diagnosis, INSS stage 3, MYCN-NA,
                     unfavorable histology, any ploidy and patients age 365 to < 547 days at
                     diagnosis, INSS stage 4, MYCN-NA, favorable histology, DI > 1] who achieve a
                     VGPR proceed to isotretinoin therapy. Patients who do not achieve a VGPR after
                     8 courses of initial chemotherapy +/- surgery will proceed to retrieval
                     chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide/topotecan for 2-6 courses until a VGPR can
                     be achieved with a combination of chemotherapy and surgery.

        -  Retrieval chemotherapy*: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes and
           topotecan IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6
           courses.

             -  Groups 2 and 3: Patients with a PR after 2-6 courses of retrieval chemotherapy
                proceed to observation. Patients without a PR after 2-6 courses of retrieval
                chemotherapy are removed from protocol therapy.

             -  Group 4: Patients under 12 months of age with stage 4 disease with a VGPR after
                retrieval chemotherapy proceed to observation. Patients 12-18 months of age with
                stage 3 or 4 disease who achieve a VGPR after retrieval chemotherapy proceed to
                isotretinoin therapy. Patients who do not achieve a VGPR after retrieval
                chemotherapy are removed from protocol therapy.

      Group 4 patients who develop progressive, non-metastatic disease within 3 years of study
      enrollment will also receive retrieval chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and topotecan.

      NOTE: *Patients who have previously received cyclophosphamide and topotecan to achieve first
      PR/VGPR are not eligible for this Retrieval Therapy.

        -  Surgery: With the exception of patients with INSS 4S disease, patients undergo surgery
           to remove as much of the primary tumor and involved lymph nodes as can safely be
           accomplished. Reassessment for definitive surgery (for patients who undergo biopsy only
           or partial resection at diagnosis) is made at the completion of scheduled chemotherapy
           (after course 2 for group 2, after course 4 for group 3, and after course 8 for group
           4).

        -  Isotretinoin therapy: Beginning 3-4 weeks after completion of chemotherapy or 2 weeks
           post-operatively (for patients who undergo surgical resection), patients receive oral
           isotretinoin twice daily on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up periodically for up to 10 years.
    
  