
    
      The effect of the consumption of fruit-based drinks, sweetened and rich in bioactive
      compounds has been evaluated in acute and chronic clinical studies. They have been carried
      out at the Catholic University of Murcia, in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration of
      Human Studies and approved by the official Ethical Committee of Clinical Studies (CEIC).

      All participants were informed on the characteristics of the study and they signed the
      written-informed consent. Dietetic and life style habits were recorded from all participants.
      There were no drop-outs during the whole period of the study and no adverse effects were
      reported. Safety clinical parameters (hepatic enzymes, renal function) were measured as well.

      Acute study The acute study has determined markers of intake such as metabolites generated
      from ingested polyphenolic compounds, as well as markers of effect, such as markers of
      inflammatory processes, oxidative stress, glycemic and lipid homeostasis and hormones.
      Specifically, the analysis of incretines in plasma using LC-MS techniques has been included.

      A double-blind, randomized, cross-over clinical study has been conducted in a population of
      20 overweight individuals. After an initial phase of 3 days of wash-out with a strict diet
      free of polyphenols and added sugars, 330 mL of the problem drink was administered on fasting
      conditions:

        -  Drink made with lemon and maqui and sweetened with saccharose

        -  Drink made with lemon and maqui and sweetened with sucralose

        -  Drink made with lemon and maqui and sweetened with stevia

      Blood samples were then taken at various times (0, 15, 30, 60, 90, 120, 210 minutes). Urine
      samples were collected 24 hours earlier (0 point) as well as in 0-4, 4-8, 8-12, 12-24 h
      tranches.

      After 7 days, the process was repeated again, for each volunteer to take another drink, until
      all the drinks were consumed by all the volunteers.

      Chronic study Prolonged consumption of beverages over several weeks will allow the later
      modification markers, such as parameters related to inflammation or oxidative status and
      long-term hormonal response, to be evaluated.

      The trial is randomized, double-blind, parallel, with 3 groups of 46 subjects each. The
      groups were randomized stratified by sex, BMI, and age. Recruitment has taken place at
      various Health Centers and at UCAM. Those who are able to participate have been informed of
      the study and asked to sign informed consent.

      The study includes beverages already studied in acute intervention:

        -  Drink made with lemon and maqui and sweetened with saccharose

        -  Drink made with lemon and maqui and sweetened with sucralose

        -  Drink made with lemon and maqui and sweetened with stevia

      Participants were advised not to change their dietary habits during the study period.

      Each individual was given a type of drink (330 mL/day) for 60 days. Blood samples were taken,
      as well as 24h-urine, at day 0 and at the end of the study (60 days), to perform the various
      assessments.
    
  