
    
      To breach the current controversies, there is an urgent need for well-designed controlled
      human intervention trials evaluating the true impact of boiled potato consumption as part of
      a healthy dietary pattern on cardiometabolic health. There are two important issues that need
      to be addressed when designing such an intervention study: First, the longer-term effects of
      boiled potato consumption on established fasting and postprandial cardiovascular risk markers
      should be addressed. Second, the effect of boiled potatoes should be studied using an
      iso-energetic exchange for other traditionally main carbohydrate sources. These
      carbohydrate-sources will be part of a recommended healthy dietary pattern to mimic as
      closely as possible current dietary guidelines, facilitating the implementation of the
      outcomes. Effects will be studied in both fasting and postprandial conditions. In fact, the
      evidence is accumulating that optimizing postprandial glucose and lipid responses are
      important targets for maintaining health. Since potatoes, white rice and white pasta are all
      products with a high glycemic index and concomitant relatively steep glucose excursions after
      intake, the question is how long-term intake of these products affects the metabolic capacity
      of our body to respond to postprandial challenges. Interestingly, potatoes are not only rich
      in complex carbohydrates but are also more nutrient-dense (a wide variety of minerals,
      vitamins, and micronutrients) as compared to white rice and white pasta. In addition,
      potatoes provide large amounts of fiber and are more satiating than other carbohydrate
      sources. This nutrient profile might beneficially impact the resilience of the metabolic
      machinery and as such improve postprandial cardiometabolic plasma profiles (glucose, insulin,
      and triacylglycerol). In other words, there might be a beneficial effect of longer-term
      potato consumption in comparison with longer-term white pasta and white rice consumption will
      not only be present in fasting conditions but particularly in the postprandial state when the
      cardiometabolic system is challenged.
    
  