
    
      Description of the modalities for recruiting :

      Following screening and discovery of a DCIS, patients are referred to the center for surgical
      management.

      During a standard consultation, the surgeon presents the study to the patient who has been
      diagnosed with extensive DCIS with an indication for mastectomy. The surgeon provides the
      patient with the information note and the consent form to participate in the study. Once the
      consent form is signed by the patient and the investigator, the investigator prescribes a
      screening test to be performed within 30 days prior to the start of hormone therapy.

      Screening assessment includes :

      A clinical exam and a breast imaging exam (mammography and breast and axillary ultrasound).
      In case of a suspicious breast ultrasound image, microbiopsy will be performed to eliminate
      an infiltrating component.

      One or more macrobiopsy. Each biopsied site will be located using an X-ray clip inserted at
      the time of sample.

      A MRI post-macrobiopsy. Research of estrogen receptor expression

      Once the investigator has verified and validated all the eligibility criteria, the patient
      will be included.

      Prescriptions for Tamoxifen (non-menopausal patients) or Anastrozole (menopausal patients)
      are given to patients and dispensed by the center's pharmacy.

      Monitoring during treatment :

      Patients will benefit from imaging monitoring (Mammography, +/- breast ultrasound, +/-
      axillary ultrasound, MRI) at 3 months and 6 months during hormonotherapy.

      In case of progression observed during treatment, hormone therapy will be stopped and you
      will then benefit from a mastectomy.

      Surgery :

      Mastectomy or tumorectomy will be performed according to the tumor response to hormone
      therapy observed on MRI.

      All patients will benefit sentinel node detection. An additional axillary dissection will be
      performed based on the results of the sentinel node analysis.

      Analysis of biomarkers and tumor microenvironment before and after treatment on diagnostic
      macrobiopsies and on tumorectomy or mastectomy will be performed at Institut de Cancérologie
      de l'Ouest.

      Patients will be seen in postoperative consultation. Adjuvant treatments or re-surgical
      interventions will be prescribed, carried out, and the patients will be followed up and
      examined at 6 months after surgery or at the end of adjuvant treatments and then annually for
      10 years (with control mammography).

      Patients who have had conservative surgery will have an MRI at 6 months from the end of
      radiotherapy.

      All patients will be asked to complete quality of life questionnaires at baseline, 6 and 12
      months post-surgery, and annually for 9 years:

      EORTC QLQ-C30 (up to 5 years only), Short Form (36) Health Survey questionnaire.
    
  