
    
      Background: Childhood Apraxia of Speech (CAS) is a severe speech-language disorder whose
      etiological, neuroanatomical and genetic correlates are largely unknown. In this trial the
      effects of an innovative rehabilitative approach, PROMPT (PROMPTS for Restructuring Oral
      Muscular Phonetic Targets) will be evaluated from a behavioral and neuroanatomical point of
      view.

      Objective: the current study is aimed to assess speech-language and white matter
      microstructure and volumetric changes induced by the PROMPT treatment.

      Participants: Twenty-two Children with CAS aged 4 -12 years are enrolled and assigned to a
      PROMPT treatment (PROMPT-t ) or a Language and Non-Speech Oral Motor-treatment group
      (LNSOM-t).

      Methods: All children with CAS will undergo a comprehensive clinical, neurological and
      speech-language assessment. The following procedures will be applied: a) anamnestic interview
      b) oral non verbal and verbal movements eveluation c) phonetic inventory, accuracy and
      consistency of speech d) DDK (Diadochokinetic rate, receptive and expressive vocabulary and
      grammar tests; f) spontaneous language analysis. These multiple measurements were aggregated
      and converted into a speech and language composite score.

      MRI data will be acquired using a 1.5 T MR scanner. Structural images obtained with a 3D
      isotropic T1 weighted sequence will be analysed to evaluate volumetric alterations, to
      investigate cortical thickness and automatically delineate various Regions of Interest
      (ROIs). HARDI images will be acquired using 32 gradient directions and will be processed
      using tools available in FSL and MRtrix. Tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS) will be used
      to statistically analyse images of FA and mean diffusivity. Fiber tracts will be calculated
      using constrained spherical deconvolution and probabilistic tractography. Connectomes will be
      calculated by combining ROIs obtained from the structural images with tractography.
      Network-based analysis will be used to statistically analyse connectomes.

      Speech and language assessment and brain MRI VBM and DTI analysis will be performed at
      baseline and at the end of the treatment.

      Statistical analysis: Paired t-test on pre and post treatment behavioural and MRI/DTI
      measures will be performed to assess the changes within each of the two groups. Moreover,
      comparisons between the two groups at T0 and T1 will be performed by means of non parametric
      tests.

      Evaluation of potentially training-induced changes of brain structural connectivity may
      provide further support to the hypothesis that CAS is due to a disruption of networks
      subserving the speech production system.
    
  