
    
      It is a monocentric, controlled intervention trial. The study will be carried out in
      cross-over design. This design was chosen because of a moderately strong individual metabolic
      response to the test meal.

      Two interventions are planned in which the subjects will receive a test meal with phosphate
      supplement or with placebo in random order on 2 days. Subjects will be randomized to one of
      the 2 treatment arms.

      On the two intervention days (T1 and T2), the subjects are placed a venous indwelling
      cannula. Immediately after the first blood sample the subjects take the fat and
      carbohydrate-rich test meal along with 700 mg of phosphorus or a placebo, both in the form of
      capsules. Phosphorus is administered as sodium phosphate . The placebo used is sodium
      chloride with equivalent amounts of sodium. The filler should be silica and mannitol. The
      capsules are made of hard gelatin and dissolve in about 10 minutes. The capsules are taken
      with 300 ml of water. The verum and placebo capsules are produced by the central pharmacy of
      the University Hospital.

      The test meal consists of a pasta dish with oily tomato sauce. It is freshly prepared by the
      study staff and packaged airtight in individual portions before being handed out to the
      subjects. The test meal should be consumed within 10 - 12 minutes. The time is documented by
      the study staff. The next blood sample is taken immediately after the end of consumption
      (time 0), all other 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 180, 240, 300, 360, 420 and 480 minutes
      thereafter. All blood samples are taken in a lying position. The first 3 hours after eating
      the test meal the subjects should spend reclining. In the following 5 hours subjects are free
      to move in the study center with each patient taking a recumbent position 10 minutes before
      the next blood draw. Immediately before all blood samples are taken the measurement of blood
      pressure and pulse is provided for which the opposite arm is to be used. Furthermore the
      collection of urine samples is provided every hour. Subjects are encouraged to take 200 ml of
      water every hour on the intervention day. At the end of the intervention, a snack will be
      provided.
    
  