
    
      Experimental design and methods (including statistical analysis)

      Participant recruitment:

      Potential participants who meet the eligibility criteria will be identified from among
      patients referred to the adult clinical psychology service within the department of Adult
      Audiology at the Royal National Throat Nose & Ear Hospital. These patients will be approached
      and invited to discuss participation in the project. The potential participants will be given
      full information about the study and invited to consider whether they wish to participate.

      Design

      This study an independent groups, repeated measures design. Two groups will be assessed at
      different time points. Group 1 will receive 8 weeks of Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy
      (MBCT) and Group 2 will receive 8 weeks of Relaxation Training (RT; an active control). All
      participants will be assessed at five main time-points:

        -  8 weeks pre-treatment,

        -  The start of treatment

        -  The end of treatment

        -  1 month follow-up

        -  6 month follow-up

      The primary outcome measure will be that of tinnitus complaint, and secondary outcome
      measures will be taken of psychological distress and tinnitus loudness, tinnitus acceptance
      and everyday mindfulness.

      Measures:

      A number of Questionnaire measures and a Visual Analogue Scale will be used to assess
      tinnitus complaint, psychological well-being and mindfulness.

      Participants are evaluated on all measures at initial assessment (8 weeks pre-treatment), at
      treatment commencement, at end of treatment and at 1and 6 month follow-up.

      Statistical Analyses

      The primary outcome will be the change in tinnitus complaint as measured by the Tinnitus
      Questionnaire from pre-treatment to post-treatment. This will be assessed by using t-tests.

      Further statistical exploration will use t-tests to assess change from initial assessment to
      end of the 8-week waiting period, and to assess change or maintenance of change from the end
      of treatment to the 1and 6 month follow-up points. The same type of analysis will be done on
      the measures of psychological well-being.

      To assess for differences in outcome between the MBCT and RT groups, a series of
      repeated-measures (2x2) (Group 1 - Group 2 x pre-treatment - post-treatment) ANOVAS will be
      carried out. This will allow for the assessment of between group effects and any interaction
      effects between group and time.

      A number of correlations will also be performed to assess for relationships between
      psychological distress pre-treatment and tinnitus outcome within each group. Correlation will
      also be performed to assess for relationships between changes in tinnitus complaint and
      tinnitus acceptance and everyday mindfulness. They will also be performed to assess for
      relationships between changes in psychological distress and everyday mindfulness.

      Chi-square analyses will be carried out on the measures of tinnitus complaint and CORE-OM
      score pre- and post-treatment to assess for the numbers of patients within each group who
      demonstrate clinically significant change. A clinically significant change in tinnitus
      complaint is defined as change of at least 10 points reduction on the TQ. A clinically
      significant change in psychological well-being is defined as a reduction of at least 0.5 on
      the total mean CORE-OM score.

      Correlations will be performed to assess for possible associations between patient
      characteristics, attendance, amount of home practice and various outcomes. Weekly measures of
      mindfulness will be used to explore the temporal sequence of change.

      Methodology:

      All participants will be assessed using all of the measures described above over a 2 week
      period. They will then be randomly assigned to one of two groups: Group 1 will be treated
      using an 8 week course of Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT). Group 2 will be treated
      using an 8 week course of Relaxation Training (RT).This randomization will be carried out by
      a member of staff at the Ear Institute, who is independent from the clinical part of the
      trial. He will use a computer programme to complete randomization.

      After assessment, patients enter a 'waiting' stage of the trial, during which they receive no
      intervention for eight weeks. Four weeks into the waiting time, all patients will be sent a
      letter to confirm the dates and times at which their specific group will take place. On the
      eighth week, participants will attend the first group session. At this point, prior to
      commencement of the group, they will complete all of the measures described above for a
      second time.

      All participants will then attend 8 consecutive weeks of group treatment. Throughout this
      treatment period, at the end of each session, participants will complete two brief measures
      (the MAAS the TAQ). This is important as it will allow for the temporal sequence of change to
      be assessed, offering an opportunity to explore the potential mediation effect of
      mindfulness. At the end of the eighth week, they will again be asked to complete all of the
      measures for a third time.

      All participants will then be invited to attend two further sessions - at 1 and 6 months
      after treatment completion. At the start of these sessions all participants will be asked to
      complete all of the measures described above for a fourth and fifth time. These sessions will
      also provide ongoing support to the participants as they will provide an opportunity to
      discuss how they are after the groups have finished.

      Thus MBCT will be compared to an active control condition (RT) and a passive control
      condition (wait list control), and RT will also be compared to the passive wait-list control
      condition.
    
  