
    
      Design: Studies will be three phase randomized crossover design with all subjects undergoing
      all three phases. Each phase will be one month in duration with at least 2-4 weeks washout
      between phases.

      General Protocol: Both dietary studies (Study 1 fiber plus polyfructans; and Study 2 soy plus
      polyfructans) will follow the same general protocol. Supplements and measurements will differ
      between studies. Diets will be self-selected low-fat diets throughout (<7% of total energy as
      saturated fat and, <200 mg/d dietary cholesterol). Supplements will be provided at weekly
      intervals. At the start and at two weekly intervals during the study body weight, blood
      pressure and fasting bloods will be taken together with 24h urine and 4-day fecal collections
      and samples for fecal microbiology to be obtained during week 4. Treatments: Both studies
      will involve a control diet which will be an NCEP step 2 diet (low in saturated fat and
      dietary cholesterol) with 10-20 g inulin. Study 1 subjects will take 10-15 g viscous fiber
      foods with or without the fructan. Study 2 subjects will take 30-40 g soy protein foods with
      or without the fructan (please see Table 1). The supplements will be provided as foods: oat
      bran bread to be taken with meals and as snacks during Study 1 and soy protein to be taken in
      soy beverage, soy hot dogs, burgers, tofu, etc., during Study 2.

      Study Details: Subjects will come after a 12h overnight fast to the Risk Factor Modification
      Centre at St. Michael's Hospital immediately prior to commencement of each treatment phase
      and at weekly intervals during the course of each study period. Prior to the start of the
      study, subjects will be instructed on details of the study diet protocol. They will also be
      asked to maintain a constant level of physical activity throughout the course of the study.
      At all visits, body weight (in kg) will be obtained in indoor clothing, without shoes, and
      blood pressure will be taken twice in the dominant arm after subjects have been seated for at
      least 20 minutes. Height (in cm) will be recorded at the first visit. Throughout the study
      period, subjects will maintain their usual diet, which should be an NCEP step 2 diet (low
      saturated fat). Subjects will provide a fasting blood sample at week 0 and at weekly periods
      throughout the study. At weeks 0, and 4 seven-day food records will be collected. Subjects
      will also be weighed and seated blood pressure will be taken. Breath samples, 24h urine and
      4-day fecal collections will be made at the beginning of the study and at the end of each
      study phase.

      Diets: Initial dietary records prior to the start of the study together with instruction from
      the dietitian will ensure all subjects are on low fat (<7% of energy from saturated fat), low
      cholesterol diets (<200 mg/d), which they will maintain throughout the study. During the
      study subjects will collect their supplements at weekly intervals and return uneaten
      supplements. Subjects will be provided with self-tarring scales and diet history forms on
      which to record all food eaten together with the weights of all food items consumed during
      each study phase. These will be checked by the dietitian at weekly intervals to ensure
      compliance with the diet plan and to ensure there are no changes in body weight. Photocopies
      of the first week's diet record will be provided to each subject at the start of each phase
      to act as a dietary template and ensure consistency between studies. Compliance: This will be
      assessed by the return of uneaten supplements which will be weighed at the end of each phase
      and from the completed weekly check lists of supplements eaten and seven day diet records.
    
  