
    
      Objective:

      Alcoholism is highly co-morbid with post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Since stress and
      negative affective states are major relapse triggering factors for alcohol use, the negative
      symptoms associated with PTSD are thought to promote alcohol dependence. Substance P, which
      is released in the amygdala in response to stress, acts at NK1 receptors (NK1Rs) to mediate
      behavioral stress responses. Blockade of the NK1R represents a novel approach for anti-stress
      actions. In a recent double blind, placebo controlled study involving detoxified anxious
      alcoholics, we found that NK1R antagonism decreased alcohol cravings, attenuated cortisol
      response to stress, and significantly decreased insula activation in response to negative
      sensory input. The present study is intended to expand the findings and determine whether the
      NK1R is a candidate target for treating alcohol dependent patients with PTSD.

      Study Population:

      On hundred twenty participants with PTSD and co-morbid alcohol dependence will be recruited
      and stratified by PTSD etiology (60 participants each with civilian and combat PTSD, resp).
      Within each stratum, the treatment groups will be balanced for sex using urn randomization.
      Stratification is indicated since civilian and combat-related PTSD can theoretically have a
      different pathophysiology. Civilians typically experience a single trauma exposure of
      invariably high magnitude, resulting in symptoms immediately. Combat-related PTSD typically
      results from multiple traumatic exposures over a prolonged period of time, of variable
      magnitude, and frequently with delayed emergence of symptoms.

      Design:

      Participants will be admitted to the NlAAA research inpatient unit at the NIH Clinical
      Research Center (CRC) under protocol number 05-AA-0121 for assessment and treatment of people
      with alcohol drinking problems, which provides diagnostic assessments and standard withdrawal
      treatment if needed. Participants will enter into the present protocol once such treatment,
      if needed, is completed. Following inclusion, all participants will receive 1 week of single
      blind placebo, and will then be randomized to double blind treatment with aprepitant or
      placebo. Randomized treatment will be for approximately 3 weeks. Spontaneous cravings for
      alcohol, and ratings of psychopathology will be obtained twice weekly on the inpatient unit
      throughout the study. Cravings as well as endocrine and immune responses will also be
      assessed in a challenge session that combines a social stressor and exposure to physical
      alcohol cues. During the final week, three sessions utilizing scripts will be carried out, on
      separate days in counter-balanced order, exposing the participant to personalized trauma,
      alcohol associated or neutral stimuli. Cravings as well as endocrine and immune responses
      will also be assessed during the script presentations. An fMRI session will be carried out
      during week 4 to assess responses to affective stimuli. Participants will remain hospitalized
      throughout the study, and will remain on the unit for a three day post-medication monitoring
      period.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome will be change in craving for alcohol and changes in PTSD symptoms
      resulting from the script sessions. Secondary outcomes will include cravings and changes in
      PTSD symptoms resulting from the combined social stress-alcohol cue challenge session,
      spontaneous craving and PTSD symptoms during hospitalization, and brain responses on the fMRI
      session. Changes in PTSD symptoms and change in craving for alcohol are intended to be
      surrogate markers for the overall effect of the drug treatment and are not intended to
      represent global improvement for either PTSD or alcoholism.
    
  