
    
      Compared to their urban counterparts, HIV-rural persons are more likely to be diagnosed with
      depression, less likely to seek assistance from mental health professionals, and appear to
      have shorter periods of survival. This application responds to PA-07-103 ("Research on Rural
      Mental Health and Drug Abuse Disorders") and the PA's stated need for research that will
      "Study whether individuals with various mental disorders can be treated effectively via
      telemedicine." A pilot RCT recently completed by our team showed that a 6-session
      telephone-delivered, interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT) intervention reduced depressive
      symptoms in 79 HIV- infected rural persons (Ransom, Heckman, et al., 2008, Psychiatric
      Services). This follow-up RCT will enroll 180 persons living with HIV/AIDS in rural counties
      in the United States who are diagnosed with depression via telephone interviews. Participants
      will complete self-administered surveys at pre-intervention, post- intervention, and 4- and
      8-month follow-up that assess depressive symptoms (the primary outcome measure),
      interpersonal problems, social support, and ART adherence. Participants will also provide
      weekly data (for 41 weeks) via interactive voice response (IVR) systems that assess
      depressive symptoms (41 weeks) and therapeutic alliance (9 weeks). Ninety (n=90) participants
      will be randomly assigned to a 9-session, one-on- one, telephone-delivered, IPT intervention
      and 90 will be assigned to a usual care comparison group. Linear mixed models (LMM) will test
      if IPT participants report greater reductions in depressive symptoms compared to usual care
      controls. Analyses of reliable change will test if a greater proportion of IPT participants
      report clinically-significant reductions in depressive symptoms compared to usual care
      controls. Using weekly data collected via IVR systems, time series analyses will test if IPT
      participants report greater decreases in depressive symptoms over a 41-week follow-up period
      compared to usual care control. Mixed models analyses will assess the importance of
      therapeutic alliance in telephone-delivered IPT. Public Health Significance: This study will
      test if nine sessions of telephone-administered interpersonal psychotherapy can reduce
      depressive symptoms in HIV-infected rural persons, a group that is increasing in size and
      that experiences great difficulty accessing mental health support services.
    
  