
    
      The prognosis for pancreatic cancer is dismal, with a five-year survival rate of 4.9%.
      Current treatment options include surgical resection, chemotherapy and radiation. Only 15%
      percent of pancreatic cancers are considered resectable at the time of diagnosis. Current
      chemotherapeutic options are limited, as pancreatic adenocarcinoma is poorly responsive to
      chemotherapy. Radiofrequency ablation of the pancreas in the setting of locally advanced
      unresectable disease has been described in a few case series1-6, but implementation of that
      technology is limited by concerns over thermal injury to adjacent organs and vessels. With
      42,470 new cases of pancreatic cancer diagnosed annually in the US and given that pancreatic
      cancer is expected to claim 35,240 lives this year in the US7, it is the fourth leading cause
      of cancer death in the Unites States. This information supports the notion that there is an
      unquestionable need for novel therapeutic strategies for the treatment of this disease.

      Irreversible electroporation (IRE) has the potential to dramatically widen the treatment
      options for patients with pancreatic cancer. It provides a minimally invasive procedure that
      could potentially avoid radical surgery for smaller lesions, and it could potentially offer
      palliation of symptoms such as pain, gastric outlet obstruction and jaundice in patients with
      locally advanced unresectable disease. Preliminary studies of IRE in the liver and prostate
      have demonstrated that structures such as bile ducts, ejaculatory ducts, neurovascular
      bundles, blood vessels, and the urethra heal normally after ablation, suggesting that vessels
      and ducts within and around the pancreas may also be heal normally. Collagen matrix during
      treatment with IRE is not destroyed thus allowing for a structure to heal normally. There is
      no evidence that nerve ganglion are damaged.

      Heat based ablative therapy in the pancreas has the potential for unique complications.
      Pancreatic necrosis is believed to play a role in creating a potentially life-threatening
      systemic inflammatory response in patients with severe acute pancreatitis8, 9 and the
      presence of free active pancreatic enzymes is believed to contribute to the inflammatory
      cascade of acute pancreatitis. Irreversible electroporation could potentially cause both
      pancreatic necrosis and the release of active pancreatic enzymes. Additionally, the pancreas
      surrounds or abuts several vital structures, including the common bile duct, the pancreatic
      duct, the superior mesenteric artery and vein (SMA and SMV), the portal vein, the stomach,
      and the duodenum. IRE as a non-thermic ablative modality has the potential to achieve
      pancreatic ablation with respect of the surrounding vascular and ductal structures.

      Electroporation is a technique that increases cell membrane permeability by momentarily
      changing the transmembrane potential and subsequently disrupting the lipid bi-layer integrity
      to allow transportation of molecules across the cell membrane via nano-size pores. This
      process - when used in a reversible fashion - has been used in research for drug or gene
      delivery into cells.

      Irreversible electroporation (IRE) is a method to induce irreversible disruption of cell
      membrane integrity (loss of cell homeostasis) resulting in cell death without the need for
      additional pharmacological injury. Because IRE is a non-thermal technique, changes associated
      with perfusion-mediated tissue cooling (or heating) are not relevant. While cells in the
      ablation region are destroyed, the underlying extracellular matrix is not damaged thus
      allowing tissues in the ablation zone to heal normally.

      IRE is administered under general anesthesia with administration of atracurium,
      cis-atracurium, pancuronium or an equivalent neuromuscular blocking agent. This is mandatory
      to prevent undesirable muscle contraction.
    
  