
    
      This research will use a novel approach to distinguish the short-term effects on LBP of
      physical activities from the long-term effects of such activities, by conducting a
      longitudinal case-crossover study nested within a cohort study. This design accounts for
      measured and unmeasured confounds by using each case as his/her own control- an entirely
      observational study that is analogous to a crossover experiment- capitalizing on modern
      mobile health and actigraphy technology. The primary exposures of interest are 10
      self-reported physical activities commonly performed during work and activities of daily
      living, and actigraphy-assessed physical activity. Other exposures of interest include
      psychological factors, social factors, lifestyle-related factors, and work-related factors.
      The primary outcomes are participant-reported "flares" of low back pain (Aim 1) and
      participant-reported back-related functional limitations (mobility and activities of daily
      living [ADLs]) at 1-year follow-up, as measured by the Roland-Morris Disability
      Questionnaire. This observational study will include up to 550 Veterans with LBP aged 18 and
      older recruited from the VA Puget Sound Health Care System (VAPSHCS). The study will not
      affect participants' medical care in any way. After informed consent, recruitment, and
      baseline data collection, study participants will complete frequent, serial electronic
      "e-Questionnaires" using their own personal electronic devices (personal computer [PC],
      tablet, or smartphone) over the 1-year period of follow-up. Participants may also wear
      ActiGraph units for the 1st 4 weeks of follow-up. Long-term outcomes will be assessed by
      extended e-Questionnaires completed at 1-year follow-up. Aim 1 analyses will examine the
      short-term effects of 10 specific activity categories on participant-reported flares across
      all study assessments over 1-year follow-up. Aim 2 analyses will examine associations between
      the frequency of exposure to 10 specific activity categories over weeks 1-4 of follow-up, and
      long-term functional recovery at 12 months as defined by the RMDQ. All analyses will use a
      biopsychosocial framework accounting for potential confounders (sociodemographics,
      psychological factors, etc.) and effect modifiers, and will include sensitivity analyses to
      examine the robustness of findings and important study assumptions. This study was registered
      prior to the start of enrollment.
    
  