
    
      Atherosclerosis is a leading cause of carotid artery stenosis. The risk of atherosclerosis
      increases with age, occurring mainly in middle-aged and elderly populations. The morbidity
      and mortality of stroke caused by atherosclerosis also increase with aging. An epidemiologic
      study demonstrated that carotid artery intima-media thickness is a marker of atherosclerotic
      peripheral arterial disease, and found evidence that the likelihood of a clinical diagnosis
      of atherosclerosis increases two- to threefold from 20 to 90 years of age. The risk of
      atherosclerosis also increases with age in animals fed atherosclerosis-inducing diets. The
      close relationship between atherosclerosis and aging shows that atherosclerosis is a chronic
      and progressive degenerative disease.

      Atherosclerotic carotid stenosis is an independent risk factor for ischemic cerebrovascular
      disease. Vascular stenting of carotid artery stenosis is an increasingly popular technique.
      It is safe, quick, minimally invasive, can be performed under local anesthesia, and can be
      used to treat proximal and intracranial lesions. Vascular stenting enables flow to be
      restored in previously narrowed vessels, restoring blood supply to the brain and preventing
      plaque rupture. Carotid artery stenosis of 70%-90% is considered the highest risk for stroke,
      and is a compelling indication for stenting. The Smart stent system (Cordis Corporation,
      Miami, FL, USA) is a nitinol self-expanding stent that is soft, elastic, has uniform radial
      tension and is readily endothelialized.

      Phatouros et al. treated four patients with carotid artery stenosis >70% using self-expanding
      Smart stents and <20% residual stenosis was achieved in all cases; no transient ischemic
      attacks or new strokes occurred during a follow up period of 6 months. Drescher et al. also
      used self-expanding Smart stents in 13 patients with severe carotid artery stenosis and found
      no complications during a 6-month follow-up period. Wholey et al. deployed stents to treat
      carotid artery stenosis in more than 500 patients, and found that the rates of neurologic
      complications and restenosis were decreased after application of either balloon-mounted or
      self-expanding stents. Three-year follow-up results have shown that balloon-mounted stents
      lead to better vessel patency than self-expanding stents, but that balloon-mounted stents are
      vulnerable to compression. Lownie et al. examined the efficacy of self-expanding Smart stents
      in 21 patients with severe symptomatic carotid artery stenosis (stenosis >70%) without
      angioplasty. All patients were followed up for an average period of 19 months. Self-expanding
      Smart stents improved vascular stenosis and blood flow without the need for balloons or
      adjunctive protection devices.

      Zhao et al. used Smart stents to treat patients with carotid artery stenosis of >65%, and
      found the treatment safe and effective, while observing no severe complications. Li et al.
      treated patients with carotid bifurcation and origin stenosis of >50% with self-expanding
      Smart stents, and found that patients' neurologic function improved to different extents, and
      that there were no strokes or transient cerebral ischemic attacks during a subsequent period
      of 13-14 months. Chen et al. used self-expanding Smart stents to treat 48 patients with
      carotid artery stenosis of 75%-99%, achieving favorable clinical outcomes in 43 (89.6%), with
      no recurrence of stenosis during a relatively short follow-up period of 1-6 months, and few
      postoperative complications or sequelae.

      In a cohort of 38 patients with extracranial artery (internal carotid artery outer segment,
      vertebral artery or subclavian artery) stenosis treated with Smart stents and followed up for
      an average of 18 months, satisfactory clinical outcomes were achieved in 33 (86.8%). These
      investigators also treated another cohort of 41 patients with carotid artery stenosis with
      Smart stents, and concluded that vascular Smart stent deployment is an effective and safe
      method for treating carotid artery stenosis.

      No long-term or randomized controlled trial evidence regarding the use of the Smart nitinol
      stent system for the treatment of atherosclerotic carotid stenosis currently exists. This
      study is a non-randomized controlled trial, in which deployment of the Smart nitinol stent
      system will be compared with conservative management with platelet aggregation inhibitors in
      a group of patients with severe atherosclerotic carotid stenosis subsequently followed up for
      2 years.

      Adverse events Possible adverse events associated with Smart stent implantation include
      vascular spasm, bradycardia, hypotension, luxury perfusion syndrome, intraoperative
      thrombosis and thrombus detachment, ischemic stroke, intraoperative hypertension,
      postoperative hypotension and hypoglycemia. If adverse events occur, details of the event
      including the date of occurrence, measures taken related to the treatment, causal
      relationship with the treatment and treatment of the adverse event will be reported to the
      principal investigator and the institutional review board within 24 hours.

      Data collection, management, analysis and open access All data will be collected in case
      report forms and collated. Collated data will be input into an electronic database using a
      double-data entry strategy by trained professional staff. Information accuracy will be
      checked when all recruited patients are followed up. The database will be locked by the
      researcher in charge and will not be altered. All information relating to this trial will be
      preserved by Beijing Jishuitan Hospital, China. The electronic database will be fully
      disclosed to a professional statistician for statistical analysis. Anonymized trial data will
      be published at www.figshare.com.

      Statistical analysis Statistical analysis will be performed by a statistician blinded to
      grouping using SPSS 14.0 software. Normally distributed measurement data will be expressed as
      the mean ± standard deviation, and numeration data as the frequency. The two sample t-test or
      rank sum test will be used to compare the means of measurement data between the stent
      implantation and drug groups. The chi-squared test will be used to compare numeration data
      between the groups. Multivariate regression analysis will be used to compare mRS scores 2
      years after treatment. Kaplan-Meier and Cox Proportional Hazards Survival regression analysis
      will be used to examine survival time and survival state. A P value <0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant.

      Frequency and measures for monitoring trial implementation Trial progression will be reported
      to the ethics committee of Beijing Jishuitan Hospital, China every 6-12 months and the
      trial's status will be updated in the registration database.

      Confidentiality principle The electronic database will be preserved in a dedicated
      password-protected computer and managed by a data management professional. Data recorded on
      paper will be preserved in a secure, locked place for future viewing.
    
  