
    
      Obesity, defined by a body mass index (BMI) ≥ 30 kg/m2, affects more than 31% of American
      adults. Additionally, nearly one-quarter of U.S. adults meet criteria for the metabolic
      syndrome, a clustering of clinical signs (i.e., elevated waist circumference, blood pressure,
      glucose or triglycerides, decreased HDL cholesterol) that is associated with increased risk
      of cardiovascular death. Behavior modification programs and pharmacologic interventions for
      obesity typically result in an 8% to 10% loss of initial body weight. Losses of this
      magnitude are associated with clinically significant improvements in metabolic parameters
      among obese persons. The availability of traditional behavioral weight control programs,
      however, is limited as many of these programs are based in academic medical centers.
      Furthermore, pharmacotherapy is seldom covered by third-party payers. Thus, there are
      concerns about the accessibility of these interventions to the many obese individuals who
      could benefit from weight loss.

      The purpose of the study is to improve the management of obesity in primary care practice,
      where obesity is commonly encountered but infrequently addressed. Three hundred and ninety
      persons at 6 primary care practices within the University of Pennsylvania Health System will
      be randomized to one of three 2-year interventions: Usual Care, Brief Lifestyle Counseling,
      or Enhanced Brief Lifestyle Counseling. After training in obesity management and intervention
      strategies, each site will enroll approximately 65 individuals with a BMI of 30-50 kg/m2 plus
      two or more components of the metabolic syndrome. Participants in the Usual Care condition
      (N=130) will receive educational materials plus quarterly visits with a primary care provider
      (PCP). Those in the Brief Lifestyle Counseling condition (N=130) will receive the same PCP
      visits, plus 26 brief counseling sessions with an auxiliary health care provider (e.g., a
      medical assistant), on-site or by phone. Participants in the Enhanced Brief Lifestyle
      Counseling condition (N=130) will additionally receive the same treatment as those in the
      Brief Lifestyle Counseling group, plus the choice of adjunctive meal replacements or
      pharmacotherapy.

      Two-year changes in weight will be compared across groups. Participants who receive the Brief
      Lifestyle Counseling and the Enhanced Brief Lifestyle Counseling interventions are predicted
      to achieve greater weight loss than those who receive Usual Care. A secondary hypothesis is
      that participants in Enhanced Brief Lifestyle Counseling condition will lose significantly
      more weight at month 24 than participants in the Brief Lifestyle Counseling group. Secondary
      analysis will also compare changes in the metabolic syndrome (and its individual components),
      mood, quality of life, dietary intake, eating behavior, appetite, physical activity and
      sexual function, as well as cost-effectiveness, among the three conditions. Intervention
      protocols and study results will be disseminated to other health care providers and payers.
    
  