
    
      Background: Venous leg ulcers (VLU) are slow healing wounds. They have a high recurrence rate
      and are associated with pain, infection, smell and exudate. 60% of VLU become chronic. The
      signs and symptoms of VLU are not only a burden on those who are affected by it but also on
      the health care system and society in general. While the prevalence of VLU in the general
      population is 1%, it rises to 3% in the over 80 age group. The cost of treatment and care for
      VLU is estimated to be 2 to 3% of the overall health expenditure. Current therapeutic
      approaches are multifaceted and focus on improving wound healing and preventing recurrences.
      As those approaches include compression therapy, leg elevation, specific exercises for the
      foot/ ankle region and a protein rich diet/ nutrition plan a multidisciplinary team of health
      care professionals such as nursing, physiotherapy, occupational therapy and nutrition
      specialists. Most person with VLU have a knowledge deficit in regards to therapeutic measures
      and hence have difficulties with adherence to treatment protocols/ management plans. It is of
      utmost importance, and best practice, that the treatment team provides effective patient
      education and support during the learning phase.

      However, there is little evidence and no published studies that describe and evaluate
      effective multidisciplinary educational interventions that target compliance/ adherence to
      the treatment plan in patients with VLU. Therefore the investigators propose to develop an
      evidence-based interprofessional educational intervention and evaluate its feasibility first
      in a pilot study and subsequently in a randomized controlled trail.

      Method/Design: Firstly, the development of an evidence based education intervention in
      collaboration with an expert panel and secondly a randomized controlled pilot study in one
      wound care outpatient clinic is proposed. Data will be analyzed using SPSS version 23.
      Univariate and bivariate analysis will be conducted according to the data level and
      distribution of the data.

      Discussion: The TIEIVLU will firstly develop an evidenced based educational intervention and
      secondly examine the feasibility of implementing this education intervention in a realistic
      care context in patients with VLU. The results will inform the final design of a following
      RCT which will examine the effectiveness of the educational intervention. An intervention
      that enhances patient adherence to therapy and hence reduces the negative outcomes of VLU
      would be beneficial to individual patients as well as society as a whole.
    
  