
    
      Approximately 5.7 million Americans have heart failure, a leading cause of both morbidity and
      mortality in the United States. Heart failure was listed as a contributing cause in more than
      280,000 deaths in 2008 in the U.S. (1 in 9) and about half of patients diagnosed with heart
      failure die within 5 years. Patients with end stage heart failure have significant symptoms
      (including fatigue and dyspnea) which prevent them from being able to perform most activities
      of daily living. These patients often require repeated or prolonged hospitalizations for
      disease management which contributes significantly to the cost of heart failure for the
      United States (34.4 billion each year).

      Milrinone, a phosphodiesterase III inhibitor, is one of the inotropic medications that has
      been studied and used in the treatment of acutely decompensated heart failure. Several
      studies have evaluated chronic intravenous (IV) inotrope use in end stage heart failure for
      palliation of symptoms as well as evaluated effect on cost through decreased hospital
      readmissions. Hauptman et al and Harjai et al demonstrated significant decreases in hospital
      costs due to reductions in days hospitalized and readmissions after initiation of inotropes
      including milrinone. However, the concern with IV milrinone use is the possibility of
      increased mortality associated with therapy despite improved hemodynamics (increased cardiac
      output, decreased filling pressures) and symptoms as was observed with chronic use of oral
      inotropes. The OPTIME-CHF study confirmed this concern regarding the use of IV milrinone by
      reporting increased mortality in patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III-IV
      ischemic heart failure without hemodynamic compromise as well as statistically significant
      increases in atrial and ventricular arrhythmias when using intravenous milrinone. For this
      reason, the American Heart Association/American College of Cardiology practice guidelines,
      recommend use of IV milrinone only for patients presenting with clinical evidence of
      hypotension associated with hypo-perfusion and elevated cardiac filling pressures in order to
      maintain systemic perfusion and preserve end-organ performance. Administration of chronic IV
      inotropes in heart failure patients with refractory symptoms is categorized as a class IIb
      indication ("usefulness/efficacy is less well established by expert opinion").

      This is a prospective, non-blinded, open-label, phase I clinical trial. We plan to enroll a
      total of ten patients in two blocks of five. Enrollment will be stopped after the first block
      of 5 patients to analyze the pharmacokinetics and safety of inhaled milrinone. Patients will
      have advanced, end-stage HF - and at the discretion of their treating cardiologist who
      ordered the initial right heart catheterization (RHC) for evaluation of HF therapy, patients
      will be sent for right heart catheterization (RHC) to determine if inotropic therapy would be
      beneficial. If the treating cardiologist decides to initiate inotropic therapy based on
      current guideline-recommended therapies after RHC is performed, the patient will be
      considered for the trial as long as they meet all inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      The investigators goals are two fold:

        1. To demonstrate safety by monitoring for pre-specified adverse clinical events and by
           conducting patient reported questionnaires at 24 and 48 +/- 12 hours.

        2. To characterize inhaled milrinone pharmacokinetics. Six plasma samples will be drawn at
           pre-specified time intervals related to inhaled milrinone delivery.
    
  