
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose and toxicity of PEG-interferon alfa-2b and
           sorafenib tosylate in patients with unresectable or metastatic clear cell renal cell
           carcinoma.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To evaluate, in a preliminary manner, the response rate and overall survival of patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  To evaluate the activation of interferon-induced transcription factors in immune cell
           subsets (including regulatory T cells [T regs]) using a novel flow cytometric assay and
           correlate this information with clinical outcome.

        -  To measure circulating levels of IFN-γ and IL-5 for determination of Th1/Th2 status and
           CD4+, CD25+, and FoxP3 cell number (T regs) in peripheral blood.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive PEG-interferon alfa-2b subcutaneously on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36,
      43, and 50. Patients also receive oral sorafenib tosylate 2-3 times daily on days 15-56 of
      course 1 and on days 1-56 of all subsequent courses. Courses repeat every 56 days for up to 1
      year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline and periodically during study for correlative
      laboratory studies. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells are analyzed for STAT proteins (STAT1,
      STAT2, STAT3, STAT4, STAT5) and CD4+, CD25+, and FoxP3 regulatory T cells by flow cytometric
      assays. Samples are also analyzed for the presence of VEGF, VEGFR, IFN-γ, and IL-5 by ELISA
      assays; baseline expression of Jak-STAT signaling intermediates (Jak1, Tyk2, IFNAR, and IRF9)
      by immunoblot analysis; and interferon-stimulated gene expression by real time PCR and RT-PCR
      analysis.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 4
      months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  