
    
      Glaucoma is a progressive optic neuropathy leading to the retinal ganglion cell death and
      typical optic nerve head (ONH) damage [1]. It remains a disease with an unclear and complex
      underlying pathophysiology. Intraocular pressure (IOP) is the main and only modifiable risk
      factor for glaucoma [2]. Although lowering IOP helps to decelerate or stabilize the disease,
      a vast number of patients still show signs of glaucoma despite an IOP within normal range.
      Clearly other pathogenetic mechanisms beyond IOP are involved in the pathogenesis of glaucoma
      for certain individuals. Non-IOP factors such as lower systolic ocular perfusion pressure
      (OPP), reduced ocular blood flow, cardiovascular disease, and low systolic blood pressure
      (BP) have been identified as risk factors for primary open-open-angle glaucoma (POAG) [3-6].
      Evidence shows that non-IOP factors can impact the apoptotic process associated with glaucoma
      [7].

      Recently, researchers have emphasized not only IOP or vascular dysregulation, but also
      intracranial pressure's (ICP) role in glaucoma [8-10]. The optic nerve is exposed not only to
      IOP in the eye, but also to ICP as it is surrounded by cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the
      subarachnoid space. Because the lamina cribrosa separates these two pressurized regions [11],
      the decrease in pressure that occurs across the lamina cribrosa (IOP-ICP) is known as the
      translaminar pressure gradient (TPG). A higher TPG may lead to abnormal function and optic
      nerve damage due to changes in axonal transportation, deformation of the lamina cribrosa,
      altered blood flow, or a combination thereof leading to glaucomatous damage. Besides, TPG may
      be the primarily pressure-related parameter for glaucoma [12-15], since the ONH is located at
      the junction between the intraocular space and the orbital retrobulbar space.

      However, the role of TPG still remains unknown, because only invasive ICP measurements are
      available within the contemporary medicine (lumbar puncture or punction of brain
      ventricles-for patients with severe brain injury). The ideas for noninvasive ICP measurement
      have been appearing since about 1980. Numerous methods for finding the objects or
      physiological characteristics of cerebrospinal system that would be related to the ICP and
      its monitoring have been sought by many authors. Most of the proposed technologies were based
      on ultrasound and were capable of monitoring blood flow in intracranial or intraocular
      vessels, cranium diameter, or acoustic properties of the cranium [16]. Broad research has
      extended into sonography of optic nerve sheath and its relation with elevated ICP [17].
      However, most of these correlation-based methods had the same problem-the need of individual
      patient specific calibration. Seeking to measure absolute ICP values, researchers from Kaunas
      University of Technology created a noninvasive method, which does not need a patient specific
      calibration [18, 19]. The method is based on direct comparison of ICP value with the value of
      pressure Pe that is externally applied to the tissues surrounding the eyeball. Intracranial
      segment of ophthalmic artery (OA) is used as a natural sensor of ICP and extracranial segment
      of OA is used as a sensor of Pe. A special two depth transcranial Doppler (TCD) device [18,
      19] is used as a pressure balance indicator when ICP = Pe. Accuracy, precision, sensitivity,
      specificity, and diagnostic value of this method were proven with healthy subjects and
      patients with neurological diseases. This device has not yet been used in clinical studies to
      investigate TPG significance in glaucoma. The aim of our study is to assess TPG in patients
      with primary open open-angle glaucoma (POAG). In addition the investigators want to measure
      ICP in patients with papilledema (PE) in order to compare them with glaucoma patients.

      The non-invasive ICP measurement using two deeps TCD device allows us to get ICP values from
      immediate vicinity of optic nerve, which in turn very important in term of understanding the
      pathophysiology of such conditions like PE and POAG.
    
  