
    
      A cochlear implant (CI) is a device that restores the sense of hearing in people with severe
      to profound hearing loss. This implant consists of two parts: The first is an internal
      component, which is surgically implanted under the skin behind the ear and connected to
      electrodes that are inserted inside the cochlea. The second is an external component that
      sits behind the ear and consists of a speech processor, a microphone, and a battery
      compartment. However, complications following device implantation may occur; these
      complications include flap erosion, local infections, general infections that may lead to
      meningitis, wound healing disorders, electrode insertion, device migration, and facial nerve
      injury (1,2). The incidence of infectious complications is quite uncommon, but potentially
      serious complication of CI surgery occurs at a rate of 1.7% to 4.1% (3-5). CI infection may
      be managed with conservative treatment modalities; however, persistent infection often ends
      in implant removal or implant replacement (6).

      The body responds to inflammation and stress, including trauma, surgery, or sepsis, by
      elevating the neutrophil count and by reducing the lymphocyte count (7). Neutrophil/
      lymphocyte ratio (NLR) is an indicator of poor prognostic factor in inflammation and in some
      diseases, such as obstructive sleep apnea syndrome, ischemic cardiac diseases, several types
      of cancer, and Bell's palsy (8-11). Platelet/ lymphocyte ratio (PLR) is also associated with
      inflammation and poor prognosis in patients with different types of cancer (12,13). Platelets
      release proinflammatory mediators, such as chemokines and cytokines (14). NLR and PLR can be
      calculated from complete blood count (CBC), a cheap and simple means of obtaining information
      regarding inflammation. During an inflammatory reaction, the amount of leukocytes in the
      circulation changes (9,15).

      The relationship of preoperative NLR and PLR with CI infection has not yet been investigated
      and it is being aimed to show the predictive value of NLR and PLR in patients who developed
      implant infection after CI placement. First outcome is to compare whether there is a
      difference between NLR in patients with and without implant infection in patients with
      cochlear implant implantation. Secondary outcome is to determine which NLR is susceptible to
      infection if there is a difference between NLR between patients with and without implant
      infection.
    
  