
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Patient Information is one of the key determinants of patient satisfaction. Adequate
      information about the disease condition, treatment plan, waiting times and 'what to do next'
      affects patients' overall satisfaction level. Good quality information not only reduces
      patient anxiety and stress, but also reduces unreasonable expectations and misconceptions.
      Patient satisfaction has always remained an important and commonly used indicator for
      measuring the quality in health care.

      In the recent years there is a gradual upward trend in day care surgeries all across the
      globe; an estimated 83% of the surgeries in the United States being performed on an
      ambulatory basis. In India, about 20 percent of all surgical procedures are performed on
      outpatients. It is estimated that by 2020, 75 percent of all surgical operations in India
      will be carried out in ambulatory surgery centers. The increasing trend of ambulatory
      surgeries has emerged from advances in anesthesia and surgical techniques. Patient
      information and effective communication is critical in these surgeries especially the ones
      that need General Anesthesia.

      Provision of information is one of the mainstays of effective day surgery management. This
      needs to cover not only what to do before and after surgery, but also what will happen on the
      day of surgery. There are several ways of providing information like written information,
      using a video, over telephone or by patient interviews before and after surgery. Verbal
      information alone is inadequate and must be reinforced with well-presented printed material.

      Tata Memorial Hospital is a premier tertiary level cancer hospital in India. Around 140-150
      patients undergo minor surgical procedures (diagnostic and therapeutic) in the Minor OT
      complex every day. About 30-40% of surgeries belong to the Head & Neck region alone.About
      40-50% of these surgeries are done under general anesthesia. At present the communication
      with patients in the busy outpatient department is mainly verbal. Due to time constrains,
      lack of a responsible attendant with the patient, important information with respect to the
      day care procedure is often not effectively delivered. This leads to patients not following
      instruction adequately with respect to starvation, medications to be taken on the day of the
      procedure and also not carrying all essential documents. This leads to delays, rescheduling
      of cases and rarely postponement of procedures.

      Does an information leaflet provide an effective way of communication in the peri-procedure
      period? Will it help in better information delivery and hence reduce the number of avoidable
      postponements and delay. And does this translate to better patient satisfaction is want this
      study aims to see. The study is restricted to patients undergoing Head & Neck procedures
      under general anesthesia, as they form the major bulk of patients in our minor OT complex and
      for logistic reasons to start with a defined group of patients.

      AIMS AND OBJECTIVES:

        1. To reduce postponement of cases due to lack of information to patients prior to the
           procedure.

        2. To compare satisfaction levels between patients , before and after introduction of
           information leaflet

      Primary end point:

      To reduce postponement of cases due to lack of information to patients prior to the
      procedure.

      Secondary end point To compare satisfaction levels between patients, before and after
      introduction of information leaflet.

      Design of the study: Intervention

      MATERIAL AND METHODS

      After Institutional Review Board approval, all adult patients meeting inclusion criteria and
      undergoing surgeries in the Minor operation theater 'OT' complex during a 5 month period will
      be enrolled in the study. The study will be done in two parts.

      In the First half of study- planned over 2 months (Jan - Feb), feedback forms will be
      collected from patients at the end of minor 'OT' procedure. All patients, meeting inclusion
      criteria, at the end of the procedure prior to discharge from the minor 'OT' will be
      explained about the study and they shall be given a feedback form to be filled and submitted.
      Also the number of postponement or rescheduling of cases will be noted.

      Postponement or rescheduling of case is defined as an event when the patient who is called
      for his turn in minor 'OT' is deferred for any amount of time in account of starvation not
      adequate, investigations not brought, medications not taken as prescribed.Any postponement in
      view of awaiting opinion form senior consultant , special equipment or any investigations
      called in view of patients clinical conditions which was not anticipated in the Out Patient
      Department 'OPD' by the surgical colleague, or due to lack of OT time will not be included.

      After the initial collection of feedback over 2 months, the patient information leaflet (PIL)
      will be handed over to all patients planned for procedure in the minor 'OT' complex (Second
      half of study). This leaflet will be handed over by the attending doctor in the Head neck
      'OPD'. The checklist pertaining to counselling at the Head neck 'OPD' will be ticked after
      they are carried out. The patient will be instructed to read leaflet carefully and carry the
      leaflet on the day of Minor OT procedure. In the minor OT the discharge checklist in the
      'PIL' would be carried out by all concerned including the surgical, anesthesia and nursing
      team. A period of 1 month will be allowed to streamline the use of patient information
      leaflet.

      In the subsequent 2 months,Apr- May , the impact of use of 'PIL' will be assessed. Firstly by
      noting the number of postponement or rescheduling of cases. In addition all patients meeting
      inclusion criteria will be given the feedback form. at the end of their procedure in minor
      'OT'.

      For patients coming to minor 'OT' without a patient information leaflet- one would ascertain
      if the leaflet was handed in 'OPD' and not brought to minor OT or if the leaflet was not
      handed at all. The numbers of such misses will be recorded.Patients who did not get the
      leaflet in the 'OPD' will be excluded from study.

      Sample size calculation:

      From the investigator's preliminary review of postponement rate at the study center is around
      20%. The investigators aim for a reduction in postponement by 50%. Group sample sizes of 199
      in group 1 and 199 in group 2 achieve 80.007% power to detect a difference between the group
      proportions of -0.1000. The proportion in group 1 (the treatment group) is assumed to be
      0.2000 under the null hypothesis and 0.1000 under the alternative hypothesis. The proportion
      in group 2 (the control group) is 0.2000. The test statistic used is the two-sided Z-Test
      with pooled variance. The significance level of the test is 0.0500.Considering a 20% loss to
      follow up from 'OPD' to minor 'OT', the sample size needed is 480 patients.On an average at
      least 250 patients of head neck patients undergo procedure under general anesthesia, per
      month (12-15 patients /day x 20 working days). With due consideration of our inclusion
      criteria, a two month recruitment period before and after the intervention should be
      adequate.

      MEASUREMENTS

        -  No. of cases postponed before and after the introduction of the leaflet and reasons
           behind them

        -  Primary data collected will be patient satisfaction levels after the procedure (both pre
           and post 'PIL') on a 5 point Likert scale (Ranging from very poor = 0 to Excellent = 4)

        -  No of patients who did not receive the patient information leaflet in the' OPD'

        -  No of patients who received the Patient information leaflet but did not get it along to
           the minor OT

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS All Data will be analyzed using Statistical Analysis Software Package
      (SPSS) software. Likert scores will be treated as ordinal data. Proportions will be compared
      using chi square analysis. Additionally Multivariate logistic regression analysis will be
      used to assess the contribution of possible covariates, including age sex and patient
      knowledge on patient satisfaction. For all data P-value < 0.05 will be considered as
      statistical significant
    
  