
    
      This is a phase 3, multinational, randomized, open-label, parallel group study to evaluate
      the efficacy and safety of oral daily relugolix 120 mg in participants with
      androgen-sensitive advanced prostate cancer who require at least 1 year of continuous
      androgen-deprivation therapy. Relugolix 120 mg orally once daily or leuprolide acetate depot
      suspension, 22.5 mg (or 11.25 mg in Japan and Taiwan based on local labels), every 3 months
      by subcutaneous injection will be administered to participants.

      There are 2 analyses for this study, a primary analysis and a final analysis.

      Primary Analysis:

      The primary analysis of efficacy and safety has been completed (N=934). Participants were
      randomized 2:1 to receive relugolix or leuprolide for 48 weeks, followed by a 30-day safety
      follow-up visit or early termination 30-day safety follow-up.

      Final Analysis:

      The final analysis will occur after additional participants with metastatic disease
      (approximately 130) have been enrolled and randomized from any sites to the study, and have
      completed the 48-week treatment period. A cohort of participants enrolled in China and Taiwan
      will be analyzed separately once they have completed treatment to support registration in
      China.

      Eligible participants were randomized 2:1 to relugolix or leuprolide arm and will attend
      visits monthly (every 4 weeks) where serum testosterone and prostate-specific antigen will be
      assessed. Safety will be assessed throughout the study by monitoring adverse events, vital
      signs, physical examinations, clinical laboratory tests, and 12-lead electrocardiograms.

      Castration resistance-free survival will be assessed up to Week 49, Day 1 of the study and
      reported as part of the final analysis.

      The study enrolled 1134 participants, including 139 participants with metastatic advanced
      prostate cancer to support the analysis of the secondary endpoint of castration
      resistance-free survival and 93 Chinese participants (enrolled in China and Taiwan) to
      support registration in China.
    
  