
    
      This study has been designed as a prospective randomized controlled trial examining the cost
      effectiveness of treating distal radius fractures with open reduction and internal fixation
      with a volar locking plate (VLP) to closed reduction and k-wire fixation (K-Wires). All
      patients aged < 65 years with an isolated distal radius fracture (extra-articular or simple
      intra-articular, AO type A or C1) requiring operative fixation will be included in this
      study. Patients who have underlying osteoporosis, other injuries or complex intra-articular
      fractures will be excluded from this study.

      Once eligibility is determined, patients will be randomized to one of two treatment arms.
      They will be treated with either a closed reduction with percutaneous k-wire fixation and 6
      weeks of cast immobilization (K-wire) or open reduction internal fixation with a volar locked
      plate and early range of motion (beginning at 10-14 days) (VLP). All patients will undergo a
      standardized pre-operative evaluation. This will include classification of their fracture
      (based on the AO classification), a baseline PRWE and DASH score, a measure of their general
      health (SF-12) and a general health utility questionnaire (EQ-5d). Patients will be required
      to report the details of their occupational physical demands and the number of work days
      missed due to injury.

      Patient testing will be incorporated into scheduled clinic visits. Data will be collected at
      the initial assessment, 2 weeks post-operatively, and then at 6 weeks, 12 weeks, 6 months and
      12 months after the fracture. At each visit, AP and lateral wrist radiographs will also be
      obtained. The investigators will then examine the outcomes of each group based on range of
      motion, grip strength, and standardized patient rated pain and disability scores (PRWE and
      DASH). In order to capture differences between the 2 groups in the early phases of recovery -
      the investigators will administer 2 additional assessments at 4 and 9 weeks by either phone
      or email. These telephone assessments will include an assessment of patient rated pain and
      disability (DASH, PRWE) and patients will be asked to provide details on whether they have
      returned to work or their usual activities.

      The primary outcome, patient rated pain and disability, will be quantified with the Patient
      Rated Wrist Evaluation (PRWE) a tool which has been shown to be valid, reliable and highly
      responsive in the distal radius fracture population. Secondary outcomes will include range of
      motion, strength, Disabilities of Arm Shoulder and Hand Score (DASH) and time to return to
      work. The cost analysis will include both direct and indirect costs, and will include: OR
      time, anesthesia time, surgeon fees, cost of outpatient visits, equipment costs (volar locked
      plates and k-wires), x-rays, casting, splints, number of work days missed and work disability
      costs. The investigators will also use the health utility score (EQ-5d) to determine the cost
      per quality adjusted life year (QALY) associated with each intervention.

      Based on our sample size calculations, the investigators will need 28 patients in each
      treatment arm (power 80%, p = 0.05). Allowing for a 10-15% drop-out rate, 64 patients are
      required for enrollment. The secondary outcomes will include ROM, grip strength, union rate,
      mean time to union (weeks) and DASH score.
    
  