
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety and toxicity of recombinant carcinoembryonic antigen
           (CEA)-expressing measles virus (MV-CEA) and oncolytic measles virus encoding thyroidal
           sodium iodide symporter (MV-NIS) in patients with progressive, recurrent, or refractory
           ovarian epithelial or primary peritoneal cavity cancer ( MV-CEA closed as of
           06/02/2008).

        -  Determine the maximum-tolerated dose of MV-CEA and MV-NIS in these patients ( MV-CEA
           closed as of 06/02/2008).

        -  Characterize viral gene expression at each dose level as manifested by CEA titers in
           these patients.

        -  Assess viremia, viral replication, and measles virus shedding or persistence after study
           therapy.

        -  Determine humoral and cellular immune response to the injected virus in these patients.

        -  Assess, preliminarily, the antitumor efficacy of this therapy, by assessing CA-125
           levels, radiographic response, and time to progression, in these patients.

        -  Determine the time course of viral gene expression and virus elimination and
           biodistribution of virally infected cells at various time points after infection with
           MV-NIS using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT/CT) imaging.

        -  Assess viremia, viral replication, and measles virus shedding/persistence following
           intraperitoneal administration of MV-NIS.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive recombinant carcinoembryonic antigen-expressing measles virus (MV-CEA) or
      oncolytic measles virus encoding thyroidal sodium iodide symporter (MV-NIS) intraperitoneally
      over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity ( MV-CEA closed as of 06/02/2008).

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of MV-CEA until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity ( MV-CEA closed as of 06/02/2008).

      Peripheral blood mononuclear cells are collected at baseline and periodically during and
      after treatment to assess viremia. Throat gargle and urine specimens are assessed
      periodically during course 1 for viral shedding by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain
      reaction (RT-PCR). Peritoneal aspirate is tested at baseline and periodically during
      treatment for viral replication by RT-PCR, co-culture with Vero cells, and measles virus
      N-specific mRNA in situ hybridization.

      Patients may undergo single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT/CT) imaging at
      baseline and periodically during study.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 15 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 46 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  