
    
      An estimated 10-11% of the US population experiences a specific phobia at some point in their
      lives (American Psychiatric Association, 1994; Magee et al., 1996). About 60-85% of those
      individuals with a specific phobia never seek treatment (Agras, Sylvester, & Oliveau, 1969;
      Boyd et al., 1990; Magee et al., 1996). Clinical psychologist can help improve the number of
      phobia sufferers to seek treatment. Advances in technology are helping clinicians create
      novel treatment strategies for different anxiety disorders. Virtual reality exposure therapy
      (VRET) may help these individuals confront their fears and treat their phobia.

      While virtual reality exposure therapy has shown promise in research (Powers & Emmelkamp,
      2008), studies have shown that many users complain that the computer generated virtual
      reality (VR) stimuli looks unrealistic, eccentric and too much like a video game (Kwon,
      Powell, & Chalmers, 2013). Virtual reality environments have been traditionally created by
      programmers using video game assets and computer generated imagery (CGI). While CGI can be
      used to make intricate virtual environments, unless there is a team of expert digital
      artists, the virtual stimulus may end up looking rudimentary and exhibit a number of
      graphical glitches which could prove distracting in therapy. Furthermore CGI often suffers
      from the uncanny valley effect: the tendency of CGI representations of people to be viewed as
      unsettling as the representations become more lifelike. In addition the many current CGI
      virtual reality packages are expensive and only available for limited number of fear domains.
      Recently however an exciting alternative to traditional computer generated virtual reality
      has emerged: ortho-stereoscopic 3D Video VR. Ortho-stereoscopic 3D refers to 3D videos that
      are designed to mimic the natural depth we normally see, as opposed to exaggerating it (i.e.
      Commercial 3D movies). The benefit of 3D VR as opposed to CGI VR is that it is photo
      realistic, does not suffer from a uncanny valley effect of CGI, and is able to capture
      nuances of real life fears that are hard to reproduce with CGI.
    
  