
    
      This study hypothesises that bladder shape changes associated with involuntary contractions
      of the detrusor muscle, might be detected using trans abdominal ultrasound, which could
      itself form the basis of a novel diagnostic test for detecting involuntary contractions
      associated with overactive bladder syndrome and urgency incontinence.

      The detection of involuntary bladder contractions currently relies on invasive internal
      pressure measurement, commonly termed Urodynamics. This is an invasive test involving the
      placement of pressure measurement catheters, usually via the urethra into the bladder and via
      the anal canal into the rectum. In its normal healthy state, the bladder remains a
      contractile throughout filling and is compliant, meaning that there is minimal or zero
      increase in pressure as it fills. During Urodynamics, the bladder is filled artificially,
      using a pump, with water or contrast medium via a urethral catheter, whilst abdominal
      pressure is measured via a rectal catheter introduced anally. Differences between pressure
      measurements in the bladder and the abdomen are used to detect involuntary detrusor
      contractions; termed 'detrusor over activity when detected during Urodynamics. Patients often
      report Urodynamics as being uncomfortable and undignified, and the test carries a risk of
      introducing urinary tract infection. Furthermore, there are significant issues relating to
      the sensitivity of Urodynamics in the detection of abnormal bladder contractions in the
      context of Overactive Bladder.

      Variations in bladder shape have been observed in association with detrusor over activity
      during video-Urodynamics, when fluoroscopic images are captured during filling with contrast
      medium. At one extreme, women with neuropathic overactive bladder have been observed to have
      tense, spherical or dome-shaped bladders with trabeculations 'fir tree' or 'Christmas tree'
      bladder. In women with normal detrusor muscle function, the bladder outline appears relaxed
      and a contractile, following the contours of the pelvis when assessed by cystography.

      Although conventional Urodynamics has previously been regarded as the 'Gold Standard' in the
      assessment of lower urinary tract disorders, it is also well recognised as having issues of
      sensitivity, patient acceptability and cost. The test is commonly employed to diagnose and
      better understand the underlying pathophysiology of incontinence and is often deemed
      necessary, particularly prior to invasive forms of treatment. The requirement for urodynamic
      equipment, including its purchase, maintenance, associated training and size restricts its
      use to specialist hospital facilities, rendering it relatively inaccessible as a diagnostic
      tool. In addition to this patients have reported finding Urodynamics embarrassing and
      uncomfortable and with the inclusion of x-ray screening (video-cystometry) which is part of
      the procedure which aims to contemporaneously evaluate lower urinary tract structure and
      morphology, involves exposure to ionising radiation and is of unproven benefit. Therefore,
      there is a patient & clinical need to objectively assess lower urinary tract function with
      less invasive, sensitive, reproducible and more widely available tests.

      A pilot study will now be performed to establish the use of bladder shape testing as a new
      investigation for the assessment and diagnosis of lower urinary tract disorders. It is
      anticipated that this pilot will lead to the development of a new healthcare product that can
      be used in the primary care setting as an alternative to urodynamic assessment in the acute
      secondary care environment.
    
  