
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the objective response rate (confirmed complete and partial responses) of
      treatment with talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC) in combination with MK-3475 (pembrolizumab)
      following progression on prior anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1 therapy alone or in combination with
      other agents different from talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the durable response rate. II. To estimate the objective response rate (ORR)
      defined as confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial responses in the injected lesions.

      III. To estimate the ORR in the non-visceral, non-injected lesions. IV. To estimate the ORR
      in the visceral lesions (Cohort A). V. To estimate the median progression-free survival
      (PFS). VI. To estimate the median overall survival (OS). VII. To evaluate the toxicity of the
      regimen.

      TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate whether adding talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC) to PD1 blockade can increase
      T-cell infiltration into tumors and whether change in T-cell infiltration is associated with
      response.

      II. To evaluate whether adding talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC) to PD1 blockade can increase
      T-cell receptor (TCR) clonality in tumors and in peripheral blood and whether increased TCR
      clonality is associated with response.

      III. To evaluate whether intra-tumoral injection of talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC) can
      improve the tumor immune microenvironment.

      IV. To evaluate whether tumor mutational load and mutations in the IFN pathway is associated
      with response to talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC) plus MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) therapy in the
      anti-PD1/L1 therapy refractory melanoma patients.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive talimogene laherparepvec intralesionally (IL) and pembrolizumab
      intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 36
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 1 year
      and then annually for a total of 5 years.
    
  