
    
      Epithelial ovarian cancer presents in most participants at an advanced stage when curative
      surgery is not possible because of extensive pelvic, abdominal or distant metastases.
      Immediate or delayed surgery combined with platinum-based chemotherapy are the standards of
      care but even with complete surgical cytoreductive techniques and the prescription of
      combination platinum-based chemotherapy, the 5 year survival rate remains approximately 35%.

      Approximately 50% of ovarian cancers harbour defects in HR. Defects in the pathway can arise
      as a result of genomic or epigenetic events in any one of up to 33 genes.

      Phase I and II clinical trials with the PARPi, olaparib, have shown promising results in BRCA
      mutated (BRCAm) recurrent EOC and in a proportion of HGSOC participants with wild type
      germline BRCA (BRCA wt). Additionally the favourable toxicity profile of olaparib has
      prompted the long-term use of PARPi as a maintenance strategy. The results of a randomized
      placebo-controlled phase II clinical trial of olaparib maintenance therapy showed an
      improvement in progression free survival (PFS) and time to progression in participants with
      recurrent platinum-sensitive HGSOC6. Recent data have confirmed that the increase in median
      PFS is most marked in BRCAm participants who received olaparib as maintenance treatment
      compared with the BRCAm participants who received placebo treatment (11.2 vs 4.3 months
      respectively; HR, 0.18; 95% CI, 0.11-0.31; p<0.00001). These studies were performed with the
      original capsule formulation of olaparib at a dose of 400mg bd.

      Rationale for this study The improvement in PFS with maintenance olaparib in participants
      with germline BRCA-mutation (g-BRCAm), although particularly striking, has not translated
      into improved overall survival, presumably because subsequent salvage therapy obscures this
      effect. Emerging data indicate that a significant proportion of BRCAm HGSOC participants
      retain sensitivity to platinum agents or other chemotherapies following progression on
      olaparib. Thus it is appropriate to offer further platinum-containing therapy to participants
      whose disease progresses more than 6 months after previous platinum therapy. In those whose
      disease benefits from further platinum chemotherapy, a further course of olaparib might
      consolidate the gains from the first course of olaparib, improving PFS to the point that OS
      is increased as well. However, to date no trial has tested the feasibility of successive
      treatments with 2 or more courses of maintenance olaparib and this issue will be addressed
      here, in participant who harbour a germline BRCA defect and whose disease has recurred and
      which is at least stabilised by subsequent platinum-based chemotherapy.

      Functional testing remains the gold standard test for HR status and has greater predictive
      accuracy than non-functional tests. The Rad51 functional assay involves the recognition of
      completion of HR by the formation of Rad51 foci in viable cells that have undergone DNA
      damage, recognised by γH2AX focus formation. The assay is robust and reproducible but
      requires viable cells derived from either participant ascites or solid tumour deposits.
    
  