
    
      The aim of this study is to analyze whether and how a systemic school-level approach to
      dropout prevention (the IKO-model), increase the completion rate from upper secondary school.
      The hypothesis is that schools that implement the model (i.e. randomized to the experimental
      group), will reduce the amount of students in risk of dropout, compared to their counterparts
      in schools randomized to the control group. The main expected outcomes in the study are; 1)
      increased amounts of students in upper secondary education completing their education within
      the three-year standard length of education, 2) decreased amounts of school-drop out, and 3)
      reduced values in mediating variables, such as low achievement, course failures, lack of
      attendance and lack of school-motivation and -effort. Accordingly, implementation quality and
      fidelity to the model will be assessed, both with quantitative (survey) and qualitative
      (interviews and observation) data. A total of five counties and 42 upper secondary schools
      participate in the evaluation project. One of the counties (Akershus County) have developed
      and piloted the model and function as a mentor in the other four counties (Oppland, Hedmark,
      Nord-Trøndelag and Hamar). While 20 schools have been randomized to the experimental group,
      22 schools have been randomized to the control group. Schools randomized to the control group
      will work as earlier with school dropout.

      The implemented model is based on the County of Akershus´ experiences of developing and
      implementing the IKO-model since 2009. The IKO-model represents a systemic intervention at
      the school-level level, with the aim of improving the schools' follow-up structures related
      to students in risk of school dropout.

      The basic idea of the model is that there are three groups of students: 1) students with
      ordinary follow-up needs, 2) students with the right to special education and 3) students
      without the right to special education, but who need individually targeted efforts from time
      to time. While there are guidelines and requirements when it comes to the follow-up of
      students with the right to special education, schools are less systematic in their approaches
      to students with temporary need for follow-up. Hence, the IKO-model focuses on improving the
      way schools identify and follow-up students in risk for dropout, but who do not qualify for
      special education. It is also emphasized, that time-limited and low-cost interventions are
      sufficient enough to reduce the risk of drop-out for the majority of students within this
      group, however the most important is to identify problems early and find solutions quickly.
      The goal is to remove the need for additional interventions as soon as possible and return
      students to normal education.

      Another assumption is that the model will help schools to implement goal-focused targeted
      interventions at an early stage and ensure that the measures implemented are adjusted based
      on student needs. At student level the model aim to a) early identify students "in risk" for
      drop-out , b) charter students´ situation in order to find suitable interventions, and c)
      follow-up identified students with immediate interventions including an ongoing evaluation of
      their situation. In order for schools to succeed at identifying, chartering and following-up
      students, three main school-level components are implemented; 1) a computer assisted early
      warning system, 2) organizational structures and practices that enables schools to monitor
      progress and implement effective interventions, and 3) external and school internal
      communities of learning.

      The research question is whether, how and to what extent the IKO-model reduce drop-out from
      upper secondary school. The hypothesis is that the IKO-model will assist schools in their
      work with identifying, charting and supporting students in risk through the early warning
      system, organization-level monitoring practices, and communities of learning. The main
      outcome assessed is reduced amounts of students that dropout from upper secondary school
      measured through increased amounts of students accomplishing education within the three-year
      standard length. The intervention is also expected to reduce amounts of students not in
      education, activity or employment at follow-up.
    
  