
    
      Severely calcified coronary stenoses are difficult to treat with percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI) using current techniques. Severe calcifications make it difficult to
      sufficiently prepare lesions before stenting, to advance stents, and to achieve full stent
      expansion. There is increased risk of vessel dissection and perforation with angioplasty on
      severely calcified lesions, and long-term outcomes of PCI are adversely affected. Because
      severely calcified lesions are often excluded from interventional studies, there is little
      specific evidence on how to best treat these cases. Only a few randomized studies have
      specifically explored this question, focusing on the use of rotational atherectomy

      Recently, the technique of balloon-based lithoplasty was made commercially available. With
      this technique, calcifications are cracked with the creation of high-frequency pressure
      oscillations in a special angioplasty balloon. Standard techniques are used to deliver and
      dilate the balloon. The method was developed for treatment of otherwise non-dilatable
      lesions, and first reported results have been encouraging. The lithoplasty device used in the
      current study (Shockwave IVL, Shockwave Medical, CA, USA) has received CE-mark and
      post-approval safety has recently been confirmed for treatment of severely calcified coronary
      lesions in patients.

      Besides obvious benefits in non-dilatable lesions for which interventional cardiologists have
      few other options, it is possible this technique could change the way all severely calcified
      lesions are treated. Balloon lithoplasty could theoretically crack plates of calcium in the
      vessel wall in an orderly fashion, which could lead to safer and quicker preparation of
      severely calcified lesions. Furthermore, a better softening of vessel wall calcium could
      allow full and symmetric expansion of coronary stents, which could lead to better long-term
      stent patency.
    
  