
    
      An acute high intensity inspiratory muscle exercise session was able to reduce glycemic
      levels (24%) similarly to an aerobic exercise session (25%) in subjects with type 2 diabetes,
      demonstrating that this type of exercise inspiratory muscle may have great potential in
      improving glycemic control.The present study will investigate if training of the inspiratory
      musculature for 8 and 12 weeks is capable of improving glycated hemoglobin, glucose and
      inspiratory muscle strength in individuals with type 2 diabetes. In addition, this study will
      evaluate the effect of inspiratory muscle training, with moderate loading of 30% of the MIP,
      on volumes and capacities lung in patients with type 2 diabetes. The subjects with type 2
      diabetes will be recruited from the ambulatory of the Hospital de Clinicas de Porto Alegre
      and through newspaper advertisements.

      Patients will be submitted to a general evaluation, including clinical history, physical
      examination, laboratory evaluation and application of the international physical activity
      questionnaire. Subsequently, individuals will perform assessments of lung functions (lung
      function assessment, ventilatory muscle strength test, inspiratory muscle strength test) and
      autonomic assessment (Ewing's tests). Patients will be randomized to perform inspiratory
      muscle training with a placebo load (MIP 2%) or with moderate intensity (MIP 30%). Upon the
      randomization, participants will initiate inspiratory musculature training. The exams of
      HbA1c, glucose and ventilatory muscle strength tests will be performed in three moments: 1)
      at the initial assessment, 2) in the eighth week of inspiratory muscle training, and 3) at
      the end of the training (twelfth) week. During inspiratory muscle training, individuals will
      attend on Hospital de Clinicas de Porto Alegre, once a week, to the supervision of the way
      the exercise is being performed. Furthermore, it will be set to load on the PowerBreathe ®
      device for the following week.
    
  