
    
      TremoFlo™ C-100 Airwave Oscillometry System™ (THORASYS Thoracic Medical Systems Inc.
      Montreal, Quebec, Canada) is a technology for measuring lung mechanics without patient
      effort. Pulmonary function testing using flow-volume and lung volumes is one of the most
      widely used tests to objectively measure lung function in adults. Such measurements are
      dependent on effort and coordination by the patient which is not possible for newborn
      infants. The minimum age for spirometry is typically 6 years to master the technique.
      Therefore, newborn infants usually require forced exhalation, flow interruption, and often
      sedation/anesthesia in order to obtain accurate pulmonary function measurements. Infant
      pulmonary function testing can be time-consuming and expensive to perform in newborn infants.
      This has limited the utilization of this potentially informative method of studying lung
      function. Measurements of lung function will be particularly informative during transition
      from having lungs filled with fluid during intra-uterine life to having lungs filled with air
      in extra-uterine life in preterm and term babies without lung disease, as well as in newborn
      infants with lung diseases including respiratory distress syndrome, bronchopulmonary
      dysplasia, transient tachypnea of the newborn, meconium aspiration syndrome, and after the
      effects of treatments given to newborn infants with lung diseases.

      The TremoFlo device uses the forced oscillation technique during spontaneous infant breathing
      and notably does not require any sedation to perform. The forced oscillation technique
      measures lung function by superimposing a gentle multi-frequency airwave onto the infant's
      respiratory airflow while the infant breathes spontaneously. Only a short period of breathing
      is required to obtain a reliable measurement of airway resistance and reactance. Oscillometry
      has been successfully utilized to quantify lung function in asthmatic children and adults
      with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, but never previously in infants. This proposal
      brings this non-invasive technique of measuring lung function to the neonatal population to
      identify changes in respiratory mechanics between term and pre-term gestations and quantify
      fluctuations in infant lung function in response to disease progression and therapeutic
      intervention. The ease of oscillometry that only requires tidal breathing eliminates the need
      for patient cooperation and maneuvers that previously excluded lung function testing in the
      neonatal intensive care unit. This proposal will evaluate the feasibility and clinical value
      of oscillometry in newborns, both to detect changes in premature compared to full-term
      gestations as well as disease cohorts by introducing functional measures of lung function to
      bedside care.
    
  