
    
      Platelets are cells that help make the blood clot. A decrease in platelets can cause
      bleeding, which may prevent or delay a patient from receiving chemotherapy. R-HyperCVAD
      (rituximab, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin, and dexamethasone) and R-Ara-C/MTX
      (rituximab, cytarabine, and methotrexate) are two chemotherapy regimens that are known to
      increase the risk of lower platelet counts. Researchers want to find out if AMG 531 can lower
      the risk and severity of this side effect. AMG 531 is a protein that stimulates platelet
      production.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests." These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the
      study. You will have a complete medical history and physical exam, including measurement of
      vital signs (temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure). You will have blood
      collected (about 3 teaspoons) for routine tests. Radiologic tests such as CT or MRI scans
      will be done as needed. Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood
      pregnancy test.

      You will also have about 1 teaspoon of blood drawn to see if the you have antibodies to the
      study drug.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the toss of a coin) to one of four treatment groups. These 4 groups will also be split
      into 2 separate subgroups (Arm A and Arm B). Participants in Arm A will either receive AMG
      531 or placebo on Day -5 (5 days before chemotherapy starts) and Day 5 (5 days after
      chemotherapy starts). A placebo is a substance that looks like the study drug but which has
      no active ingredients. Every 2 out of 3 participants in Arm A will receive AMG 531. One out
      of every 3 participants in Arm A will receive placebo.

      Participants in Arm B will receive either AMG 531 or placebo on Day 5 and 7. Every 2 out of 3
      participants in Arm B will receive AMG 531. One out of every 3 participants in Arm B will
      receive placebo. The dose of AMG 531 that participants in both Arms A and B receive will
      depend on when they enroll on the study. There are 3 different dose levels of AMG 531 being
      studied. Each new group of participants will receive a higher dose than the previous group.

      All participants will receive treatment with R-HyperCVAD and R-Ara-C/MTX chemotherapy by vein
      in alternating cycles. In Cycle 1, all participants will receive R-HyperCVAD by itself. Each
      cycle is 3 weeks long.

      Three (3) weeks later, in Cycle 2, all participants will receive either AMG 531 or placebo
      following R-Ara-C/MTX. The AMG 531/placebo will be given as an injection under the skin on
      Days -5 and 5 (Arm A) or on Days 5 and 7 (Arm B). After 2 cycles of treatment, based on
      response of the disease and tolerance to the treatment, all participants may be able to
      receive up to 4 more cycles of chemotherapy followed by AMG 531. For Cycles 3-6, you will
      follow the same schedule of therapy as in the first 2 cycles. The dose of AMG 531 may be
      increased at one time point during the study based on the response of the platelet counts.

      Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be collected for the evaluation of anti-AMG 531 antibody status
      at the end of Cycles 2 and 4. You will be taken off the study if your disease gets worse or
      intolerable side effects occur. The number of blood tests drawn will depend on your clinical
      condition. These samples (about 1 teaspoon each) will be taken at least 2 times a week and as
      often as once a day during anticipated periods of low blood cell counts.

      At the end of the study, you will have an interim medical history and physical exam,
      including measurement of vital signs. You will have blood (about 1 teaspoon) drawn for
      routine end-of-study analysis. Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will also be collected for the
      evaluation of anti-AMG 531 antibody status.

      This is an investigational study. R-HyperCVAD and R-Ara-C/MTX are commercially available
      chemotherapy drugs. AMG 531 is not FDA approved or commercially available. At this time, AMG
      531 is being used in this study for research purposes only. About 36 evaluable patients
      (maximum of 50 patients) will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at University of
      Texas (UT) M. D. Anderson.
    
  