
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, unblinded, controlled study of early, high-dose iron for
      neuroprotection in extremely preterm infants born between 24 0/7 weeks and 27 6/7 weeks
      gestation. This study has chosen to study newborns between 24-0/7 and 27-6/7 weeks of
      gestation because of (1) high likelihood of poor outcome, (2) highest risk of iron deficiency
      and potentially most likely to benefit from intervention based on their stage of brain
      development, (3) previously studied to assess safety of this iron regimen in Preterm
      Erythropoietin Neuroprotection Trial (PENUT) protocol, and (4) absence of therapeutic
      interventions to improve neurodevelopmental outcome. Study sample size is 90 patients; to be
      enrolled at Ann & Robert H Lurie Children's Hospital-Prentice Women's Hospital. We expect to
      evaluate 82 infants at 10-14 months and 22-26 months corrected age, our primary endpoints.
      There is no enrollment restriction based on race, ethnicity or gender. Enrollment is expected
      to take 18-24 months, with each subject with each subject participating through 24-26 months
      corrected age when final neurodevelopmental outcomes are assessed. Subjects will be
      randomized locally to regular-dose iron as recommended by AAP or early, high-dose iron.
      High-dose iron will continue until 36 weeks corrected age. Serial measurements of hemoglobin,
      reticulocyte count, reticulocyte hemoglobin equivalent and ferritin levels will be obtained,
      starting 2 weeks after starting iron supplementation, with final measurement obtained at 40
      weeks corrected age or prior to discharge, whichever is first. Data will be abstracted
      regarding interval medical history from the electronic medical record. After discharge,
      Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) developmental follow-up will occur at 12 months and 24
      months corrected age, at which time standardized neurodevelopmental assessments will be
      performed. The outcome measure is neurodevelopmental outcome at 10-14 months and 22-26 months
      of age. Our estimated sample size is based on the assumption that early high dose iron
      supplementation will reduce abnormal neurological outcome by 16%-29%, and taken together with
      an estimated 10% anticipated loss due to unrelated deaths, the total sample size was
      calculated at 90 infants (45 in each arm of the study).
    
  