
    
      Despite the fact that the World Health Organization (WHO) officially declared smallpox to be
      eradicated, a new threat exists due to the potential use of variola virus as an agent for
      biological warfare and/or bio-terrorism. As a consequence, there is an urgent need for a safe
      and efficacious vaccine to protect the public against smallpox. To date, the majority of
      clinical studies with Modified Vaccinia Ankara (MVA) have studied a prime-boost vaccination
      regimen, with a dose of up to 1×10^8 tissue culture infectious dose 50 (TCID50) of MVA
      administered on Days 0 and 28. While this vaccination regimen induces a robust immune
      response that is protective in a variety of animal models and is appropriate for a
      pre-smallpox release scenario, in the event of a confirmed release of smallpox, a more rapid
      vaccination regimen that provides a protective immune response would be desirable. Ideally,
      at least short-term protection could be obtained with a single dose of vaccine. While a
      single dose of MVA at 1×10^8 TCID50, does induce an immune response in the majority of
      recipients, it is possible that a higher dose of MVA could provide a more rapid and/or
      stronger immune response relative to a single, standard 1×10^8 TCID50 dose of MVA. The goal
      of this study is to examine the kinetics and magnitude of the immune response of a single
      high dose of MVA (5×10^8 TCID50) relative to both a single and prime/boost regimen using the
      standard doses (1×10^8 TCID50) of MVA. This study will complement a current, ongoing study,
      DMID Protocol 06-0012, which is examining the immune response to compressed prime/boost
      dosing regimens of MVA administered at (1×10^8 TCID50). Upon the completion of these studies,
      clinical data will be generated which will inform policy makers about different options for
      post-event utilization of available smallpox vaccines. The study is designed as a randomized,
      non-placebo controlled, double blinded study containing two arms: Group A (N=45) will receive
      a single high dose of IMVAMUNE® (5x10^8 TCID50, consisting of two 0.5 mL injections) vaccine
      on Day 0 and a single saline placebo dose (single 0.5 mL injection) on Day 28 to match the
      two dose regimen of Group B. Group B (N=45) will receive a standard two dose regimen of
      IMVAMUNE® (1x10^8 TCID50) vaccine on Day 0 (consisting of 0.5 mL injection of vaccine and 0.5
      mL injection of saline placebo) and Day 28 (single 0.5 mL injection of vaccine). Safety will
      be measured by assessment of adverse events for 28 days following the last vaccination (56
      days following the initial vaccination for those subjects that fail to receive the second
      dose) and for serious adverse events at six months post the final vaccination, and
      reactogenicity to the vaccines for 15 days following each vaccination. Immunogenicity testing
      will include antibody testing [enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and plaque reduction
      neutralizing antibody titers (PRNT)] and cellular immune responses [(INF-gamma enzyme linked
      immunospot (ELISPOT)] following each vaccination and at six months post the final
      vaccination. In addition, ELISA responses, using MVA VR-1508 as the target antigen and PRNT
      using vaccinia WR (Western Reserve) as the target antigen will be explored. Participants will
      include 90 healthy, vaccinia-naïve adults, aged 18 and older (born after 1971). Study
      duration will be approximately 13 months (7 months/subject).
    
  