
    
      Non-adherence to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) is a common problem (i.e., 58% of patients have
      some level of non-adherence) for young children with newly diagnosed epilepsy, with
      potentially devastating consequences. AED non-adherence is associated with a 3-fold increased
      risk of seizures, poor quality of life, inaccurate clinical decision-making, and higher
      health care utilization and costs. One of the primary barriers to adherence is forgetting,
      which may be particularly amenable to mHealth (mobile technology in healthcare)
      interventions. Despite the critical need to develop and implement interventions to improve
      adherence, there are few family-based interventions for young children with epilepsy and
      their families. One existing intervention is highly promising; however, this intervention
      requires six in-person sessions, which can be impossible for families who lack routine access
      to tertiary specialty care due to time, financial, or transportation constraints. Thus, unmet
      medical and psychosocial needs of the underserved pediatric epilepsy population are
      perpetuated and compounded by limited access to this state of the art care. The overall goal
      is to test a mHealth adherence intervention that is easily accessible using a stepped up care
      model based on individual needs. This stepped up care model will conserve patient, family,
      and provider time, costs and resources. The aim of this multi-site R01 is to conduct a
      two-stage, sequential, multiple assignment, randomized trial (SMART) to evaluate the
      effectiveness of mHealth intervention strategies for improving AED adherence in caregivers of
      young children with epilepsy. A two-month baseline period will be followed by two stages. In
      Stage 1 (3-months long), non-adherent caregivers (< 95%) will be randomized to a mHealth
      education module and automated digital reminders (control) or the mHealth education module,
      automated digital reminders, and individualized adherence feedback based on real-time
      adherence monitoring (treatment) to address the primary barrier of forgetting. At the
      beginning of Stage 2 (two months long), caregivers randomized to treatment who do not achieve
      adherence > 95% (response) by the end of Stage 1 will be re-randomized to either continued
      individualized adherence feedback or individualized adherence feedback augmented with two
      mHealth problem-solving modules (translated from the PIs existing RCTs) with a therapist.
      Thus, there are three intervention strategies embedded in this SMART: #1 control, #2
      treatment, and #3 problem-solving augmented treatment if nonresponsive at three months. The
      primary outcome is electronically-monitored adherence and secondary outcomes include seizure
      severity/frequency, quality of life, and healthcare utilization. If the aims of the project
      are achieved, this study would have a large impact on pediatric epilepsy, with the potential
      to change clinical practice for treating non-adherence. The SMART design would allow the
      investigators to identify patients who are most likely to respond to interventions and step
      up care with more time- and resource-intensive interventions (i.e., problem-solving with a
      therapist via the web), when necessary.
    
  