
    
      Up to 5% of adolescents (~3.5 million in the US alone) suffer from high impact chronic
      musculoskeletal (MSK) pain, affecting all life domains and posing a significant economic
      burden. Current treatments for chronic MSK pain are suboptimal and have been tied to the
      opioid crisis. Only ~50% of adolescents with chronic MSK pain who present for
      multidisciplinary pain treatment recover, as measured by clinical endpoints of pain severity
      and functional disability. Discovery of robust markers of the recovery vs. persistence of
      pain and disability is essential to develop more resourceful and patient-specific treatment
      strategies and to conceive novel approaches that benefit patients who are refractory. Given
      that chronic pain is a biopsychosocial process, the discovery and validation of a prognostic
      and robust signature for pain recovery vs. persistence requires measurements across multiple
      dimensions in the same patient cohort in combination with a suitable 'big data' computational
      analysis pipeline for the extraction of reliable and cross-validated results from a
      multilayered and complex dataset. The research team is well positioned to execute the study
      aims with: (1) A highly skilled and experienced team of scientists and clinicians from
      Stanford University, University of Toronto/Hospital for Sick Children, and Cincinnati
      Children's Hospital Medical Center; (2) A standardized specimen collection, processing,
      storage, and distribution system, leveraging Stanford Biobank's platform, BioCatalyst, to
      aggregate the sample inventory with clinical annotations for an accessible, virtual biobank,
      within the Signature of Pain Recovery IN Teens (SPRINT) Biobank and Analysis Core (SBAC); (3)
      Cutting-edge preliminary data implicating novel candidates for neuroimaging, immune,
      quantitative sensory, and psychological markers for discovery; and (4) Expertise in machine
      learning approaches to extract reliable and prognostic bio-signatures from a large and
      complex data set. The research team expects that the results from this project will
      facilitate risk stratification in patients with chronic MSK, a more resourceful selection of
      patients who are likely to respond for undergoing current multidisciplinary pain treatment
      approaches, and new insight into biological and behavioral processes that may be exploited to
      develop novel strategies profiting those who are refractory.

      For the R61/Discovery Phase Aim individuals will be thoroughly characterized via biological
      (i.e. brain structure and function, immune, sensory profiles), psychological state, and
      clinical endpoint (i.e., pain intensity, disability) data. Unbiased machine learning
      algorithms will identify a multivariate model comprised of the most prognostic biological,
      psychological, and clinical endpoints. The model will classify adolescents with and without
      resolving chronic MSK pain after a state-of-the art multidisciplinary pain treatment
      intervention. R33/Validation Phase Aim will validate the biological signature derived in the
      R61 study. This signature will be useful for a range of adolescent-based clinical trials in
      which identification of the highest risk individuals is necessary, providing a clinically
      actionable intervention algorithm.
    
  