
    
      The main objective of this study is to understand the impact of chemotherapy-induced
      alopecia, the quality of life of women with breast cancer from this experience.

      Therefore, it is a qualitative phenomenological study. The problem of the study is the impact
      of alopecia as a side effect of chemotherapy in women with breast cancer in the areas of
      privacy, welfare, sexuality and femininity, self-esteem, social relations and the world of
      work.

      The study will be conducted in the day hospital oncology-hematology of the Hospital de la
      Santa Creu i Sant Pau. Data collection will be done through semi-structured interviews. Each
      interview will last between 60 and 90 minutes will be the participant who decides the date
      and time. The site will be a day hospital office.

      It will be the same researcher who interviewed and analyze them. To make the selection of
      participants with an opinion sampling is performed. Attracting participants who are patients
      in the study investigator.

      Inclusion criteria are: being female, of age, suffer from breast cancer, receive or have
      received chemotherapy have the side effect of alopecia and alopecia file or have filed at the
      time of the interview. Excluded from the study participants to present cognitive impairment,
      intellectual disability, presence of disease that prevents the story of their experience and
      / or not be able to sign the study informed orally and written consent.

      About 12 to 14 interviews throughout the study was conducted. So in the study involved a
      total of between 12 and 14 women.

      These will be recorded in voice and then transcribe and code. From reading and re-reading the
      patterns or data that relate to each other, thus establishing the categories (thematic
      analysis) were identified. These categories describe the experiences of the participants
      alopecia.

      In a first phase of the project only 6 interviews will be conducted, as it requires the
      presentation of preliminary results as part of a master work carried out by the principal
      investigator. Subsequently, the remaining interviews will be conducted and the results will
      be analyzed in its entirety.

      These six interviews are conducted between June and July 2016 total planned month duration of
      the study: 8 months.

      Ethical considerations of this study are that to participate in the study informed consent is
      required describing procedures and the role of the participants, stressing the voluntary and
      total freedom to leave when they want. where the information sheet explaining why the study,
      its purpose and the importance of their participation among others shall also be included.

      In addition, interviews will be recorded only voice and difficult to identify the
      participants. Finally, compliance with current regulations concerning the confidentiality and
      anonymity of the data is guaranteed.

      This study does not have sources of funding.
    
  