
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the efficacy of a lung cancer risk assessment questionnaire combined
      with spirometry testing in identifying a statistically significant number of persons with
      high-risk behaviors for the development of lung cancer. II. Determine the sensitivity of
      these screening techniques in identifying a population at high risk for the development of
      lung cancer. III. Determine the number of patients necessary to screen in order to identify
      the high-risk population eligible for this study. IV. Determine the lead time bias of CT
      scans versus chest x-rays in these patients. V. Determine the efficacy of spiral CT scanning
      of the chest in detecting early lung cancers not visible on chest x-rays in patients at high
      risk for lung cancer. VI. Compare annual spiral CT scanning versus annual chest x-rays in
      detecting lung cancer in these patients. VII. Compare survival and fatality in these patients
      with these detection methods.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to one of two screening arms. Arm I: Patients receive
      routine medical care, an annual nursing assessment, and an annual chest x-ray. Any new
      abnormality identified is further evaluated through standard acceptable medical
      interventions. Arm II: Patients receive routine medical care, an annual nursing assessment,
      and an annual spiral CT scan of the chest. If an abnormal mass greater than 10 mm in diameter
      or 5-10 mm in diameter and highly suspicious for malignancy is detected, chest x-ray and
      tissue diagnosis is obtained. If the abnormal mass is 10 mm or less in diameter, a thin
      section high resolution image of the mass is obtained. If this image is normal or benign,
      annual spiral CT scanning is continued. If the image is indeterminate, a repeat high
      resolution scan is performed in 3 months. If the image is unchanged at 3 months, annual
      spiral CT scanning is continued. If the mass is larger at 3 months, chest x-ray and tissue
      diagnosis is performed. Screening continues for 5 years in the absence of disease detection.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A minimum of 1,000 patients (500 per screening arm) will be accrued for
      this study.
    
  