
    
      Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is the most common acquired immune cytopenia in childhood,
      affecting 4-6 in 100,000 children. The pathophysiology of ITP is highly complex and
      incompletely understood. Accepted mechanisms include immune dysregulation caused by an often
      unidentified trigger leading to the formation of anti-platelet antibodies and
      antibody-mediated reticuloendothelial clearance. Cell-mediated platelet destruction and
      disruption of T cell homeostasis are also well described. ITP is also characterized by
      impaired platelet production due to antibody effect in the bone marrow and subsequent
      megakaryocyte ultrastructural abnormalities.

      Children with ITP generally present with a sudden onset of symptoms. Bleeding tendency is
      variable, but the vast majority of children will experience cutaneous bleeding symptoms
      including bruising and petechiae. More extensive bleeding ranging from extensive oral
      bleeding, gastrointestinal bleeding, menorrhagia, or other significant bleeding necessitating
      urgent medical intervention develops in up to 20% of patients.8 Intracranial hemorrhage
      (ICH), the most feared and devastating complication of ITP, occurs in approximately 0.5% of
      pediatric patients. Bleeding phenotype is unable to be reliably predicted at diagnosis. In
      children who present with mucosal or more significant bleeding, treatment is indicated to
      achieve rapid hemostasis by increase in platelet count. Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) is
      a commonly utilized first line agent to reduce bleeding symptoms and improve the platelet
      count to a hemostatic range within 24-48 hours of administration. The mechanism of action of
      IVIG in ITP is currently incompletely understood and likely involves multiple
      immunomodulatory mechanisms. Previous data has suggested IVIG leads to a rise in platelet
      count via blockade of Fc receptors on phagocytic cells within the reticuloendothelial system.
      Another hypothesis suggests IVIG upregulates the expression of the inhibitory IgG Fc receptor
      2B encoded by FCGR2B gene, thus leading to decreased cell mediated destruction and decreased
      anti-platelet antibody production.14 Following IVIG administration, an improvement in
      clinical bleeding and an associated rise in platelet count is seen in approximately 75% of
      children with ITP

      IVIG is a polyclonal antibody preparation developed from pooled donor plasma from 15,000 to
      60,000 donors depending on the preparation utilized. The safety and efficacy of IVIG in
      patients with ITP has been demonstrated in multiple clinical trials, and IVIG is considered a
      first line therapy for the treatment of children with ITP. Overall, IVIG is well tolerated
      across patients with a spectrum of diseases. The majority of reported adverse events are
      mild, transient, and infusion related. The most commonly reported immediate adverse events
      include headache, fever, nausea/vomiting, malaise, back pain, flushing, and chills. In
      comparison to other patient populations who receive IVIG, patients with ITP carry the unique
      risk for intracranial hemorrhage due to profound thrombocytopenia. Mild side effects such as
      headache and nausea/vomiting can easily be attributed to recent IVIG administration in
      non-thrombocytopenic populations. However, these symptoms overlap with the heralding symptoms
      of an intracranial hemorrhage which, due to high morbidity and mortality, must not go
      undiagnosed in patients with ITP. To decrease the percentage of patients experiencing these
      immediate, infusion associated symptoms, patients with ITP at most pediatric centers are
      routinely pre-medicated with a single dose of acetaminophen and diphenhydramine prior to IVIG
      infusion.21 However, post-infusion medication regimens differ amongst providers and pediatric
      centers and frequently utilized acetaminophen and diphenhydramine as these symptoms arise.

      Peak IgG concentration following IVIG administration occurs in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
      between 24-48 hours after infusion. The common events of headache, nausea, and vomiting often
      peak during this time, when most patients have already been discharged from medical care.
      Headache and associated nausea/vomiting are particularly worrisome in patients with ITP given
      the risk for ICH and overlap of symptoms at presentation. Aseptic meningitis, a rare and
      serious adverse event following IVIG infusion, presents with headache, nausea/vomiting,
      nuchal rigidity, and fever. The development of aseptic meningitis is hypothesized to be dose
      dependent and has been noted to cluster within patients who suffer from migraines.

      At Texas Children's Hospital, most children prescribed IVIG receive Gamunex-C, which has a
      reported incidence of headache in 30-50% of patients. At the onset of symptoms, patients
      typically remain severely thrombocytopenic and at highest risk of ICH. Many of these patients
      will develop symptoms severe enough to necessitate return to medical care, additional
      laboratory studies, and computed tomography (CT) of the head to rule out ICH. Texas
      Children's Hematology Center data reveals 28% of the 473 IVIG infusions administered to
      patients for ITP between 2010 and 2016 resulted in the report of headache or nausea/vomiting.
      Seventy-seven percent (103/133) of these infusions resulted in the patient developing
      symptoms sufficiently severe to cause re-evaluation by a medical provider. Subsequent urgent
      visits often come at significant expense. Of the 133 infusions resulting in the report of
      headache and/or nausea/vomiting, 45% (60/133) required additional lab work and 27% (36/133)
      required imaging via CT to rule out ICH ( please see Figure 1 in the full protocol). These 36
      patients who required urgent head CTs represent 7.6% of all IVIG infusions administered for
      ITP between 2010 and 2016 (American Society of Hematology Conference Abstract 2018; further
      cohort data analysis in process).

      The etiology of these neurologic IVIG-associated adverse events is not well understood. It is
      currently hypothesized that central nervous system (CNS) symptoms ranging from headache to
      aseptic meningitis following IVIG administration may represent a spectrum of symptoms
      secondary to IgG-mediated meningeal inflammation. This hypothesis is based off cerebrospinal
      fluid (CSF) analysis in patients who developed aseptic meningitis following IVIG. CSF
      demonstrated the presence of allogeneic IgG as well as pleocytosis with neutrophil
      predominance. As the pathophysiology underlying the development of these adverse events is
      currently not fully understood, it is reasonable to trial the safe pediatric medications that
      are already employed in premedication regimens. It is for this reason the investigators
      propose the use of acetaminophen and diphenhydramine for the post-IVIG infusion medication
      regimen.

      Currently, no evidence-based guideline exists for the administration of prophylactic
      medications following IVIG infusions as these specific IVIG side effects are of less concern
      in non-thrombocytopenic patients. The 2011 American Society of Hematology ITP Clinical
      Practice Guidelines found insufficient evidence to recommend or oppose routine premedication
      prior to IVIG. The newly released 2019 Guidelines note that headache can be particularly
      problematic, however they do not recommend a specific avoidance strategy. While providers
      often pre-medicate, post-infusion medication practices are entirely physician dependent and
      frequently involve the use of acetaminophen and diphenhydramine as symptoms arise. The
      investigators hypothesize that an alternative approach to post-infusion practices may alter
      IVIG-related symptomatology, particularly those symptoms most alarming in a patient with
      thrombocytopenia and at risk for ICH. Scheduled post-infusion medication with acetaminophen
      and diphenhydramine may decrease the rate of worrisome symptoms in patients with ITP and
      subsequently decrease the need to return to medical care where additional laboratory and
      imaging studies are often performed to further assess for ICH. The ability of routine
      post-infusion medication to decrease the rate of adverse events and subsequent return to
      medical care has yet to be studied in patients with ITP.

      It is unknown whether families of children with ITP are willing to enroll in a clinical trial
      to evaluate the effects and potential benefits of scheduled post-infusion. Additionally, it
      is unknown to what degree adherence to scheduled post-infusion medication can be achieved. In
      order to determine if enrollment and adherence can be achieved, the investigators plan to
      conduct a year-long feasibility study in patients in whom IVIG is indicated for treatment of
      bleeding symptoms and/or risk associated with ITP (Figure 2). The results of this feasibility
      study will assess the ability to successfully conduct future comparative randomized control
      trials (RCTs). This single-arm feasibility study with comparison to Texas Children's
      Hematology Center historical data will also provide preliminary clinical data regarding rates
      of return to medical care and additional medical interventions. Further RCTs will be critical
      to determine if the number of patients who must return to care and undergo further testing
      can be decreased with a scheduled post-infusion medication regimen. These data will inform
      future clinical practice guidelines.
    
  