
    
      Interleukin 7 (IL-7) is an essential cytokine for the thymic development and the post-thymic
      survival, expansion and maturation of T lymphocytes in humans. The rationale for using IL-7
      as immunotherapy in HIV infection would be to support the expansion, survival and functional
      properties of T lymphocytes and enhance immune reconstitution. Phase I studies of a previous
      formulation of rhIL7 in cancer and HIV infected patients have shown that T cell proliferation
      and expansion can be achieved at doses that are well tolerated. The newly glycosylated form
      of IL-7 tested in this study has a longer half-life allowing weekly administrations.

      This is a phase I/IIa, open label, single arm trial that will test the safety of three
      subcutaneous injections of IL-7 at three different dose levels (10, 20 and 30
      micrograms/kilograms) that will be tested sequentially. Eligible subjects (400
      cells/microliters greater than CD4 greater than 101 cells/microliters and VL less than 1000
      copies/milliliter, on antiretroviral therapy for at least one year) will be given 3 doses of
      IL-7 at weekly intervals (day 0, day 7 and day 14). Participants will be followed on days 0,
      1, 4, 7, 14, 21 and 28 with additional visits on days 35, 56, and 77 and optional follow up
      every 3 months thereafter until week 56 (approximately 1 year after enrollment). The three
      doses will be tested sequentially (10, 20 and 30 micrograms/kilograms per dose) and dose
      escalation will occur only when safety data from day 28 of the previous dose level
      participants are complete.

      Ten subjects will enroll in each dose level and dose escalation will occur only after all
      subjects complete four weeks without evidence of dose-limiting toxicities. Secondary end
      points include a PK study of glycosylated rhIL7 as well as immunologic studies throughout the
      duration of the study to assess evidence of IL7 biologic activity with markers of T cell
      proliferation and expression of the alpha chain of the IL7 receptor. This is a multi-center
      international study sponsored by Cytheris with sites in USA, Canada, Italy and France.
      Children will be excluded and a separate study will be required in the future after the
      safety and biologic activity of this agent is established in adults. The study will enroll a
      total of approximately 30 participants.
    
  