
    
      Pemphigus is a rare autoimmune disease involving skin and mucous membranes with an incidence
      estimated as 0.7 to 7 new cases per million per year, responsible for non-negligible
      morbidity and mortality. Pemphigus is characterized by the production of pathogenic
      autoantibodies directed against two desmosomal proteins involved in keratinocyte adhesion
      (i.e. desmoglein 1 and desmoglein 3). These antibodies are responsible for the disruption of
      desmosomes leading to the acantholysis phenomenon, which results in the formation of skin and
      mucosal blisters. Two main classical subtypes of pemphigus have been individualized,
      pemphigus vulgaris (PV) and pemphigus foliaceus (PF), in which pathogenic autoantibodies are
      directed against desmosomal transmembrane glycoproteins belonging to the cadherin family,
      desmoglein 3, and desmoglein 1, respectively. As for many auto-immune diseases, high doses of
      corticosteroids (CS) remained the mainstay of first-line treatment for long time, alone or in
      conjunction with immunosuppressants. However, on these regimens, frequent relapses occurs
      when tapering CS dosage leading to long-term treatment and its associated risk of CS side
      effects.

      Since ten years, the improvement in the knowledge of B-cell activation and survival, as well
      as their direct implication in auto-immune disease such as pemphigus through pathogenic
      auto-antibodies production, led to the identification of new therapeutic targets. New
      biological therapies based on B cell depletion were developed in severe autoimmune disorders,
      notably in pemphigus.

      Several teams demonstrated the safety and efficacy of Rituximab, a chimeric immunoglobulin
      gamma-1(IgG1) monoclonal antibody(mAb) targeting the cluster of differentiation antigen
      20(CD20) molecule expressed by normal B-cells from pre-B cells except for plasma cells, in
      severe pemphigus refractory to corticosteroids as well as in first line of treatment. Across
      these works, some of them concurred to improve the knowledge about B-cell populations
      responsible for pemphigus activity. In pemphigus patients, B-cell population was shown to
      comprise auto-reactive B lymphocytes producing antibodies targeting desmogleins, directly
      responsible for disease activity, and regulatory B lymphocytes (B-reg). After rituximab
      treatment of pemphigus patients, clinical activity was proved to be associated with
      circulating auto-antibodies high titers and an increase of auto-reactive B-cells, whereas
      clinical remission was associated with a change in B-cell populations, as B cell repertoire
      changed from oligoclonal to polyclonal when reconstituting after treatment, with an increase
      of immatures and transitional B-cells producing IL-10 (B-reg).

      The mechanisms leading to autoreactive B-cells appearance, the precise role of B-reg in
      immune tolerance, and the factors triggering the imbalance between pro autoimmune and
      regulatory immune B-cells leading to pemphigus activity remain to be discovered. As for other
      auto-immune diseases, first flares and relapses were described following infectious events.
      Thus, infectious agents might trigger unknown mechanisms participating in the immune system
      imbalance by the activation of previously quiescent auto reactive B-cells or effector
      B-cells.

      Polymorphonuclear neutrophil granulocytes (PMN) are the first responders of the immune system
      to threats by invading microorganisms; performing essential functions of innate immunity in
      host defence against a broad range of pathogens, notably by phagocytosis, intracellular
      degradation and extracellular discharge of antimicrobial factors. Since 2004, Polynuclear
      Neutral Neutrophil (PNN) were shown to produce neutrophil extracellular traps (NET),
      structures consisting of decondensed chromatin embedded with histones, granular and
      cytoplasmic proteins that trap and kill microbes. NET were initially consider to arise
      following cell death (NETosis) but NET formation was also described without PMN death with
      mitochondrial DNA extrusion. NET production during infectious events is responsible for the
      release of cytosolic, nuclear and mitochondrial antigens in the extracellular environment;
      this auto-antigen exposure constituting favourable conditions for autoimmune disease such as
      lupus erythematosus and AntiNeutrophil Cytoplasmic Antibody (ANCA) vasculitis, of which
      auto-antibodies targets belong to NET components (DNA, RNA, MPO, PR3). Besides antimicrobial
      function, an excessive production of NET or NET insufficient clearance were found to maintain
      tissue inflammation and excessive tissue damages that contribute to autoinflammatory and
      autoimmune diseases.

      In lupus, recent works demonstrated evidences that NET components are found in immune
      complexes responsible for tissue inflammation and that polyclonal activation of B-cell as
      well as memory B-cell activation could be obtain in presence of immune complexes derived from
      NET.

      Besides lupus, other works showed evidence of NET implication in inflammatory and auto-immune
      states in rheumatoid arthritis and small vessel vasculitis.

      The investigators hypothesize that B-cell activation by NET might not be restricted to
      autoimmune diseases of which antibodies target NET components, as it is the case for lupus
      (DNA, RNA, LL37), Rheumatoid Arthritis(RA) (citrullinated proteins) or small vessel
      vasculitis (PR3, MPO).

      Thus, the primary aim is to assess the effects on B-cell activation and the phenotypic
      changes in B-cell population from pemphigus patients after stimulation by neutrophil
      extracellular traps.

      The secondary aim is to compare the results obtained in pemphigus patients to patients with
      other autoimmune diseases such as lupus, rheumatoid arthritis a Gougerot-Sjögren syndrome.
    
  