
    
      It is a randomized, open-label, multi-centre trial in which patients with symptomatic
      paroxysmal or persistent atrial fibrillation will be randomized to treatment with either
      catheter ablation for pulmonary vein isolation or optimized conventional pharmacological
      therapy. Patients will receive an implantable cardiac monitor, Reveal XT, implanted
      subcutaneously, before a two month "Run-in" period from which the basic atrial fibrillation
      burden will be defined, which will provide an objective basis to assess the AF burden for 3
      years.

      After initiation of randomized therapy, patients will be followed at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 30,
      36 and 48 months. In case of intolerable symptomatic atrial fibrillation despite allocated
      treatment, subjects will be switched to the alternative regimen, on patient's request.

      The ablation will consist of pulmonary vein isolation for both paroxysmal and persistent
      atrial fibrillation. A linear lesion at the left atrial roof is optional for patients with
      recurrence after a first procedure or primarily for patients with persistent atrial
      fibrillation only. A second ablation procedure may be undertaken at earliest 3 months after
      the first procedure, if symptoms persists or recurs. Epicardial off-pump ablation may be
      offered after failed attempts of transvenous catheter ablation at earliest 3 months after
      latest procedure. If the second transvenous ablation procedure fails, patients may be offered
      i) a third transvenous ablation procedure or ii) an epicardial off-pump procedure. In case
      the patient declines a third intervention despite recurrence, the patient should continue on
      the same anti-arrhythmic drugs. If new previously untested drugs are prescribed, the patient
      will be defined as a change of treatment (and failed ablation). Ablation may be performed
      using radiofrequency energy with irrigated tip or with cryo-energy using the Arctic Front™
      Cardiac CryoAblation Catheter. A complete pulmonary vein isolation will be defined by
      documenting PV entrance block in each vein using a circular mapping catheter.

      Anti-arrhythmic drugs remaining to be tested for rate and rhythm control may include
      previously tested tolerable antiarrhythmic drugs if dosages were inadequate. Optimized
      anti-arrhythmic drug therapy includes testing of all available anti-arrhythmic drugs at
      adequate dosages, including amiodarone 600 mg once daily for 7-10 days, and 100-200 mg once
      daily thereafter; sotalol: 80-160 mg twice daily; flecainide 100 to 150 mg twice daily or the
      entire dose as slow-release formula once daily; propafenone 300 mg twice daily; and
      disopyramide 250-375mg twice daily, and potentially new antiarrhythmic drugs commercially
      available during the study period.

      A monitor will verify that data recorded on the procedure forms are correct through quarterly
      communication, review of catheterization reports and medical records. In accordance with
      applicable regulations a monitor (study nurse from Uppsala) will contact the site prior to
      the start of the study to review with the site staff protocol, study requirements and their
      responsibilities to satisfy study requirements, if needed. When reviewing data collection
      procedures the discussion will also include identification, agreement and documentation of
      data items for which the case record forms (CRF), patient files (paper or database), tracings
      of investigations, and questionnaires, will serve a source document. The investigator and the
      head of the medical institution agrees should allow the monitor direct access to all relevant
      documents whenever needed and in an event of an audit. To ensure compliance the monitor may
      conduct a quality assurance audit, which can occur at any time during or after completion of
      the study.

      The Biometrics section at Uppsala Clinical Research Centre is responsible for the Data
      Management. All data will be recorded in the CRFs and entered via eCRF directly into a web
      based data capturing system except for electronically available data that will be loaded
      directly into the study database. Each investigational site will have authorized site
      personnel responsible for entering the data, as well as for changing and correcting the data
      according to instructions provided by Uppsala Clinical Research Centre (UCR) and the
      coordinating centre. All changes will be tracked by an audit trail. The site specific
      investigator will sign the eCRF electronically when the data have been reviewed and edited,
      and Source Data Verification has been performed.

      The Database Closure will be performed in three steps, the first one when all data from the
      first 12 months are entered, the second one when all data from the 24 months period are
      entered and the third when the complete study period of 48 months are entered. All datasets
      used for the 12- and 24 months analyses will be locked separately. Procedures: When all data
      are entered into the database and all queries solved, the Database Closure procedures will
      start.

      Complications are defined as acute if occurring within 1 week after initialized therapy, and
      late if occurring one week after initialized therapy. All "Serious adverse events" should be
      documented on the "Adverse events Form" AND "Serious adverse events Form". All " Adverse
      events" should be documented in the "Adverse events Form". All events which are part of
      performing a catheterization procedure will be reported. All serious unanticipated events
      whether or not they are considered to be related to the procedure but which have some
      association with the catheterization either by timing or physiology, will be reported. Other
      bleedings than major bleeding events should be reported as minor bleeds. All events related
      to pharmacological therapy will be reported.

      Procedural complications are defined as those arising during or within 1 month of the
      procedure, including death, major bleeding, vascular injury, cerebrovascular accident,
      myocardial infarction, pericardial effusion with or without tamponade, venous or systemic
      embolism, phrenic nerve paralysis, and heart block. Events occurring later than 1 month after
      the procedure and defined as related to the procedure are pulmonary vein stenosis, tamponade,
      retroperitoneal haematoma, and atrio-esophageal fistula (see below).

      Relation to Device Procedure or drug, Intensity, Outcome and Actions taken will be described
      according to international regulations.

      Statistical methods. All continuous variables will be presented per treatment group using
      descriptive statistics by mean, SD, max and min values, in addition medians, 25th and 75th
      percentiles will be presented when suitable.

      The analysis of mean change in the primary endpoint will be two-sided and performed as an
      unpaired t-test at 5% significance level. The difference between the treatment groups with
      corresponding two-sided 95% confidence interval based on a normal approximation will be
      presented. The continuous secondary endpoints will be analyzed in the same way as the primary
      endpoint, but the results will be interpreted descriptively. Kaplan-Meier estimates and
      log-rank test will be used to determine the occurrence of the secondary endpoints over time.
      All categorical secondary endpoints will be compared between treatment groups with frequency
      tables and Fisher's Exact Test including 95% confidence intervals where possible. Adverse
      Events will be summarized per treatment group by body system/system organ class, preferred
      terms, intensity, seriousness and relationship. Laboratory data for efficacy will be
      presented in mean change tables.

      The null hypothesis (H0) is that the difference in the mean change from baseline to 12 months
      after baseline in General Health between the two treatments is zero;- mean change for the
      treatment group catheter ablation (μ 1) and - mean change for the treatment group optimized
      conventional pharmacological therapy (μ 2) Safety - All randomized patients will be included
      in the safety analysis. Only observed observations are used in the safety analysis.

      Intention to treat (ITT) - All randomized patients. The main analysis will be performed on
      the ITT-population.

      Per protocol (PP) - All randomized patients completing the study treatment period of 12
      months without any major protocol violation (for example ineligibility, early withdrawals,
      poor compliance).

      A subgroup analysis will determine whether sinus rhythm obtained by AF ablation is superior
      to sinus rhythm obtained by pharmacological therapy for rate and/or rhythm control. In
      addition a comparison will be done between patients with sinus rhythm and patients with
      atrial fibrillation irrespective of allocated therapy. Both analyses will be performed with
      regard to quality of life, morbidity (composite, see secondary endpoint 1), cardiovascular
      hospitalizations, exercise/ physical capacity, safety, and health economy at 12 and 24
      months.

      All continuous variables will be presented per treatment group using descriptive statistics
      by mean, standard deviation, max and min values, in addition medians, 25th and 75th
      percentiles will be presented when suitable. The analysis of mean change in the primary
      endpoint will be two-sided and performed as an unpaired t-test at 5% significance level. The
      difference between the treatment groups with corresponding two-sided 95% confidence interval
      based on a normal approximation will be presented.

      The continuous secondary endpoints will be analyzed in the same way as the primary endpoint,
      but the results will be interpreted descriptively.

      Kaplan-Meier estimates and log-rank test will be used to determine the occurrence of the
      secondary endpoints over time. All categorical secondary endpoints will be compared between
      treatment groups with frequency tables and Fisher's Exact Test including 95% confidence
      intervals where possible. Adverse Events will be summarized per treatment group by body
      system/system organ class, preferred terms, intensity, seriousness and relationship.

      Sample size considerations: The primary endpoint is the change in General Health from
      baseline to 12 months after baseline. Based on previous studies it is assumed that the
      variable is normally distributed with a standard deviation for the change in General Health
      of 20 units and an expected difference between groups of at least 10.5 units. To detect a
      difference of 10.5 units in General Health (corresponding to an improvement of 15%, assuming
      a mean General Health of 70 units in the conventional pharmacological therapy group) with a
      power of 80% and a type I error of 5% (two-sided alternative), a sample size of approximately
      58 subjects in each treatment group is required, i.e. a total number of 116 patients. Another
      20 patients are added to ensure calculated number of patients for analysis at 12 months. The
      power to detect a difference of 10.5 for 136 (116+20) and 140 (the minimum expected total
      number) patients is 85% and 86%, respectively.

      A 1:1 block randomization will be used within each centre, stratifying patients between
      paroxysmal and persistent AF.
    
  