
    
      A multicentre, randomised, phase IIa study in participants with relapsed or refractory CD20+
      B-cell malignancies. The study will be conducted in 2 stages as follows:

      Stage 1 - Safety During the safety phase, 6 participants (3 from each Arm and from any
      subtype) will be treated as detailed in section 6.1. The number of dose limiting toxicities
      (DLTs) experienced by these participants in each arm after having completed the first cycle
      will dictate whether the trial will proceed to the second stage.

        1. In each arm, if out of these 3 participants 0 experience a DLT, then that arm will
           proceed to stage 2.

        2. In each arm, if out of these 3 participants 1 or 2 experience a DLT, then that arm will
           be expanded to 3 more participants.

             1. If 1 or 2 out of 6 participants experience a dose limiting toxicity, the arm will
                proceed to Stage 2.

             2. If 3 or more out of 6 participants experience a DLT, recruitment for that arm will
                be stopped.

        3. If out of these 3 participants, 3 experience a dose limiting toxicity, recruitment for
           that arm will be stopped.

      Initially, the first patient will be entered into the trial. Providing there are no serious
      or unexplained safety issues during the first 2 weeks, as determined by the Safety Review
      Committee (SRC), then dosing of subsequent participants will continue as they are identified.
      Should toxicity findings of concern occur, the SRC may choose to stagger the start of dosing
      for subsequent participants and/or cohorts.

      The objective of Stage 2 is to obtain some further information on the safety of the
      intervention in a larger sample, information on activity (response rate overall and per
      lymphoma subtype) and feasibility of administrating rituximab and varlilumab together. During
      Stage 2, recruitment will continue so (including those in Stage 1), there is a total of 10
      participants per arm and per disease category (a total of 20 participants per disease
      category, 40 participants in the trial in total).
    
  