
    
      The proposed project aims to improve the process of making evidence-informed treatment
      decisions by patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and ultimately empower patient
      self-management. Current RA treatment emphasizes: 1) the need for early and aggressive
      treatment, and 2) the use of a treat-to-target approach. However, patients often struggle
      with treatment decisions, especially when the options have both benefits and risks. To
      address this challenge, investigators based at Arthritis Research Canada have previously
      developed an online decision aid called ANSWER-2 (ANimated, Self-serve, WEb-based, Research
      Tool: Version 2) for RA patients who are considering a biologic, and this tool has been
      recently adapted for the US healthcare setting (called US-ANSWER-2).

      Objectives: 1) To evaluate the effectiveness of US-ANSWER-2 in reducing patients' decisional
      conflict. 2) To assess the extent to which US-ANSWER-2 improves patients' knowledge about RA
      medications and confidence in managing their health. 3) To examine the experiences of
      patients and rheumatologists in using US-ANSWER-2.

      The investigators will conduct a proof-of-concept randomized controlled trial with 80
      patients with RA. Eligible individuals are those: 1) with a diagnosis of RA from a
      rheumatologist, 2) whose rheumatologists have recommended initiating a biologic or switching
      to another biologic, and 3) who have internet access and email. The Intervention Group will
      receive simple instructions to access the US-ANSWER-2 decision aid and complete the program
      on their own within two days. At the end of the session, a one-page summary will be produced
      to help them discuss their questions, concerns, and preferred choices with their health care
      providers. The Control Group will receive a standard online medication guide, reflective of
      usual practice. Participants will complete the Decisional Conflict Scale (primary outcome)
      before and after the intervention (US-ANSWER-2 or standard online medication guide). The
      following secondary outcome measures will be collected at baseline, Month 1, and Month 2: 1)
      Medication Education Impact Questionnaire, and 2) Partners in Health Scale. In addition, the
      use of healthcare resources will be collected at baseline and Month 2, and the use of
      biologics will be collected at Month 6. All participants and their rheumatologists will be
      invited to participate in a qualitative interview about their experience with the patient
      decision aid.
    
  