
    
      While Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a highly effective anti-depressant treatment, a
      relevant number of patients experience recurrence of depressive episodes within 6 months.

      One previous study suggested that ECT treatment effects can be effectively sustained by group
      CBT (Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, Brakemeier et a. 2014). This previous implementation used
      a closed CBT-group set-up that implicated a longer waiting period for patients after
      finishing the acute ECT and did not investigate whether patients who did not respond to ECT
      could sufficiently profit from group CBT. In order to suit the complex needs of patients in a
      natural clinical setting, the present study aims to investigate the feasibility and
      effectiveness of a half-open continuous group CBT (named EffECtive 2.0) as continuation
      treatment for all ECT patients regardless of remission status after ECT.

      This prospective study will recruit a total of 30 patients who concluded treatment with
      right-unilateral ultra-brief ECT for depression. Patients self-allocate to the group that is
      offered in addition to continuation treatment as usual (TAU, e.g. pharmacological treatment,
      continuation ECT, individual psychotherapy). ECT completers who choose not to partake in the
      group for practical concerns or lack of interest and receive treatment as usual are recruited
      as a control group.

      The primary outcome measure is the change depression severity, measured with the
      Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS). Secondary outcomes are quality of life
      assessed with the short-version of the WHO quality of life questionnaire (WHOQOL-Bref) and
      emotion regulation as assessed with cognitive emotion regulation questionnaire (CERQ). These
      measures will be assessed before, during, immediately after acute ECT and six and 12 months
      into continuation therapy.

      It is hypothesized that a group CBT as add-on treatment to TAU will lead to more favorable
      outcomes concerning depression severity, quality of life and emotion regulation.
    
  