
    
      Rationale:

      Multiple studies have demonstrated the importance of adequate catheter-tissue contact in the
      creation of effective lesions during radiofrequency catheter ablation. The development of
      contact-force(CF)-sensing catheters have contributed significantly to improve clinical
      outcomes in atrial fibrillation 3-18. However CF-sensing technology is not used in the
      ablation of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. Although PSVT ablation with the
      conventional approach (non-irrigated, non-CF-sensing catheters) is considered a relatively
      low-risk procedure with fairly high success rate (short-and long-term) 1,2,19, we hypothesize
      that contact-force sensing can further improve the outcomes of these procedures. Based on the
      results of studies on atrial fibrillation ablation (mentioned above) we believe that
      CF-sensing could similarly improve such important parameters as radiofrequency (RF)
      application number/time, total procedure time, and fluoroscopy time in cases of PSVT
      ablations, as well. In addition CF-sensing could also further improve acute
      success/recurrence rates of PSVT ablation, and might also be capable to further diminish
      complication risk.

      Primary Objective:

      The primary objective of the present study is to demonstrate the superiority of
      contact-force-sensing in the ablation of AVNRT and WPW-AVRT as assessed by the improvement in
      the number and duration of radiofrequency applications compared with the conventional
      ablation approach.

      Secondary Objective:

      Secondary objectives of the study are the followings:

        -  to demonstrate that contact-force-sensing catheters are superior in terms of total
           procedure duration and fluoroscopy times in the case of AVNRT/WPW-AVRT ablation.

        -  to show that the use of contact-force sensing catheters is non-inferior to conventional
           catheters (without contact-force-sensing) in terms of acute/long-term procedural success
           and procedural safety (major/minor complication rate) of AVNRT/WPW-AVRT ablations.

      Study population:

      All patients above 18 years without structural heart disease being referred for
      electrophysiological study and potential treatment with radiofrequency catheter ablation of
      atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT) and atrioventricular reentrant
      tachycardia (AVRT) with manifest (WPW syndrome) or concealed accessory pathways.

      Intervention:

      One group undergoes manual ablation using standard non-irrigated ablation catheters and the
      other group undergoes manual ablation with an open-irrigated ablation catheter equipped with
      CF- sensing (and utilized in a non-irrigated mode during ablation)

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      The main study endpoint is the difference in RF application number during the procedures of
      AVNRT/WPW-AVRT ablation; secondary endpoints are differences in RF application rate, acute
      success rate, long-term recurrence rate (1 year) major/minor complication rate, and total
      procedure/fluoroscopy time.
    
  