
    
      Objectives: To investigate the effects of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS)
      targeting the insula on alcohol use and neural responses in alcohol-dependent patients.

      Study population: Treatment seeking alcohol dependent subjects (N=82), aged 18-65 years, who
      have first completed standard alcohol withdrawal treatment if needed.

      Design: This is a double-blind, sham-controlled randomized study, comprising three phases.
      Participants will be hospitalized during the first two of these, and will be outpatients
      during the third. During Phase 1 the study (screening; up to 14 days), participants will
      undergo a set of baseline assessments; this phase will conclude with consent, inclusion and
      randomization. During Phase 2 (treatment; appr. 3 weeks, with at least the first week being
      hospitalized), participants will first undergo an MRI scan to collect resting state and
      structural data, and will then receive one of two treatments: Active (10Hz) rTMS; or sham
      stimulation, both targeting the insula bilaterally. rTMS sessions will be conducted five
      times per week, for 3 weeks, for a total of 15 sessions. Stimulation will be with an H-coil
      designed to reach deeper structures such as the insula. A second MRI scan will be obtained at
      the end of this phase to assess changes in resting state connectivity, and to evaluate insula
      activity in tasks known to activate this structure. In addition, a lumbar puncture will be
      carried out at the end of this phase to assess possible effects on central neurotransmitter
      and growth factor levels, as indexed in the cerebrospinal fluid. For Phase 3 (follow-up,
      lasting 12 weeks), patients will be followed as outpatients for 12 weeks, with clinic visits
      at weeks 1, 2, 4, 8 and 12 post discharge; measures of alcohol use will be collected during
      this phase.

      Outcome measures: The co-primary outcome measures will be heavy alcohol consumption during
      the follow-up phase, assessed using time-line follow-back methodology; and insula BOLD
      functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) responses during tasks known to induce insula
      activation. A number of secondary and exploratory measures will also be assessed, including
      objective biomarkers of alcohol consumption.
    
  