
    
      Background: Radial shock waves are an effective therapy for the management of various
      problems at the muscular and joint level, thanks to the effect it has on the activation of
      microcirculation. The effect of these waves on patients with erectile dysfunction is
      currently unknown; however, it is considered possible to help recovery in patients with
      vascular origin dysfunction by increasing microcirculation blood flow in this area.

      Objective: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of radial shock waves for the treatment of
      erectile dysfunction.

      Patients and methods: Randomized, double-blind clinical trial. The study will include
      patients of legal age with diagnosis of ED and score on the IIEF-EF scale between 11 and 21
      points, who voluntarily decide to participate and sign the informed consent. Patients with
      bladder cancer, prostate cancer or active colon, ED of psychological origin, any psychiatric
      disorder, spinal cord injury, clinical suspicion of hypogonadism (AMS greater than 36),
      infections or active lesions of the penis or pubic area, ED secondary to treatment with
      medications (antiandrogenic therapy, use of corticosteroids, anti-Parkinson's,
      antipsychotics), radical prostatectomy or other radical pelvic surgery, history of pelvic
      radiotherapy, penile implantation, or endocrine diseases that occur with ED (acromegaly,
      gigantism, Addison's disease, hyperprolactinemia, androgenic deficiency), sickle cell anemia,
      and anticoagulated patients will be excluded.

      Patients will be randomly assigned to one of the following treatment arms:

        -  Arm 1 (Standard treatment (oral sildenafil) + Radial wave therapy): Sildenafil according
           to the degree of patient involvement + 6 sessions of radial waves. A weekly session of
           radial waves will be applied with the following parameters: 6000 pulses at 1.5-2.6 bar
           (depending on patient tolerance), with a frequency of 17Hz, the frequency should
           increase to 22HZ the first 500 impulses to create mild anesthesia in the area; in all
           radial wave sessions, 4000 impulses will be distributed in the body of the penis in
           scanning technique and 2000 impulses in the perineal area.

        -  Arm 2 (Standard treatment (oral sildenafil) + Placebo therapy): Sildenafil according to
           the patient's degree of affectation + 6 sessions of placebo therapy. There will be a
           weekly session of placebo wave therapy, using the respective device to prevent the
           patient from receiving the radial wave. The same parameters of the "real" therapy will
           be used: 6000 pulses at 2.6 bar, with a frequency of 17 Hz; in all radial wave sessions,
           4000 impulses will be distributed in the body of the penis in scanning technique and
           2000 impulses in the perineal area.

      Measurements will be made of the EHS and IIEF-EF scale scores, of the use of medication and
      of the possible adverse events of the therapy, at the beginning and end of the treatment, and
      one month after the therapies are finished.
    
  