
    
      Background Asthma is a heterogeneous disease, usually characterized by chronic airway
      inflammation. It is defined by the history of respiratory symptoms such as wheeze, shortness
      of breath, chest tightness and cough that vary over time and in intensity, together with
      variable expiratory airflow limitation.1 The World Health Organization estimates that 300
      million people worldwide have asthma with an associated 250,000 asthma deaths annually.2 In
      Hong Kong, the prevalence rates of physician-diagnosed asthma in 13- to-14-year-olds were
      10.2% in 2002,3 and 5.8% in the elderly (aged >70 years) in 2003.4 The crude mortality rate
      of asthma in 2005 in Hong Kong was 1.4/100,000.5

      Severe asthma is not very common but casts a considerable burden on the healthcare system and
      patients. According to a Dutch survey which included adult asthma patients, 17.4% and 3.6% of
      them had difficult-to-treat asthma and severe asthma respectively.6 Although severe asthma
      involves only a small proportion of the asthma population, it generates a huge amount of
      asthma-related healthcare expenditure.7 An observational cohort by a French study group found
      that 83% of patients with severe asthma experienced at least one exacerbation and 14% were
      hospitalised for asthma over the past 12 months.8 Also, patients with severe asthma
      experience a different spectrum and more severe symptoms, with higher functional and
      psychological limitation than the general asthma population.9

      Asthma is considered as difficult-to-treat if it remains uncontrolled despite Global
      Initiative for Asthma (GINA) step 4 or 5 treatment (e.g. medium or high dose inhaled
      corticosteroids [ICS] plus a second controller), or that requires such treatment to maintain
      good symptom control and reduce the risk of exacerbation.1 Various modifiable factors may
      contribute to difficult-to-treat asthma, that includes incorrect inhaler technique,
      suboptimal medication adherence, associated comorbid conditions and even wrong diagnosis.
      Severe asthma is considered as a subset of difficult-to-treat asthma after exclusion of the
      modifiable factors other than poorly controlled asthma itself. It is defined as asthma that
      is uncontrolled despite adherence with maximal optimised therapy and treatment of
      contributory factors, or that worsens when high dose treatment is decreased.1 Disease
      phenotyping has revolutionised the management of asthma from stepwise treatment to
      phenotype-based treatment. As asthma is a clinical syndrome comprising of several spectrums
      of symptom, different molecular pathways may be involved. Most of these are associated with
      evidence of cellular inflammation in the airway.10 Identifying treatable traits may
      potentially guide the choice and predict the outcome of treatment, e.g. blood or airway
      eosinophilia, is usually a good indicator of corticosteroid responsiveness.11 12 The process
      of characterising observable treatable traits is termed phenotyping, and this allows
      physicians to select the most appropriate add-on therapies for patients with severe asthma.
      Phenotype identification is usually performed in patients on high dose ICS, as most clinical
      trials on an add-on or biologic treatments were performed in this group of patients.

      Among the various inflammatory phenotypes, Type 2 inflammation is the most important one, and
      its mechanism forms the basis of several biologic treatments. This inflammation pathway is
      characterised by the presence of interleukin (IL)-4, IL-5 and IL-13. IL-4 and IL-5 promote
      the production of immunoglobulin E (IgE) and eosinophils respectively, thus the occurrence of
      eosinophilic inflammation and atopic phenomenon in asthma.1, 13

      Five biologics have been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for
      antagonising the Type 2 inflammatory mechanisms in severe asthma. They are omalizumab,
      mepolizumab, reslizumab, benralizumab, and dupilumab. In general, severe asthma patients with
      clinical and laboratory features manifesting Type 2 inflammation (e.g. allergen-driven, high
      IgE level, high eosinophil activity) and exacerbations are good candidates for such
      treatment.

      In Hong Kong, there is no information regarding the prevalence of severe or difficult to
      treat asthma. There is also a lack of data on how this group of severe patients are managed,
      and also their morbidity and mortality. Biologics have been introduced into Hong Kong, and
      there is no data on how the patients are responding to these new therapies.

      Aims of the study This study aims to prospectively assess the asthma control and management
      of asthma patients who are on step 4, 5 asthma of GINA1 in Hong Kong (on at least medium-dose
      ICS-LABA as controller therapy for asthma) and also observe their exacerbations over 2 years.
      In addition, this study will also assess patients who are on biologics for their suitability
      and outcome. The investigators hope this study will be able to provided data regarding the
      management and outcome of patients who have difficult-to-treat and severe asthma. The
      investigators plan to build a biologic registry for asthma that would be able to help local
      doctors to gain experience to the use of these new and expensive medications.

      This is a multi-centre study involving public hospitals in Hong Kong. At the moment, Prince
      of Wales Hospital and Queen Elizabeth Hospital will join the study. The investigators will
      invite more hospitals to join later and will get ethical approval in all involved centres.

      This study is important as this will generate local data for healthcare planning for severe
      asthma in Hong Kong.
    
  