
    
      Total elbow arthroplasty (TEA) results in immediate pain release with good functional results
      after distal humerus fractures. But still open reduction and internal fixation is recommended
      as treatment of choise due to a lifelong loading limitiation, unknown implant survival and
      problematic revision surgery after TEA. The purpose of this study was to compare functional
      results and complication rates after primary total elbow arthroplasty (TEA) and TEA after
      failed reconstruction or non-operative treatment (secondary TEA) in the treatment of distal
      humerus fractures.

      This retrospective study was performed at a level I trauma centre. All patients were informed
      about the study and provided written informed consent.

      All patients undergoing total elbow arthroplasty (TEA) were identified by electronically
      screening our database by the OPS codes 5-824.4 (implantation of a linked TEA) and 5-824.5
      (implantation of an unlinked TEA) between August 2008 and May 2014. Based on patient records
      and x-rays the indication for implantation of the TEA was retrospectively reviewed. All
      patients, who received a TEA for an acute trauma with fracture of the distal humerus (primary
      TEA) or due to a failed reconstruction or non-operative treatment after a distal humerus
      fracture (secondary TEA), were included in this study. A minimum follow-up of 6 months was
      set as inclusion criterion. Exclusion criteria were previous injury at the fractured elbow,
      neuro-muscular disease, cortisone or other immune suppressive therapy and open fracture grade
      II or higher according to Tscherne and Ostern.The patient records were reviewed for
      demographic and perioperative data. If the initial treatment was not conducted in our
      department, radiographs and patient records were requested. The follow-up examination
      included the evaluation of the range of motion and stability of the elbow, actual pain and
      satisfaction of the patient. To objectify the functional result the Mayo Elbow Performance
      Score (MEPS) and Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Score (DASH) were determined.
      Additionally, complications and revision surgeries were recorded. Complications were split up
      into minor (nerve irritation or postoperative haematoma) and major complications, which
      required a revision of the prosthesis. Periprosthetic fractures due to renewed fall with an
      adequate trauma were not counted as complication.

      Perioperative data, the functional result (range of motion, MEPS, DASH) and postoperative
      complications were described for each group. Subsequently, these results were statistically
      compared using the Mann-Whitney U test as a two-way analysis of variance for independent
      factors. A p-value ≤ 0.05 was considered statistically significant. The statistical analysis
      was performed using SPSS for MAC (IBM SPSS Statistics 22, Chicago, Illinois).

      We hypothesised that clinical and functional results are better for primary TEA with less
      complications.
    
  