
    
      Effectiveness of early intervention in the diagnosis and treatment of hyponatremia in the
      prevention of hospitalized patients´ falls.

      Aims:

        1. To assess the effectiveness of corrective activity of hyponatremia in falls reducing
           incidence.

        2. To assess the cost-effectiveness ratio of the two proposed strategies: conventional
           treatment versus early intervention.

      Cross ecological quasi-experimental study. The project will take place in Gregorio Marañón
      Hospital (Madrid, Spain) in the following inpatient adult Units: Neurology, Rehabilitation 1,
      Geriatrics, Internal Medicine (Group A), Cardiology, Rehabilitation 2, Gastroenterology,
      Neurosurgery and Oncology (Group B).

      The estimated sample size for a confidence level of 95% (α = 0.05) and power of 90% (β =
      0.010), taking into account a decrease in the incidence of falls of 20% restocking losses, is
      124 patients per group (ie, the 124 patients receiving regular performance ** and 124
      patients receiving the experimental intervention *, if necessary, by participant Unit).

      Data collection: In each of the study participants Units both interventions will be held.
      First the participants Units have been randomized in two groups (Group A: Neurology,
      Rehabilitation 1, Geriatrics, Internal Medicine; Group B: Cardiology, Rehabilitation 2,
      Gastroenterology, Neurosurgery and Oncology). All patients hospitalized in these Units will
      be potentially included. First of all, collaborators will give them an informed consent to
      ask for their participation.

      The interventions are:

        -  Experimental intervention: early diagnosis, treatment of hyponatremia until resolution
           and valuation according to the Dynamic Gait Index test. Duration: 6 months

        -  Habitual action: the usual pattern of work will be performed in all patients who enter.
           Duration: 6 months.
    
  