
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a debilitating psychiatric disorder associated with
      high rates of chronicity, poor quality of life, and severe impairments in interpersonal,
      occupational, and social functioning. While evidence-based psychotherapies for treatment of
      PTSD have been developed and disseminated within the VA system, no treatment has shown
      universal effectiveness and there have been great concerns about attenuated treatment
      response and elevated treatment drop out in veteran populations. The evaluation of
      alternative treatment modalities for veterans with PTSD is therefore an important priority.
      The Minneapolis VA Health Care System (MVAHCS) has taught Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction
      (MBSR), a group-based intervention focused on mindfulness meditation, to veteran clinical
      populations since 2001, and pilot data from veterans diagnosed with PTSD is promising.
      Despite support for the application of MBSR to other mental health and physical problems,
      MBSR has not been systematically evaluated as a treatment for PTSD. Moreover, the existing
      literature on MBSR is limited by methodological weaknesses. If shown to be efficacious
      through scientifically sound trials, MSBR may offer an effective, acceptable, and tolerable
      intervention for veterans suffering PTSD who are unable to engage in or complete traditional
      exposure-based therapies. The primary goal of this proposal is to conduct a methodologically
      rigorous randomized controlled trial (RCT) of MBSR in treating PTSD among veterans, examining
      both symptom outcomes and subsequent health services utilization. Given our compelling pilot
      data, we propose initial steps to evaluate putative mechanisms of change (self-report and
      electrophysiology markers, i.e., EEG) through which MBSR may relate to PTSD symptom
      improvements, and to examine the acceptability of MBSR to the veteran population.

      The MVAHCS and the assembled team combines expertise in PTSD treatment and research, clinical
      trials, and neuroscience, with clinical expertise in MBSR and compelling pilot data to
      support the feasibility and scope of the current project. The efficacy of MBSR will be
      examined relative to present-centered group therapy (PCGT), a non-specific therapeutic
      comparison group. Veterans diagnosed with PTSD will be randomized to MBSR or PCGT for 9
      weeks. Each intervention will be delivered in group format following manualization by trained
      clinicians receiving expert supervision. Treatment integrity will be independently monitored.
      Assessment of clinical outcomes post-treatment and 2 months follow-up will be independently
      evaluated. Putative mechanisms of mindfulness meditation will be assessed using self-report
      and electrophysiology markers. We have the following aims:

      Primary Aim 1: To evaluate the efficacy of MBSR as a treatment for PTSD in veterans compared
      to PCGT over 9-weeks of treatment and 2-month follow-up.

      Secondary Aim 1: To identify potential treatment-based predictors of PTSD outcomes.

      Secondary Aim 2: To identify differences in subsequent VA health services utilization among
      veterans across treatment conditions.

      Exploratory Aims:

        1. To evaluate rates of drop-out, compliance, and consumer satisfaction with MBSR.

        2. To evaluate acceptability and outcomes of treatment with veterans with mild traumatic
           brain injuries.
    
  