
    
      Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury is a common activity-related knee injury with a
      substantial negative impact on individuals and society. Annual direct costs exceed $13
      billion, and the long-term indirect costs far exceed that figure, as ACL injury is also
      linked to accelerated development of disabling osteoarthritis within a few years after
      injury. The National Public Health Agenda for Osteoarthritis recommends expanding and
      refining evidence-based ACL injury prevention to reduce this burden. The investigators have
      identified modifiable risk factors that predict ACL injury in young female athletes. This
      neuromuscular training targets those factors and shows statistical efficacy in high-risk
      athletes, but meaningful transfer of low-risk mechanics to the field of play has been
      limited, as current approaches are not yet decreasing national ACL injury rates in young
      female athletes. The key gap is how to target mechanisms that allow transfer of risk-reducing
      motor control strategies from the intervention to the athletic field. The mechanisms that
      ultimately make such transfer possible are neural, but thus far injury prevention training
      focusing on neuromuscular control has not utilized neural outcomes. The investigators
      published and new preliminary data on neuroplasticity related to injury and neuromuscular
      training demonstrate the proficiency to capture these neural outcomes and future capability
      to target these neural mechanisms to improve the rate of motor transfer. The data support
      this proposal's central hypothesis that increased sensory, visual and motor planning activity
      to improve motor cortex efficiency is the neural mechanism of adaptation transfer to
      realistic scenarios. The ability to target the neural mechanisms to increase risk-reducing
      motor transfer from the clinic to the world could revolutionize ACL injury prevention. The
      transformative, positive impact of such innovative strategies will enhance the delivery of
      biofeedback to optimize training and increase the potential for sport transfer. This
      contribution will be significant for ACL injury prevention and associated long-term sequelae
      in young females. This unique opportunity to enhance ACL injury prevention by targeting
      neural mechanisms of neuromuscular adaptation and transfer will reduce the incidence of
      injuries that cause costly and long-term disabling osteoarthritis.
    
  