
    
      Chronic heart failure(CHF) as the final stage of various heart diseases is a global and
      growing public health problem, and its morbidity increases with age. At present, the main
      therapies for CHF contain drug therapy (including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors,
      aldosterone antagonist, beta-receptor blockers, diuretic, digoxin etc ) , CRT-D(cardiac
      resynchronization therapy )/ICD(implantable cardioverter-defibrillator), biological
      treatment, ultrafiltration dialysis, heart transplantation and so on. Optimize drug therapy
      is the foundation of CHF, but hypotension and bradycardia limit its indications. ESC(European
      Society of Cardiology)/AHA(American Heart Association) guidelines recommended CRT-P/D and ICD
      for drug resistant CHF, but the financial burden limit the use of them and some patients have
      no response to them. Donors and high costs are considered as two problems which limit heart
      transplantation appeal. Above all, we are always searching for a new treatment strategy for
      patients with chronic heart failure. Chronic over-activation of sympathetic nervous system is
      a major component of heart failure and involves efferent and afferent pathways between brain
      and many organs. Recently, some studies in animals and humans suggest that activation of both
      efferent and afferent renal nerves play a crucial role in the pathogenesis and progression of
      CHF. Activation of renal nerves in CHF may cause a reflex increase in sympathetic tone that
      contributes to elevated peripheral vascular resistance and vascular remodeling as well as
      left ventricular remodeling and dysfunction. Recently, many clinical trials have corroborated
      that catheter-based renal sympathetic denervation (RSD) significantly decreased
      sympathetic-nerve activity (MSNA) in muscle and whole-body, with a decrease in renal and
      whole-body norepinephrine spillover. Simultaneously, many clinical researches have also
      verified that RSD can safely be used to control hypertension, reduce left ventricular
      hypertrophy, improve glucose tolerance impaired ,decrease proteinuria and sleep apnea
      severity, which are all recognized as independent risk factors for the development and
      progression of CHF. Therefore, this randomized parallel control clinical trial was designed
      to demonstrate whether RSD can slow the progression of CHF and reduce the rate of all-cause
      mortality effectively and securely.
    
  