
    
      The aim is to investigate the possibility of preventing the development of obesity in early
      childhood. To evaluate the effects of a family-based intervention program intended for
      parents of pre-school children (4-6 y) with overweight and obesity (according to Cole et al),
      and to investigate if treatment has an effect on metabolic parameters. To compare different
      methods of treatment by randomizing the families into groups with various treatment during
      one year; (A) internet based information and communication tool "Sundabarn.se"(B)
      psychologist directed seminars with different themes, giving parents tools to implement
      necessary changes in family-patterns and life style, combined with A, (C) occupational
      therapist directed group-treatment intended to help parents alter their daily life patterns
      and, combined with A, (D) control group. To analyse the aetiology and prognosis of overweight
      and obesity in early childhood, by measuring the following variables: heredity, genetics,
      perinatal, physiological, metabolism, bio-chemical, clinical, psychological, socio-economic.
      In a randomised controlled trial evaluate the three separate family based intervention
      programs and to investigate if treatment has an effect by correlating the parameters
      described above with BMI, before and after the intervention program. To calculate the
      prevalence of overweight and obesity among pre-school children in the county of Middle Skåne
      during a 20 year period. To analyse parents actual utilization of the Sundabarn.se and in
      association with primary and secondary outcome. To analyse the cost-effectiveness of the
      intervention programs.

      The primary outcome variable, BMI of the children, is measured at inclusion, after six
      months, at exclusion and one year after end of program.

      Following variables are investigated and related to BMI of children before and after
      intervention: Heredity: BMI of parents, history . Socio-economic background: education,
      salary, language, occupation of parents. Perinatal data: Mothers BMI, parity, smoking,
      ponderal index of infant, gender, breast-feeding. Psychological variables: grading of parents
      experienced stress and control and psychological health of the child, before end after
      intervention. Are there a correlation between change in these factors and change in BMI of
      the child after the intervention? Physiological variables: Sleep duration and activity
      patterns in the children and compare them to BMI Analysing sleep duration and activity with
      an accelerometer. Analysing dietary of children: diet registration Analysing the change of
      bio-chemical markers in blood of children before and after intervention: metabolism of
      insulin (glc, insulin, C-peptide, pro-insulin, HBA1C) lipids (TG, HDL, LDL, cholesterole),
      adipokins and cytokins (leptin, adinopektin, resistin, haptoglobulin, IL-6, TNFalfa),ghrelin
      before and after a meal, thyroid (TSH, T3). Analysing the bacteria of the gastro-intestinal
      tract by sample from stools.

      Utilization of SundaBarn.se: automatic, electronic measurement by single user identity of
      number of sessions, pages visited, inputs made and downloads.

      Intervention health-care resource use: Protocol driven visits to physician, nurse,
      occupational therapist, psychologist, dietitian.
    
  