
    
      Wake Forest Baptist Health (WFBH) discharges over 1,000 patients annually after a critical
      illness such as septic shock and/or acute respiratory failure. This number is expected to be
      even higher due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. To try to bridge this gap, the Wake
      Forest Intensive Care Unit (ICU) Recovery Clinic was created in 2014. WFBH ICU Recovery
      Clinic (1 of ~15 nationwide) uses a multidisciplinary approach to transition care for ICU
      survivors back to Primary Care Physicians (PCPs). However, currently only about 5% of
      patients leaving the ICU who had respiratory failure and/or septic shock and may benefit from
      follow-up. In addition, patients seen in WFBH Recovery Clinic typically are only seen one
      time and then return to the care of their PCPs.

      Poor physical function following critical illness is associated with hospital readmissions
      and mortality. However, barriers to post-ICU follow-up are common and include financial
      concerns as well as transportation barriers. Additionally, the Wake Forest ICU Recovery
      Clinic only sees patients once in the post-critical illness period, despite the fact that
      post-ICU morbidity remains high for at least six months following discharge. Finally, data
      demonstrates availability of internet services on a daily basis to the vast majority of the
      population (79% total of NC Congressional Districts 5, 6, and 13 in 2013; 68% in a random
      sample of 28 medical ICU patients). Taken together, this prompts the study team to propose
      this Wake Forest Post-ICU Telehealth (WFIT) program of a nurse practitioner who has access to
      daily activity data as well as telehealth capabilities in order to improve the post-critical
      illness care of these patients. The study team expects that this program will reduce costs to
      patients. Through this intervention the study team hopes to improve quality of life, patient
      satisfaction, reduce readmissions and ER visits, and reduce mortality. The study team will
      perform a formal randomized controlled trial with a cost-effectiveness analysis to
      demonstrate its value.
    
  