
    
      The selection of patients will be done during the pre-anesthetic assessment the day before
      surgery. After obtaining informed consent, eligible patients will be randomly allocated to
      one of the following regimes: nabiximols high dose (21.6 mg THC + 20 mg CBD), nabiximols low
      dose (10.8 mg THC + 10 mg CBD), active placebo (prefilled syringe with 1 mg midazolam + 1 g
      acetaminophen I.V.), placebo control (no premedication drugs).

      Treatments will be administered in a double-dummy manner. Identical bottles of Sativex® and
      placebo should be obtained from the manufacturer (GW Pharmaceuticals). Identical prefilled
      vials containing either the active placebo (1 mg midazolam + 1 g acetaminophen) or sodium
      chloride 0.9% should be prepared by the hospital pharmacist. To the best of our knowledge, no
      clinical studies evaluating the effects of nabiximols on acute pain or in a perioperative
      setting have been done to date. Therefore, the investigators estimate a Sativex® dose range
      that seems reasonable to obtain relevant clinical and a manageable occurrence of adverse
      events, mainly based on the recommendations from the manufacturer, on the available
      pharmacological data presented in the previous section and on the results of other clinical
      trials with a similar design using comparable doses of oral THC. Nevertheless, the first 10
      patients will be randomly assigned either to the nabiximols low dose group or to the placebo
      control group only. The investigators will proceed with the full four-group randomization
      only if no serious adverse events are registered among the 10 first recruited patients.

      At the arrival to the operating room, blood samples for baseline levels of cannabinoids will
      be drawn at the moment of placing the intravenous line, and the first anxiety assessment
      should be done by the examiner/anesthetist. The study drugs will be administered at the
      entrance to the O.R. or at the induction room 15 minutes before the induction of anesthesia
      (i.e.:). Premedication dose should be calculated to be the equivalent of 10 mg and 20 mg oral
      THC for the low and high dose groups, respectively (4, 8 puffs). At the same time, the
      prefilled syringe containing either 1 mg midazolam + 1 g acetaminophen or sodium chloride
      0.9% will be administered as intravenous bolus. The patients will be immediately connected to
      the standard O.R. monitoring.

      Induction of general anaesthesia will be done in a standardized fashion with fentanyl 2
      µg/Kg, propofol 1-4 mg/Kg (and vecuronium 0.1 mg/Kg if intubation is required). For
      anaesthetic maintenance, isoflurane 0.7-2% on 1:2 oxygen : nitrous oxide gas mixture, and
      fentanyl boluses 1 µg/Kg to keep a bispectral index (BIS) between 40 to 60, and a heart rate
      and mean arterial pressure between 70-130% from pre-induction baselines. Preemptive
      antiemetics (e.g.: granisetron, ondansetron, metoclopramide, dexamethasone, etc.) should not
      be given. No additional analgesics should be administered (e.g.: ketorolac or other NSAID's,
      dipyrone).

      A loading dose of morphine 0.2 mg/Kg will be given before the end of surgery provided that
      the patient can maintain spontaneous breathing or pressure support ventilation. Intravenous
      morphine patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) will be initiated on the arrival to the recovery
      room with boluses of 1 mg and a lockout time of 6 minutes, without background.
    
  