
    
      Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PJP) is an opportunistic fungal infection primarily
      affecting immunocompromised patients. Adults with HIV (particularly CD4 ≤200 cells/µL), solid
      organ and allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients, as well as patients on
      certain chemotherapies, immunosuppressant drugs, and systemic corticosteroids are at a
      highest risk. Although routine primary prophylaxis has diminished its prevalence, PJP still
      results in significant morbidity and mortality worldwide. Retrospective cohort studies have
      reported mortality rates between 20-50% among non-HIV populations and 10-20% for patients
      with HIV.

      Current guidelines from the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the HIV Medicine Association
      of the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA), and the American Society of
      Transplantation (AST) all recommend weight-based trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) at a
      dose of 15-20 mg/kg/day of the trimethoprim component as the standard of care. Yet, higher
      doses of TMP-SMX are associated with serious adverse events, including hypersensitivity
      reactions, drug-induced liver injury, cytopenia, and renal failure with adverse drug events
      (ADEs) reported among 20-60% of patients on treatment.

      To better inform the optimal dosing strategy for PJP therapy, we recently performed a
      systematic review and meta-analysis of reduced dose regimens of TMP-SMX in the treatment of
      PJP among immunocompromised adult patients with and without HIV. When comparing standard
      doses to reduced doses (≤10mg/kg/day of the TMP component), there was no statistically
      significant difference in mortality (absolute risk difference: -9% in favor of reduced dose,
      95% CI: -27% to 8%) with a corresponding 18% (95% CI: -31% to -5%) absolute risk reduction of
      Grade III or higher adverse events. These data provide the best available evidence for
      treatment equipoise and highlight the need for a randomized controlled trial to directly
      compare dosing strategies.

      The primary objective of this trial is to determine whether treatment with reduced-dose
      TMP-SMX (10mg/kg/day) is superior to standard dose (15mg/kg/day) among immunocompromised
      HIV-infected and uninfected patients with PJP for the composite primary outcome of death, new
      mechanical ventilation, or change in treatment by Day 21.
    
  