
    
      Screening of potential patients for the trial was conducted on all patients presenting to the
      surgeon's office with a possible hernia. Unless unequivocal contraindications were present,
      patients were scheduled to see the participating surgeon to confirm that they were candidates
      for the study. Informed consent for participation in the trial and for randomization was then
      obtained. Consent and patient-centered data collection documents were translated into Spanish
      and French. After the patient provided informed consent and all inclusion criteria were
      satisfied, the Study Coordinator telephoned the center where the staff confirmed eligibility.
      The patient was then randomly assigned to either operation or watchful waiting with the
      randomization stratified by: participating site, whether the hernia is primary or recurrent,
      and bilateral or unilateral hernia. At the time of screening, an anonymous list was
      maintained of patients who were not enrolled; reasons for ineligibility or non enrollment
      were recorded in addition to patient age and categories of co-morbidities, but no names or
      personal identification items were recorded. These data were used to determine recruitment
      percentage and whether important differences exist between enrolled and non enrolled
      patients.

      The procedure described by Lichtenstein was the control operation. A videotape by Amid,
      presented at the 1998 Clinical Congress of the American College of Surgeons, was used as the
      standard for the Lichtenstein operation. The PIs from each institution reviewed the video at
      an investigators' meeting before patient recruitment began and details of the procedure were
      agreed upon; all surgeons participating in the trial were willing to follow the procedure as
      described. Local anesthesia was recommended but not required.

      Several important technical features of the operation were adhered to strictly. The
      prosthesis had to be a minimum of 15 cm in width and 7.5 cm high and overlap the pubic
      tubercle onto the anterior rectus sheath. A running, non absorbable monofilament suture was
      used to secure the inferior border of the prosthesis beginning on the anterior rectus sheath
      at least 2 cm medial to the pubic tubercle. The suture was continued laterally on either side
      of the pubic tubercle and then along the shelving edge of the inguinal ligament to the
      internal ring. Interrupted sutures were used only if it was necessary to incorporate Cooper's
      ligament into the repair because of extensive destruction of the inguinal floor or a femoral
      hernia. A slit in the lateral end of the mesh was cut to produce a narrow (1/3-width) tail
      below and a wider (2/3-width) tail above. The spermatic cord was positioned between the two
      tails. The inferior surface of the wider tail was sutured to the inferior surface of the
      narrow one and the shelving edge of the inguinal ligament, thereby creating a shutter valve
      that acts as a snug-fitting internal ring. This step is considered particularly important to
      prevent an indirect recurrence. Simple linear reapproximation was not permitted. The tails
      could be trimmed but a minimum of 6 cm lateral to the internal ring was required. Written
      postoperative instructions were provided to each patient.

      Watchful waiting patients were taught about dangerous hernia symptoms and written
      instructions and explanations were provided. Subjects were told to contact their physician if
      problems developed. They were seen in person at 6 months, and yearly after enrollment.

      Follow-up: Watchful waiting patients were given written instructions to watch for hernia
      symptoms and contact their physician if problems developed. Patients were examined at 6
      months and yearly after enrollment.
    
  