
    
      This is a non randomized, single center clinical investigation, evaluating a total of fifty
      (50) limbs for the treatment of venous stasis ulcerations using the Vari-Lase laser.

      Subjects can be pre-screened utilizing standard of care data for the specified
      inclusion/exclusion criteria to ensure that they are eligible for treatment in the
      investigation. All subjects will have a mapping duplex ultrasound study in an Intersocietal
      Commission for the Accreditation of Vascular Laboratories (ICAVL) approved vascular
      laboratory. The ultrasound will verify the presence or absence of IPVs. The number, diameter,
      and location of the IPVs will be mapped. If the subject appears to qualify for the
      investigation, the subject will then be asked to give his/her written informed consent and be
      enrolled in the investigation. Upon satisfying all of the inclusion/exclusion criteria the
      subject will be accepted into the study.

      After enrollment, the investigator will document the CEAP class, venous clinical severity
      score (VCSS), and venous disability score (VDS) in the subject's chart/medical record/source
      documentation for later transcription on the appropriate case report form. Digital
      photographs will be taken of the limb to be treated prior to treatment with the subject
      standing, following a standardized photography regimen.

      All enrolled study participants will have a limb treated with the Vari-Lase laser
      manufactured by VSI. Subject preparation will be the same as for standard greater saphenous
      vein (GSV) or short saphenous vein, endovenous laser treatment. The initial technical success
      or failure of the procedure will be noted for each IPV and the pre-diameter of the IPV
      recorded. Multiple perforators may be treated in a single patient, as well as bilateral
      procedures allowed.

      Follow-up duplex exams will be conducted within the first week of treatment and at 6 months.
      Follow-up duplex will verify patency vs. closure of IPV, and presence or absence of deep vein
      thrombosis (DVT) associated with that IPV. The goal is to prove successful closure of the
      treated IPVs veins as demonstrated by the duplex ultrasound at 6 weeks and show maintained
      closure of IPVs at 6 months.

      Clinical examinations will occur at 2 weeks with an Associated Research Nurse Practitioner,
      at 6 weeks with the Medical Doctor, and at 6 months with either the Nurse Practitioner or
      Medical Doctor. At the 6 week visit, photos will be taken of the limb treated and there will
      be a reclassification of CEAP class, VDS, and VCSS.
    
  