
    
      Approximately 2 to 4% of children experience either major depressive disorder or dysthymic
      disorder and 5 to 10% of children and adolescents experience subsyndromal depressive symptoms
      (Birmaher et al). Due to its prevalence and association with significant functioning
      deficits, childhood depression warrants treatment research. Treatments include
      pharmacological and psychotherapeutic interventions. A recent meta-analysis found fluoxetine
      to be the only medication with empirical support for decreasing depression in children, but
      concerns about treatment-emergent suicidal ideation/behavior led the FDA to mandate black-box
      warning for use of antidepressants in this age group (Bridge et al, 2007). These worries have
      prompted interest in alternative therapies including dietary supplements such as omega-3
      fatty acids (Ω3). Research on treatment of mood disorders with Ω3 is promising (Schacter et
      al, 2005); however, only one RCT has been conducted in children, which was positive (Nemets
      et al, 2006). Findings from other clinical populations (ADHD, adolescent depression, anxiety
      and pervasive developmental disorders in children) suggest combination treatments are
      advantageous (Aman et al., 2009; The MTA Cooperative Group, 1999, 2004; The TADS Team, 2007;
      Walkup et al., 2008). Little is known about the effectiveness of psychotherapy for children
      age 12 and under who are clinically depressed. Researchers are beginning to develop and test
      manual-based individual/family therapies for clinic-referred children with diagnosable
      depression (Kovacs et al, 2006; Tompson et al, 2007); however, no RCTs have been completed.
      Prior research supports incorporating psychoeducation about depression, support, and skill
      building to decrease depressive symptoms (Birmaher et al).

      The current study compares Ω3, psychoeducational psychotherapy (PEP), and their combination
      to a placebo supplement and active monitoring (AM) in a 12-week trial of 60 children with
      unipolar depression. Primary goals are to determine: 1) feasibility of a) recruiting 60
      participants in 24 months; b) retaining participants over a 12-week trial; and 2) effect
      sizes for Ω3, PEP, and combination treatment. Secondary goals are to explore response curves
      over time, mediators and moderators, treatment response across an array of outcome variables,
      adherence to treatment, and side effects. This pilot study of Ω3, PEP, and combined treatment
      will provide evidence about whether a larger trial is feasible and justifiable.
    
  