
    
      Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of illness and death in the world. Central to the
      process of this disease is the narrowing of blood vessels due to deposits of fatty residue
      which can become coated in calcium. Significant narrowing of the blood vessels is treated by
      percutaneous coronary intervention in which a balloon is inflated and passed down the blood
      vessel to remove the obstruction and where appropriate a stent is placed in the blood vessel
      to scaffold it.

      Potential participants are those who have been scheduled for a percutaneous coronary
      intervention, are stable, and have a diagnosis of angina pectoris, unstable angina or acute
      coronary syndrome. These patients will be identified and screened by their healthcare team.
      Potential participants will be given study information by their healthcare team, or
      identified to the research team who will provide study information. The initial approach may
      be in clinic, in hospital, or by post.

      Participants will be asked to give written informed consent to participate in the study. At
      the clinical pre-procedure visit consent is sought, exclusion and inclusion criteria checked.

      Procedure: On the day of the patients procedure they will receive standard clinical care
      comprising angiography (imaging of the blood vessel), angioplasty (removal of fatty deposits
      with a balloon) and stenting. Before and after the procedure the patient will receive
      medication and after care as per standard clinical care. Those patients who are clinically
      indicated for stenting will undergo OCT imaging prior to the angioplasty and stenting.

      The researchers need to allow flexibility in the process of acquiring the OCT images, so they
      can optimize the quality of the image. Therefore, the speed of pullback (removal of the
      catheter) and choice of blood clearing agents will not be pre-specified. Serial images of the
      same part of the vessel may be taken.

      As part of the clinical angioplasty procedure the patient will have a coronary guidewire
      passed down the artery usually from the groin to the heart which is used to position balloons
      and stents. OCT passes over the wire in the same way. From the patients perspective the
      procedure may take a small amount of additional time - maximum 10-15 minutes. We would like
      to be able to pass a second wire down the same coronary artery called a 'buddy wire' which is
      sometimes required in coronary procedures. This would be used to inflate a balloon at low
      pressure near the area of interest in the heart in order either to exclude blood or to oppose
      the OCT catheter to the vessel wall if required.

      If a patient returns for subsequent percutaneous coronary intervention they will be invited
      to participate again.
    
  