
    
      There is an urgent need to develop new treatments for Novel Coronavirus-19 (COVID-19)
      infection using easily available and affordable medications. We need to develop a treatment
      protocol which prevents progression of the disease and a treatment protocol to rescue those
      with advanced disease. In addition to anti-viral therapeutics currently under investigation
      in other trials, the addition of immunomodulators to the treatment regimen appears have to
      potential to act as agents which can reduce the pathogenicity of this disease by reducing the
      dysregulation of autoimmunity which is destructive of normal tissue and when unchecked
      rapidly leads to mortality.

      COVID-19 infection has three stages and 80% of infected people stay in stage 1 or stage 2A
      (viral response and early pulmonary effects), however 20% of patients progress to stage 2B
      (late pulmonary effects), and of those about 20% progress to stage 3 (hyper-inflammation). An
      ideal treatment for COVID-19 would have a two-pronged strategy: a treatment that would slow
      or interrupt the progression of the disease from mild/moderate (stage 1-2A) to severe (stage
      2B-3), and a treatment to rescue patients who have become severe. Promising data using
      tocilizumab, an monoclonal antibody targeting the cytokine Interleukin-6 (IL-6), suggests
      that interrupting IL-6 is one of the potential pathways to accomplish this.

      Low-dose naltrexone has been used off-label for treatment of pain and inflammation in
      multiple sclerosis, Crohn's disease, fibromyalgia and other pain conditions. Lower than
      standard doses of naltrexone inhibit cellular proliferation of T- and B- cells and block
      Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), providing pain relief and anti-inflammatory benefit. Naltrexone
      at doses below the normal therapeutic dose appears to reduce production of multiple cytokines
      including IL-6 in a steady pace and is available as an oral preparation. As such it is ideal
      to use to attempt to modify progression to stage 2B as it can easily be given to both
      hospitalized patients and patients in the community.

      Ketamine at low doses, below the normal anesthetic dose, appears to rapidly reduce the
      production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, especially IL-6 and tumor necrosis factor alpha
      (TNFα), for hours after an event which would induce the inflammatory response. This drug is
      given intravenously (IV), either by drip or push, and is easily given in a hospital
      environment. This could not easily be used in the community but could act as a rescue drug
      with lower cost and easier availability than tocilizumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting
      IL-6. Ketamine has been extensively studied in a variety of settings and indications with a
      well-established side-effect and dosing profile. Ketamine is generally well tolerated and
      remains inexpensive and widely available on the U.S. market and available for immediate use.

      The trial will measure the ability of low dose naltrexone to reduce the progression of
      participants with COVID-19. In this study, naltrexone or placebo will be given to
      participants in early stages of COVID-19 infection in a randomized, double blinded manner,
      whereas the use of ketamine will be unblinded and given as a rescue agent should a
      participant progress. Additionally, should a participant be ineligible for the randomized
      portion of the study due to already being in a more advanced stage of the disease, they will
      be given the opportunity to enter the trial to receive ketamine without being randomized to
      naltrexone vs placebo.

      Participants will continue to receive any standard of care COVID-19 treatment during their
      participation in this study. Laboratory blood tests such as IL-6 concentration, blood counts,
      liver and renal function panels as well as close physician supervision will be used to
      monitor participant condition during hospitalization. Participants will be contacted 1 month
      post discharge to evaluate outcomes and potential side effects.
    
  