
    
      Patients undergoing treatment for advanced cancer often experience the combination of pain,
      fatigue, and sleep disturbance as symptoms that co-occur or "cluster" within patients.
      Medications may be effective in reducing some of these symptoms; however, they often have
      side effects that exacerbate the other symptoms. Practice guidelines and research evidence
      suggest that cognitive-behavioral (CB) strategies may be effective treatments with few, if
      any, side effects for each of these symptoms. However, investigators have not yet explored
      the effect of CB strategies on co-occuring pain, fatigue, and sleep disturbance. It is
      possible that an intervention that is effective for one symptom may also have beneficial
      effects on the other co-occuring symptoms. For example, controlling pain may permit better
      sleep and subsequently reduce fatigue. Cognitive-behavioral strategies, however, are not
      equally effective for all patients, and training in just one strategy may not be sufficient.
      Providing multiple CB strategies may be more efficacious, but is complicated by the fact that
      oncology nurses report having insufficient time and equipment to deliver the interventions in
      practice. And given patient-care demands, providing CB strategies exactly when patients
      experience increased symptom intensity is usually not feasible. A patient-centered approach
      to symptom management would allow patients to select from a variety of CB strategies based on
      their personal preferences, skills, and interests and permit the use of those strategies at
      whatever time and place the symptoms occur. The use of MP3 technology to deliver the
      intervention would allow patients to control delivery of the CB strategies without increasing
      burden on nursing staff and could potentially improve all symptoms in the cluster. The
      purpose of this study is to conduct a pilot test of a 2-week patient-controlled
      cognitive-behavioral intervention (PC-CB intervention), using an MP3 player to deliver
      recorded CB strategies for co-occurring pain, fatigue, and sleep disturbance during cancer
      treatment.

      Primary Aims

        1. To explore the acceptability and patterns of use of recorded CB strategies delivered via
           MP3 player among patients receiving treatment for advanced cancer.

        2. To pilot test efficacy of a 2-week PC-CB intervention on symptom outcomes during cancer
           treatment compared to a waitlist control condition.

      Secondary Aims

        1. To determine if changes in perceived control over symptoms and outcome expectancy
           mediate the effect of the PC-CB intervention on symptom outcomes.

        2. To determine if gender, age, imaging ability, and concurrent symptoms moderate the
           impact of the PC-CB intervention on symptom outcomes.
    
  