
    
      Potential participants will be identified, screened and recruited by the Urologists working
      at the Department of Urology, IRCCS San Raffaele, Milan, Italy. A total of 100 patients
      affected by PCa with a risk of LNI >5% according to the Briganti nomogram and planned to
      receive RARP with an ePLND according to the European Association of Urology (EAU) guidelines
      will be identified and enrolled in the study.

      The patient must personally sign and date the latest approved version of the Informed Consent
      Form (ICF) before any trial specific procedures are performed.

      Written and verbal versions of the Patient Information and Informed Consent will be presented
      to the participants detailing no less than:

        -  The exact nature of the trial

        -  The surgical procedures

        -  The implications and constraints of the protocol

        -  The known side effects and any risks involved in taking part

        -  The clear statement that the participant is free to withdraw from the trial at any time
           for any reason without prejudice to future care, and with no obligation to give the
           reason for withdrawal.

      The participant will be allowed as much time as wished to consider the information and the
      opportunity to question the Investigator, their GP or other independent parties to decide
      whether they will participate in the trial. Written Informed Consent will then be obtained by
      means of participant dated signature and dated signature of the person who presented and
      obtained the Informed Consent. The person who obtained the consent must be suitably qualified
      and experienced, and have been authorized to do so by the Principal Investigator.

      A copy of the signed Informed Consent will be given to the participant. The original signed
      form will be retained at the trial Centre.

      A Patient ID number will be assigned to each patient after the ICF signature: this number
      corresponds to the Progressive Number assigned in chronological order beginning from 001
      (i.e. 001, 002, etc.). For instance, the first patient enrolled will receive the following ID
      Number: 001.

      During Visit 1, the following data will be collected:

        -  Demographics

        -  Compliance with inclusion/exclusion criteria

        -  Informed consent

        -  Previous & concomitant pathologies/previous significant surgeries (including the
           Charlson Comorbidity Index)

        -  Previous & concomitant medications

        -  Prostate cancer characteristics including PSA values, biopsy grade group, clinical stage
           and the risk of LNI calculated according to the Briganti nomogram [12]

        -  Vital signs

        -  Laboratory testing (absolute neutrophil count; platelets; haemoglobin; serum creatinine)
           The week before surgery patients will undergo a 68Ga-PSMA PET/MRI or PET/CT scan for
           preoperative staging. Simultaneous PET/MRI will start 60 minutes after the
           administration of approximately 160MBq of PSMA with the following protocol: localizer
           MRI scans to define the number of table positions (PET-FOV) to acquire (4-min/table
           position); specific attenuation correction and anatomical localization MR sequences at
           each PET-FOV; pelvic mpMRI protocol according to European Society of Urogenital
           Radiology guidelines. A positive 68Ga-PSMA PET/MRI will be defined as the presence of
           any uptake at the level of the pelvic and/or retroperitoneal nodes. The results of this
           procedure will not change the initially planned treatment.

           99mTc-PSMA-I&S will be intravenously injected the day before surgery (day -1).
           99mTc-PSMA-I&S will be prepared using a synthesis kit previously described [25].
           SPECT/CT imaging will be performed the same day of treatment administration (day -1) to
           document positive tracer uptake and will serve as quality control for tracer injection
           and distribution.

      All procedures will be performed through a trans-peritoneal approach using the Da Vinci Xi
      (Intuitive Surgical, Sunnyvale, CA, USA) robotic Surgical System. The patient will be placed
      in a Trendelenburg position. After incision of the peritoneum, release of the bladder
      laterally to the endopelvic fascia, the ureter will be localized.

      A drop-in gamma probe will be used for in vivo intraoperative measurements to identify
      metastatic lesions at the level of the internal iliac, external iliac, obturatory and common
      iliac stations. A positive finding at PSMA-RGS will be defined as the presence of a count
      rate of at least twice as compared to the background reference (namely, fatty tissue of each
      patient). All positive lesions (a count rate of at least twice as compared to the background
      reference) will be excised. Ex vivo gamma measurements will be performed to immediately to
      confirm the removal of the radioactive lesion or to prompt further search in case of a
      missing signal. All the removed tissue will be collected separately according to the site of
      resection.
    
  