
    
      This study was conducted as a pre-test, post-test, semi-interventional and control group
      study to evaluate the effect of progressive muscle relaxation exercises on perimenopausal and
      postmenopausal women to relieve menopause symptoms and improve quality of life.

      According to the World Health Organization, menopause is defined as a permanent termination
      of menstruation due to loss of ovarian activity . Menopause is a period of life from which
      the reproductive ability is lost, due to the decline in ovarian function of women. If
      menstruation is not observed for one year at the end of the reproductive period, menopause is
      considered to have started. Menopausal symptoms begin to appear in the premenopausal period
      and the effects continue in the postmenopausal period.

      It is stated that symptoms seen in perimenopausal and post menopausal period adversely affect
      the quality of life of women. According to the results of the study, progressive relaxation
      exercises in perimenopause and postmenopausal women alleviate and relieve stress, anxiety and
      depression, pain, hot flash, and regulate blood pressure and pulse sleep.

      Ethics committee approval and institutional permissions were obtained before starting the
      study. Written and verbal consent was obtained from all participants. In the study,
      Individual Information form, Menopause Symptom Rating Scale, Menopause Specific Quality of
      Life Scale were used to collect data. These data collection tools were used in the pre-test
      and post-test.

      Women students who were registered to GeroAtlas60 + Refresher University of Akdeniz
      University Faculty of Health Sciences Department of Gerontology were appointed as an
      intervention group by lot method. Female students who accepted to participate in the study
      were divided into five groups and pre-tests were performed. The intervention group received
      45 minutes of menopause symptom management training twice a week for two weeks. Then, 45
      minutes of progressive muscle relaxation exercises were performed. In the first session, the
      participants were given a booklet of menopause management and progressive muscle relaxation
      exercises prepared by the researchers. At the end of the two-week learning process, the
      participants were given Progressive Muscle Relaxation Exercise Guide and Progressive Muscle
      Relaxation Exercise Calendar. At the same time, audio recording including Menopause
      Management and Progressive Muscle Relaxation Exercise application, which the researcher
      recorded by himself, was sent via wat's up. Reminder messages were sent to the participants
      via wta's up to remind them to come on the application days, the application to be held in
      the evening and do it themselves at home.Participants performed Progressive Muscle Relaxation
      Exercise two days a week in the presence of researchers. They recorded the voice of the
      researcher at home every other day. They marked their practice on the Progressive Muscle
      Relaxation Exercise Calendar for 11 weeks. This marked calendar was withdrawn from the
      participants at the end of the 11-week practice. After 11 weeks of progressive muscle
      relaxation exercises, post tests were applied to the intervention group. The control group
      also underwent post-tests 11 weeks after any intervention. Progressive muscle relaxation
      exercises were then performed. After the researcher's explanation, the participants filled in
      the data collection forms themselves.

      The post test data was collected in Jun 2019. The data will be entered in the SPSS file and
      the analysis of the data will be performed in the next stage.
    
  