
    
      A prospective observational study on refraction and HOA changes after LASIK will be conducted
      at OHSU and Baylor. We will enroll 50 subjects undergoing routine LASIK for the correction of
      myopia or hyperopia. The Optovue anterior segment OCT prototype will be used to measure
      corneal power, astigmatism, HOA, and epithelial thickness map. The ultrahigh-speed MIT OCT
      prototypes will also be used when they become available. A comprehensive eye examination will
      be performed preoperatively. OCT scan, manifest refraction, visual acuity, Placido-ring
      corneal topography, slit scanning/Scheimpflug camera, and wavefront measurements will be
      acquired preoperatively and 3-6 months after the surgery. The LASIK-induced refraction and
      wavefront HOA changes will be used as the reference standard to evaluate the accuracy of
      OCT-measured corneal power, astigmatism, and HOA changes. The primary goal of the study is to
      determine if OCT measurement of corneal power and astigmatism is more accurate than
      conventional Placido-ring corneal topography. A second goal is to evaluate OCT-based
      epithelial thickness mapping. The postoperative epithelial thickness variation will be used
      to calculate refractive effects and calibrate the smoothing parameter in the mathematical
      model relating corneal mean curvature and epithelial thickness. A third goal is to assess the
      repeatability of OCT measurements. A fourth goal is to develop a method of estimating the
      focusing power, astigmatism, and HOA of the crystalline lens based on measurements of the
      lens' anterior and posterior capsular topographies and positions with the ultrahigh-speed MIT
      OCT prototype. The reference standard for lens focusing power and astigmatism will be based
      on a Gaussian optics model that takes as inputs manifest refraction, crystalline lens
      position, axial eye length, and OCT corneal power and astigmatism measurements. The reference
      standard for lens HOA will be the difference between wavefront HOA and corneal HOA. For each
      eye, the best-fit effective index of the lens will be found so that OCT measurements will
      match the reference data. Although the lens index is likely to be higher centrally than
      peripherally, this secondary perturbation will be accounted for by a posterior shift of the
      posterior lens capsule in OCT images, due to the fact that apparent distances in OCT images
      is a product of physical distance and optical group index. Thus HOA due to index variation in
      the lens would translate to unevenness in the posterior capsule surface that could be
      measured with OCT.
    
  