
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  SMM is a precursor condition to MM defined by the clinical parameters of M-protein
           greater than or equal to 3.0 g/dL or bone marrow plasma cells greater than or equal to
           10% and absence of end organ disease.

        -  Risk of progression of high risk SMM at 5 years is 72-75% with median time to
           progression <2 years.

        -  The current standard of care for SMM is close follow-up without treatment until
           symptomatic

      MM develops. However, IMWG states "Preventive clinical trials need to be considered for
      patients with high risk smoldering myeloma".

      - Carfilzomib is a new proteasome inhibitor with potent anti-MM effects

      OBJECTIVES:

      - To assess the response rate of CRd in patients with high-risk SMM, focusing on the MRD(-)
      CR rate

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  SMM according to the International Myeloma Working Group definition i.e.:

             -  Serum M-protein greater than or equal to 3 g/dl and/or bone marrow plasma cells
                greater than or equal to 10 % and less than 60%,

             -  Absence of anemia: Hemoglobin >10 g/dl

             -  Absence of renal failure: serum creatinine < 2.0 mg/dL. Absence of hypercalcemia:
                Ca <10.5 mg/dl or 2.65 mmol/L

             -  Absence of lytic bone lesion

             -  Involved/un-involved light chain ratio must be less than 100

        -  Measurable disease as defined in the protocol

        -  'High-risk SMM' per Mayo Clinic, Spanish PETHEMA, or the Rajkumar, Landgren Mateos
           criteria

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 0-2

        -  Adequate laboratory parameters as defined in the protocol

      DESIGN:

      - Single arm pilot trial of combination therapy (carfilzomib, lenalidomide, and

      dexamethasone) for high risk smoldering multiple myeloma

        -  Patients will receive 8 cycles of induction combination therapy of CRd

        -  Each cycle consists of 28-days

        -  After 4 cycles of therapy, transplant eligible patients may choose to undergo stem cell
           collection

        -  After 8 cycles of CRd, patients will receive lenalidomide extended dosing (phase I) for
           12 cycles. After 12 cycles, patients will have the option to continue extended dosing
           (phase II) for one additional year.

        -  Patients will have routine blood work with SPEP and free light chains monthly during the
           induction phase. Laboratory evaluations may be spread out to every 3 months during the
           maintenance and follow-up phases.

        -  Pre-treatment, post-treatment and follow-up bone marrow biopsies will be obtained for
           confirmation of diagnosis, response and correlative studies

        -  Patients will also undergo evaluation for minimal residual disease at regular interval
           time points, using multi-parametric flow cytometry and FDG PET-CT

        -  This single arm pilot study will plan on initially enrolling 12 evaluable patients to
           detect a VGPR from baseline. A replicate cohort of 16 evaluable patients will then be
           enrolled in order to more precisely define the response rate to the CRd regimen in this
           population. Accrual will then be extended to a total of 50 evaluable patients in order
           to estimate the MRD(-) CR rate with reasonable precision. To allow for a number of
           inevaluable patients, and screen failures the accrual ceiling will be set at 63.
    
  