
    
      The protocol is as follows.

        1. In consultation with 3 expert clinicians, the investigators will create a database of
           patient scenarios. The investigators will obtain deidentified extracts from medical
           records of 6-12 typical patients who have type 2 diabetes and at least one of the
           following comorbidities: obstructive pulmonary disease, osteoporosis, hypertension, and
           osteoarthritis will be obtained. The data obtained will include relevant observations,
           medications, and procedures regarding these patients. Relevancy will be determined from
           the clinical practice guidelines for the above-mentioned diseases, which specify which
           data should be collected from such patients. The data will not include information that
           could identify the patient, such as date of birth, name, identification number, street
           address, telephone number.

           The patient cases will be assembled into a database of scenarios, decomposed into
           several steps, each step taking place at a different point along the clinical
           guideline's timeline and being composed of several decision-points regarding goals of
           the clinical guidelines. In total, there would be 60 decision points across all patient
           scenarios.

        2. Validation of the KB and creation of a gold standard. The three experienced clinicians
           will validate the KB and will also create a gold standard set of interactions between
           recommendations for the decision points of the patient scenarios as well as a set of
           recommendations that fulfill the clinical guidelines' goals for these decision points
           that are conflict-free.

        3. Recruiting study participants. The investigators will send invitations to 50
           clinicians/medical students in order to recruit at least 30 participants for our
           experiment. The participants will be asked to solve (detect interactions and propose non
           conflicting interventions) six scenarios. Anticipated time for solving the cases: 3
           hours + 1 hour of introduction and signing consent documents.

        4. Crossover study design will be used to compare the effect of using the comorbidity-DSS
           for detection of recommendations interactions and on generation of correct
           non-conflicting recommendations. Each participant will be given 6 scenarios: 3 will be
           solved with the aid of the system and 3 without it. Each scenario will be presented to
           the clinicians as a series of single steps. In DSS-mode the clinicians will be presented
           with the output of the comorbidity-DSS for each step, including the list of interactions
           between recommendations originating in the different clinical guidelines and the set of
           non-conflicting recommendations that fulfill the goals of the relevant decision
           point/goal. They will need to say for each interaction and for each non-conflicting
           recommendation whether they accept or reject it, possibly adding some free text; in the
           non-DSS mode, the clinicians will need to provide their set of detected interactions and
           proposed non-conflicting recommendations after each step, in free text.

        5. While the gold standard interactions and recommendations would have been created ahead
           of time by the three clinicians from RAMBAM in step 1, it is possible that the
           comorbidity-DSS or that the study participants will identify additional interactions and
           non-conflicting recommendations. The three clinicians will review these as well and
           could potentially revise the gold standard to include a richer set of interactions and
           of non-conflicting recommendations for each set. Based on the revised gold standard,
           completeness and correctness of the interactions detected and the non-conflicting
           recommendations generated by the participant will be calculated, while using the
           comorbidity-DSS vs. without it for the different steps (decisions/goals). The overall
           completeness and correctness are percentages, and thus range from 0 to 1, relative to
           the extended gold standard.

        6. Statistical analysis will be done as follows. Assuming that total completeness and
           correctness are two dependent variables, as they are bounded variables between zero and
           1. Thus, a beta regression model with a logit link function will be used for the mean
           response model; a log link function will be fitted for the precision model. This model
           is based on the assumption that the dependent variable is beta-distributed and that its
           mean is related to a set of regressors through a linear predictor with unknown
           coefficients and a link function. The full model shall include three factors: (1) DSS
           mode (DSS and Non-DSS), (2) Level of training (e.g., 1st year resident, experienced
           resident, specialist), and (3) Scenario (as different scenarios will be used). The
           pseudo R2 value (squared correlation of linear predictor and link-transformed response)
           will be used to measure the overall goodness of fit of the model. A backward elimination
           algorithm will be used to assess what are the important factors. Unlike the total
           completeness measure, which was computed for the overall set of decision-points per
           scenario per clinician, the investigators will also analyze the completeness measure for
           each decision-point (e.g., "order lab test"), increasing resolution and looking at the
           clinician's guideline-based action per decision; therefore, the measured variable is
           binary, and a logistic regression with a logit link function will be used. As in the
           previous case, the full model will include three factors; a backward elimination
           algorithm will be used to reach the final model.
    
  