
    
      Purpose: To evaluate the effects of the Neuro-Rehabilitation occlusion in patients with
      chronic facial palsy by observing the decrease of the symptoms of masticatory dysfunction.

      Methods: a selection of sixty-five patients with facial palsy (PFP 65) and idiopathic chronic
      trauma of the Otorhinolaryngology sector facial nerve disorders at UNIFESP.

      Patients were of both genders, aged between 18 and 60. They were analyzed according to the
      criteria of inclusion and exclusion, resulting in forty-three patients.

      However, due to problems inherent in research, a group of fourteen patients were randomized
      (sub-divided) into two groups: control and treatment.

      The visual analog scale was used at the first consultation to patients in the control and
      treatment group.

      All patients underwent a dental cleaning in order to blind the study. Seven patients belonged
      to the control group for three months per sequence, the VAS was performed in both groups. The
      control group was later reunited with the treatment group after three months of control
      period, increasing the number of patients who were examined in extracts, with similar
      features in a prognostic factor.

        -  Control group

        -  First visit- visual analogue scale and dental cleaning - Day 1

        -  Second visit, after a month, a new visual analog scale. Day-30

        -  Third-visit -one months after a new visual analogue scale Day 60 patient was a three
           visits with an interval of one month, performing a repeat procedure.

             -  Last visit - Day 90 visual analogue scale

        -  Treatment group The researchers applied the technique of Rehabilitation and Neuro
           Occlusal gnathostatic models that were made before and after treatment to count the
           dental contacts.

        -  First query - visual analogue scale and dental cleaning, preparation of initial models
           gnatostaticos and intervention- Day 1

        -  Second-query-after a month, a new visual analogue and intervention. Day 30

        -  Third query- -after a month, a new visual analogue and intervention Day 60

        -  Last query -after a month a new visual analogue scale and making models gnathostatic
           finals. Day 90 The treatment group had one month to see changes in oral functions, but
           for estatistic effects was computed only de first andy the last visit the number of the
           dental contact and the VAS. Day 90 Upon completion of the study patients continued to
           receive care in the ambulatory clinic of the university, but the attendance for this
           research was terminated.
    
  