
    
      Children with cancer are at high risk of invasive bacterial infections particularly during
      neutropenia. Febrile neutropenia is an early sign of a potentially fatal infection requiring
      broad-spectrum empiric antibiotics. However, the majority of children do not have a bacterial
      infection, but still receive antibiotics, since current tests cannot distinguish causes of
      fever. A number of transcriptomic studies of immunocompetent patients show that host
      leukocyte patterns of activated RNA can discriminate bacterial infection from non-infectious
      inflammation with high accuracy, but studies in immunocomprised patients are few.

      Methods

      A prospective non-interventional observational multicentre study including febrile childhood
      cancer patients during 24 months at all Danish Pediatric Oncology Departments
      (Rigshospitalet, Aarhus, Odense and Aalborg University Hospitals). Leukocyte RNA expression
      will be analysed in whole blood samples by RNA sequencing adjusted for low RNA input. 300
      febrile episodes will be included, and predictive host RNA signatures will be identified in a
      discovery cohort and assessed in a validation cohort. Further, to explore the transcriptome
      in non-febrile children with neutropenia, we include a control group of 15 children with
      cancer and no fever.

      Time frame Inclusion of children: 1st of June 2019 to 31st of May 2021 Analysis of samples
      (RNA sequencing): 1st of June 2021 - 1st of December 2021

      Perspective

      The study will create a base for a randomised trial regarding implementation of RNA signature
      versus normal procedure in handling febrile children with cancer. This can lead to the
      development of a targeted RNA-expression analytical platform that can prevent unnecessary
      antibiotic treatment in the majority of children with febrile neutropenia. This will reduce
      hospital admissions, side effects, antimicrobial resistance and improve quality of life
      during cancer treatment. The results can be extrapolated to the adult patients with cancer,
      who are often treated with prophylactic antibiotics, which complicate finding the infectious
      agent. Additionally, the test may be applied in other immunosuppressed children with
      infections.
    
  