
    
      What is the study for? The goal of this study is to characterize biophysical signals
      simultaneously co-registered from the person's nervous systems. To that end the investigators
      use multiple wearable biosensors (electroencephalogram, electrocardiogram, kinematics,etc.)
      and have the person move naturally during activities that are similar to what the person
      would do in activities of daily living. These include walking, walking with a metronome in
      the background and walking while breathing at the metronome's pace. The purpose of the study
      is to learn about the inherent properties of the biorhythms of each person in order to build
      a proper neurotypical scale and measure the departure of several groups of subjects from this
      typical ranges. These include Autism Spectrum Disorder(s), ADHD
      (Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder) , Asperger's Syndrome, Alzheimer's Disease, and/or
      Fragile X syndrome. This study does not provide any recommendations of diagnosis or
      treatment. It is merely a characterization of the person's biorhythms across these
      conditions.

      What will the participant do? The participant will perform naturalistic behaviors (ex. walk
      naturally around the room, point at an object) while hearing a metronome beating in the
      background. At certain points, the participant will be instructed to breathe along with the
      beat of the metronome. During this experiment, the participant will be wearing a wireless
      Electroencephalographic (EEG) cap to record brain activity, wireless motion sensors around
      the body to record movement, and wireless electrocardiogram (ECG) on the chest to record
      heart activity.The participant will also be wearing Zeblok insoles placed inside their shoes,
      to monitor their gait. The recorded biophysical signals are to be used to assess biorhythms
      of the nervous system from an already diagnosed participants and neurotypical participants,
      as this experiment is designed to study and characterize the biophysical signals of various
      populations. The study does not provide criteria for diagnosis, nor does it provide
      recommendations for treatments. The study is merely characterizing the ranges of biophysical
      data and their variability across different populations to measure departure from
      neurotypical features. Please note, wearing a wireless EEG cap will involve applying
      electrode gel (similar to hair gel) on the participant's hair.

      How long is the experiment? The experiment itself will take 45 minutes - comprising 3 walking
      trials lasting 15 minutes each - but this can be reduced depending on the participant's
      disposition. Breaks for light refreshments and sensory toys will be provided as needed. The
      setup will take an additional 15-30 minutes.

      Where/when does the experiment take place? The experiment will be conducted at the
      Sensory-motor Integration Lab, Psychology Building on Busch campus, at Rutgers University
      (152 Frelinghuysen Road, Piscataway, NJ 08854). If necessary the experiment may also be
      conducted at the participant's home. Based on the availability of the participant and the
      experimenter, the date and place can be coordinated any day and time of the week - including
      weekends. Additional members of staff can provide on-site childcare for siblings upon
      request.
    
  