
    
      Introduction: Knee osteoarthritis (KOA) is the most prevalent joint condition and is
      characterized by the progressive erosion of the articular cartilage. In TCM, Pulse Diagnosis
      has been one of the key diagnostic components in the clinical examinations. Modern pulse
      diagnosis studies have found that when the human body develops disease or is under pressure,
      the high frequency spectral energy (10-50Hz) will significantly change. Augmentation index
      (AIx) is related to the wave reflection of blood vessels. AIx can function as a useful index
      to reveal aging blood vessels. The experiment will use spectral energy and AIx as objective
      judgments about the efficacy of before-acupuncture and after-acupuncture treatment.

      Method: This randomized controlled study will recruit 120 participants which will be
      allocated to 3 groups: Distal Acupoints, Proximal Acupoints and Sham Acupoints. Each group
      will have 40 participants to ensure a sufficient sample size can be attained for statistical
      analysis. Participants aged 20 or older with acute or chronic arthritis will be recruited
      when they meet the Clinical Classification Criteria for KOA, that is knee pain and three out
      of six symptoms can be found in clinical practices, as recommended by the American College of
      Rheumatology:(a) any gender aged 50 years or above;(b) have less than 30 mins of morning
      stiffness ; (c) crepitus on active motion; and (d)bony tenderness;(e)bony enlargement; and
      (f)no palpable warmth.Objective and subjective baseline assessments and outcome evaluations
      including VAS, The Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) and
      range of knee motion will be performed. The primary outcome will be the assessment of
      Spectral Energy and AIx of radial pressure pulse-wave in both wrists (Chun, Guan, and Chy
      pulse) using the Pulse Sphygmograph before and after the intervention. The secondary outcome
      involves evaluating VAS and range of knee motion.

      Expected Outcome: The research findings can be clinical evidence regarding the effect of
      acupuncture KOA on radial artery. Moreover, the research will explore the immediate-effect
      difference between distal and proximal acupoints on KOA.

      Other Information: The study will be conducted in China Medical University Hospital(Meide
      Medical Building) Acupuncture Department and Yiyuantang Chinese Medicine Clinic, Hsinchu
      City. Under the acupuncture of a qualified Chinese physician who has had at least 10 years of
      clinical experience, it is expected that the risk to the subject will not exceed the minimum
      risk. The investigators will begin data collection as soon as the approval of the Research
      Ethics Committee and the required equipment are available, and is expected to be completed
      within one year of the IRB approval.
    
  