
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Evidence has established that the distribution and burden of several common chronic diseases
      among Mexican-Americans differ from that in the general population. These diseases include
      diabetes (almost exclusively noninsulin dependent diabetes), hypertension, and gallbladder
      disorders. While progress was made towards an elucidation of their epidemiology within this
      population, there was a paucity of data regarding other cardiovascular risk factors, most
      notably, the distribution of lipoproteins and their constituent apoproteins. With regard to
      the apolipoproteins, there were only minimal data from any population dealing with their
      distribution and relationships in the general population or pedigrees. This project provided
      as complete a profile on the distribution of metabolic cardiovascular risk factors as could
      be claimed for any other study of comparable size and provided baseline values for apo A-I,
      A-II, B, C-II, C-III and E.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      One thousand randomly selected individuals were given a complete physical examination. From
      those 1,000, 100 probands with gallbladder disease were selected. Approximately 1,200 first
      degree relatives of the probands were invited to participate in the study and given a
      physical examination. Additionally, 100 control individuals, their spouses and first degree
      relatives were followed longitudinally for five years. Blood samples were obtained for
      determination of total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, HDL2 and HDL3 cholesterol, and genetic
      markers. Data were collected on age, sex, body mass and fat distribution, diet, smoking, and
      alcohol consumption. Annual follow-up assessed the dynamics of changes in apolipoprotein
      levels and profiles and those factors which contributed to their change. The random and
      longitudinal data were combined with pedigree data to determine the effects of major genes,
      polygenes, and the environment on the variability of each apolipoprotein and on the
      relationship between these and other risk factors. An assessment was made in 100 individuals
      of the contribution of genetic variability at the DNA level in determining apolipoprotein
      levels.
    
  