
    
      Chronic pain is a substantial medical and economic problem, and is often unresponsive to
      conventional treatment. In this study, scientists will seek to decrease pain by increasing
      control over pain using newly-developed brain imaging methods to train people to control
      their own brain activation. This is the first clinical application of a recently-developed
      technology allowing a person to watch their own brain activation second-by-second and to
      learn to control it. It may provide a means to train people to control chronic pain by
      controlling their own brain states.

      The purpose of the study is to evaluate real-time functional magnetic resonance imaging
      (fMRI) feedback for treating chronic pain diagnoses, including fibromyalgia, neuralgia,
      neuropathy, migraine, and complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS)/reflex sympathetic dystrophy
      (RSD). The study will also measure the impact of cognitive training for pain control on
      activations from the areas of the brain involved in pain.

      All participants in this study will receive a new form of cognitive training for controlling
      pain. Participants will be scanned using fMRI while they employ the cognitive training
      strategies-allowing them to view their brain activity. Some participants will see their own
      brain activation during this process while other participants will see very similar but
      simulated data that does not come from their own brains.

      Participation in the study will last about 6 months with 12 visits that includes 6 sessions
      in an MRI scanner. Recruitment for this trial is limited to persons in the San Francisco Bay
      area. Participants must be able to attend sessions in Menlo Park, CA. Participants will be
      reimbursed for travel time within the Bay area.

      Information gained from this study may help in developing potential future treatments for
      chronic pain.
    
  