
    
      Temporomandibular joint (TMJ) is a ginglymodiarthroidal joint located bilaterally in the
      preauricular region of head. It is formed by the confluence of multiple skeletal, muscular,
      ligament and discal components which work in harmony with each other. Articular disc
      functions as a non-ossified bone, allowing complex movements, making it a compound joint.

      Any loss in synchronization or harmony of the components of TMJ leads to temporomandibular
      disorders. Okeson broadly classified temporomandibular disorders into Masticatory muscle
      disorders, Temporomandibular joint disorders. Disc displacements are categorized under
      Temporomandibular joint disorders of the condyle-disc complex.

      Normally articular disc is positioned over the cranial portion of mandibular condyle at 12
      o'clock position when teeth are in occlusion. Abnormal position of disc with respect to
      mandibular condyle or mandibular fossa is known as disc displacement. Most common
      displacement of disc is in antero-medial direction.1 Disc displacements are of two types:
      disc displacement with reduction and disc displacement without reduction. Anterior disc
      displacement (ADD) associated with pain require treatment.

      Established treatment modalities include use of Non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs
      (NSAIDS), Anterior repositioning appliances, Physiotherapy, Psychological therapy,
      Arthroscopy, Arthroplasty and Arthrocentesis. Newer treatment modalities that are under
      research are platelet rich plasma therapy, prolotherapy and stem cell therapy.

      Prolotherapy, which is also known as regenerative injection therapy, and growth factor
      stimulation injection therapy. It can be used to strengthen and repair chronic ligament,
      joint, capsule, and tendinous injuries by stimulating proliferation of collagen at the fibro
      osseous junctions to promote soft tissue repair and relative pain.

      Prolotherapy has recently emerged as a technique with low cost and minimal side effects for
      management of Temporomandibular joint disorders. Prolotherapy is of 3 types - Growth factor
      injection prolotherapy, growth factor stimulation prolotherapy and Inflammatory
      prolotherapy.2 In the recent times, Inflammatory Prolotherapy has been studied extensively
      and has produced promising results. In inflammatory prolotherapy low grade inflammation is
      induced physiologically by injection of an irritant solution that initiates healing process.
      Dextrose is most common and ideal proliferant used because it is a normal constituent of
      blood chemistry, water soluble and injected safely into multiple areas.3

      The concentration of dextrose solution does not affect the results till the solution is
      hypertonic i.e above 10%. However, it is still not clear whether it is irritant effect of
      dextrose or mechanical injury caused by needle that produce the desired result .2 Dry
      needling can also induce a low grade inflammatory process in the joint. Dry needling has been
      proven to be equally beneficial in temporomandibular myofascial pain that involves inserting
      a needle into trigger points to inactivate them. Stimulation of these trigger points by
      needling alone, produce an analgesic effect by altering somatosensory thresholds .4 So, the
      present study has been designed to compare the efficacy of dextrose solution injection
      compared to dry needling in ADD of TMJ.
    
  