
    
      This 4-year randomized trial of an Internet-based intervention aims to improve guideline
      adherence by rural physicians caring for adult patients with type 2 diabetes.

      Objectives. (1) Assess barriers to implementation of diabetes guidelines and identify
      solutions through focus groups and case-based vignette surveys; (2) Develop and implement an
      interactive Internet intervention including individualized physician performance feedback;
      (3) Evaluate the intervention in a randomized controlled trial; and (4) Examine the
      sustainability of improved guideline adherence once feedback ceases.

      Methods. In partnership with the University of Alabama rural medicine program, we will
      randomize 200 rural physician offices to an intervention or comparison arm. Our 18-month
      intervention, customized to the individual physician in real-time, consists of Internet
      learning modules with case-based education, performance feedback, and benchmarks. The
      comparison group will receive a text-based, non-interactive Internet posting of publicly
      available resources. Nurse practitioners and physician assistants from the offices of study
      physicians may also participate in the Internet modules. Outcomes will be based on previously
      developed and validated quality measures for diabetes. The intervention will cover screening,
      diagnosis, treatment, and prevention. Performance feedback will include 10-15 charts per
      intervention physician. The main analysis, conducted at the physician level, will compare
      differential improvement in guideline adherence between the study arms. Ancillary analyses
      will examine the effects of physician characteristics, other providers in the office, and
      patient characteristics (e.g., comorbidities, ethnicity, gender, age, and socioeconomic
      status). Multivariable techniques will adjust for repeated measures, clustering of patients
      within physicians, and multiple providers within a single office.

      Study Population. RDOC will enroll 200 physicians from rural Alabama, Mississippi, Georgia,
      Tennessee, Florida, Arkansas, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina, Missouri, and West
      Virginia. Participating physicians will be randomized to receive the intervention or to a
      comparison group, which will receive traditional, text-based continuing medical education
      (CME). Each participating physician will allow two rounds of medical record abstraction to be
      conducted in his/her office. Results from the medical record review: (1) be used in the
      intervention to provide physicians with personal performance feedback and (2) used to examine
      change in performance for the intervention and comparison physicians as an evaluation of the
      entire study.

      Significance. This study offers a technologically advanced, theory-grounded intervention for
      improving care of a high-risk, underserved population. With expertise in translating research
      into practice, rural medicine, behavioral medicine, health informatics, and clinical
      diabetes, our multidisciplinary team has a proven record of collaboration. This project will
      produce an evidence-based and replicable intervention that can be sustained in the "real
      world," and easily modified for other diseases. This project is substantially improved after
      making important changes recommended in the second review.
    
  