
    
      The study is a two-armed non-inferiority randomized controlled trial (RCT) situated in the
      primary care setting in Norway. Participants diagnosed with hip and/or knee OA will be
      randomized to either exercise therapy via app or usual care. Patients aged 18 years and older
      presenting with activity-related hip and/or knee pain/complaints and clinical signs and
      symptoms corresponding to hip and/or knee OA seeking treatment at physiotherapist working in
      private practice, will be included if eligible for the study.

      The research questions are:

        1. Is exercise therapy, delivered through a mobile health application (Virtual Training),
           as effective as supervised exercise therapy in patients with hip and/or knee OA,
           measured by number of patients classified as responders according to the OMERACT-OARSI
           responder criteria?

        2. Is exercise therapy delivered through Virtual Training more cost-effective regarding
           health care and medication use than supervised exercise therapy for patients with hip
           and/or knee OA?

        3. Will patients with hip and/or knee OA, using Virtual Training, be more adherent to
           exercise during the intervention period compared to patients undergoing supervised
           exercise therapy, and are there any demographic or clinical factors characterizing the
           OMERACT-OARSI responding patients using Virtual Training?

      The primary analysis will be conducted on an intention-to-treat basis by comparing the
      proportion of responders at 6 weeks and 3 months post-intervention according to the
      OMERACT-OARSI responder criteria in the intervention and the control group using logistic
      regression analysis. Per-protocol analyses will also be conducted. Difference in secondary
      outcomes will be assessed using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) on the post-intervention
      values, with baseline values as covariates.

      Cost-effectiveness will be evaluated assessing the difference in health care and medication
      use and quality of life during 3-month follow-up, reporting the incremental
      cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) reflecting the between-group difference in incremental cost
      per adjusted life years (QALYs). Between-group difference in adherence to exercise will be
      assessed using linear regression, while patient characteristics in the intervention group
      will be assessed using logistic regression. Additional analyses assessing associations
      between physical activity, efficacy, barriers for exercise and OA-related questions will also
      be assessed in secondary analyses.
    
  