
    
      Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), diabetes occuring for the first time during pregnancy,
      is an increasing problem worldwide. It may affect both the woman's and their offspring's
      health. Women with GDM have an increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes later in life.
      Pregnancy, offers a window of opportunity to instigate lasting changes beneficial for them
      and their families. Considering new technology available and used by women generally, new
      methods to communicate lifestyle and dietary advice are required.

      The present study, a multi-center, randomised controlled trial includes five outpatients
      clinics in the greater Oslo Region and will include 230 pregnant women with gestational
      diabets mellitus. Data will be collected by three questionnaires during the study period, one
      at entry, before 33+0 weeks of gestation, one at 36 weeks and the last questionnaire at
      around three months postpartum. During pregnancy, the questionniares will be answered using
      an iPad while the last questionnaire will be on a website or through an interview.

      Additional information will be collected from the women's medical record.

      The intervention in this study is an app, called the Pregnant+ app (Gravid+) for smartphone.
      The app aims to reach women who are fluent in either Norwegian, Urdu or Somali. It has been
      translated from Norwegian and culturally adapted to women speaking Urdu or Somali. Women
      participating in the study can choose between different food cultures and they can set their
      personal lifestyle goals. Information about gestational diabetes, psysical activity, diet and
      food recipes are provided in the app. Half of the women in this study, will be given the app,
      downloaded on their smartphone.The opportunity to automatically transfer bloodglucose
      measures to the smartphone, presented in either a list or a graph, gives women an overview
      and therefore easier controll over their glucose levels.

      The intervention will take place in the ordinary consultation at the outpatient clinics and
      no extra consultation are needed.

      The data will be analysed according to intention to treat methods and with a parcicipatin
      rate on 75% it will take approximately 20 months to recruite 230 pregnant women. To detect a
      differences of 10% between the intervention group and the control group, 115 women are
      required in each group.

      The Regional Committees for Medical and Health Research Ethics South East, (REK) reviewed the
      investigators' application and deemed ethical approval not required as the investigators'
      study does not test new medication or treatment, nor seeks to find new information about GDM
      but only tests a new way of communicating known and approved lifestyle advice to women with
      GDM.

      For each hospital the investigators received approval from the appropriate Board for patient
      privacy protection (PVO: Personvernombud). The study was approved at each hospital by the
      responsible medical officer.

      The investigators' study has been approved by the Norwegian Social Science Data Services.

      The RCT will be published in an international peer-reviewed scientific journal.
    
  