
    
      The recent demographic developments have drastically increased the importance of developing
      applicable approaches to the diagnostics of dementia and the general evaluation of cognitive
      function. Many different tests were developed to thoroughly evaluate neurocognitive function.

      The Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination, developed in 2000, was one such tests and has served
      as an open source neurocognitive examination tool ever since. The current version is the
      Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination III (ACE-III). The aim was to develop a tool that would
      be able to identify dementia in its early stages and also to differentiate between the
      different types of dementia.

      In order to achieve reliable results, cognitive tests should be conducted in a familiar
      language and draw from the cultural background a participant is familiar with. The ACE-III
      and all its predecessors were developed in English and for an English-speaking cultural
      background, not directly applicable to the typical German patient. This made it necessary to
      perform not only a verbatim translation of test contents, but also to appropriately adapt the
      test content to reflect the cultural background of the typical German patient. The
      International Society For Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research (ISPOR) - Task Force for
      Translation and Cultural Adaptation has developed the "Translation and Cultural Adaptation of
      Patient Reported Outcomes Measures-Principles of Good Practice", to ensure a consistent and
      rigorous methodology in the process of translating and adapting patient-reported outcomes
      measures.

      The Principles of Good Practice consist of ten steps:

        1. Preparation

        2. Forward Translation

        3. Reconciliation

        4. Back Translation

        5. Back Translation Review

        6. Harmonization

        7. Cognitive Debriefing

        8. Review of Cognitive Debriefing Results and Finalization

        9. Proofreading

       10. Final Report
    
  