
    
      A. Evaluation Tasks

      Language Tasks:

      Participants will be administered baseline language and cognitive tasks, including 1 or more
      of the following, depending on their residual language and cognitive skills:

      a) writing to dictation b) oral spelling c) oral and written naming of pictures d)
      word-picture matching f) written and oral picture description g) digit span h) spatial span
      i) verbal learning j) grammatical sentence production k) oral word repetition l) sentence
      comprehension

      Quality of Life questionnaires:

      Participants will be administered standardized and non-standardized quality-of-life
      questionnaires before, after, and at follow-up intervals of each experimental period. The
      purpose of these questionnaires is to assess whether the proposed interventions have affected
      participants' well-being and the general quality of their life.

      B. Spoken and Written Word Production Therapy Interventions

      Individuals with PPA will receive spoken and written word production intervention tailored to
      their degree of deficit. Two interventions (basic and advanced) will be implemented, treating
      the main lexical retrieval deficits in PPA, in oral and written modalities. The goal of the
      combined interventions is to promote interaction between phonological and orthographic
      representations and processes in the remediation of lexical retrieval deficits that are
      prominent in all PPA subtypes.

      C. Assessment of Language Therapy Tasks:

      Follow-up assessment will probe all sets of trained phoneme-grapheme correspondences, words,
      or other stimuli (e.g. sentences) to identify whether or not the patient has retained
      knowledge of the trained items. Differences in baseline measures in pre- and post-therapy
      accuracy for phoneme-grapheme correspondences for each patient will be evaluated using the
      following: percentages of total number of points correct, arithmetic differences between
      percentage scores, and permutation tests (Pearson's chi-square test; Fisher's exact test).

      C. HD-tDCS Methods:

      Participants will take part in 10-15 consecutive training sessions (3-5 per week), separated
      by 2 months. Anodal HD-tDCS has typically been shown to up-regulate neuronal excitability and
      produce enhancement of behavioral performance. A Soterix-CT device will be delivering current
      at an intensity of 1-2mA (estimated current density 0.04 mA/cm2; estimated total charge
      0.048C/cm2) for a maximum of 20 minutes in the HD-tDCS groups and for a maximum of 30 seconds
      in the Sham group. For both interventions (HD-tDCS and Sham) the electrical current will be
      increased in a ramp-like fashion at the onset of the stimulation eliciting a transient
      tingling sensation on the scalp that usually disappears over seconds.

      D. Imaging Methods:

      Imaging will be performed at the beginning of enrollment, before and after each 12-to-15-day
      HD-tDCS treatment, and at follow-up intervals for up to 8 time points per individual on a 3T
      Philips system, and will consist of resting-state fMRI (rsfMRI), MPRAGE, and diffusion tensor
      imaging (DTI). Each scanning session will last approximately 1 hour.

      E. Statistical Analyses:

      In the within-subject crossover protocol, each participant will be administered three
      experimental conditions: Control (natural progression), IFG HD-tDCS+language (henceforth
      abbr. HD-tDCS treatment (word production) and sham HD-tDCS+language (henceforth abbr. sham
      treatment). To achieve an accurate estimate of degeneration and rate of decline in each
      participant at their particular stage of the disease progression, each participant will first
      be enrolled in the control condition (natural progression), such that for the first 12 weeks
      they will not receive any therapy. Then the participant will receive either the HD-tDCS
      treatment followed by sham, or vice versa. All analyses, behavioral and imaging, will be
      under the oversight of the study statisticians.

      F. Study duration and number of study visits required of research participants.

      Before any intervention, participants will be enrolled in a control condition for 12 weeks
      during which no therapy will be provided to enable us to assess their personal decline rate.
      After this period they will be randomly assigned to either sham or HD-tDCS experimental
      conditions. After 1-3 weeks of HD-tDCS application (3-5 sessions in a week, 10-15 sessions
      per stimulation site) there will be an interval of approximately 2 months and then we will
      implement the other two HD-tDCS conditions in a within-subject cross-over design.
      Participants will be followed-up at 2-week and 2-month follow-up intervals.

      G. Blinding, including justification for blinding or not blinding the trial, if applicable.

      Participants will be blinded to the application of anodal or sham HD-tDCS. To achieve
      blinding, all participants will be fitted with the HD-tDCS electrodes placed over the left
      inferior frontal gyrus. The Soterix-CT device will be used for double-blinding purposes.

      H. Justification of why participants will not receive routine care or will have current
      therapy stopped

      Participation in this study will not disrupt any current care or therapy.

      I. Justification for inclusion of a placebo or non-treatment group

      All participants will undergo active and sham conditions, thus serving as their own control.

      J. Definition of treatment failure or participant removal criteria

      Participants will be removed from the study if they are unable to comply with task
      instructions or tolerate the HD-tDCS procedure.

      K. Description of what happens to participants receiving therapy when study ends or if a
      participant's participation in the study ends prematurely

      When the study ends participants will continue to receive management with their neurologist
      as usual. If a patient's participation in the study ends prematurely s/he will still receive
      care as before. In sum, termination of the study or termination of participation in it will
      not affect regular therapy he or she may be receiving.

      L. Qualification of investigators:

      The PI and co-investigators have extensive research and clinical experience with all study
      tasks: behavioral language therapy (including spelling, naming, and repetition therapy. The
      investigators have arelady published a tDCS study on the behavioral results for the
      improvement of spelling abilities.
    
  