
    
      Pre-exposure prophylaxis, or PrEP, is a relatively new HIV prevention method where
      individuals who are at risk for HIV but do not currently have it take a daily pill (Truvada).
      The CDC currently recommends PrEP as a method of HIV prevention in high-risk individuals
      based on compelling efficacy data from large international studies in diverse populations,
      but the issue of adherence and its relationship to clinical efficacy is still being defined.
      In five large, randomized and controlled studies, many prospective PrEP patients chose not to
      take PrEP, and those that did often did not adhere to it consistently (Landovitz & Coates,
      2014). Experts remain unable to answer several high-stakes questions: How do we increase PrEP
      uptake and adherence amongst those most at risk for HIV, and will starting PrEP increase or
      decrease high-risk individual sexual behavior and HIV incidence? (Landovitz & Coates, 2014).
      In sum, the biggest challenge to reducing new HIV incidence in the U.S. is behavioral, not
      medical.

      Here, the investigators propose a randomized, controlled clinical study to test the
      effectiveness of a "future selves-value affirmation" behavioral intervention on PrEP uptake
      and adherence. The intervention is designed to address the challenges of stigma and "present
      bias" - the individual propensity to place the gains of the moment ahead of future gains- as
      it relates to adherence.

      "Present bias" and the suboptimal decisions it produces derive from a limited ability to
      imagine one's self in the future, and lead to a patient's preference for smaller, immediate
      rewards (e.g., escaping side effects of a medication, safeguarding one's situation from loved
      ones) over larger, delayed ones (e.g., not contracting HIV, longer life expectancy, better
      health). Research has shown that vivid, concrete, and detailed images of one's future self
      enhance a person's ability to envision and emotionally engage the future consequences of
      present-day decisions. For instance, creating positive images of one's future self has been
      shown to stem delinquent behavior for up to a year (van Gelder, 2013).

      To address stigma, the investigators draw on another literature in psychology which has now
      established that short value affirmation exercises are able to enhance learning, performance,
      control and commitment outcomes, and to do so most effectively with populations facing stigma
      in the domain of interest (Vohs & Smeichel, 2009; Creswell et al., 2013; Creswell & Lindsay,
      2014), especially within the domain of health behavior change (Ehret & Sherman, 2014; Harris,
      2011; Reed & Aspinwall, 1998; Nustad, 2011; Cohen and Sherman, 2014; Epton et al., 2015).
      Affirmation exercises can be as simple as writing or talking for 5 minutes about a value one
      holds dear. Indeed, one such 5-minute exercise at the beginning of a new program or project
      can lead to profoundly powerful long-term outcomes across very different settings. For
      example, one intervention led to a .41 point grade increase for minority students in college
      over the course of one and two years (Cohen et al, 2009), increased decision making skills
      and use of public service information by homeless shelter participants in Seattle (Hall et
      al., 2014), and enabled smokers to more readily accept threatening smoking risk information
      (Epton et al., 2015). This study will combine value affirmation and future selves approaches.

      The first study objective is to evaluate the effect of the "future-selves / value
      affirmation" intervention on PrEP adherence, as measured by tenofovir levels in dried blood
      spots and categorized via the 5-level ordinal measure for Engagement with PrEP (used in the
      iPrEx Open-Label Extension). The secondary study objectives are to evaluate the effect of the
      "future-selves / value affirmation" intervention on HIV and STI contraction at 3, 6, 9, and
      12 months, and to evaluate the effect of the "future-selves / value affirmation" intervention
      on sexual risk behaviors, as self-reported numbers of anal/vaginal sex partners and episodes
      of condomless receptive anal and vaginal sex at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months.

      This is a parallel group randomized trial with 2 arms-a control arm with allocation ratio of
      50%, and an intervention arm (future self-value affirmation) with an allocation ratio of 50%.
      At each clinic visit, participants will engage in a 10-minute writing (or oral, for those
      with literacy challenges) exercises. Participants in the intervention arm will be given a
      list of values, asked to select one that has been particularly important to them at critical
      times in their life, then asked to write about why that value is important to them. Next,
      those same participants will write a letter to themselves twenty (20) years in the future.
      Participants in the control arm will first write for 5 minutes about why two values that are
      least important to them may be important to someone else, and next write a letter to
      themselves two weeks in the future.

      The study includes 170 subjects enrolled across 4 sites in Pittsburgh, with an expectation of
      retaining 80%, or 135 subjects. Each subject's participation will last for 12 months.The
      entire study is expected to last for 18 months. The investigators will evaluate
      concentrations of tenofovir diphosphate (TFV-DP) in dried blood spot samples at baseline and
      then quarterly visits; they will also perform quarterly evaluations of self-reported numbers
      of anal/vaginal sex partners and episodes of condomless receptive anal and vaginal sex with
      and without condoms; incidence of STI and HIV acquisition.

      The investigators will employ a mixed ANOVA to look at intervention effects on adherence-as
      well as STI incidence, and safe sex practices-across time intervals. They will also estimate
      mixed regression models for the intervention.
    
  