
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine complete clinical tumor regression in patients with metastatic melanoma
           treated with a myeloablative lymphoid-depleting preparative regimen comprising
           cyclophosphamide, fludarabine, and total body irradiation followed by autologous
           tumor-reactive tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte infusion, autologous CD34+ stem cell
           transplantation, and low-dose or high-dose interleukin-2.

        -  Evaluate the safety of this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the survival of the infused lymphocytes by analyzing the sequence of the
           variable region of the T-cell receptor or flow cytometry in patients treated with this
           regimen.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Autologous stem cell collection: Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC)
           twice daily for 8 days. Beginning on day 5 of G-CSF, patients undergo apheresis daily
           for up to 3 days. Patients may receive 1 additional course of G-CSF and apheresis or use
           stem cells stored from a prior stem cell harvest in order to obtain an adequate number
           of cells.

        -  Lymphocyte-depleting myeloablative preparative regimen: Patients receive
           cyclophosphamide intravenous (IV) over 1 hour on days -5 and -6 and fludarabine IV over
           15-30 minutes on days -6 to -2. Patients also undergo total body irradiation on day -1.

        -  Autologous lymphocyte infusion: Patients receive autologous tumor-reactive
           tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes IV over 20-30 minutes on day 0* followed by G-CSF SC once
           daily until blood counts recover.

        -  Autologous stem cell transplantation: Patients receive autologous CD34+ stem cells IV on
           day 2.

        -  Interleukin therapy: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts, depending on whether they
           have received prior high-dose interleukin-2 (IL-2).

             -  Cohort 1 (patients who received prior high-dose IL-2): Beginning on day 0*,
                patients receive high-dose IL-2 IV over 15 minutes 3 times daily for up to 5 days
                (maximum of 15 doses).

             -  Cohort 3 (patients who have not received prior high-dose IL-2): Patients receive
                treatment as in cohort 1.

      NOTE: *Day 0 is 1-4 days after the last dose of fludarabine.

      Patients are evaluated at 4-6 weeks.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 116 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  