
    
      Upon consent and enrollment into the study, patients will be given a packet of questionnaires
      to take home, complete, and return using a postage-paid envelope. These questionnaires will
      include a patient background form, which includes information on age, gender, marital status,
      years of education, employment status, and race/ethnicity, and two measure of health beliefs
      and attitudes (the Krantz Health Opinion Survey and the Multidimensional Health Locus of
      Control Scale. A copy of all measures in attached to this application.

      Following consent and randomization participants will be assigned to one of two comparison
      study arms. Both study arms involve participation in a weekly, hour-long, patient support
      group for seven weeks. As described below the groups differ in terms of the content focus.

      Patients randomly assigned to the Self-Regulation arm will meet in groups of 4-10
      participants at their usual hemodialysis clinic for hour-long weekly sessions for seven
      weeks. Two to four groups will be conducted at each participating center depending on center
      size. Groups will be led by a member of the UIHC research team with at least two years
      previous professional experience with behavior change techniques, at least two years previous
      experience with the hemodialysis population, and a master's or doctoral level degree in
      psychology. Each UIHC team group leader will be responsible for 3-4 groups over the duration
      of the project. Session material utilized by group-leaders will be highly structured and
      detailed across the seven sessions. Self-Regulation group sessions will be generally highly
      leader-directed though participants will be regularly encouraged to share their experiences
      dealing with the dialysis regimen. A consistent attempt will be made to focus all group
      discussion on self-regulatory principles as they related to treatment adherence. An outline
      of topics for the Self-Regulation groups is attached.

      Patients randomly assigned to the Support and Discussion arm will also meet in groups of 4-10
      participants at their usual hemodialysis clinic for hour-long weekly sessions for seven
      weeks. Two to four groups will be conducted at each participating center depending on center
      size. These groups will be also led by a member of the UIHC research team, with each group
      leader responsible for 3-4 groups over the duration of the project. The Support and
      Discussion protocol will consist of two integrated components: (a) brief educational
      materials presented at the start of each session, and (b) group leader facilitated discussion
      following presentation of the educational materials. An outline of topics for the Support and
      Discussionn groups is also attached.

      Patient adherence to the fluid-intake regimen will be determined by computing the amount of
      weight a patient gained between dialysis treatment sessions (termed "interdialytic weight
      gain" or IWG) as recorded in the patient's regular medical record. Mean IWG averaged over two
      weeks (six sessions) at each assessment point will serve as the primary dependent measure in
      this study. The pre-enrollment assessment (Time 0) will comprise the two weeks immediately
      preceding the start of group meetings, Time 1 will comprise the two weeks immediately
      following the final intervention session, Time 2 will comprise the 12th and 13th
      post-intervention weeks and the Time 3 assessment will consist of the 25th and 26th
      post-intervention weeks. Patients will also be asked to complete a previously validated
      self-report assessment of hemodialysis patient adherence to fluid restrictions (Dialysis Diet
      and Fluid Non-Adherence Questionnaire). This measure assesses fluid-intake adherence over the
      previous two weeks and will be obtained on a schedule which parallels the collection of the
      clinical IWG data.
    
  