
    
      The investigators will conduct a hybrid type III effectiveness-implementation trial using a
      longitudinal cluster randomized design to test the most effective way to implement SAFE
      Firearm among 32 clinics, 151 clinicians, and 38,989 youth nested in two Mental Health
      Research Network (MHRN) health systems in Michigan and Colorado. Clinics will be randomized
      to receive either the EHR implementation strategy (Nudge) or the EHR implementation strategy
      plus 1 year of facilitation to target implementation barriers (Nudge+). The investigators
      will collect implementation outcomes for 6 months before exposure to condition (i.e.,
      pre-implementation or pre-exposure) and for 1 year following (i.e., sustainment) to allow for
      comparisons between (a) the active and pre-exposure periods and (b) the active and
      sustainment periods.

      Aim 1: Examine the effects of Nudge vs. Nudge+ on implementation outcomes. The investigators
      hypothesize that in both active conditions, parent-reported clinician fidelity (primary
      outcome) will be superior to the pre-exposure period and that Nudge+ will be superior to
      Nudge in the active period. The investigators will assess implementation strategy cost. The
      investigators will also examine parent-reported clinician fidelity during a follow-up period
      to evaluate sustainment, and the investigators hypothesize that Nudge and Nudge+ will be
      equivalent after the interventions are removed but that both will remain superior to the
      pre-exposure period with respect to fidelity. The investigators also hypothesize that Nudge+
      will result in greater patient reach (i.e., EHR-documented program delivery), cable lock
      distribution, and acceptability compared with Nudge (secondary outcomes) in both the active
      and sustainment periods.

      Aim 2: Use mixed methods to identify implementation strategy mechanisms. The investigators
      hypothesize that Nudge+ will have a stronger effect because it will improve clinic adaptive
      reserve (i.e., the ability to make and sustain change). The investigators will also
      investigate the role of intrinsic and extrinsic motivation. The investigators hypothesize
      that clinician attitudes towards suicide prevention, implementation climate, and leadership
      will moderate implementation strategy effectiveness.

      Aim 3: Examine the effects of the adapted intervention on clinical outcomes. The
      investigators hypothesize that in both active conditions, parent-reported firearm storage
      will be superior to the pre-exposure period. Nudge+ will result in greater safe storage
      compared with Nudge. The investigators will explore rates of youth suicide attempts, deaths,
      and unintentional firearm injury and mortality by implementation condition and across time.
    
  