
    
      This study will be a prospective, observational cohort study to investigate the changes in
      lung function among individuals who have made treatment changes after initiating treatment
      with elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor (ETI). Data will be collected from Folia Health, and
      the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Patient Registry (CFFPR) for participants who are registered.
      Participation in the study will occur through the Folia application where study participants
      will be directed to a specific HERO-2 study dashboard. Individuals (n=860) taking ETI may be
      enrolled at participating sites, through social media recruitment or from existing users of
      Folia Health. During the 12-month study period, participants will be asked to track their
      routine treatment and medication usage, daily symptoms, and monthly review with validated CF
      patient-reported outcome (PRO) questionnaires. Participants will also be asked to self-report
      instances of changes to their treatment plan, and pulmonary exacerbations. Data collected
      within Folia will be linked to the CFFPR for individual outcomes with regards to clinical
      data including anthropometric measures, lung function, complications, and IV-treated
      pulmonary exacerbations. This study will not provide or recommend any treatment
      recommendations. All direction for medication usage is solely at the discretion of the
      patient's physician in accordance with their usual practice.

      The primary objective for the study will be to evaluate changes in lung function as measured
      by FEV1 percent predicted in individuals who report making at least one change to chronic
      daily respiratory therapies upon study entry and during the 12 month follow up compared to
      those who do not make changes to chronic daily therapies. Secondary endpoints will include a
      measurement of the proportion of individuals making changes to chronic daily therapy, the
      need to resume chronic daily therapy, health-related quality of life, symptom severity and
      symptom frequency, and pulmonary exacerbations requiring IV antibiotics.
    
  