
    
      Throughout recorded history, some men and women have experienced emotional distress at being
      physically "trapped" in wrong gender. Gender incongruence refers to the state where one's
      internal sense of gender differs from the gender assigned at birth. Advances in psychology
      and in our understanding of human sexuality have permitted the recognition of gender
      incongruence (also called transgender) as a biological phenomenon. The acceptance by the
      society has led to an expansion of health care services available to these individuals for
      supportive treatment. Gender affirming hormone therapy, usually provided by endocrinologists,
      is pivotal for the transition of these individuals into their desired gender. This therapy
      typically consists of testosterone or estrogen (male and female sex hormones) to transition
      into transmen or transwomen, respectively. The hormone treatment results in a "second
      puberty", wherein biological men receiving estrogen gain fat around hips and thighs, lose
      muscle and develop breasts. Biological women receiving testosterone lose fat, gain muscle,
      stop having menses and develop a deeper voice. However, our knowledge of the mechanisms of
      these hormones at the tissue level in transgender population is lacking. In this study, we
      plan to evaluate

        1. hormone receptors that carry out the action of sex hormones in fat tissue and
           mononuclear cells (a type of immune cell in blood) following gender affirming therapy.

        2. the mechanism that lead to growth or suppression of fat mass or lean mass

        3. effect on inflammation (a cardiovascular risk marker) The hormone treatment of gender
           incongruence is a relatively untested therapy. The treatment is based on extrapolations
           and assumptions from hormone treatment in hypogonadal (hormone deficient) in cis-gender
           (same gender, no incongruence) individuals. We expect that our mechanistic studies will
           initiate an understanding into the actions of transgender therapy at the cellular level.
    
  