
    
      Background:

      Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) represents a potentially effective
      treatment option for patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC).

      In a pilot clinical trial in refractory hematologic malignancy subjects, we have found that
      augmentation of a T cell-replete allograft with donor Th2 cells generated ex vivo in
      sirolimus (rapamycin; Th2.rapa cells) allows prompt donor engraftment after
      outpatient-intensity chemotherapy. This transplant approach has been associated with a low
      incidence of acute graft versus host disease (GVHD).

      Based on these data, we seek to safely achieve objective clinical regression of metastatic
      RCC by the following new transplant approach. (1) The allograft will be administered after a
      low intensity, outpatient induction chemotherapy regimen consisting of pentostatin and
      cyclophosphamide. This regimen is intended to provide sufficient host immune T cell
      depletion, and as such, a conventional preparative regimen will not be administered. (2) To
      avoid mixed chimerism for rapid potentiation of graft-versus-tumor (GVT) effects, a growth
      colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) mobilized allograft will be augmented with donor lymphocyte
      infusion at day 14 post-transplant consisting of Th2.rapa cells.

      Objectives:

      Primary objective: (1) Determine whether this new, low-intensity transplant approach can
      yield objective partial or complete remission of metastatic RCC, with the goal of ruling out
      a partial response (PR)/complete response (CR) rate of 20% in favor of a rate of 60%.

      Secondary objectives: (1) Evaluate the safety and immune-depleting properties of the
      pentostatin/cyclophosphamide regimen; (2) Characterize the engraftment kinetics and GVHD
      profile of this new transplant approach; and (3) Characterize post-transplant immunity in
      study subjects, including cytokine phenotype, immune reconstitution, and potential anti-tumor
      effector mechanisms.

      Eligibility:

      Adults (18 - 75 years) with metastatic RCC who have an eligible 6/6 human leukocyte antigen
      (HLA)-matched sibling donor.

      Must have had one prior therapy with either sorafenib, sunitinib, or temsirolimus or any
      other Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved agent for therapy of metastatic renal cell
      carcinoma..

      Life expectancy greater than or equal to 3 months, Karnofsky score greater than or equal to
      80, relatively normal organ function, and absence of central nervous system (CNS) metastases.

      Design:

      Patients will receive a 21-day course of pentostatin (intravenous infusion on days 1, 8, and
      15; 4 mg/m^2 per dose) and daily oral cyclophosphamide (200 mg per day).

      Patients will receive a mobilized, T cell-replete allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell graft
      followed by a pre-emptive donor lymphocyte infusion with donor Th2 cells at day 14
      post-transplant. GVHD prophylaxis will consist of a short-course of sirolimus plus
      maintenance therapy with cyclosporine A.

      If greater than or equal to 2/5 partial or complete responses are observed within 6 months
      post-transplant, the therapy will be considered potentially promising, and will be expanded
      in a Simon two-stage design to evaluate a total of n = 14 subjects. If greater than or equal
      to 5/14 PR/CR are achieved, the therapy will be considered worthy of further investigation.
    
  