
    
      Nonscalp seborrheic dermatitis (NSSD) is typically a benign inflammatory process of the skin
      that affects oil rich areas including in and between eyebrows, paranasal area, behind ears,
      over the sternum, and groin. While these lesions typically come and go without proposing a
      threat to the patient, they can be socially debilitating, and psychologically distressing.

      The mainstay treatment for an exacerbation of NSSD is topical steroids. Topical steroids are
      very effective and useful to patient's who are desperately seeking treatment. However, most
      family practitioners are reluctant to prescribe or recommend topical steroids for chronic
      conditions like NSSD due to the potential side-effects including permanent atrophy of the
      skin.

      NSSD has an unknown etiology. However, one of its biggest risk factors appears to be dry skin
      due to its increase in incidence during colder seasons, and with use of alcohol-containing
      topicals. Naturally occurring skin yeast (ie Malassezia) are also thought to play a part.

      Petrolatum is considered a skin protectant and has a strong ability to hold moisture in skin.
      Along with restricting water from leaving skin, it also decreases most air from contacting
      the skin. This may slow the growth and activity of skin yeast that are typically considered
      facultative anaerobes.

      A patient diagnosed with nonscalp seborrheic dermatitis will be consented into the study and
      given instructions on the petroleum treatment. This includes wetting the affected area,
      blotting dry, and then applying petrolatum to the area before bedtime. This regimen is to be
      followed every other night until symptoms diminish. The patient will come back to the office
      for follow-up at one week, two weeks, and four weeks after treatment begins to see the
      outcome. Pictures will be taken at each encounter and used to measure progress through one mm
      graphs. Patients will not be identifiable in these pictures, and they will be labeled with
      the patient's given ID number.
    
  