
    
      The goal of this pilot study is to assess the safety and efficacy of short course (3 months)
      multiple drug antimicrobial therapy in adults with MAC pulmonary disease associated with
      multifocal bronchiectasis and multiple small nodules. We propose to evaluate the clinical and
      radiographic response, assess whether macrolide (either Clarithromycin or Azithromycin)
      resistance develops, and assess quality of life measures.

      No evidence of efficacy is required to proceed to longer term studies; however, we will need
      to confirm lack of development of macrolide resistance in this pilot study before proceeding
      to any additional studies to evaluate the efficacy of short course MAC treatment.

      Once we have demonstrated the feasibility of short course therapy and confirm that resistance
      to macrolides does not develop, we hope to apply for external funding to support a longer
      term randomized controlled trial comparing "standard" MAC therapy (which usually consists of
      a period of eighteen to twenty-four months with at least three antimicrobials) to short
      course (three months) MAC antimicrobial treatment, alternating each year with nine months of
      non-MAC bronchial hygiene measures for two consecutive years. If a larger study confirms
      efficacy of this approach, we would then propose even larger multi-site studies to test the
      hypothesis that short course MAC therapy alternating every year with non-MAC bronchial
      hygiene therapy should be considered in all adult patients with MAC pulmonary disease
      associated with multifocal bronchiectasis and multiple small nodules throughout their lives.

      The longer term goal of this research is to develop an optimal treatment strategy for these
      patients (in whom MAC will likely persist indefinitely) that will result in not only a better
      quality of life, but less evidence of long term lung damage, less risk of drug-related
      morbidity, and be better tolerated by the patients compared to current treatment strategies.

      The specific aims of this pilot study are as follows:

      Primary Aim:

        1. Confirm that macrolide (either Clarithromycin or Azithromycin) resistance does not
           develop as a result of short course treatment.

           Secondary Aims:

        2. Assess for change in quality of life metrics (St. George Respiratory Questionnaire and
           SF 12) from baseline to the conclusion of the study period (six months). We expect to
           see improvement in quality of life measures as a result of this short course treatment
           trial.

        3. Assess for change in pulmonary function from baseline to the conclusion of the study
           period. We expect to see improvement particularly in the FEV1, FEV1/FVC, and diffusing
           capacity for carbon monoxide as a result of this short course treatment trial.

        4. Assess for change in high resolution computerized tomography (HRCT) of the chest,
           evidence of MAC pulmonary disease (multifocal bronchiectasis associated with multiple
           small nodules) from baseline to the conclusion of the study period. We do not anticipate
           being able to demonstrate improvement in the HRCT evidence of MAC lung disease during
           the short period of this trial since these changes usually occur quite slowly.
    
  