
    
      An exclusive human milk protein diet in infants less than 1250 grams birth weight has been
      shown to reduce the rate of necrotizing enterocolitis, a devastating intestinal disease in
      premature infants, by 50%. New guidelines were introduced in 2009 at Texas Children's
      Hospital to outline the appropriate use of donor human milk products.

      First, infants from a previous study will be identified and recruited for this study. Other
      potential subjects (infants) will be identified by the GCRC nursing staff at Texas Childrens
      Hospital upon admission to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) (Levels 2 and 3) and
      communicated to the PI and PIs staff.

      This study includes three visits:

        1. Outpatient visit at 12 to 15 months corrected gestational age- first outpatient visit to
           obtain baseline anthropometric data, interim medical history, demographic and
           socioeconomic information, and nutrition history of the child since discharge (formula,
           human milk, vitamins, and medications), and check hemoglobin and ferritin. Parents will
           bring their childs labs from the pediatrician or give permission for records to be
           accessed in Epic if they receive care from Texas Childrens Pediatric Associates. If
           records are obtained, labs will not be drawn at this visit. Some of the historical
           information may be obtained via telephone prior to the outpatient visit.

        2. Outpatient visit at 18 to 22 months corrected gestational age- second outpatient visit
           for collection of anthropometric data, interim medical history, demographic and
           socioeconomic information, nutrition history, routine Neurodevelopmental Evaluation as
           part of standard follow-up for extremely low birth weight infants (The Bayley Scales of
           Infant Development II) administered by certified testers (trained professional), and
           whole body dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) will be performed. Some of the
           historical information may be obtained via telephone prior to the outpatient visit. We
           will also obtain the height and weight of mom and dad at this visit.

        3. Outpatient visit at 5 years of age- third outpatient visit for collection of
           anthropometric data, interim medical history, demographic and socioeconomic information,
           nutrition history and developmental evaluation as routine for a school age child. Some
           of the historical information may be obtained via telephone prior to the outpatient
           visit.

      If infants were not originally followed in the H-26923 study, additional data will be
      collected from the infants chart for the hospitalization in the NICU. Data collected will
      include: anthropometrics at birth and discharge, enteral feeding data and parenteral
      nutrition throughout admission, nutrition related labs, APGAR scores, medications- lasix,
      chlorothiazide, dopamine, hydrocortisone and dexamethasone, morbidities such as necrotizing
      enterocolitis, patent ductus arteriosus, spontaneous intestinal perforation, intraventricular
      hemorrhage, sepsis, and chronic lung disease.

      If infants are re-hospitalized or they receive their primary care from a Texas Childrens
      Pediatrics Associates Clinic, with the consent of the subjects parents, we would collect
      information from the chart including: interim anthropometric data, interim medical history,
      nutrition data and history, and nutrition related labs.

      No interventions are part of this protocol.
    
  