
    
      Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) develops when a certain type of immature bone marrow cell
      called a lymphoblast becomes malignant, resulting in uncontrolled growth and suppression of
      normal blood cell development. Leukemic blast cells accumulate in the bone marrow and blood
      and may involve other organs such as the central nervous system (CNS). The most frequent
      subtype of ALL observed in adults is caused by a genetic aberration called a Philadelphia
      (Ph) chromosome and is thus referred to as Ph+ ALL. In this type of ALL, a gene called BCR
      and a gene called ABL are fused by a process known as translocation. This leads to formation
      of an atypical gene called BCR-ABL and formation of a protein known as the BCR-ABL
      oncoprotein. This protein, a so-called tyrosine kinase, activates and disrupts many signaling
      pathways in the cell and is directly responsible for the development of Ph+ ALL, which is one
      of the most aggressive types of leukaemia.

      Treatment options for Ph+ ALL were much improved by a family of drugs called tyrosine kinase
      inhibitors (TKI), which bind to - and block the activity of - the BCR-ABL kinase. The first
      of these drugs to be developed is called imatinib (brand name glivec), which has become a
      standard component of therapy for Ph+ ALL worldwide, usually combined with steroids and/or
      cytotoxic chemotherapy typically used for ALL. In the vast majority of patients, this
      treatment is initially able to reduce the burden of the disease to a very low level (complete
      remission). Unfortunately, the leukemic cells eventually become resistant to imatinib,
      causing the disease to reappear (relapse). A commonly observed mechanism of resistance to TKI
      is the development of mutations in the BCR-ABL gene, as a result of which the drug can no
      longer bind to the kinase, leading to its reactivation. For this reason, stem cell
      transplantation from a sibling or unrelated donor is considered the most effective treatment
      to achieve cure.

      In the last couple of years, 2nd generation TKI (Dasatinib and Nilotinib) which are more
      active than imatinib have been tested in clinical trials in patients with Ph+ ALL. Although
      these newer TKI show activity towards mutated BCR-ABL not inhibited by imatinib, the same
      basic mechanisms of resistance apply to these drugs, and they have not been shown to result
      in substantially longer survival than imatinib. In particular, a BCR-ABL mutation known as
      T315I has been recognized to cause resistance to all approved 1st and 2nd generation TKI.

      More recently, a highly potent 3rd generation TKI called ponatinib has been developed and is
      the only approved TKI shown to be active against the T315I and all other resistance
      mutations. Initial studies combining ponatinib with chemotherapy have shown excellent
      response rates and promising survival in adult patients with newly diagnosed Ph+ ALL.
      However, in this group of patients ponatinib has not yet been directly compared with any of
      the other drugs, and there may be a moderately increased risk of vascular and cardiac adverse
      events, such as heart attacks, strokes or thrombosis.

      Based on existing data, ponatinib shows great promise for treatment of Ph+ ALL, but its
      superiority over standard imatinib-based therapy in terms of long-term efficacy and safety
      need to be proven.

      It is the main purpose of this trial to determine whether ponatinib is superior to imatinib
      when combined with the same chemotherapy that is considered a standard for elderly patients
      with Ph+ ALL. The study hypothesis is that a greater proportion of patients in the ponatinib
      arm will achieve a deep (molecular) response, and that survival without leukemia relapse will
      be superior. The side effects, safety and tolerability of the two treatment regimens will
      also be compared.

      A second trial question will explore whether chemotherapy can be omitted from the treatment
      regimen by replacing it with an immunotherapy drug called blinatumomab. This is a type of
      antibody that activated the patient´s own immune cells (T-cells) and directs them to the
      leukaemia cells, which are then destroyed. This type of treatment has been very effective in
      patients with ALL that did not respond or returned after other types of therapy, and has been
      approved in the EU and USA as salvage therapy for ALL. By combining two very different types
      of targeted therapy, the TKI ponatinib and the antibody blinatumomab, we hope to deliver
      highly effective therapy for Ph+ ALL while eliminating the toxicity of chemotherapy.

      To be able to compare these treatments, patients will be randomly assigned to the three
      treatment arms in a 1:1:1 ratio, i.e. the likelihood to be assigned to each of the treatment
      groups is the same. Overall duration of study treatment will be 2 years, followed by
      treatment with the TKI alone.
    
  