
    
      Acute graft-versus-host disease (aGvHD) is an important complication of haplo-HSCT. The
      Seattle group initially introduced the use of ATG as a treatment for acute graft-versus-host
      disease (aGVHD) in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (haplo-PBSCT)
      recipients. Presently, in both myeloablative and reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC)
      haplo-PBSCT, ATG is part of postengraftment immunosuppressive regimens.

      The regimens for prophylaxis of GVHD based on 10mg/kg rabbit anti-human thymocyte
      immunoglobin (ATG, Thymoglobulin®, Genzyme Polyclonals S.A.S) effectively reduced the
      occurrence of grade II-IV aGvHD. However, the incidence of cytomegalovirus (CMV) and EB virus
      (EBV) reactivation were higher due to a slower immune reconstitution. The 100-day cumulative
      incidence of CMV and EBV viremia were both over 70% in our unmanipulated haplo-PBSCT program.
      The optimal dose of ATG balancing the efficacy of GVHD prophylaxis and the risk of virus
      reactivation in haplo-PBSCT remains unknown.

      Reports on the pharmacokinetics of Thymoglobulin in allo-HSCT revealed a high variability.
      Recent pharmacokinetic studies have shown that the half-life of total ATG after transplant is
      longer than the active ATG (which is available to bind to human lymphocytes and causes the
      desired immunological effects). And active ATG appears more associated with pharmacodynamics
      effects. The investigators found that virus reactivation and acute GVHD were highly affected
      by ATG exposure (area under the curve, AUC) in previous cohort study. The investigators have
      found an optimal range of active ATG exposure balancing the efficacy of GVHD prophylaxis and
      the risk of virus reactivation. The incidence of CMV reactivation and III-IV aGVHD reduced to
      60%, 6% respectively.

      The results suggested that Individualized dosing of ATG has a potential advantage in
      balancing the efficacy of GVHD prophylaxis and the risk of virus reactivation in haplo-PBSCT.
      This may improve the survival and quality of life of patients undergoing haplo-PBSCT. A
      prospective randomized trial is required to compare the efficacy of Individualized dosage of
      ATG as a prophylaxis for acute GVHD in haplo-PBSCT.
    
  