
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the rate of achieving minimum residual disease (MRD) negativity after
           treatment with alemtuzumab in patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL)
           who have low levels of MRD after conventional therapy or who relapse at an MRD level
           after a prior MRD-negative remission.

        -  Determine the safety of alemtuzumab in patients treated in the MRD-positive setting.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the clinical response in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine the time to MRD relapse in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine the overall survival of patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine the effect of this drug when administered as consolidation/maintenance therapy
           on CD52 expression on CLL cells.

        -  Determine the safety and efficacy of repeated drug dosing required to achieve sustained
           MRD negativity in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Observation: Patients with minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative status are observed
           every 4 weeks for 12 weeks and then every 12 weeks thereafter. If they become
           MRD-positive, then they are eligible for treatment.

        -  Treatment: Patients with MRD-positive status receive alemtuzumab subcutaneously or IV
           over 2 hours three times weekly for up to 12 weeks in the absence of disease progression
           or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of 6 weeks of study therapy, patients are
           evaluated for response. Patients who remain MRD-positive and are responding to study
           therapy receive an additional 6 weeks of treatment. Patients who remain MRD-positive and
           show no significant improvement in the level of leukemic cells detected in their
           peripheral blood or bone marrow are removed from the study. Patients achieving
           MRD-negative remission are removed from study therapy and monitored for disease
           recurrence at an MRD level. If MRD-level relapse is confirmed in these patients, they
           may be retreated with alemtuzumab provided their initial response to therapy lasted for
           at least 6 months.

      Patients undergo collection of peripheral blood and bone marrow periodically during study for
      assessment of MRD by MRD flow cytometry, fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis,
      somatic mutation analysis, and B-cell selection.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 54 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  