
    
      Participants will be asked to complete a series of activities, as outlined below.

        1. They will be asked to turn on "Do Not Disturb" and set their smartphone's volume to the
           maximum. This is to ensure that they can hear narrated instructions guiding them through
           the activities to come, and that data collection is uninterrupted.

        2. Volunteers will sustain the short a vowel sound for 10 seconds. This is to analyze
           PD-related dysphonia.

        3. Volunteers will place their smartphone in their left hand and rest it in their lap for
           10 seconds. This is to analyze PD-related rest tremor on the left side of the body.
           (Duration: 10 seconds)

        4. Volunteers will place their smartphone in their right hand and rest it in their lap for
           10 seconds. This is to analyze PD-related rest tremor on the right side of the body.
           (Duration: 10 seconds)

        5. Volunteers will hold their smartphone face-down at shoulder-level, in their left hand.
           This is to analyze PD-related postural tremor on the left side of the body. (Duration:
           10 seconds)

        6. Volunteers will hold their smartphone face-down at shoulder-level, in their right hand.
           This is to analyze PD-related postural tremor on the right side of the body. (Duration:
           10 seconds)

      Finally, participants will be asked to indicate their gender, age group, and status (whether
      or not they have PD), for data-labeling purposes. Please note that all data is collected
      anonymously and thus cannot be tracked down to a specific participant. Nevertheless, it will
      be encrypted and stored in a secure database, with each participant corresponding to a GUID
      (Global Unique Identifier), although participants will not be asked for their name. As this
      is not a medical study, there are no expected medical side effects, however, certain
      activities and questions may seem frustrating and boring.

      Participants will mainly benefit from the study indirectly, as it will increase understanding
      of symptoms prevalent in early PD, and may contribute to the development of diagnostic tools.
    
  