
    
      Background: Heart failure (HF) is a leading cause of preventable hospitalization and death in
      the VA and many patients fall short of self-care goals. Numerous efficacy trials have shown
      that HF care management supported by health information technology (i.e., HITCM) can improve
      patients' outcomes, although VA care managers in 'real-world' health systems are often
      overwhelmed by the need to provide monitoring and behavior change services. Informal
      caregivers may help to fill the gaps in VA care management and enhance support for patients'
      treatment adherence, behavior changes, and symptom monitoring. The challenge will be to
      identify ways to leverage assistance from informal caregivers (ICGs) who lack the resources
      to fill this role effectively.

      Objectives: We will evaluate the impact of extending the reach of HITCM by incorporating a
      protocol-driven model for improved monitoring and self-management support by a CarePartner
      (CP). CPs will be adult children or friends living outside the patient's home who are willing
      to play a structured role to support self-care. The specific aims of the trial are: (1) to
      determine whether an intervention that uses automated patient monitoring and behavior change
      calls with follow-up to HF patients' care manager and CP (HITCM+CP) improves key
      patient-centered outcomes relative to a system that only uses the same technology to support
      patients' care management (HITCM-only). Outcomes of interest include patients' health-related
      quality of life, mental health, health service use, and mortality risk; (2) to evaluate the
      impact of HITCM+CP on patients' self-care behaviors compared to HITCM-only; and (3) to
      determine whether the intervention increases the quality and quantity of support for HF
      patients' self-care compared to HITCM-only.

      Methods: 372 HF patient-CP pairs will be recruited from the VA Louis Stokes (Cleveland)
      Healthcare System. Patients will receive automated telephone assessment and behavior change
      calls weekly for 12 months. For patients in both study arms, a care manager will monitor
      patients' assessment results via a secure website and will receive reports concerning urgent
      health problems by fax and pager. In the HITCM+CP group, patients' CPs also will receive
      tailored e-mail reports based on patients' weekly assessments. HITCM+CP patients and their
      CPs will use a structured protocol to review the patient's assessment results, identify
      self-care goals and barriers, and ensure that the patient's in-home caregivers and healthcare
      team remain involved. All patients and CPs will complete quantitative surveys at baseline, 6,
      and 12 months. The study will include a mixed-methods approach including qualitative
      interviews with patients, CPs and clinicians to evaluate intervention use and the service's
      potential for translation. The primary outcome will be HF-related quality of life at 12
      months. Secondary outcomes will include self-care behavior, patient-CP relationship
      indicators, hospitalization, and death.

      Impact: This study will evaluate a model for leveraging ICGs and structuring their role in HF
      patients' overall disease management. If effective, the service may provide the frequent
      monitoring and behavior change assistance that patients need, allowing VA to extend its
      impact beyond what current care management programs can realistically deliver.
    
  