
    
      The aim of this study is to evaluate the post treatment pain after instrumentation of root
      canals with a single file reciprocating (Wave-One Ni Ti file, DENTSPLY Maillefer) or
      rotary(One Shape, Micro Mega, France) file system in patient with asymptomatic necrotic
      molars This trial will help to clinically evaluate the use of reciprocating motion in
      endodontic treatment in necrotic teeth without periapical lesion therefore reduce the
      post-obtuation pain

      Sample

      if the success rate (no pain) for wave one subjects is 0.3, we will need to study 17 patients
      in each group to be able to reject the null hypothesis that the failure rates for
      experimental and control subjects are equal with probability (power) 0.8. the type 1 error
      probability associated with this test of this null hypothesis. This no is to be increased to
      total no 42 to compensate for losses during follow up , the sample size was calcukated by the
      PS program

      Patients are recruited for the clinical trial from the clinic of endodontics at the Faculty
      of Oral and Dental Medicine, Cairo University to meet the target sample size.

      A random sequence will be generated by computer software, (http://www.random.org/) in the
      Center of Evidence Based Dentistry, Cairo University. This table will be kept with a
      co-investigator

      The operator finds an eligible participant, then to assign the Participant to either group
      according to the generated random sequence.

      The operator finds an eligible participant, then to assign the Participant to either group
      according to the generated random sequence.

      We will generate the random sequence, assign the participants to the intervention or control
      groups.

      The operators will enroll the participants after they find the eligible ones.

      Outpatients of the clinic of endodontics at the Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine, Cairo
      University, Egypt.

        -  The dental Unit is Adec 200 U.S.A.

        -  The x-ray Machine is ViVi, S.r.I, Italy

        -  The x-ray films are Kodac, speed D, size 2 or Digital (RVG)

        -  The operator is a master degree student in the department of Endodontics

      Radiographic examination using periapical radiographic film which shows normal periapical
      tissues with normal lamina dura and width of the periodontal membrane space and absence of
      periapical lesion

      Assessment of pre-operative pain:

      The patients will be asked to record the level of pain on a VAS. The patient will be trained
      that 0 is no pain, 10 is the worst pain, and he will be asked to estimate the pain from 0 to
      10 which then will be scored as follows:

      0 No pain. From 1-3 mild pain. From 4-5 moderate pain. From 7-10 severe pain

      The standard procedure for both groups in single visit

      Standard access cavity will be prepared. Isolation will be performed using rubber dam.

      K file 10 or 15 will be used to check the patency of the canal. ENDOFLARE will be used for
      enlarging the coronal third of the canal in cases which will be treated with One Shape
      Lubricant gel will be used as a lubricant and 2.5% NaOCl as irrigant. Determination of the
      working length of canal will be done by electronic apex locator and confirmed by periapical
      radiograph.

      Intervention group Root canal preparation will be done with theWaveOne System with strict
      adherence to the manufacturer's instructions. After coronal preflaring with File ISO 21 taper
      8% instrument with 2.5% sodium hypochlorite as the irrigant, working length was determined
      and a glide path will created.

      The Red file R 25 taper 8% will be used for preparing the mesial canal; and the Black ISO 40
      taper 8% file will be used for preparing the distal canals where there is only a single
      canal.

      Control Group: canals will be prepared by OneShape (MICRO-MEGA) rotary nickel-titanium file
      at 400 rpm. The preparation will be stopped by One Shape N°25 - .06 in mesial canals and
      distal roots with 2 canals; while in case of a single distal canal, the preparation will be
      stopped by One Shape apical N°30 - .06 rotary files.

      Obturation:

      After instrumentation and final irrigation, canals will be dried with paper points.

      Teeth will be obturated during the initial appointment using epoxy resin sealer.

      All the patients will be asked to take a placebo if they experience pain after the
      procedures. If the patient experience moderate pain he is allowed to take 50mg diclofenac
      potassium (cataflam 50mg). Any of the patients with intolerable pain will be requested to
      visit the clinician for emergency treatment. The patients will be asked to record the no. of
      pills taken and the time at which it was taken.

      Assessment of post-operative pain:

      Post-operative pain is defined as any degree of pain that occurs after initiation of root
      canal treatment, while flare up is defined as the development or continuation of pain and/or
      swelling after endodontic treatment.

      The will be asked to record the level of pain at 6 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours and 7days after
      obturation.

      The patient will be trained that 0 is no pain, 10 is the worst pain that interfere with his
      daily routine, and he will be asked to estimate the pain as follows:

      0 No pain. From 1-3 mild pain. From 4-5 moderate pain. From 7-10 severe pain
    
  