
    
      Children are considered to be more vulnerable than other society members because of their
      young age and lack of adequate skills. The annual report of United Nations Children's Fund
      (UNICEF) stated that a number of children have lost their lives as a result of maltreatment
      and violence.

      Child abuse is a meaningful problem that exists among different cultural and socio-economic
      groups. Child abuse includes several conditions that threaten and harms lives of children. It
      is considered to be one of the largest causes of pediatric mortality.

      The World Health Organization (WHO) defines CAN as 'Every kind of physical, sexual, emotional
      abuse, neglect or negligent treatment, commercial or other exploitation resulting in actual
      or potential harm to the child's health, survival, development, or dignity in the context of
      a relationship of responsibility, trust or power'.

      The American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry (AAPD) defined dental neglect, as 'willful
      failure of a parent or guardian to seek and follow through with whatever treatment is
      necessary to ensure a level of oral health essential for adequate chewing function and
      freedom from pain and infection'.

      The Child Abuse Committee of the Council on Clinical Affairs developed that definition and it
      was approved in 1983.

      In West and Central Africa, children are susceptible to various hazards since birth including
      human trafficking, child labor, child marriage, conflict and other emergencies.

      Frequently, abusive injuries comprise the face and oral cavity thus, dental providers may be
      the first to encounter these injuries. Many surveys revealed that 50 -77% of child abuse
      cases involving head and neck regions, consequently placing oral health care workers in an
      important position to detect, diagnose, document, and report to convenient authorities.

      As approximately 50% of injuries due to child abuse occur in head and neck region, medical
      and dental professionals are in a good position for early detection and diagnosis of physical
      child abuse. Almost 15% of child abuse related injuries are confined to the head region
      Therefore, dentists have a significant role in improving the status of abused children and
      saving them from their dire situation.

      Research has shown that guardians or parents who abuse their children regularly change their
      child's physicians, but very rarely change their dentists, thus dentists are considered to be
      in the most ideal position for detection of physical abuse in children. The American Dental
      Association reported the first documented evidence of dentists failing to report child
      maltreatment in 1967, declaring that none of 416 reported cases of child abuse was reported
      by a dentist in New York State.

      In Egypt, few studies have discussed the problem of child abuse. Cases in most of these
      studies were collected from emergency, clinical departments, social welfare, criminal records
      or autopsies. Child abuse among Egyptian primary-school children was studied in 1994 and
      1999. No data were collected regarding the prevalence of abuse among older preparatory-school
      and secondary school children.

      Also few data are available about the knowledge, attitudes and practices of primary health
      care professionals toward prevention and treatment of childhood unintentional injuries.
    
  