
    
      BACKGROUND: Lumbar Degenerative Disc Disease (LDDD) is a serious, global health problem for
      patients from the third decade of life. It is assumed that 75-85% of the population suffer
      from pain in the lumbar spine at least once during their lifetime (vital morbidity), and 3-5%
      of the population suffer from root-type pain.

      The annual prevalence of the spine complaints in the United States alone ranges from 15 to
      20%, and in Europe it ranges from 25 to 45%.

      In addition to the immeasurable losses associated with impaired patient activity and a
      significant reduction in the quality of their life, LBP is the greatest burden for the world
      economy, measured by the years lived with disability (YLD) index due to a significant
      reduction in the productivity and professional ability of patients affected by LBP.

      AIM: Assessment of the effectiveness of symptomatic treatment of Lumbar Degenerative Disc
      Disease (LDDD) with the autologous Orthokine serum, comparison of two methods of its
      application - epidural or periradicular.

      DESIGN: Randomized prospective trial without blinding SETTING: Open study for outpatients,
      single center study POPULATION: local population METHODS: Two groups of patients (A, B) with
      confirmed LDDD by MRI, without gender or age limitation, meeting the health conditions
      according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. There will be 50 people in each group (100
      people in total).

      Group A - therapy with Orthokine serum - a total of 4 injections of 2 doses at weekly
      intervals (4 doses of 4 ml of serum in total), injections will be performed into the epidural
      space from an interlaminar access under ultrasound guidance by the same operator.

      Group B - therapy with Orthokine serum - a total of 4 injections of 1 or 2 doses depending on
      the number of levels occupied at weekly intervals (a total of 4 doses of 4 ml of serum),
      injections will be performed periradicular (transforaminal) under ultrasound guidance by the
      same operator.

      Assessment tools: Numeric Rating Scale NRS (0-10), Oswestry Disability Index questionnaire,
      Roland Morris questionnaire, EQ-5D-5L questionnaire Control points W0 - before the therapy,
      W1 - 1 month after the last dose of serum W2 - 3 months after the last dose of serum W3 - 6
      months after the last serum dose.
    
  