
    
      In a recent systematic review and meta-analysis about the efficacy and safety of endoscopic
      ultrasound-guided biliary drainage (EUBD) in comparison with percutaneous transhepatic
      biliary drainage (PTBD), there was no difference in technical success between the two
      procedures, but PTBD was associated with a lower level of clinical success, a higher level of
      post-procedural adverse events and a higher rate of re-interventions. The authors concluded
      that EUBD should be favored for biliary drainage when endoscopic retrograde
      cholangiopancreaticography (ERCP) failed or wasn´t possible to perform due to anatomical
      reasons.

      The hypothesis of this prospective multicenter study is that PTBD wasn´t performed in an
      appropriate way to compare it adequately with EUBD. The following improvements should be
      done. First, color Doppler ultrasound-guidance for cannulating the bile duct should be used
      in PTBD. The transgression of blood vessels with the risk of severe intrahepatic bleedings or
      hemobilia can be avoided, which are common adverse events in PTBDs when it is performed by
      fluoroscopic guidance. Second, the access to the bile duct from the left side of the liver
      should be favored. The access from the right liver side causes more adverse events such as
      biliary effusion or pneumothorax, as well as more patient discomfort and pain. Third,
      implantation of the self-expanding metal stent should be performed in the first session as a
      one-step procedure. This has the advantage that no further re-intervention is necessary after
      insertion of an external or an external/internal drainage, an outcome which can cause further
      adverse events such as bile duct leak along the catheter, biliary ascites or catheter
      dislocation. Fourth, stent release should be performed under endoscopic luminal guidance. In
      this way, the positioning and the correct expansion of the distal tip of the metal stent can
      be observed directly in comparison with the stent release which is only controlled by
      fluoroscopic guidance.

      On the other hand, EUBD should be performed in its best manner (special metal stents
      included) with the three techniques that are usually necessary to perform a successful EUBD:
      EUS-guided antegrade transpapillary drainage, EUS-guided transhepatic drainage and EUS-guided
      choledochal drainage.

      The study focuses on patients with malignant distal (infra-hilar) bile duct obstruction.

      It is presumed that the technical and clinical success rate is equal (non-inferiority) but
      the adverse event rate, the number of re-interventions and the number of days of
      hospitalization may differ between the two interventions. An adequate number of cases (106
      patients in each intervention, drop outs included) should be recruited to calculate relevant
      statistical differences.

      Furthermore, patients will be followed over six months after the intervention to calculate an
      estimated survival analysis (with and without palliative chemotherapy).
    
  