
    
      1. Background:

           Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is a chronic suppurative recurrent disease of the apocrine
           glands. Histological studies suggest that it is a disease of the follicles with apocrine
           involvement as a secondary event. There is limited efficacy of medical treatments and
           high morbidity for surgical treatment. Limited data are available on the short and long
           term efficacy of laser treatments for use in HS.

        2. Purpose of the study:

           To investigate the efficacy of NdYag 1064nm laser for the treatment of hidradenitis
           suppurativa.

        3. Significance:

           Hidradenitis suppurativa is a chronic, often suppurative skin condition which affects
           primarily the hair follicles. A variety of therapies have been used to treat HS, often
           with unsatisfactory results. As the Nd Yag laser is a highly effective laser treatment
           for hair removal as well as for the treatment of deeper follicular disorders of the skin
           which associated inflammation, we postulate that the Nd Yag may be highly effective for
           decreasing the inflammation, pain, suppuration and frequency of recurrence of HS.

        4. Study design:

             -  we are treating patients with HS Hurley Stage II on one side of the body with
                long-pulsed Nd:YAG laser.

             -  The control is the patient's opposite symmetrical side of the body.

             -  Pre-treatment assessment is performed along the Hidradenitis Suppurativa European
                Research Group (HISERG) scale.

             -  The control will be the patient's opposite symmetrical side of the body.

             -  Each patient is treated on a monthly basis for up to 4 months, and then 2 months of
                follow up to observe the long term effect of the treatment and to detect any
                relapse.

             -  A study of our primary investigator on treating dissecting cellulitis, which is
                also a follicular disease like HS, with the long-pulsed Nd:YAG laser aimed at
                determination of the capabilities and limitations of this modality with respect to
                reducing pus formation; enabling the termination of systemic treatments;
                investigating the side-effect profile including dyspigmentation and scarring
                alopecia; and terminating the disease process. The study showed that one year after
                initiating laser treatment, patients achieved decreased pus formation, a reduced
                reliance on systemic treatments, and a controlled or terminated disease process
                without dyspigmentation.

        5. Second phase of study:

             -  Two monthly laser sessions were performed using the long-pulsed Nd:YAG 1064 nm
                laser on a new set of 19 patients.

             -  Clinical response was scored using the modified Hidradenitis Suppurativa Lesion
                Area and Severity Index (LASI). Histologic changes were examined before treatment,
                1 week, 1 month and 2 months post-treatment. Histologic controls were obtained from
                untreated, involved sites.
    
  