
    
      The current project seeks to implement the Multiphase Optimization Strategy (MOST) and
      Community Based Participatory Research (CBPR) principles to identify the most efficient,
      scalable, and sustainable combination of Community Wise components. Community Wise is a
      manualized multi-level intervention aimed at reducing health inequalities related to alcohol
      and illicit drug use (AIDU). The research will be conducted by the Newark Community
      Collaborative Board (NCCB), a network that developed and pilot-tested the original Community
      Wise. NCCB members include the principal investigators (PIs), co-investigators (Co-Is),
      service providers, consumers of AIDU, and community members.

      Specific aims include:

      Aim 1: Use a highly efficient experimental design to estimate the unique contribution of key
      components of Community Wise in: a) reducing AIDU frequency and b) increasing the percentage
      of participants abstinent over five months. Components tested are the presence or absence of:
      (a) Critical Dialogue; (b) Quality-of-Life-Wheel; (c) Capacity Building Project; and (d)
      group facilitation by a peer versus a licensed clinician. A factorial experiment will be used
      to detect effects of individual components and three-way interactions.

      Aim 2: Informed by MOST, Community Wise will be optimized for scalability and
      sustainability-- the most efficacious combination of components that can be delivered for
      less than $2000 per intervention cycle serving up to eleven individuals simultaneously (as
      per recommendations by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration
      (SAMHSA).

      This 2x2x2x2 factorial design will be fully powered to detect change in AIDU in a sample of
      528 men with substance use disorders and a history of incarceration residing in distressed
      communities with predominantly Black populations. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      one of sixteen experimental conditions. The first eight conditions will be facilitated by a
      licensed facilitator. The remaining conditions will be facilitated by a peer facilitator.
      Each set of eight conditions will include the following components: (1) Critical Dialogue
      (CD) only; (2) Quality-of-Life-Wheel (QLW) only; (3) Capacity Building Project (CBP) only;
      (4) CD+QLW; (5) CD+CBP; (6) QLW+CBP; (7) CD+QLW+CBP; and (8) no components. Data will be
      collected at baseline plus five post-baseline monthly follow-ups. This study has potential to
      impact public health; the use of CBPR and MOST will generate action-oriented implications and
      an optimized multi-level intervention adaptable to address different health inequalities.
    
  