
    
      Introduction/Background Information Since the inception of cardiac surgery in the early
      1960s, division of the sternum has provided the superior access to cardiac structures.
      Cardiac surgery may involve treatment of the coronary arteries, valves or major vessels such
      as the ascending aorta. In children, correction of congenital malformations is also
      performed.

      The conventional bone fixation during the 1960s was the placement of stainless steel wires
      around or through the sternum, predominantly as single wires which were tensioned by
      twisting. In the 1980s, it became fashionable for some cardiac surgeons to pass the wire
      twice around the bone (as would be the case repairing a fence on a farm), so-called "figure
      of 8" configuration and tensioning again occurring by twisting the wires. There have been no
      adequate studies investigating which of these two techniques may be superior.

      In simple terms, bone healing is promoted by

        -  Minimising movement of the bone edges at the fracture site and

        -  Improved alignment of the bone edges

      The sternum is a connecting bone that moves in multiple planes to transfer load and position
      the limbs in space during every day functional tasks and respond to the demands of
      respiration. The healing of the sternum is in the context of many efforts by the treating
      physicians and physiotherapists to encourage activities that might cause distracting forces
      at the sternal fracture site. Additionally, simple everyday activities by the patient such as
      coughing, deep breathing, sneezing, transferring in and out of bed, turning over in bed and
      driving all lead to substantial distracting forces acting on the sternal fracture site1.
      External fixation is not encouraged because the patient needs to have significant chest wall
      movement in order to breathe and clear sputum as part of the recovery from surgery.

      Also, ultrasound data suggests an additional mechanism by which sternal healing is
      compromised with conventional sternal wiring techniques. The shape of the sternum is complex
      1. The upper part is called the manubrium to which the clavicles and first rib join, and is
      generally quite thick with a reasonably robust and cortex and strong marrow. By contrast, the
      body of the sternum which forms the majority of the sternum is thinner and the marrow is
      frequently less robust than for the manubrium. In both areas, the cortical bone is present
      superficially (anterior) and deep (posterior) with the marrow between. When sternal wires are
      used, and the two halves of the sternum brought together and tensioned by twisting the wires,
      best efforts made to ensure that the cortical bone edges on either side are opposed or well
      aligned (that is, that in the anterior and posterior direction that the two bone edges from
      either side of well opposed). Generally, this is quite well achieved, but not always. Yet,
      even with ultrasound studies performed 1 or 2 days after surgery, the alignment between the
      anterior cortical bone edge on either side is lost as detected by the cortical bone of one
      side overriding the cortical bone of the other side.

      The implications of this ultrasound finding are twofold

        1. Irrespective of the perfect alignment of the two sides of the sternal fracture at the
           time of surgery under general anaesthetic, coughing and deep breathing usually leads to
           distraction forces that results in one side of the divided sternum overriding the other
           side, typically by a couple of millimetres or so. This must be because there is less
           bone to bone force when the cortical bone edge is being forced against soft tissue or
           against the marrow than it would be if it were forced against the cortical bone of the
           other side. This is important because any distracting force caused by coughing or deep
           breathing or indeed any other activity should logically, result in the two halves of the
           sternal bone adopting a position of least force.

        2. What this means is that the two halves of the sternum in combination (and after over
           riding has occurred) are now less wide than they had been at the time that the sternal
           wire was tensioned at the end of the surgical procedure, by the distance of the sternal
           override detected by the ultrasound.

      Consequences of poor sternal healing: Patients may feel movement of the sternum and that may
      limit their activity. However, chronic sternal instability is associated with pain 2, which
      may in turn affect other aspects of daily living, require long term medications and
      predispose to depression.

      SternaLock 360 system The SternaLock 360 system is a band and plating system designed to
      improve sternal stability. 3 bands surround the sternum to oppose the bones (like wires), but
      an additional 3 plate system prevents anterior posterior displacement and provides a rigid
      fixation. CT scan follow up shows improved bone healing at 3 months after surgery compared to
      conventional wires, but the CT scan is a poor measurement of dynamic movement. Quality of
      recovery and functional status has not been adequately studied.

      The unique design of the SternaLock 360 system, is that it combines a

        1. Compressive force to the two sternal halves forcing them together (similar to the
           principal of the sternal wires), thus counteracting lateral distracting forces.

        2. Additionally, by the placement of metal plates that cross the fracture and are fixed on
           either side by screws, predominantly the plates acts to prevent anterior/posterior
           distracting forces; longitudinal translation and thus better maintain the cortical bone
           to cortical bone apposition between the two sides.

      Pilot Data Our research group is experienced in assessing sternal motion with ultrasound 4.
      We have conducted sternal ultrasound measurements of sternal motion after surgery as part of
      clinical follow up.

      Over all the SternaLock 360 results in a far greater rigid fixation as noted at the time of
      surgical implantation. Subsequent pilot ultrasound studies performed during dynamic
      distracting forces (such as coughing) reveal reduced or absent movement at the fracture site
      and better preservation of fracture alignment. Ultrasounds have been performed at varying
      intervals from Day 1 post-operative to 6 weeks post-operative, and ultrasounds of sternal
      wire fixation have been performed at varying intervals after 10 months post-operative. Our
      observations are that fewer than 10% of patients who have received the SternaLock 360 have
      had motion >2 mm, whereas patients with conventional wiring have motion > 2 mm in more than
      50%.

      Evidence Gap The SternaLock 360 is an effective system for closing the sternum. There are few
      comparative data investigating bone healing with CT scans, but the CT alone is a poor
      indicator of sternal instability. There is no long term comparative data on sternal micro
      motion, or quality of recovery outcomes to identify whether the SternaLock 360 system will
      improve patient centred outcomes over and above improved bone healing.

      Study Objectives Hypothesis Use of the SternaLock 360 will reduce the incidence of sternal
      motion > 2mm by absolute difference of 40% at 6 weeks of surgery compared to stainless steel
      wiring.

      Use of the SternaLock 360 will improve bone healing and quality of recovery after surgery
      compared to stainless steel wiring.

      Study Aims To determine if the SternaLock 360 system reduces sternal instability, increases
      bone healing, and improves quality of recovery compared to stainless steel wiring of the
      sternum, after cardiac surgery involving median sternotomy.

      Randomisation The randomization sequence will be produced using a computer generated
      randomization sequence, in unequal blocks. Concealment will be by placing the card containing
      the allocation information in double opaque sealed envelopes, and concealment will be
      maintained until after recruitment and the patients is admitted to the operating theatre. The
      treating surgical team will then open the envelopes to reveal the allocation after (1)
      weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass and (2) final confirmation from the treating surgeon that
      the patient is suitable to be randomised.

      Statistical Methods Participants who are scheduled for cardiac surgery will be screened and
      recruited from the cardiac surgery operation lists, surgeon's clinics and pre-operative ward.

      The initial contact will be made in person during the first contact session prior to surgery.
      In-patients scheduled for cardiac surgery will be screened on the ward.

      Medical histories will be reviewed and screened for participant suitability and eligibility.
      Once the patient's medical history has been reviewed and the patient's eligibility has been
      confirmed, the patient is then approached by the research staff member and the process of
      informed consent will proceed.

      Power Calculation and Study Size Sample size estimates are based on the primary outcome of
      sternal motion > 2 mm at any location at 6 weeks after surgery. From pilot data, fewer than
      10% of patients who have received the SternaLock 360 have had motion >2 mm, whereas patients
      with conventional wiring have motion > 2 mm in more than 50%. Based on a Fischer's Exact
      test, Alpha of 0.05, power of 80% and two-tailed design, 25 participants are required in each
      group to detect a difference of 50% to 10% between groups, favoring the SternaLock 360
      system. The sample size will increase to 26 in each group to account for an estimated 5%
      dropout rate. The total number will be 52 participants.

      Statistical Methods To Be Undertaken The primary endpoint will be assessed using the Chi
      Squared test on the incidence of sternal motion > 2 mm at 6 weeks after surgery.

      Postoperative Quality of Recovery Variables of "recovery" are dichotomized to "recovered" or
      "not recovered" based on whether they have returned to their baseline (preoperative) values
      or a better result than their preoperative values; at each of the time points when
      measurements are performed. A tolerance factor is included in the scoring of cognitive
      recovery to allow for performance variability 6. The secondary outcomes of recovery over
      time, analysis will be performed using the a general linear mixed model to investigate group
      differences over time.

      Continuous data will be analyzed using independent samples t test, or repeated measures
      analysis of variance (RM ANOVA). A P[Symbol]0.05 will define statistical significance.

      References

        1. El-Ansary D, Waddington G, Adams R: Trunk stabilisation exercises reduce sternal
           separation in chronic sternal instability after cardiac surgery: a randomised cross-over
           trialAust J Physiother 2007; 53: 255-60

        2. El-Ansary D, Waddington G, Adams R: Relationship between pain and upper limb movement in
           patients with chronic sternal instability following cardiac surgery. Physiother Theory
           Pract 2007; 23: 273-80

        3. Nishimura T, Kurihara C, Sakano Y, Kyo S: Sternalock plating system for elderly
           post-sternotomy patients. J Artif Organs 2014; 17: 288-90

        4. El-Ansary D, Waddington G, Adams R: Measurement of non-physiological movement in sternal
           instability by ultrasound. Ann Thorac Surg 2007; 83: 1513-6

        5. Royse CF, Newman S, Chung F, Stygall J, McKay RE, Boldt J, Servin FS, Hurtado I,
           Hannallah R, Yu B, Wilkinson DJ: Development and feasibility of a scale to assess
           postoperative recovery: the post-operative quality recovery scale. Anesthesiology 2010;
           113: 892-905

        6. Royse CF, Newman S, Williams Z, Wilkinson DJ: A human volunteer study to identify
           variability in performance in the cognitive domain of the postoperative quality of
           recovery scale. Anesthesiology 2013; 119: 576-81
    
  