
    
      The HOPE Trial:

      The first goal of this study is to adapt and refine an existing smartphone app, paired with a
      wearable accelerometer, to assess patients' symptoms in a population of patients with
      gynecologic cancers receiving palliative chemotherapy. An existing app will be customized to
      collect patient-reported toxicities using the Patient-Reported Outcome (PRO) version of the
      Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) and offer patients feedback about
      how to manage their symptoms. Patient symptoms will be risk-stratified. Patients with
      low-risk toxicities (grades 1 & 2) will receive tailored educational information, while
      patients with serious toxicities (grades 3 & 4) will receive alerts to call their clinician.
      In the first phase of the study, we will conduct an initial assessment of the app with a
      diverse group of 10 patients to refine the app and test two different wearable accelerometers
      (i.e. Fitbit Zip and Fitbit Charge 2) before pilot testing.

      The second goal of this study is to conduct a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) of the
      smartphone app and/or wearable accelerometer (i.e. Fitbit Zip or Fitbit Charge 2) to assess
      the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of our intervention. During the
      second phase of the study, we will conduct a 4-arm pilot RCT in 100 patients with gynecologic
      cancers receiving palliative chemotherapy to establish preliminary effect sizes. Participants
      will be randomized to: 1) Fitbit+active app, 2) Fitbit+passive app, 3) Active app, or 4)
      Passive app.

      We expect that the results of this pilot RCT, which is supported by the National Cancer
      Institute, National Palliative Care Research Center, and the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute
      Department of Medical Oncology, will provide a low-cost, scalable system to assess patients'
      symptoms, address low-risk toxicities, and alert clinicians when patients have toxicities
      that require intervention with the goal of reducing patient suffering and the use of
      high-intensity, hospital-based health care.

      The SMART Study:

      The overall goals of this study are to test the combination of two smartphone research
      platforms and a wearable accelerometer for use in NCI Community Oncology Research Program
      (NCORP) sites to improve cancer patients' quality of life and symptom management. The SMART
      Study (Symptom Management and Reporting Toxicities) has a single-arm research design and aims
      to assess the feasibility, acceptability, and perceived efficacy of a wearable accelerometer
      and two smartphone apps in 30 patients receiving chemotherapy to treat recurrent gynecologic
      cancers.
    
  