
    
      Data published in 2008 estimated the global number of surgical procedures performed annually
      as 234 million with a rate of major perioperative complications reported between 3% and 17%
      in industrialized countries. As a derivative of these figures, it is estimated that
      approximately 7 to 40 million major complications occur worldwide each year. Studies have
      shown that between 39.6% and 54.2% of surgical complications occur in the operating room
      (OR); furthermore, it has been suggested that one third to half of all surgical errors are
      potentially avoidable. These findings have brought considerable attention to quality
      improvement in the technically demanding field of laparoscopic surgery wherein the risk of
      intraoperative error is increased by the sociotechnical complexity of the operative
      environment. In particular, there has been growing interest in evaluating surgical processes
      from a human factors point of view, as human factors, such as fatigue and mental workload,
      have become increasingly recognized as root causes of adverse surgical events and outcomes.

      Among the most commonly reported errors in conventional laparoscopic surgery are technical
      errors associated with impaired depth perception; laparoscopic surgeons rely on
      two-dimensional (2D) video displays to guide their work in a three-dimensional (3D) space,
      resulting in the loss of depth perception and spatial orientation, as well as the experience
      of increased visual and cognitive load. Technical errors can be defined as manual errors of
      the surgeon (e.g. damage to adjacent structures) and procedural errors due to a lack of
      surgeon proficiency or experience. These errors are frequently described, especially when
      evaluating closed malpractice cases. These factors have been extensively examined but still
      remain controversial. A major limitation of error analyses of closed malpractice cases and
      root cause analyses of complications is the hindsight bias introduced through the knowledge
      of patient outcome.

      Laparoscopic cameras with 3D display functionality were first developed in the early 1990s.
      The poor image quality produced by early cameras resulted in pronounced physical side
      effects, including dizziness, headache, and nausea; however, a significant technological
      advancement in the field of 3D laparoscopy has dramatically improved the usability of these
      systems. Despite these improvements and the potential for improved surgical safety, the use
      of 3D laparoscopic equipment remains limited in modern surgical centers. Outdated and
      conflicting research findings regarding the effectiveness of these systems and the physical
      side effects associated with their use may be contributing to slow adoption into clinical
      practice. Furthermore, investigations assessing the impact of 3D laparoscopy on surgical
      performance in the clinical setting are notably lacking. Thus, robust comparative evaluations
      of modern 2D and 3D laparoscopic surgical display systems in clinical settings are required
      to clearly elucidate the impact of 3D laparoscopy on surgical performance and safety with an
      aim to establish best practices in laparoscopic surgery.

      The restoration of stereoscopic vision in laparoscopic surgery has the potential to mitigate
      these challenges and, to this end, the introduction of 3D stereoscopic displays in
      laparoscopic surgery may be beneficial to improving surgical safety. The purpose of this
      study is to compare the impact of 2D versus 3D visualization on surgical performance, as
      measured by the OR BlackBox Platform, during laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery.
    
  