
    
      Objective:

      The objective of this protocol is to provide DBS surgery and to collect physiology and
      efficacy data related to DBS therapy and motor and cognitive function in people with
      medically refractory Parkinson s disease (PD), dystonia, and essential tremor (ET). All
      treatment under this protocol will be based on the current standard of care for DBS surgery.

      Study Population:

      Patients 18 years and older with medically refractory PD, dystonia and/or ET may participate
      in this study.

      Study Design

      The treatment that is rendered in this protocol is standard of care for PD, dystonia, and ET.
      Patients confirmed to have medically refractory PD, dystonia or ET will be offered DBS. The
      therapeutic goal of this procedure is to implant chronically stimulating macroelectrodes in
      the basal ganglia or thalamic nuclei in order to alleviate the symptoms of PD, dystonia or
      ET. Pre- and post-operative imaging will be used to precisely localize electrode locations
      within the brain and will be correlated with measures of clinical efficacy and recorded
      intra-operative neural activity. Intra-operative microelectrode recordings, as well as micro-
      and macroelectrode electrical stimulation, will be used to confirm positioning of electrode
      leads. Intra-operative electrode recordings will also be used to investigate the
      neurophysiological mechanisms of deep brain stimulation and to explore the neural circuits
      underlying motor and cognitive processing in the basal ganglia. Intraoperative physiology
      will be used for clinical and research purposes. Patients will be followed for 3 months after
      the surgical procedure to determine effectiveness of DBS treatment.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary goal of this protocol is to determine the physiology and efficacy of DBS surgery
      for movement disorders. Efficacy outcome measures include the change in motor symptoms, as
      measured by the UPDRS III scale, the Burke-Fahn-Marsden (BFM) dystonia rating scale, and the
      Tremor Rating Scale before and 3 months after treatment. Secondary measures include 1) levels
      of effective drug therapy before and after surgery; 2) change in behavior and performance of
      activities of daily living; 3) complications of therapy as measured by the UPDRS I, II, and
      IV scales before and after surgery and the SF-12 score; 4) radiographic correlation of DBS
      electrode position and clinical changes; and 5) neurophysiological mechanisms of DBS and
      motor and cognitive function in the basal ganglia.
    
  