
    
      Rationale: Within the Netherlands, more than 1 million people have been infected with
      SARS-CoV-2, also known as COVID-19. Although the mortality rate is considerable, the vast
      majority of COVID-19 patients survive the infection. Preliminary findings show that a
      majority of COVID-19 survivors still experience health problems 3 months after the infection,
      including reduced lung diffusion capacity, low exercise capacity, muscle weakness, mental
      problems and reduced cognitive function resulting in a generally poor health status. Whether
      these health consequences persist on the long-term is unknown.

      Objective: To assess the multidimensional health status of COVID-19 survivors one-year
      post-infection using validated subjective and objective measures.

      Study design: A multicenter prospective observational study performed within the MUMC+ and
      VieCuri Medical Center.

      Study population: 125 COVID-19 survivors of the MUMC+ or VieCuri Medical Center, both
      hospitalized (ICU and non-ICU admitted) as well as non-hospitalized patients.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Outcome parameters include objectively and subjectively
      measured multidimensional health outcomes including physiological and metabolic health,
      physical capability, cognitive function, psychosocial well-being, social well-being, patient
      reported outcomes as well as potential determinants of these multidimensional health outcomes
      (e.g. treatment during/after SARS-CoV-2 infection, vaccination, comorbidities, medication use
      etc.). Outcomes will be measured during a one-day study visit.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Subjects will benefit from participating within this study, because their
      general health will be evaluated in detail and from a multidimensional perspective.
      Furthermore, subjects will be informed on their multidimensional health outcomes and will
      receive a lifestyle advice tailored to their health status. Risks and inconveniences are
      limited to the time investment associated with the completion of the questionnaires and the
      study visit. During the study visit various non-invasive measurements as well as minor
      invasive blood sampling will be performed.
    
  