
    
      A uniform, consensual and multicentric implementation of the multidisciplinary Perioperative
      Medicine Program is proposed, the program comes form the Clinical Pathway of Intensified
      Recovery in Abdominal Surgery -RICA-, published by the Spanish National Health System as
      clinical guideline.

      It covers the perioperative area in complex abdominal surgery and extends from the moment of
      diagnosis in the Surgery office until the last revision performed one year after surgery.

      It is proposed as a double study; a first retrospective analysis of the results and
      perioperative complications referred and available in the Centers involved in the study; and
      a second analysis of results after the implementation of the Program, in the same Centers.
      Once both are finished, the comparison between them and their communication will be carried
      out using the appropriate reports.

      Actors: Multidisciplinary teams made up of nurses, surgeons, anesthesiologists, nutritionists
      / endocrinologists, physiotherapists and rehabilitators.

      Patients: All patients recruited in the different hospitals for the RICA Perioperative
      Medicine Program susceptible to performing complex abdominal surgery.

      Variables under study: Perioperative complications according to the Clavien-Dindo
      classification and the European Perioperative Clinical Outcome definitions (EPCO); Times of
      global hospital stay and in critical care units; the rate of readmissions and the
      complications derived from them, the rate of surgical reoperations, the analysis of cost per
      process (including the total cost in the study period-two years-), the time until complete
      reincorporation into the family environment and socio-labor, the indices of quality perceived
      by the patient and / or their caregivers, the final quality of life index obtained by each
      patient (resulting quality of life).

      Data collection and analysis: Record of described variables were be included in an "on
      line"database available to all centers.

      Limitations of the Study: impossibility to include all the patients that can be recruited in
      surgery consultations due to rejection of the staff (negative to the benchmarking and / or to
      the program) or negative of the patient. Loss of data in follow-up due to the failure of
      patients. Difficulty in analyzing costs due to lack of economic data in the Centers. Lack of
      motivation in the multidisciplinary teams. Rupture of the program in case of emergency /
      emergency.

      Material and Methodology:

      Participating Centers: Previously selected for their well-known Organizational capacity and
      their experience and interest.

      First Phase: Realization of retrospective study of existing results in each Center in the six
      months prior to the implementation of the Program and Conformation of the multidisciplinary
      teams that will implement the Intensified Recovery Program.

      Second phase: Training of the Teams in IACS (Zaragoza) on the implementation of enhanced
      recovery programs provided with online training through platform built "ad hoc" and in person
      for training with experts. Development of the Normalized Work Protocol (NTP) in each assigned
      Center and implementation of the forms and database in the Clinical History of the Centers
      (considering electronic Clinical History).

      Third phase: Progressive recruitment of patients and inclusion in the Program (on-line
      database) and start of the one-year prospective study from the patient's inclusion.

      Inclusion Criteria:

      -Patients over 18 years old, scheduled for major abdominal surgical surgery, due to malignant
      or benign causes. (It is defined as complex major surgery that lasts more than two hours, it
      is estimated that it may require the transfusion of at least 2 red cell concentrates or it is
      estimated a loss greater than or equal to 15% of the patient's blood volumen).
    
  