
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second leading cause of cancer-related mortality in the United
      States. Despite widespread dissemination of evidence-based guidelines recommending CRC
      screening, a large proportion of eligible individuals do not undergo screening. A variety of
      interventions have been tested to increase screening in primary care, but there remains an
      urgent imperative to develop and evaluate cost-effective and widely applicable approaches to
      promoting screening. In March 2005, Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, a large non-profit HMO in
      New England, carried out an internally funded program to increase CRC screening. The HMO
      randomized 80,000 members aged 50 to 64 years to receive automated telephone outreach with
      speech recognition or usual care. The intervention entailed the telephone engagement of
      members in a dialogue with a computer-programmed, responsive human voice about the importance
      of CRC screening, the options for undergoing screening, and encouragement to follow-up with
      their primary care physicians. The present study involves a 12-month follow-up of all
      eligible members randomized to intervention or usual care in March 2005, with assessment of
      the effect of the intervention on rates of CRC screening. This study has important
      implications for increasing CRC screening. With health plans expanding efforts to screen
      large populations for CRC and other malignancies, automated telephone outreach with speech
      recognition can reach large numbers of individuals with educational and reminder messages. It
      is important to know whether these efforts to promote screening are effective in overcoming
      known disparities in screening for CRC. If proven effective and cost-effective, this
      technology has the potential for widespread adoption and population-wide improvements in CRC
      screening and other prevention-related behaviors, with the ultimate public health goal of
      reducing the burden of suffering attributable to cancer and its complications.
    
  