
    
      STUDY DESIGN. A cluster-randomised, multicentre blinded clinical trial will be conducted in
      six primary care centres between June 2021 and June 2023.

      SCOPE OF STUDY. Six primary care centres in the southern metropolitan area of Barcelona.

      SUBJECTS OF STUDY. General practitioners of the participating centres. Paediatricians are
      excluded. Patients older than 14 years who have a diagnosis of upper respiratory tract or
      urinary tract infections will be prospectively follow up to assess information related to
      secondary outcomes. Each patient could be included more than once if the GP visit is 30 days
      or more apart from the initial medical assessment.

      Eligible patients will be identified following the International Classification of Diseases
      ICD-10 CM codes as follows:

      Upper respiratory tract infection: J00, J01, J01.0, J01.1, J01.2, J01.3, J01.4, J01.8, J01.9,
      J02, J02.0, J02.8, J01.9, B30.2, J03, J03.00, J03.01, J03.80, J03.81, J03.9, J03.91, J04,
      J04.0, J04.1, J04.2, J05, J05.0, J05.1, J06, J06.0, J06.9.

      Urinary tract infection: N10, N30.0, N30.1, N30.2, N30.3, N30.4, N30.8, N30.9, N39.0.

      TIMELINE. From June to September standard-AMS will be promoted to increase understanding and
      acceptance of AMS by general practitioners. Baseline data collection will begin on October
      2021 and will last six months. After these six months, centres will be randomly assigned to
      receive an advanced-AMS (intervention group) or to continue the standard-AMS (control group).
      The intervention will be spanned 12 months (31 March 2023).

      RANDOMIZATION. A centralised electronic computer system will generate a random list based on
      permuted blocks. To ensure similar characteristics among centres permuted blocks will be
      created with stratification on the total number of referral population and the number of
      population older than 65 years old by centre. Investigators will be unaware of the block size
      and the permutation procedure.

      The 6 centers will be arranged into two groups: 3 on the control group and 3 in the
      intervention group.

      STUDY GROUPS. Centres will be assigned to receive an advanced-AMS (intervention group) or a
      standard-AMS (control group). The control group will have an standard antibiotic optimization
      program that will consist on:

        1. Informative flyers addressed to patients to increase awareness about antibiotic
           indications and potential harms of its misuse.

        2. Updated local antibiotic guidelines for treating common infections according to local
           resistance patterns.

        3. Promotion of delayed antibiotic prescription.

        4. Promotion of Streptococcal pyogenes antigen test (Streptotest) if bacterial tonsillitis
           is suspected.

        5. Daily microbiological report of resistant bacteria isolates to general practitioners.

        6. Annual reports to prescribers of main AMS outcomes at centre-level.

      The intervention group will have the same standard-AMS program enhanced with:

        -  Telephone access to ID expert on working days (8:00 am to 8:00 pm).

        -  Biweekly meetings among GP and infectious diseases experts to discuss clinical cases.

      BLINDING. Two secondary end-points (unnecessary antibiotic therapy and adequacy of therapy),
      will be evaluated by two independent investigators who will be blinded to centre allocation.
      Discrepant decisions among them will be discussed with a third blinded physician to achieve
      consensus. The degree of agreement will be recorded with the kappa statistic analysis. The
      centre allocation will not be blinded for the participating centres and general
      practitioners.

      OUTCOMES. Outcomes will be measured in each primary center with a mensual periodicity during
      12 consecutive months. These variables are:

        -  Main objective. To assess the impact of advanced-AMS on overall antibiotic consumption
           measured by defined daily dose of antibiotic per 1.000 inhabitats per day (DHD).

        -  Secondary objectives:

             -  To assess the impact of the advanced-AMS on unnecessary antibiotic prescriptions in
                diagnosed upper respiratory and urinary tract infections.

             -  To evaluate the impact of the advanced-AMS on the adequacy of antibiotic
                prescriptions.

             -  To evaluate the impact of the advanced-AMS on the total number of re-attendance to
                general practitioners or emergency department for any reason within 30 days after
                the initial GP evaluation.

             -  To evaluate the impact of the advanced-AMS on the number of hospital admissions for
                any reason within 30 days after the initial GP visit.

      DEFINITIONS.

        -  DHD are calculated by the following the World Health Organisation criteria
           (https://www.who.int/tools/atc-ddd-toolkit/indicators).

        -  Unnecessary prescription will be considered as follows:

             -  An antibiotic prescribed in upper respiratory infections, which is in disagreement
                with the local antibiotic guidelines.

             -  An antibiotic is prescribed in asymptomatic bacteriuria, which is defined as having
                a positive urine culture with ≥ 10EXP5 CFU/ml of an uropathogen in patients without
                signs or symptoms of urinary tract infection (dysuria, urinary frequency or
                urgency, suprapubic pain, fevers, or flank pain). Pregnant women and patients
                undergoing urologic interventions are excluded from this definition.

        -  Adequacy of antibiotic therapy will be considered when prescription fulfils the local
           guidelines: type of antibiotic + dose, and length of therapy.

      DATA COLLECTION AND MONITORING. Monthly DHD will be calculated based on the dispensing data
      of our electronic prescribing system of the Catalan Institute of Health.

      To get information regarding secondary outcomes, patients who fulfil ICD-10 CM codes on the
      last working day of every month will be selected by a cross-sectional analysis. On these
      selected patients, information from electronic medical records (SAP logon® and eCAP) will be
      obtained. Investigator will obtain the following variables: demographics, Charlson score,
      type of infection, antibiotic prescribed, doses and length of antibiotic therapy,
      re-attendance to the general practitioner, attendance to the emergency department, and
      hospital admission. All the included patients will be followed up 30 days after the initial
      primary care physician visit. To ensure completeness of data, a telephone call will be
      allowed if any crucial data is missing in the electronic medical record.

      Information regarding the burden of the intervention such as the number of telephone calls
      received by the ID expert per month and the number of participants to biweekly meetings with
      the ID will be also collected.

      All data will be recorded by the study monitor on a standardized data abstraction form by
      using RedCap (Research Electronic Data Capture) hosted at IDIBELL, a secure web application
      for building and managing online databases.

      SAMPLE SIZE. The intervention area has a total of 20 primary care centers and a reference
      population of 286,278 inhabitants. Six centers will be included, three in each study arm,
      implying an approximate coverage of 35% of the referral population (100,200 inhabitants). The
      consumption of antibiotics in 2017 was 8.94 DHD, and it's expected to reduce this consumption
      by 10% in the intervention group. The number of 3 clusters per arm will allow rejecting the
      null hypothesis of equal consumption with a power of 80%, assuming a moderate intra-cluster
      correlation of 0.2, an intra-cluster variance of 4, and a mean difference of 1 DHD. Type I
      error is set at 5%.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS. A descriptive analysis will be performed on the monthly consumption of
      antibiotics expressed in DHD by the study group (control and intervention), period, and
      cluster. The monthly consumption of antibiotics evolution will be represented on a graph by
      months, and a smoothed curve will be estimated using locally weighted smoothing (LOESS).

      Antibiotic consumptions will be compared according to the study group using a time series
      model. Where the dependent variable will be the monthly consumption of antibiotics expressed
      in DHDs and the independent variable will be the study group. In the estimation of the model,
      the seasonality, the trend, and the first and second-order lags of the series will be
      analyzed. Also, the use of hierarchical models due to cluster design will be taken into
      account.

      A descriptive analysis of the demographic and clinical profile of the patients surveyed will
      be performed. A McNemar test will be used to compare, between the study groups, the
      percentage of patients with an unnecessary prescription for the upper respiratory and urinary
      tract, the percentage of patients with an adequate prescription according to the guidelines,
      the percentage of patients who revisit general practitioner or emergency room at 30 days, and
      the percentage of patients with hospital admission at 30 days. Also, log-binomial regression
      models will be performed, to estimate the effect of the intervention in terms of risk on the
      above-mentioned outcomes adjusting by patients' clinical profile. To estimate models it will
      be accounted that patients are nested in primary care clusters, so a correction of the
      standard errors is carried out through the variance-covariance matrix.

      Data management and statistical analysis will be carried out with the statistical package R
      version 4.0.1 or higher.

      LIMITATIONS. The study does not contemplate randomization by prescribing physician but by
      conglomerates to avoid possible contamination effects at the prescribing physician and
      patients in the same center. As it is a cluster analysis, there could be differences in the
      degree of prescription of doctors within the same center and between the different centers.
      In order to reduce this problem, the variability of prescribing intra-cluster and between
      clusters has been calculated during the period 2017 in a group of primary care centers in the
      intervention area, differences that have been taken into account for the calculation of the
      sample. Design of the present study does not include a third group without any AMS
      intervention due to department policies during 2019. However, to achieve the best result
      interpretation, an historic of the antibiotic consumption in the participating centers will
      act as a control group, and a baseline period with only an standard-AMS intervention will be
      performed.

      Comparisons between all stages of the clinical trial will be performed to obtain more robust
      data.

      ETHICAL ASPECTS. This research will be carried out under the standards of good clinical
      practices following the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki (Fortaleza, 2013), as well
      as the current legislation applicable to this type of study. This study has been approved by
      the Ethics Committee of Hospital Universitari de Bellvitge and the Foundation University
      Institute for Primary Health Care Research Jordi Gol i Gurina (IDIAPJGol) who waived the need
      to obtain informed consent since the intervention is mainly aimed at health-care
      professionals (general practitioners) who will be previously informed of the objective and
      other relevant aspects of the study (REF. PR277/19 - REF. 4R20/26).

      Clinical data treatment of the included patients in the research project as well as that of
      associated professionals (primary care physicians) will be carried out following the
      established by the Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, and by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
      European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on Data Protection (RGPD). Based on
      these regulations, the sponsor will guarantee the protection of the confidentiality of the
      participants in the program, both patients and doctors.

      The data collection sheets will be identified with a code. The name of the doctor or patient
      will not appear in any document, or any publication or communication of the study results.
    
  