
    
      Prostate cancer (PCa) represents the most common noncutaneous cancer and second most common
      cause of cancer related death among men in the United States and worldwide. Individual PCa
      tumor behavior is variable. Some tumors show slow indolent growth patterns and may never
      become clinically significant while others are aggressive and lead to metastases and death.
      PCa most commonly metastasizes to bone and lymph nodes. Lungs, liver, and adrenal glands are
      less frequent metastatic sites.

      Accurate staging and risk stratification is essential to optimal management. Pelvic lymph
      node dissection (PLND) which is performed along with radical prostatectomy is the gold
      standard for detection of occult nodal metastases but is invasive and has associated
      morbidity. PLND offers an additional therapeutic benefit in some patients, but is also
      associated with potential complications and can still underestimate the extent of nodal
      metastases as 40-50% fall outside the traditional dissection zones [6]. Furthermore, fewer
      patients are presenting with nodal metastases at initial presentation due to stage migration,
      so more PLNDs need to be performed to benefit one patient. Therefore there is a clear need
      for noninvasive imaging options to assist with early and accurate detection of nodal
      metastases.

      68Ga PSMA-HBED-CC is a urea-based small molecular inhibitor that targets an enzymatic site on
      the extracellular domain of the PSMA membrane protein. Based on strong preclinical evidence,
      a number of clinical studies of 68Ga PSMA-HBED-CC PET/CT have been performed. Afshar-Oromieh
      et al. showed detection of lesions suspicious for PCa metastases in 84% of a cohort of
      patients (n=37) being investigated for biochemical relapse, clarification of suspicious
      findings on other modalities, or evaluation for possible 131I PSMA ligands. In a larger
      retrospective study (n=319) Afshar-Oromieh et al. showed that 68Ga PSMA-HBED-CC PET/CT
      detected PCa in 83% of patients with suspected recurrence. In another study Afshar-Oromieh et
      al compared 68Ga PSMA-HBED-CC PET/CT to 18F fluoromethylcholine (FCH) PET/CT. At least one
      PCa lesion was detected in 87% of patients with 68Ga PSMA-HBED-CC versus 70% of patients with
      18F FCH. Among patients in whom PSA values were <2.82 ng/ml at least one lesion could be
      detected in 69% of patients with 68Ga PSMA-HBED-CC and 44% patients with 18F FCH.
      Tumor-to-background ratios were higher for 68Ga PSMA-HBED-CC. In the aforementioned studies
      by Afshar-Oromieh et al. 49 patients with positive scans were further evaluated by biopsy or
      surgery and were confirmed as PCa with no false positives. Morigi et al. also showed the
      superiority of 68Ga PSMA-HBED-CC over 18F FCH in PET/CT. Detection rates 68Ga
      PSMA-HBED-CCPET/CT in multiple studies are higher than for rates reported in the literature
      for 11C Choline, 18F Choline, and 11C Acetate [20]. Most importantly the detection rates 68Ga
      PSMA-HBED-CCPET/CT in patients with low PSA (<0.5 ng/ml) are more favorable.

      Thus preclinical and clinical studies show that 68Ga PSMA-HBED-CC PET/CT is a promising
      radiotracer for the early detection of metastatic or recurrent PCa even with low serum PSA
      levels.
    
  