
    
      Metabolic Camp is an educational and social support program with research opportunities that
      was developed in 1995 by Rani H. Singh, PhD, RD for females age 11 through adult with
      phenylketonuria (PKU) and maple syrup urine disease (MSUD), two inherited metabolic disorders
      (IMD). Camp provides a supportive environment for adolescent girls and women to learn about
      the importance of nutrition and diet self-management, with the intention of arresting the
      disease process and minimizing the instances of miscarriages and severe birth defects, which
      are high in this population. After 20+ years, Metabolic Camp is established as a unique,
      national program allowing up to 35 campers to live and learn during a week of nutritional
      support and productive activities, while simultaneously providing researchers an opportunity
      to gather important data.

      The aims of Metabolic Camp are 1) to implement education curriculum and support activities as
      an intervention program for females with PKU and MSUD, 2) to evaluate knowledge of disease
      and dietary management, dietary treatment compliance, quality of life, and reproductive
      choice issues and assess change in outcomes post-Camp, 3) to gather data through the
      implementation of a research protocol during baseline and post-Camp each year, and 4) to
      provide clinical and research training in IMD for professionals, from dietitians to medical
      students. Campers must complete an informed consent process, should they decide to
      participate in research activities. All campers submit a three-day food record and blood
      samples to measure plasma amino acids on the first and last day of camp, both of which are
      not classified as research activities, but rather standard of care for their disorder.
      Additional studies such as indirect calorimetry, bone health markers, anthropometric markers,
      nutritional status, mental and emotional wellbeing, neurocognitive functioning, access to
      disease specific care, metabolomic profiling, gut microbiota, and blood and urine analysis,
      have been and may continue to be assessed in those who participate in research pre and
      post-Camp. These are novel investigations for the study of IMD and essential to understand
      the physiological effects of Camp.

      In over 20 years of Metabolic Camp, the following data have been collected: health history
      and demographics, anthropometrics, dietary intake, compliance with medically prescribed diet,
      quality of life, physical activity, plasma amino acids, select blood and urine biomarkers,
      and bone density. Data are stored in REDCap, allowing evaluation of short- and long-term
      outcomes on the life course of females with PKU and MSUD. Each year, phenylalanine
      (Phe)/leucine (Leu) blood concentrations of campers decrease over the one week camp period,
      demonstrating better metabolic control and compliance with diet. Campers' knowledge of
      disease etiology, management, and effects, including Maternal PKU Syndrome (MPKU) are
      improved. Social support networks are strengthened by meeting peers with the same or similar
      disorder. The study protocol includes a comprehensive assessment of blood and urine
      biomarkers to examine PKU from a much broader approach compared to the traditional
      measurement of a single biomarker to assess patient status. Beneficial to campers and
      clinicians alike, Metabolic Camp is an invaluable experience to gain insight, knowledge, and
      stimulate new ideas related to research and optimal patient care.
    
  