
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the two-year event-free survival of patients with primary CNS germ cell tumors
           treated with carboplatin, etoposide, cyclophosphamide, and filgrastim (G-CSF) with or
           without radiotherapy and/or high-dose chemotherapy with autologous bone marrow or
           peripheral blood stem cell transplantation.

        -  Determine the prognostic significance of slow-responding tumor marker normalization in
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the prognostic significance of syncytiotrophoblastic giant cell component and
           cerebrospinal fluid beta-human chorionic gonadotropin elevation in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Assess the early and late endocrinologic, neuropsychometric, and quality of life
           sequelae in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to risk status (low
      vs intermediate or high).

      Regimen A (Low-risk patients)

        -  Chemotherapy: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 4 hours and etoposide IV over 2 hours
           on days 1-2 and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) once daily beginning on day 3 and
           continuing until blood counts recover (course 1). Patients also receive cyclophosphamide
           IV over 1 hour and etoposide IV over 2 hours on days 22 and 23 and G-CSF SC once daily
           beginning on day 24 and continuing until blood counts recover (course 2).

        -  Patients with complete response (CR) to initial chemotherapy receive 2 additional
           courses of chemotherapy as above and then proceed to observational phase. Patients with
           partial response (PR) to initial chemotherapy receive 2 additional courses of
           chemotherapy as above.

        -  Patients with CR after additional chemotherapy receive another 2 additional courses of
           chemotherapy as above and then proceed to observational phase. Patients with PR after
           additional chemotherapy undergo biopsy and/or resection of residual tumor.

        -  Patients with evidence of malignant germ cell tumor (GCT) on resection undergo
           radiotherapy. Patients with no evidence of malignant GCT on resection but with scar,
           fibrosis, or mature teratoma receive 2 additional courses of chemotherapy as above and
           then proceed to observational phase. Patients with no evidence of malignant GCT on
           resection but with immature teratoma receive carboplatin IV over 4 hours,
           cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour, and etoposide IV over 2 hours on days 1-2 and 22-23.
           Patients who underwent complete resection of residual tumor proceed to observational
           phase. Patients who underwent a biopsy only or an incomplete resection of residual tumor
           undergo radiotherapy.

      Regimen B (Intermediate and high-risk patients)

        -  Patients receive carboplatin IV over 4 hours, cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour, and
           etoposide IV over 2 hours on days 0-1. Patients also receive G-CSF SC once daily
           beginning on day 2 and continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every 21
           days for a total of 2 courses. Patients undergo bone marrow or peripheral blood stem
           cell harvest prior to second course of chemotherapy.

        -  Patients with rapid CR to 2 initial courses of chemotherapy receive an additional 2
           courses of chemotherapy as above and then proceed to observational phase. Patients with
           a PR or slow response to 2 initial courses of chemotherapy receive 2 additional courses
           of chemotherapy as above. Patients with a CR to courses 3 and 4 receive 2 more courses
           of chemotherapy and then proceed to observational phase. Patients with a PR to courses 3
           and 4 undergo a biopsy and/or resection of residual tumor.

        -  Patients with no evidence of malignant GCT on resection but with scar, fibrosis, or
           mature teratoma receive carboplatin IV over 4 hours and etoposide IV over 2 hours on
           days 1 and 2 and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour and etoposide IV over 2 hours on days
           22 and 23 and proceed to observational phase. Patients with teratoma on resection
           receive additional treatment as in regimen A. Patients with evidence of pure germinoma
           on resection undergo radiotherapy.

        -  Patients with evidence of other malignant GCT on resection undergo high-dose
           chemotherapy (HDCx) with bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell support (PBSCS)
           comprising thiotepa IV over 3 hours and etoposide IV over 1 hour on days -8 through -6;
           carboplatin IV over 4 hours on days -5 through -3; reinfusion of autologous bone marrow
           or peripheral blood stem cells on day 0; and G-CSF SC or IV every 12 hours beginning on
           day 1 and continuing until blood counts recover. Patients then undergo radiotherapy.

      Quality of life is assessed before bone marrow or PBSCS and then every 2 years thereafter.

      Patients are followed at day 42, at 3 months, then every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months
      for 1 year, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 80 patients (40 per stratum) will be accrued for this study
      within 4 years.
    
  