
    
      Glioblastoma (GBM), the most common and most malignant primary brain tumor, represents a
      major medical challenge considering its extremely poor prognosis (Wen 2008). Current standard
      of care includes maximal surgical resection, followed by concomitant radio-chemotherapy
      (temozolomide - TMZ) (RT-CT) followed by 6 months of maintenance TMZ, with a median overall
      survival (mOS) of 14.6 vs. 12.1 months with RT alone (Stupp 2005). Non operable GBM,
      represents around 30% of cases of GBM, with a poorer prognosis, a median PFS of 3-4 months
      and a median OS between 6-9 months (Chinot 2007, Stupp 2009), with concomitant RT-CT
      treatment. Therefore, innovative treatment strategies are urgently needed and new treatment
      combinations evaluated in phase I studies are highly encouraged (Wen 2011).

      Since GBM is one of the most vascularised cancers, antiangiogenic agents have been tested and
      used firstly in recurrent GBM. Among them, Bevacizumab, a humanized monoclonal antibody
      against vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), has shown high response rate between 19%
      and 62% in several Phase 2 and multiple retrospective studies, alone or in combination with
      chemotherapy (Chamberlain 2011). Two randomized phase III trials, AVAGLIO and RTOG 0825,
      investigating the efficacy of Bevacizumab added or not to the Stupp protocol in patients with
      newly diagnosed GBM, have been presented at the annual meeting of the American Society of
      Clinical Oncology (ASCO 2013). While both studies exhibited a significant progression-free
      survival (PFS) improvement (RTOG 0825:10.7 vs. 7.3m, p=0.007; AVAGLIO: 10.6 vs. 6.2m,
      p<0.0001), there was no gain in overall survival.

      Other antiangiogenic agents have been studied in GBM patients (Sathornsumetee 2009, Van Meir
      2010, Wick 2011), with encouraging results but still insufficient when used as single agents.
      Among them, pazopanib is thought to be promising. It is an orally tyrosine kinase inhibitor
      with potently inhibition of VEGFR-1, -2, -3, c-kit and PDGFR-α, -β (Castaneda 2009, Schutz
      2011). Interestingly, these 2 PDGFR subtypes are overexpressed in malignant gliomas (Verhaak
      2010). Furthermore, pazopanib is already validated in patients with advanced renal cell
      carcinoma and soft-tissue sarcomas (Sleijfer 2009, Sternberg 2010).

      A phase II trial evaluated efficacy and safety of pazopanib in 35 patients with recurrent GBM
      (Iwamoto 2010). Two patients had a partial radiographic response by standard bidimensional
      measurements, whereas 9 patients (6 at the 8-week point and 3 only within the first month of
      treatment) had decreased contrast enhancement, vasogenic edema, and mass effect but <50%
      reduction in tumor. The median PFS was 12 weeks and mOS was 35 weeks. Pazopanib was
      reasonably well tolerated with a spectrum of toxicities similar to other anti-VEGF/VEGFR
      agents and with unexpected toxicity.

      Given the emerging concern that pure anti-VEGF inhibition may promote malignant glial cell
      invasiveness (Keunen 2011), we consider essential to combine a multitargeted antiangiogenic
      agent, such as pazopanib, with the current standard treatment. TMZ was chosen not only
      because it represents the current standard of care but because of its very good penetration
      in the brain parenchyma and its low hepatic metabolism, making very unlikely the occurrence
      of a pharmacokinetic interaction with pazopanib (Friedman 2000). Indeed, phase I trials of
      TMZ in combination with molecules such as RAD001, cilengitide, gefitinib or irinotecan showed
      no need for dose modification of TMZ. Similarly, the Phase I trials of pazopanib association
      with paclitaxel or FOLFOX6 have been conducted up to a dose of 800 mg daily, the recommended
      dose of pazopanib in monotherapy, with standard doses of chemotherapy (Tan 2010, Brady 2009).
      Finally, the study of the toxicity profile of pazopanib and TMZ does not suggest a specific
      limiting dose escalation adverse event, except perhaps asthenia, thrombocytopenia or ALAT
      elevation. However, considering the high level of potential toxicity when an ITK is
      administered with radiations, pazopanib should not be administered in the induction phase of
      the Stupp protocol.

      Therefore, based on a strong synergy rational, the study coordinator aims to evaluate the
      safety and efficacy of pazopanib in combination with TMZ in the maintenance phase of the
      Stupp protocol. The study coordinator hopes that this strategy could significantly improve
      the poor prognosis of these patients.

      This study is a multicenter Phase I/II trial, which aims to determine the Recommended Phase 2
      Dose (RP2D) of pazopanib in combination with TMZ. The study coordinator will associate a
      multidisciplinary approach involving translational pharmacokinetic studies, and research on
      potential predictive biomarkers of response through pharmacogenetic and pharmacogenomic
      approachs. This study will include patients with not previously treated GBM, candidates for a
      complete or partial surgical resection and who are eligible for adjuvant treatment based on a
      combination of TMZ and radiotherapy.
    
  