
    
      Background: Noninvasive ventilation (NIV) provides respiratory support to many patients
      affected by acute respiratory failure. This treatment, compared to invasive mechanical
      ventilation, allows patients to take intermittent breaks during which oxygen therapy is
      provided through a nasal cannula or mask. During these breaks, the lack of ventilator support
      may predispose to respiratory distress, retention of CO2 and oxygen desaturation. Optiflow is
      a nasal humidified (37◦C, 44mg/L H2O) high-flow (up to 60 L/min) therapy which can provide
      greater support than standard oxygen therapy during the breaks from NIV.

      Aim of the study is to evaluate Optiflow as an alternative to standard oxygen therapy during
      breaks from NIV in patients with acute respiratory failure. The investigators hypothesize tha
      Optiflow will reduce the total length of stay on NIV, and increase the comfort and length of
      the breaks. Also, the investigators anticipate that it will reduce respiratory rate,
      accessory muscle use and dyspnea score compared to standard oxygen therapy.

      Experimental design Prospective open-label, parallel, randomized (1:1) controlled study, with
      a target enrollment of 70.

      Study procedures Enrolled patients receiving NIV will be randomized into two arms; a
      treatment group which will receive Optiflow during breaks and a control arm which will
      receive standard oxygen therapy during breaks. In both cases, FiO2 will be titrated to
      maintain oxygen saturation above 90%. The necessity of breaks will be determined together
      with the patients (talk, eat, medication, communicate with family, inability to tolerate the
      interface), and the need to resume NIV will be based on clinical data, such as dyspnea,
      respiratory rate, heart rate, blood pressure, oxygen saturation, transcutaneous carbon
      dioxide (CO2) and patients' desire.

      Recorded data: The investigators will record demographic baseline data; Glasgow Coma Scale,
      respiratory and heart rate, blood pressure, dyspnea score, accessory muscle use, and comfort
      score at randomization, at the end of each NIV session and NIV break; the length of each NIV
      session and break; the medications administered and all the arterial blood gases (ABG) on a
      daily basis. Moreover the investigators will record the NIV parameters and inspired oxygen
      fraction (FiO2) at each session and break.

      Risks: The investigators don't anticipate any significant risks related to the study
      procedures and equipment. Some patients may not tolerate the Optiflow and some patients may
      fail NIV and require intubation.
    
  