
    
      Smokers (N=150) will be enrolled in the study and will smoke ad libitum for a period of two
      weeks during which time they will be assessed for baseline measurements. Subjects will then
      be randomly assigned to one of the three conditions (N=50). Subjects will be blinded as to
      whether they are assigned to the Quest nicotine-free vs. extra low nicotine condition. There
      are no distinguishing features between these two cigarettes. Nicotine lozenge assignment is
      open label. Subjects will be asked to use only their assigned study product (low nicotine,
      nicotine-free cigarettes or lozenge) for a period of 6 weeks. Study cigarettes will be given
      to them at each clinic visit and subjects will be told to smoke ad libitum. They will be
      provided a supply equivalent to 150% of their baseline-smoking rate to allow for compensatory
      smoking to occur. They will keep record of each cigarette they smoked. If they smoked
      cigarettes other than those assigned to them, they will be asked to notate on a sheet when
      that cigarette was smoked. At the end of the 6-week period, they will be asked to quit
      smoking and NRT.

      First morning urine and fasting blood samples will be collected at baseline and 2 and 6 weeks
      on the study products; at 6 weeks of abstinence and the 1 month follow-up.

      Counseling. In each condition, subjects will be provided brief, structured counseling that is
      similar in duration. The subjects in the cigarette conditions will discuss any difficulties
      they experienced with switching cigarettes and problem solving these obstacles. Problem
      solving each obstacle will be solicited from the subject. However, if no solution or limited
      solution is provided, the counselor will provide a standardized response for each of the
      obstacles confronted.

      Follow-up Phase. Subjects will be followed up 1 month after the end of the 6 week abstinence
      period.
    
  