
    
      Globally, an average of 390 disasters, 100,000 related deaths, 260 million disaster victims,
      and $140 billion in economic damages were recorded per year between 2002-2012. The U.S. is
      one of the top 5 countries-with China, Philippines, India, and Indonesia-most frequently
      affected by disasters. The adverse mental health effects of disasters are extraordinary and
      costly. Up to 38% of distressed survivors presenting to shelters and assistance centers have
      stress-related and adjustment disorders. Most survivors who develop disaster-related mental
      health problems do not receive services. The 2013 report of the International Federation of
      Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies calls for technology-based solutions to heighten access
      to disaster assistance resources. With US cellphone and smartphone ownership now topping 90%
      and 60%, respectively, opportunities are tremendous to create cost-efficient, scalable
      solutions that increase capacity to address mental health needs in disaster-affected
      communities. The investigators propose highly innovative, time-sensitive research to examine
      the effectiveness of a widely accessible, technology-based disaster mental health
      intervention.

      Mental health recovery trajectories are highly variable in disaster settings. 7,14 Most
      survivors recover without intervention and may need nothing more than a brief symptom
      tracking resource (i.e., watchful waiting). Some develop mental health needs (e.g.,
      post-traumatic stress, depression) for which a brief self-help intervention may aid recovery.
      Some have chronic mental health problems (pre-existing or disaster related) that necessitate
      formal treatment. Others (e.g., serious mental illness) may require immediate assistance. The
      proposed intervention, Bounce Back Now (BBN), addresses each level of need using a
      web/smartphone-based approach that builds on the investigator's prior work. BBN consists of 3
      key components: (1) a symptom and activity-tracking component that we piloted in emergency
      department settings, (2) a self-help intervention that was found to be efficacious in a
      recent RCT with families affected by a tornado outbreak, and (3) a resource component that
      principally connects survivors to the SAMHSA-administered Disaster Distress Helpline (DDH)
      when immediate assistance is needed (e.g., serious mental illness) or when local mental
      health treatment referrals are needed or preferred.

      This study will leverage the mental health workforce to recruit 5,000 disaster survivors via
      partnerships with the American Red Cross (ARC) and Office of the Assistant Secretary for
      Preparedness and Response (ASPR). These partnerships allow cost-efficient testing of
      interventions, recruitment of individuals at high risk for developing disaster-related mental
      health problems, and collection of data at the level of triage to aid in prediction of mental
      health needs and coordination of care. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive BBN
      vs. enhanced usual care (i.e., EUC; usual care plus comprehensive resource list). BBN will be
      optimized for smartphones but accessible from any device with an internet connection.
    
  