
    
      Multiple Sclerosis is a severe debilitating disease that affects patient's quality of life.
      Up to 90% of patients with MS will develop lower urinary tract dysfunction within the first
      18 years of the disease. Lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) can range from urgency to urge
      urinary incontinence and/or hesitancy and incomplete bladder emptying. Urgency, frequency,
      and neurogenic detrusor overactivity (NDO) are the most common urologic findings (34-99%)
      during diagnostic evaluations of patients with MS. Even though anticholinergic or beta
      agonist drugs have limited effectiveness and adverse side effects, they are the first line
      pharmacotherapy for patients with NDO if behavioral modifications and pelvic floor physical
      therapy are unsuccessful. Botulinum toxin-A (BTX-A) intradetrusor injection is a highly
      effective treatment option for patients with NDO who are refractory to more conservative
      management. BTX-A blocks the release of acetylcholine at the neuromuscular junction and leads
      to a temporary chemodenervation of the bladder (paralysis of the muscle). Motor effects of
      BTX-A on the bladder have been extensively studied and widely reported in the literature, and
      the US Food and Drug Administration has approved BTX-A for the treatment of detrusor
      overactivity in neurogenic and non-neurogenic patients. However, the sensory effects of BTX-A
      injection correlating to central nervous system regional perception/localization of urgency,
      frequency, and urge incontinence in humans are not well known.

      Over the past decades, functional MRI (fMRI) has been used to study the activation of
      supraspinal lower urinary tract control centers in healthy subjects during the storage and
      voiding phases. Given these facts, the investigators are interested in evaluating the role of
      intradetrusor injection of BTX-A in afferent response in patients with MS and NDO.
      High-resolution neuroimaging techniques will help investigators to further understand how MS
      affects the bladder-brain controls. This study will use fMRI and task-related blood oxygen
      level dependent (BOLD) signal to evaluate patients with MS and NDO prior to, and 6-10 weeks
      after intradetrusor injection of BTX-A with simultaneous urodynamic evaluation.

      Clinical correlation between women with these chronic urologic problems and new discoveries
      at level of CNS activity will give a better understanding of this disorder, leading to the
      development of more effective diagnostic and treatment modalities.
    
  