
    
      The investigators seek to examine the effect of incentives for routine exercise on the
      development of persistent exercise habits. Specifically, the purpose of this study is to
      determine whether healthy habits can be formed more effectively when people are rewarded for
      repeated engagement in a given healthy behavior at a specific, routinized time each day
      rather than at any time. Through a partnership with a Fortune-500 company, the investigators
      plan to run a large-scale, randomized field controlled trial with approximately 3,000-4,000
      participants aimed at increasing exercise rates (as measured by gym visits). During an
      incentivized four week intervention period, the investigators will encourage participants to
      select a two-hour window during the day when they feel they are most willing and able to
      exercise. Depending on condition, participants will [a] receive no further instruction or
      incentives (control condition), [b] receive a $3 or $7 bonus for each day they exercise
      during the incentive period (flexible incentive condition), or [c] receive a $3 or $7 bonus
      for each day they exercise if and only if they exercise within their specified "workout
      window" (routine incentive condition). Additionally, participants in a fourth condition, the
      social routine incentive condition, will face the same incentives as those in the routine
      incentive condition, but will be required to coordinate the workout window they select with a
      partner in their office. The investigators predict that the less flexible incentives will
      lead to greater habit formation than flexible incentives, producing larger and longer-lasting
      increases in exercise post-intervention. The investigators further predict that coordinating
      with a workout partner will produce even stronger habit formation. The investigators will
      collect and analyze data from participants' worksite gyms, which track gym entries and exits,
      as well as pedometer data when available.

      Our experiment will recruit employees at a Fortune-500 company who wish to exercise more.
      Recruitment will be done through an email and poster campaign. The registration stage will
      take approximately four weeks. All employees at all offices with on-site gyms will be
      eligible to enroll and upon enrollment will be asked to select a partner who works in the
      same office and who is also enrolling. Enrolling employees will also be asked to indicate
      their preferred daily workout time (a two hour "workout window") and to provide basic
      demographic and exercise-related information (e.g., gender, age, height, weight, number of
      gym visits per week). If registration exceeds the target sample size (4,000 employees),
      priority for enrollment will be given to employees who do not already exercise regularly (at
      least twice a week). The remaining participants will be assigned to a "holdout control"
      condition. Once registration is closed, participants will be assigned randomly (at the pairs
      level) to one of the four experimental conditions.
    
  