
    
      Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common disease with a well-established link to
      obesity and is increasingly prevalent with the concurrent rise in obesity. NAFLD constitutes
      a disease spectrum from steatosis to cirrhosis and is associated with significant morbidity
      and mortality. The pathogenesis of NAFLD, especially disease progression, is not well
      understood. Obesity and insulin resistance play a role as 'a first hit' leading to liver
      steatosis, but the mechanisms for a 'second hit' triggering progression to steatohepatitis
      are not known. Based on our Preliminary Data, we propose a novel hypothesis that chronic
      intermittent hypoxia (CIH) in patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) constitutes a
      'second hit' causing progression of NAFLD from steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
      (NASH), a progressive fibrotic disease, in which cirrhosis and liver-related death occur in
      up to 20% and 12% patients, respectively.

      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is characterized by recurrent collapse of the upper airway
      during sleep, leading to CIH. OSA is a common disease, present in 2% of women and 4% of men
      in the general US population, but with an increased prevalence of 30-60% in obese
      populations. Furthermore, CIH has been associated with multiple metabolic complications of
      OSA independent of obesity, including insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, and atherosclerosis.
      Previous work in rodent models has demonstrated that intermittent hypoxia (IH) increases: (1)
      insulin resistance; (2) hepatic steatosis; (3) hepatic levels of Sterol regulatory
      element-binding protein-1 (SREBP-1) and Stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD-1); and (4) hepatic
      oxidative stress and inflammation Thus, CIH in OSA may contribute to hepatic steatosis, and
      convert hepatic steatosis to steatohepatitis. To address this hypothesis, we will establish
      the impact of OSA on NASH in a susceptible cohort of obese human subjects in whom definitive
      intraoperative liver biopsy will be available to diagnose and stage NAFLD.

      Recent evidence in patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) indicates that OSA is
      associated with NASH. Nevertheless, the prevalence of OSA in patients with biopsy-confirmed
      NAFLD is unknown and the effect of OSA treatment with CPAP on NASH has never been studied.
      Our main hypothesis is that the severity of nocturnal intermittent hypoxemia of obstructive
      sleep apnea (OSA) will be associated with the severity of NAFLD. We will examine NAFLD
      severity in patients with and without obstructive sleep apnea and examine the effect of CPAP
      on NAFLD progression in patients with obstructive sleep apnea.

      The overall goal is to determine whether OSA is associated with NAFLD and whether CPAP
      mitigates NAFLD progression. Our primary hypothesis is that the severity of nocturnal
      intermittent hypoxemia of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) will be associated with the severity
      of NAFLD.

        -  In Specific Aim #1, we will examine NAFLD severity in patients with and without
           obstructive sleep apnea. We hypothesize that the severity of NAFLD and the presence of
           NASH will be associated with the presence and severity of OSA.

        -  In Specific Aim #2, we will examine the effect of CPAP on NAFLD progression in patients
           with obstructive sleep apnea. We hypothesize that CPAP will decrease markers of hepatic
           inflammation (serum aminotransferases) in patients with NAFLD, who have moderate or
           severe OSA. To address this hypothesis, we will enroll patients from the Johns Hopkins
           Medical Institution (JHMI) Hepatology clinic with the diagnosis of NAFLD, who have
           elevated serum aminotransferases, NAFLD on liver biopsy, and moderate to severe OSA. The
           effect of CPAP on markers of liver inflammation and serum aminotransferases will be
           determined, and related to CPAP adherence.
    
  