
    
      CPAP is a non-invasive ventilation technique that is commonly used to treat sleep apnea.
      Using a small air-pump, tubing and facemask, it provides a constant stream of pressurized air
      to the upper airways and lungs. Some of the physiological effects noted during CPAP are
      hyperinflation of the lungs, stabilizing and flattening of the diaphragm, and decrease in
      tidal volume. The effects on duration of breath hold are unknown. During radiation treatment,
      these effects are expected to reduce tumor and organ motion which reduces the volume of
      normal tissue being irradiated and also creates favorable treatment geometry by moving the
      heart away from the anterior chest wall. An important advantage of CPAP compared to other
      techniques is that active patient cooperation is not required. The potential exists to
      combine use of CPAP with other respiratory management techniques such as breath hold and
      improve overall effectiveness. When used in sleep apnea it is well tolerated and poses little
      risk to patients. There are no published reports of the use of CPAP in radiation therapy.

      In initial studies the Varian RPM system was used to assess respiratory motion with and
      without CPAP for patients receiving radiation therapy. This commercially available,
      non-invasive system works by directing an infrared beam onto an infrared motion detector that
      is placed on the patients' upper abdomen. The detector records the change in abdomen position
      that occurs with respiration as a change in amplitude of the detector position. Interventions
      that effect respiration will be recorded by an increase or decrease in the amplitude of the
      detector motion. When used in breath hold, the detector remains in a fixed position with a
      very narrow gating window.

      Based on initial experience with the RPM system, it has been found that approximately 1 hour
      of CPAP use is required to reduce diaphragm motion. Although early results are favorable
      using this approach, it is not certain that this is the best or most efficient method of use
      for all patients. The use of CPAP combined with breath hold techniques has not been studied.

      The objectives of this study are to use the RPM system in normal volunteers to:

        1. Study the effects of CPAP on diaphragm motion to allow better optimization for the use
           of CPAP as a respiratory management technique during free breathing.

        2. Determine the feasibility of use of CPAP as a respiratory aid for use in patients
           treated with breath hold techniques. Determine the effects of CPAP on duration;
           reproducibility and tolerance of the breath hold technique.
    
  