
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate if there is sufficient evidence to continue to the phase III component of
      S1400E by comparing investigator-assessed progression-free survival (IA-PFS) between
      rilotumumab plus erlotinib versus erlotinib in patients registered to S1400E. (Phase II) II.
      To determine if there is both a statistically and clinically-meaningful difference in IA-PFS
      between patients randomized to receive rilotumumab plus erlotinib versus erlotinib. (Phase
      III) III. To compare overall survival (OS) in patients randomized to rilotumumab plus
      erlotinib versus erlotinib. (Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare response rates (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial responses)
      among patients randomized to receive rilotumumab plus erlotinib versus erlotinib. (Phase II)
      II. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities associated with rilotumumab plus
      erlotinib versus erlotinib. (Phase II) III. To compare the response rates (confirmed and
      unconfirmed, complete and partial) among patients randomized to receive rilotumumab plus
      erlotinib versus erlotinib. (Phase III) IV. To evaluate the frequency and severity of
      toxicities associated with rilotumumab plus erlotinib versus erlotinib. (Phase III)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the treatment arm randomization acceptance rate within each treatment arm of
      S1400E defined as the percentage of patients randomized to a treatment arm that receive any
      protocol treatment.

      II. To identify additional predictive or prognostic tumor/blood biomarkers beyond the chosen
      biomarker.

      III. To identify potential resistance biomarkers at disease progression. IV. To establish a
      tissue/blood repository from patients with refractory squamous cell cancer.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL AND INTERVENTION11/25/2014): Patients receive rilotumumab
      intravenously (IV) over 60-120 minutes on day 1 and erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) daily
      on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL AND INTERVENTION11/25/2014): Patients receive erlotinib
      hydrochloride PO daily on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, all patients will be followed until death or 3 years
      after sub-study registration, whichever occurs first.
    
  