
    
      Rationale: There is growing evidence that an elevated homocysteine level is a risk factor for
      fracture incidence. The most common cause of homocysteine elevation is poor vitamin B12 and
      folate status. It is hypothesized that supplementation with 500 µg vitamin B12 and 400 µg
      folic acid will reduce fracture incidence in elderly people Main objective: to determine the
      efficacy of oral supplementation with vitamin B12 and folic acid in the prevention of
      fractures Study design: The trial is a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial, with
      two arms in parallel (placebo versus supplement). The intervention comprises a period of two
      years, and will be targeted to 3000 elderly subjects with elevated homocysteine levels. The
      study will be performed in institutions or residences for older persons around Wageningen,
      Rotterdam and Amsterdam.

      Study population: 3000 elderly subjects (70 years and older) with elevated homocysteine
      levels Intervention (if applicable): One group receives daily a tablet with 500 µg vitamin
      B12 and 400 ug folic acid and the other group receives daily a placebo tablet. In both
      tablets 15 µg (600 IU) of vitamin D is included as well.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Fracture incidence is the primary outcome measure Time to
      fracture will be calculated. It is expected that in the intervention group 34% less fractures
      will occur than in the placebo group.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: First, participants need to be recruited. This will be done via information
      letters. Those who are interested have to complete a small questionnaire and then they will
      receive an information brochure. Upon continued interest in the intervention study,
      participants will be invited for a blood sampling. This blood sampling will take place
      (nearby or) at the location where the participants live. Immediately after the blood sampling
      a run-in period will start. Blood will be checked on homocysteine levels. Only participants
      with elevated levels of homocysteine will be included in the study. Two to four weeks after
      the run-in period the intervention study will be implemented. At the start of this
      intervention study several measurements will be performed and several questionnaires will be
      completed together with the participant at home. During the whole study participants need to
      take daily one tablet and they have to complete calenders to monitor fracture incidence. At
      the end of the study, blood sampling will be performed and several measurements and
      questionnaires will be repeated again at home.
    
  