
    
      In the last decades, the emission of membrane enclosed compartments, more commonly regarded
      as extracellular vesicles, has been established as a new mechanism of communication either
      between cells of a complex organism, between unicellular organisms or between unicellular
      organism and host. These vesicles have been described in all body fluids and are currently
      classified into three types according to the mechanism by which they are formed: exosomes,
      with sizes ranging from 30 to 150 nm (formed intracellularly); microvesicles, between 100 and
      1000 nm (formed from the cell membrane) and apoptotic bodies, with sizes greater than 1 µm
      (produced by cells undergoing programmed cell death).

      Endometrial fluid is a viscous liquid present in the uterine cavity originating from the
      different cell types that form the uterus and serum exudates. It offers a precise view of the
      context in which the embryo implants and can be retrieved by a minimally invasive technique.

      The main objective of this pilot study is to isolate and characterize the extracellular
      vesicles secreted by the endometrium to the endometrial fluid, being this the first time that
      this fact is being described. It is intended to standardize a method for the isolation of the
      different vesicles populations present within the endometrial fluid (i.e.: apoptotic bodies,
      microvesicles and exosomes), based on serial differential centrifugations and filtration.
      Morphological characterization of the isolated vesicles will be done at three levels: study
      of the external morphology by transmission electron microscopy, characterization of the
      different vesicles populations surface markers by Western Blot and analysis of the vesicles
      populations size distributions by Nanoparticle Tracking Analysis.

      The second part of the study is directed to assess the content of the extracellular vesicles
      throughout the menstrual cycle. For this purpose, a canonical menstrual cycle of 28 to 30
      days has been classified in 5 phases: phase I (days 0-8), phase II (days 9-14), phase III
      (days 15-18), phase IV (days 19-24) and phase V (25 to 30). The experimental design for
      vesicles contents description consists of two levels of comparison: (1) analysis of
      differential contents of the different populations of vesicles in the same phase of the
      menstrual cycle and for each of the phases and (2) analysis of differential contents of the
      same population of vesicles in each phase of the cycle and for each of the vesicular
      populations. This characterization of the vesicular contents will be made using mass
      spectrometry techniques to analyze the protein, lipid and other small metabolites
      composition. Their presence aims to be related both to the moment of the cycle and to a
      normal physiological function of the endometrium. On the other hand, analysis of DNA and RNA
      contents of these vesicular populations by massive sequencing will be performed. The
      objective here is to analyze the transmission of functionalities to target cells as well as
      the potential predictive usefulness of these molecules to determine the moment of the
      menstrual cycle.
    
  