
    
      Cannabis is a very popular drug for both recreational and medicinal use. An estimated 20% of
      adults in the United States report using cannabis in the past month, and this number
      continues to increase each year. As of 2018, medicinal use of cannabis is legal in 33 states
      and the District of Columbia. Recreational use is legal in 10 states, and it is
      decriminalized in 15 states. Hemp-derived cannabidiol (CBD) is legal in all states. Due to
      the rapidly changing legal status across the country, the demand for tetrahydrocannabinoid
      (THC) and CBD products is also rapidly increasing. Studies have shown a significant increase
      in marijuana use among pregnant and parenting women following state-wide legalization, and
      this could have significant implications for the health and development of children born to
      these women.

      Despite its widespread use, and increased interests in THC for medical treatment, significant
      gaps exist in the investigator's scientific knowledge of the pharmacology and
      pharmacokinetics of THC and its metabolites. When inhaled, THC and CBD reach maximum
      concentrations within seconds. Bioavailability varies widely and is a function of inhalation
      time, number, interval, and duration of puffs, as well as within product variability.
      Importantly, smokers have greater bioavailability of THC than non-smokers. When THC and CBD
      are orally consumed, the bioavailability is relatively low (< 20%). However, the
      lipophilicity of both THC and CBD make these compounds of great interest with respect to
      tissue distribution. CBD is more lipophilic than THC and thus more likely to be absorbed with
      topic application. THC is known to cross the placenta and can reach the fetus]. The
      metabolism of both THC and CBD is complex. Following absorption, THC and CBD are rapidly
      distributed to tissues with high blood flow. Metabolism occurs in the liver via CYP2C9,
      CYP2C19, and CYP3A4, as well as the brain, small intestine, heart and lung. Primary
      metabolites undergo glucuronidation or conjugation reactions. The elimination half-lives are
      prolonged due to the deposition of drug and metabolites in fat.

      Some previous epidemiological studies have shown that children born to mothers who report
      using THC during their pregnancy have a higher prevalence of neurodevelopmental and
      behavioral abnormalities. While these studies are sparse, there have been some studies that
      follow longitudinal cohorts worldwide. These epidemiological, survey-based studies have
      reported an increase in executive functioning deficits in infants who were exposed to THC in
      utero. These studies have also shown an increase in attention problems and hyperactivity in
      these children during early childhood and later adolescence. However, these studies have
      reported inconsistent outcomes. Some have reported negative effects on cognitive or executive
      functioning, and others have reported no significant changes. One possibility for these
      discrepancies is that survey-based epidemiological studies do not accurately capture the
      exact levels of fetal exposure due to the unreliable nature of self-reporting, making it
      difficult to accurately correlate prenatal exposure levels to neurodevelopment. This makes
      the need for a well-designed, quantitative exposure study that is followed by longitudinal
      neurodevelopmental outcome measurement imperative to determining true correlations between
      prenatal THC use and developmental outcomes in children.

      It has also previously been established that cannabis use during pregnancy can be detrimental
      to the developing fetus. Prenatal use of THC has been shown to cause low birth weight in the
      absence of any change in neonatal length or head circumference, as well as increased tremors
      and disrupted sleep patterns. It has also been correlated with an increased need for
      placement in the neonatal intensive care unit. In addition to human studies, animal studies
      have shown changes in the endocannabinoid system (ECS) in the fetal brain during development.
      The ECS is present in the developing brain from the time of 5 weeks gestation, and is
      required for proliferation, differentiation, and migration of neurons. Any changes to this
      system during development could have important implications for further neural development.
      Several studies have observed changes in postsynaptic target selectivity, differentiation of
      developing axons, and disruption of position in the ECS in animal fetuses that were exposed
      to THC in utero. These central nervous system alterations could potentially point to
      long-term neurodevelopmental changes in children born to mothers who used cannabis during
      pregnancy. However, while animal studies are able to report exact dosing levels, animal
      models of prenatal cannabinoid use often do not accurately reflect human use.

      While some detrimental effects to the fetus following prenatal cannabis use have been
      observed in both animal models and human studies, there remains the mechanistic question of
      what is causing these changes. Some studies have proposed epigenetic reprogramming that may
      occur in the mothers and the babies following prenatal cannabis use. Prior studies have
      focused on the effects of prenatal cannabis use increasing the likelihood of the children's
      substance abuse later in life, and have found positive correlations to DNA methylation and
      histone modification in these cases. Additionally, it has been shown that paternal cannabis
      use alters DNA methylation in sperm of rats and humans, which could also have important
      implications for development. However, to-date, there have not been any studies correlating
      epigenetic changes and neurodevelopmental changes in infants prenatally exposed to cannabis.

      Additionally, many of the prior human studies were done at a time when THC content in
      marijuana was not as high as is in today's market, which could have major implications for
      actual exposure levels in the fetus. The initial studies that evaluated the effects of
      prenatal cannabis use on fetal outcomes were done in the early 1990s, at a time when average
      THC potency in seized marijuana in the United States was approximately 4%. The most recently
      reported potency of seized illicit cannabis plant material is approximately 12%.
      Additionally, the ratio of psychoactive THC content to non-psychoactive cannabidiol content
      has increased from approximately 14 to 80 between 1995 and 2014. These factors suggest a need
      for more updated studies that examine the effects of current high potency levels of fetal
      exposure to cannabis, as an increase in potency may have greater effects on the developing
      fetus.

      While there have been some prior studies measuring the effects of fetal exposure to THC
      specifically, there have been no studies to-date that have evaluated the effects of CBD
      exposure on the developing fetus. CBD (also known as hemp) supposedly lacks psychoactive THC
      components, making it legal, widely available, and generally perceived to be safe.CBD is
      touted as a treatment for a number of conditions, including depression, anxiety, pain, and
      cancer. These factors, in addition to strong marketing campaigns, have most likely caused an
      increase in prenatal CBD use in recent years. A recent study conducted in mice found that CBD
      activates a large range of CYPP450 enzymes. While these data are preliminary, CYPP450
      activation raises the concern of drug-drug interactions and suggests that biologic activity
      of CBD is not fully understood. However, there are no published studies evaluating the
      effects of prenatal CBD use on fetal outcomes or neurodevelopment. Additionally, many CBD
      products have been shown to contain varying concentrations of CBD, or are contaminated with
      synthetic cannabinoids (e.g. K2, "spice") or THC. The investigators will establish the exact
      composition of the products the pregnant women are taking in order to properly evaluate
      potential exposure levels in the developing fetus. The investigators will then correlate that
      exposure with neurodevelopmental outcomes.
    
  