
    
      Child maltreatment occurs at much higher rates in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC)
      than in high-income countries. Parenting programs have shown particular promise in preventing
      child maltreatment, as well as improving child health and educational outcomes. However,
      there are currently very few parenting programs that are both evidence-based and affordable
      for LMIC, such as the Philippines, where the need is the greatest. For instance, the 2015
      national baseline survey on violence against children (VAC) revealed that 80% of Filipino
      youth respondents had experienced violence in childhood, with 60% of these cases occurring at
      home. Mothers, fathers, and siblings were the most commonly reported perpetrators of harsh
      physical and psychological punishment (UNICEF, 2016). A logical recourse to decrease child
      maltreatment in the country is to implement interventions/programs that improve parents'
      relationships with their children and their knowledge and skills in child behavior
      management.

      There is extensive scientific evidence that parenting support programs are effective in
      reducing child maltreatment and associated risk factors such as corporal punishment and
      parent negative psychological health (e.g., Desai, Reece & Shakespeare-Pellington, 2017;
      Mikton & Butchart, 2009). Parenting for Lifelong Health (PLH) is one such initiative led by
      UNICEF and WHO to support evidence-based parenting programs to reduce VAC in low and
      middle-income contexts.

      In 2016-2017, PLH-Philippines embarked on the cultural adaptation, feasibility study (N=30),
      and pilot randomized control trial (RCT) (N=120) of the MaPa Kids program in the National
      Capital Region, which was implemented with families with children ages 2-6 and who were
      beneficiaries of the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) Pantawid Pamilyang
      Pilipino Program (4Ps). The results of this initial RCT were promising with reduced child
      maltreatment, dysfunctional parenting, less support of corporal punishment, lower levels of
      child problem behavior intensity, and higher sense of parenting efficacy at post-intervention
      reported by parents who participated in MaPa Kids compared to control group families who
      underwent the 4Ps Family Development Sessions (FDS). Reduced child maltreatment persisted at
      one-year follow-up assessment.

      Building on the aforementioned trial, this study aims to expand the development,
      implementation, and evaluation of the parenting programs in the Philippines as part of a
      systematic effort to further assess the feasibility of (1) an 8-session version of the MaPa
      Kids program for families with children aged 2-9 and (2) a culturally adapted 9-session
      parenting program for families with children aged 10-17 (MaPa Teens).

      The 8-session MaPa Kids and 9-session MaPa Teens modules will be piloted through a pre-post
      feasibility study. Both MaPa Kids and MaPa Teens parenting intervention modules will be
      implemented by eight local facilitators and two coaches in a low-income community - in Quezon
      City, Philippines - identified in collaboration with DSWD. Following participant recruitment
      and informed consent and assent procedures, baseline sociodemographic information and
      primary, proximal, and secondary information will be collected from parents/caregivers and
      their children (aged 10-17 in MaPa Teens).

      Standardized baseline and one-month post-program questionnaires assessing primary and
      secondary outcomes, as well as demographic data, will be administered to 60 parents/primary
      caregivers and 30 children who participate in the program. Implementation data will be
      collected from parents/caregivers and program facilitators through report forms/checklists
      and video-recordings of each program session. Focus group discussions will be held with 60
      parents/primary caregivers, 30 children aged 10-17, and eight program facilitators.
    
  