
    
      This study follows a quasi-experimental design involving a multilevel community participatory
      intervention that is designed to rapidly immunize hard-to-reach (HTR) populations in
      disadvantaged minority communities. Low vaccination coverage among minorities and persons
      living in and near poverty is a persistent problem that is particularly acute among HTR
      populations (e.g. injection drug users, elderly shut-ins). Immunization rates are affected by
      multiple factors including demographics, attitudes about vaccination, health norms, barriers
      to access, and immunization delivery methods. Efforts to successfully vaccinate HTR
      populations must address these factors. A community-based program with rapid vaccination can
      serve as an initial model for emergency preparedness vaccination plans and for future efforts
      to widely introduce HIV vaccination in disadvantaged urban communities. This project will be
      conducted by a community-public health partnership in eight disadvantaged neighborhoods
      within Harlem and the South Bronx in three phases. In Phase 1 we will implement a brief
      survey assessment of residents in designated neighborhoods to identify current key barriers
      to immunization faced by the target HTR populations in these neighborhoods. Also, using
      several estimation methods, we will determine the size of the target populations in the study
      neighborhoods to establish vaccine needed and to estimate denominators for vaccination rates.
      In Phase 2, we will implement two waves of a multilevel community intervention trial
      (developed with input from the survey and community partners). In the first wave, four
      randomly selected neighborhoods will receive the intervention (i.e., community education,
      community-organization engagement, and door-to-door influenza vaccination program for
      eligible groups etc). In the four control communities, target populations will be invited to
      come for vaccination at specified locations as part of usual public health efforts. In the
      second vaccination wave, using a crossover design, after updating and revising the approach
      based on experience from Wave 1, we will implement the intervention in the four control
      communities; this vaccination wave will be conducted over one week to test the feasibility of
      rapid vaccination of these populations. Phase 3 of this project will identify the promising
      elements of the program and develop materials to allow generalizability to other urban areas
      and to other vaccines (e.g., HIV, HBV, etc).
    
  