
    
      The transition from elementary school to middle school presents a complex set of challenges
      for adolescents. These include increased expectations for time management and
      self-monitoring, renegotiation of rules and boundaries with parents, increased peer
      influence, and pubertal changes. For children in foster care, this transition is further
      complicated by issues such as a possible history of maltreatment, unpredictable changes in
      their living situations, and difficulty explaining their foster care background to peers and
      teachers. Such issues may be more serious for girls in foster care. Social problems for these
      girls in middle school can lead to a number of negative effects, including delinquency,
      substance abuse, poor school performance, mental health problems, and participation in risky
      sexual behavior. Despite such risks, adolescent girls are less likely to receive specialty
      mental health or school-based services than their male counterparts. This study is aimed at
      determining the effectiveness of a preventive intervention for preadolescent girls living in
      foster/kinship care. The intervention targets include preventing delinquency, initiation of
      substance use, participation in risky sexual behavior, school truancy and failure, and mental
      health problems.

      Participants were randomly assigned to receive either the preventive intervention or usual
      foster care services in the summer before entering middle school (typically sixth grade). The
      preventive intervention consisted of weekly training and support sessions for both
      participants and their foster or kin parents. The sessions began at study start and continued
      throughout participants' first year in middle school. Participants' relationship development,
      delinquency, school behavior and performance, sexual behavior, and substance use were
      assessed through questionnaires. Parenting practices were assessed through interviews.
      Assessments were conducted at study entry and at Months 6, 12, and 24, and 36. A new,
      follow-up assessment on the girls' decision making was conducted at age 14-16.
    
  