
    
      The current practice to avoid incisional hernia, one of the most frequent complications
      following abdominal surgery, is to minimize core muscle activity in the postoperative phase.
      Therefore the patients are instructed not to bear or lift weights and to limit physical
      activities in the first 8-12 weeks after surgery. However, there is no evidence to support
      the association of core muscle activity and increased incidence of incisional hernia. On the
      contrary, it is likely that reduced physical activity and deconditioning of the core muscles
      is associated with muscle catabolism, which may lead to physical deconditioning, chronic
      postsurgical pain (CPSP), and sarcopenia. CPSP is primarily a major burden in terms of
      reduced quality of life and resource utilization whereas sarcopenia in addition is
      increasingly recognized as an important independent risk factor for numerous adverse clinical
      outcomes and mortality.

      The investigators will conduct a prospective multicentric randomized clinical trial to
      compare standard of care to core muscle exercises targeting the abdominal muscles immediately
      postsurgery. The principle hypothesis is that neither specific exercises of core muscles
      before and after surgery nor physical restriction alter the incidence of incisional hernias.
      Secondly the impact of postoperative rehabilitation on CPSP and sarcopenia will be assessed.
      The patients will be divided into two study arms, one receiving standard of care and the
      other receiving the intervention. The intervention consists of four specific core muscle
      exercises to perform daily during the first two months after surgery. Follow-up will be at
      two, twelve and twenty-four months with clinical examination and ultrasound to detect
      incisional hernias, assessment chronic postsurgical pain and its treatment and evaluation of
      muscle mass on CT scans.
    
  