
    
      There are approximately 360,000 new cases of bladder cancer diagnosed globally each year. In
      addition, this disease is responsible for 145,000 deaths annually (Parkin et al 2005).
      Treatments for this cancer range from transurethral resection of the bladder tumor (TURBT)
      for low stage, non-invasive tumors, to the more drastic option of radical cystectomy with
      pelvic lymph node dissection for those tumors that are found to have invaded into the
      muscularis propria (Parekh et al 2006). Currently, the standard of care for diagnosing
      bladder cancer involves a combination of flexible cystoscopy and urine cytology, which is
      usually performed after the patient presents with episodes of gross hematuria. Following
      these evaluations, if evidence exists that warrants further investigation for bladder cancer
      a TURBT is performed and accurate staging and grading of the tumor can occur (O'Sullivan et
      al 2012). For those patients who have localized disease and have bladder preservation
      therapies, long term surveillance (in high grade disease this is life-long) is required to
      monitor for recurrence of tumor (Sylvester et al 2006). While cystoscopy has proven to be an
      accurate tool (sensitivity 80%) in the surveillance of bladder cancer, it is nonetheless a
      highly invasive procedure (Jocham et al 2008). In addition, urine cytology, which has served
      as the traditional adjunct to cystoscopy operates with a modest degree of sensitivity and
      therefore potential to deliver false negatives where malignant cells are not seen and false
      positives for bladder cancer in patients with an acute or chronically inflamed urothlelium
      (Grossman et al 2005). This leaves room for the development of a diagnostic test that is able
      to deliver results with the specificity of cystoscopy but without the potential for false
      negatives seen with urine cytology.

      Recently, studies have shown that certain genetic markers exist that accompany the occurrence
      of bladder cancer and can accurately discriminate between bladder tumors and normal tissue.
      These genetic markers also show promise in being able to deliver additional information
      regarding the disease state of this cancer, such the stage and grade of the tumor (Dyrskjot
      et al 2003; Dyrskjot et al 2005; Thykjaer et al 2001). The informative nature of these mRNA
      expression profiles, along with the frequency with which tumor exfoliation into the urine
      occurs, has led to the development of a urine-based test that has the potential to diagnose
      and stratify bladder cancer. This urine test, known as Cxbladder Monitor, was developed by
      Pacific Edge Limited and is able to perform a combinatory analysis of the expression profiles
      of five genetic biomarkers (IGF, HOXA, MDK, CDC and IL8R gene expression) and two clinical
      variables (whether the previous tumor was primary or recurrent and the time since the
      previous tumor was resected). This test has the potential, with further testing, to produce a
      consolidated diagnostic score that is able to accurately risk stratify a given patient for
      recurrence of bladder cancer based on tumor characteristics. The five genetic markers include
      CDC2 (a gene involved in cell cycle activity and DNA synthesis) (O'Sullivan et al 2012),
      HOXA13 (transcription factor involved in morphogenesis and differentiation of the
      genitourinary tract) (Scott et al 2005), IGFBP5 (affects processes such as such as
      development, differentiation, and cellular survival) (Beattie et al 2006), MDK (a heparin
      binding growth factor expressed during embryogenesis) (Kadomatsu et al 2004), and CXCR2 which
      is expressed in neutrophils and is increased in non-malignant, inflammatory conditions. This
      marker is essential as it is helpful in reducing the risk of false positive results in
      patients with an inflamed urothelium (O'Sullivan et al 2012). The Cxbladder test is able to
      take into account the expression of all these relevant genetic markers and analyze their
      expression profiles and interactions via a 2 way linear discriminate algorithm to form a
      score that is able to predict the recurrence of bladder cancer. The success of these
      preliminary studies with Cxbladder show that it has a strong potential to be used as a
      alternate to urine cytology and challenge cytology's routine accompaniment to cystoscopy.
      More importantly, the use of Cxbladder in the surveillance patient has the potential to
      decrease the frequency with which cystoscopy would need to be performed, adjudicate equivocal
      cystoscopy and cytology atypia.
    
  