
    
      Fabry disease is a progressive, inherited, multisystemic lysosomal storage disease
      characterized by specific neurological, cutaneous, renal, cardiovascular, cochleo-vestibular
      and cerebrovascular manifestations.

      Annual incidence is reported to be 1 in 80,000 live births but this figure may underestimate
      disease prevalence. When late-onset variants of the disease are considered, a prevalence of
      approximately 1 in 3,000 has been suggested. Fabry disease is pan-ethnic.

      Fabry disease is a disorder of glycosphingolipid metabolism caused by deficient or absent
      lysosomal alpha-galactosidase A activity related to mutations in the GLA gene (Xq21.3-q22)
      encoding the alpha-galactosidase A enzyme. Deficient activity results in accumulation of
      globotriaosylceramide (Gb3) within lysosomes, believed to trigger a cascade of cellular
      events.

      Fabry disease is transmitted as an X-linked trait. The existence of atypical, late-onset,
      variants and the availability of specific therapy complicate genetic counseling.

      The clinical picture covers a wide spectrum ranging from mild cases in heterozygous females,
      to severe cases in classically affected hemizygous males with no residual alpha-galactosidase
      A activity. These patients may have all the characteristic neurological (pain), cutaneous
      (angiokeratoma), renal (proteinuria, kidney failure), cardiovascular (cardiomyopathy,
      arrhythmia), cochleo-vestibular (hearing loss and vertigo) and cerebrovascular (transient
      ischemic attacks, strokes) symptoms of the disease.

      Female patients may have very mild to severe symptoms. Pain is a common early symptom of
      Fabry disease (chronic pain characterized by burning and tingling paresthesia and occasional
      episodic crises characterized by agonizing burning pain). Pain may resolve in adulthood.

      Anhidrosis or hypohidrosis may occur causing heat and exercise intolerance. Other signs
      include corneal changes ("cornea verticilata"), Definitive laboratory diagnosis involves
      demonstration of marked enzyme deficiency in hemizygous males. Enzyme analysis may
      occasionally help to detect heterozygotes but is often inconclusive due to random
      X-chromosomal inactivation, making molecular testing (genotyping) of females mandatory.

      With age, progressive damage to vital organ systems develops, possibly leading to organ
      failure. End-stage renal disease and life-threatening cardiovascular or cerebrovascular
      complications limit the life-expectancy .

      New methods, like mass-spectrometry give a good chance to characterize specific metabolic
      alterations in the blood of affected patients that allow diagnosing in the future the disease
      earlier, with a higher sensitivity and specificity.

      Therefore it is the goal of the study to identify and validate a new biochemical marker from
      the blood of the affected patients helping to benefit other patients by an early diagnose and
      thereby with an earlier treatment.
    
  