
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, you will have a single sample (8-10 teaspoons) of
      blood collected, depending upon current health status. The blood will be drawn at MD
      Anderson. If you cannot come to the clinic, a blood drawing kit will be sent to the your
      home, which will include instructions and a postage-paid return express mail envelope.
      Phlebotomy charges connected to this study will be paid by the study. The blood sample will
      be sent to a research laboratory at MD Anderson for analyses. If you are unwilling or unable
      to give a blood sample, you can give a saliva sample instead. In this case, a kit will be
      mailed to you with instructions for obtaining the saliva sample. A prepaid envelope will be
      included for its return. Participants who previously participated in Protocol PA11-0567 and
      provided a blood sample do not need to provide another blood sample. The previously stored
      blood sample collected by Protocol PA11-0567 may be used.

      You will be asked to answer a series of questions. These questions will ask about foods eaten
      either one year ago or one year before the first diagnosis of cancer. There will also be
      questions about cooking methods as well as overall health, and vitamin and medication use.
      Some of the questions are personal, but all answers will be kept strictly private.

      The questionnaire will be sent to your home via U.S. or express mail. It may take several
      hours to complete the survey, but there is no time limit on its completion. There are no
      right or wrong answers to the questions. A postage-paid return envelope will be provided for
      the return of the questionnaire.

      Solid tumor material and colonoscopy specimens of normal tissue will be collected from
      participants requiring either colonoscopy or surgery for routine clinical reasons. The tumor
      fragments will be collected from specimens. Tissue required for a clinical pathology
      diagnosis will not be used for research purposes.

      This is an investigational study. About 2,000 patients and family members will take part in
      this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  