
    
      The corneal surface is comprised of a unique type of non-keratinized epithelial cell. These
      cells are arranged in an orderly fashion, which is essential for vision by maintaining the
      transparency of the visual axis.

      Chemical injury and pterygia may damage the limbus, the zone between the cornea and the
      bulbar conjunctiva, and cause limbal stem cell (LSC) deficiency. They represent major
      treatable causes of vision loss worldwide. A shortage of corneal donor tissue prevents many
      patients from regaining vision, necessitating new treatment strategies to circumvent this
      limitation. Transplantation of stem cells represents an appealing therapeutic strategy in
      regenerative medicine, and the use of endogenous stem cells provides a possible solution to
      the problem of immune rejection.

      Currently, LASIK (laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis) is the most commonly performed laser
      vision correction procedure in the world (over 10 million surgeries each year); however, it
      has a major disadvantage in that it weakens corneal integrity and structure and predisposes
      to complications such as keratectasia or keratoconus (bulging of the cornea) and vision loss.
      An alternative is photo-refractive keratectomy (PRK), which removes the corneal epithelium
      and anterior stroma while minimizing the incidence of keratectasia or keratoconus. The
      primary drawbacks of PRK are that it requires a longer recovery time (the corneal epithelium
      must regenerate from the patient's own LSCs) and may result in blurry vision and pain due to
      corneal pain nerve fiber exposure after removal of the epithelium. Coverage of exposed
      corneal stroma tissue immediately after surgery with LSC-derived corneal epithelial cells
      will solve this key bottleneck and make laser eye surgery safer and more comfortable for
      millions of people.

      It is known that corneal renewal and repair are mediated by stem cells in the limbus.
      Autologous LSC transplantation has been reported previously (Rama et al.). However, mouse
      feeder cells were required to expand LSCs in culture. We have successfully developed a
      feeder-free, chemically defined medium in which to expand LSCs. These expanded LSCs can
      repair and regenerate corneal surfaces (Ouyang et al., in press).

      Hypothesis: The trial will demonstrate whether a new technique, transplantation of LSCs
      expanded from limbal tissue of the uninjured eye, can improve the visual function of patients
      with unilateral corneal ocular surface disease. In addition, it will show whether there is
      more rapid recovery and improved visual outcomes following PRK if expanded LSCs are used to
      cover the cornea. The study will also compare the incidence of complications and characterize
      visual outcomes in patients treated with the new technique versus the control technique.
    
  