
    
      Approval of the study was obtained from the local IRB. Prospective volunteers had had an
      infertility workup including blood hormone levels (FSH, LH, E2, Progesterone, Prolactin, and
      Thyroid), partner's semen analysis, HSG, laparoscopy or hydrosonogram, plus a baseline
      evaluation including ultrasound of ovaries and uterus performed as standard of care. If the
      results of these tests and the remaining Inclusion/Exclusion criteria were met, the study
      consent was reviewed with participants and signatures were obtained. Participants contacted
      the clinic at the start of their menses (spontaneous or progesterone-induced) to start the
      treatment cycle. Eligibility criteria was reviewed, and Letrozole 2.5-7.5 mg day 3-7 was
      initiated based on BMI and prior response. An ultrasound was performed on cycle day 11 or 12
      and repeated if needed to determine response until at least 1 follicle with mean diameter >
      17mm in size was observed. When the appropriate follicle size was reached, participants were
      randomized into one of the two treatment groups as determined by a randomization table, and
      Ovidrel (250mcg) was administered. If there was no response identified by follicle growth on
      day 21, the participant was considered a letrozole failure, the cycle was stopped, and the
      participant was dropped from the study and was not included in subsequent cycles.

      IUI/TI was performed at 24-48 hours after the Ovidrel (hCG) injection. If the participant was
      randomized to progesterone (Crinone), the luteal phase was supplemented once daily with
      vaginal progesterone (Crinone 8%) starting the second day after the IUI or TI and continued
      for 14 days. A urine or serum pregnancy test was performed as standard of care 16 days after
      the IUI/TI. If the test was positive, a confirmatory blood level (βhCG) was performed as
      standard of care X2 (1 week apart) and an ultrasound on post-hCG day 35-42 was done. Any
      pregnancies occurring in either treatment group were followed for delivery outcomes.
      Information regarding the delivery (induced, vaginal, cesarean section), date of birth,
      infant measurements (weight and length) and other important information regarding the
      infant's condition was obtained. Participants were allowed to undergo up to 3 cycles of
      letrozole as the pregnancy rates for the first 3 cycles have been shown to be similar. The
      participants were re-randomized each cycle. If the participant was pregnant, Crinone (8%) was
      continued until 10 weeks gestation in both groups.

      Each participant was able to proceed with up to 3 cycles (consecutively, if desired) of OI
      over the next 6 months and was re-randomized each cycle.
    
  