
    
      Over the last three decades, a steady shift has occurred in the management of breast cancer.
      Because it was traditionally viewed as a local disease, many advocated the use of radical
      surgery to achieve maximum survival benefit. This view has been slowly replaced by a broader
      biologic view that recognizes the often systemic nature of breast cancer, even when it
      appears to be localized to the breast. Results from randomized clinical trials have
      demonstrated that less extensive surgery or lumpectomy plus radiation therapy are optimal for
      local management of early breast cancer. In addition to the less radical approach to surgical
      treatment of breast cancer, other randomized clinical trials established the value of
      postoperative (adjuvant) systemic therapy in improving overall survival by eradicating
      micrometastatic disease, the major cause of mortality from breast cancer. An improved
      survival has been shown from using chemotherapy as well as the antiestrogen tamoxifen in the
      adjuvant setting and has been confirmed through the overview analyses from the Early Breast
      Cancer Trialist Collaborative Group. Despite the well-documented benefits of adjuvant
      systemic therapy, it is not effective in preventing death from breast cancer in all patients
      who are candidates for such treatment. The worth of such therapy can only be judged in
      retrospect upon disease relapse, a time when breast cancer is nearly always incurable.
      Currently, there are few reliable methods to predict the success or failure of a particular
      postoperative treatment modality and better ways to predict and optimize outcome are needed.
      Preoperative (primary, neoadjuvant) systemic therapy is an alternative approach that is based
      on a strong rationale. With the tumor still in place and directly accessible, this form of
      therapy allows direct observation of response to treatment which may predict the likelihood
      of controlling distant micrometastatic disease and also enables the sampling of tissue to
      explore molecular correlates of response and also the mechanisms of action of therapeutic
      agents. Furthermore, it allows early identification of patients with refractory disease who
      might benefit from alternative treatments before they develop macrometastatic disease and
      miss the opportunity for a cure. Primary systemic therapy can also help facilitate surgery
      and debulking of disease in those patients with initially inoperable tumors, as well as
      improve the odds of breast conservation.

      A pivotal trial that established the role of preoperative systemic therapy was the NSABP
      trial B-187. In this trial, women with localized breast cancer were randomized to receive
      Adriamycin, Cytoxan (AC) either preoperatively or postoperatively. There was no difference
      between the two groups in disease-free and overall survival. Furthermore, quantifying tumor
      response preoperatively allowed prediction of patient outcome in terms of disease-free and
      overall survival. Specifically, patients achieving a pathologic complete response, i.e.,
      complete disappearance of invasive cancer on pathologic examination, had the best outcome,
      establishing the role of response as a valid surrogate predictor of the sensitivity of
      distant micrometastatic disease to chemotherapy and subsequent clinical outcome. In addition,
      breast-conserving surgery was more frequently performed in the preoperative treatment group,
      an advantage over the postoperative treatment approach. Most importantly, however, NSABP
      trial B-18 showed conclusively that primary systemic therapy is safe and does not place
      patients at a disadvantage by delaying primary surgical treatment. Another large, multicenter
      prospective trial conducted by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer
      (EORTC) confirmed the findings of NSABP trial B-18.

      Primary study objective:

        -  To determine the clinical response rate of primary breast cancer to the combination of
           Arimidex, Faslodex, and Iressa

      Secondary study objectives:

        -  To study molecular changes in response to treatment

        -  To determine the pathologic response rate

        -  To assess the tolerability and safety of the combination regimen
    
  