
    
      This is a double blinded randomized study. All patients will receive one form of local
      anesthetic pain relief either from TAP or infiltration. Patients will be randomized to one of
      two study arms in a double-blinded, placebo controlled study. All patients will receive a TAP
      infiltration and all patients will receive infiltration into the incision.

      In one arm the TAP infiltration will contain 10 mL of 0.25 % bupivacaine with epinephrine
      injected followed by 20 mL of a 50:50 mixture of liposomal bupivacaine and normal saline.
      This will then be repeated on the contralateral side. In the same arm the surgeon
      infiltration into the incision will consist of 10 ml of normal saline per port site, 5 ml
      prior to incision and 5 ml prior to closure at each port site.

      In the second arm the bilateral TAP infiltration will consist of 30 mL of normal saline per
      side. In the same arm the surgeon infiltration will consist of 10 mL of 0.25% bupivacaine per
      port site. The surgeon infiltration will consist of 5 ml of 0.25% bupivacaine prior to
      incision and 5 ml of 0.25% bupivacaine prior to closure at each port site.

      A TAP infiltration is an injection of local anesthetic under the covering of the transversus
      abdominis muscle layer which provides effective post operative analgesia.2-5 This layer is
      found using an ultrasound, which is a beam of high frequency sound that allows one to
      visualize images in the body. Then using this ultrasound the investigators can see our needle
      as it pierces the covering of the transversus abdominis muscle layer and watch as the local
      anesthetic is infiltrated into this plane. This is done on both sides of the abdomen to
      provide analgesia to the skin, muscle, and facial layers of the abdomen. This is currently
      standard of care at our institution and will be performed within one hour of surgical
      incision. The injection will consist of 10 mL of 0.25% bupivacaine with epinephrine followed
      by 20 mL of liposomal bupivacaine saline mixture or 10 ml of saline followed by 20 ml of
      saline and then repeated on the contralateral side.

      Surgical Infiltration of the study solution will be performed both prior to incision and at
      the end of surgery just prior to closure of incisions. At each time, the surgeon will inject
      5 mL of 0.25% bupivacaine into each of the port site incisions.

      Investigational Drug Service (IDS) pharmacy will be charged with the blinding of medications
      vs. saline for these procedures.

      Following the procedure, all individuals will receive scheduled acetaminophen (1 gram every 6
      hours), scheduled ibuprofen (800 mg every 8 hours), and PRN oxycodone 5-10mg q4h if pain is
      rated at more than 5 out of 10 on a numerical pain scale.
    
  