
    
      The study will investigate digoxin to inhibit the hypoxic response in congenital
      erythrocytosis due to germ line mutations that result in up-regulated hypoxia sensing. These
      forms of congenital erythrocytosis, characterized by augmented levels of hypoxia inducible
      factor (HIF)-1 and/or HIF-2, are due to mutations of VHL (von Hippel Lindau), EGLN1 (encoding
      prolyl hydroxylase 2 [PHD2]) and EPAS1 (endothelial PAS domain-containing protein 1)
      (encoding HIF-2α). In addition to a high hematocrit, patients have thrombotic complications
      and early mortality that are not improved by phlebotomy therapy. There is no effective
      therapy. Digoxin, long used to treat congestive heart failure, is a potent inhibitor of the
      master hypoxia-inducible transcription factor, HIF-1, and likely HIF-2.

      VHL mutations- 15 known patients in the US, 55 in Western Europe, 150 in Chuvashia, in Ischia
      and 11 in India.4 Chuvash erythrocytosis (CE), endemic in the Chuvash Republic of Russia and
      the Italian island of Ischia, is due to homozygosity for a missense mutation of VHL (VHL
      c.598C>T; VHL R200W). VHL R200W impairs interactions of VHL with HIF-α subunits, reducing
      their ubiquitin-mediated destruction. HIF-1 and HIF-2 heterodimers increase, leading to
      increased expression of their target genes, including erythropoietin (EPO). In addition, CE
      erythroid progenitors are hypersensitive to EPO, the explanation of which is not known. In
      pilot studies this hypersensitivity is inhibited by digoxin. CE patients are prone to develop
      thrombosis and early mortality that is independent of the increase in hematocrit. This
      phenotype is different from the dominantly inherited VHL tumor predisposition syndrome
      mutations that in combination with acquired somatic mutations result in tumorigenesis. Other
      homozygous and compound heterozygous VHL mutations that cause erythrocytosis but not tumors
      have been described.

      EGLN1 (Egl-9 family hypoxia inducible factor 1) mutations- 5 patients in the US. and 21 in
      Europe. PHD2 (encoded by the EGLN1 gene) is, along with VHL, a principal negative regulator
      of HIFs. It targets HIF-α subunits for degradation. The first loss-of-function mutation of
      PHD2 (PHD2 P317R) was identified in a family in which heterozygotes had mild or borderline
      erythrocytosis. Since then, 25 additional patients with unexplained erythrocytosis who are
      heterozygote carriers of different PHD2 mutations have been reported. Almost all patients
      with PHD2-associated erythrocytosis have normal EPO levels.

      EPAS1 mutations- 20 known patients in the US and approximately 100 in Europe. Affected
      patients have heterozygous missense mutations in the coding sequence of the EPAS1 gene
      encoding HIF-2α that result in gain-of function of HIF-2 and elevated EPO levels. There is
      heterogeneity in these gain-of-function EPAS1 mutations, but their existence supports the
      critical role of HIF-2 in controlling the expression of renal EPO.

      Digoxin as an agent to inhibit HIFs. Digoxin, a common and readily available FDA-approved
      drug for treatment of congestive heart failure, was found to inhibit HIF-dependent gene
      transcription by ~90% at a concentration of 0.4 μM; it also inhibits HIF-1α protein
      translation and blocks HIF-1 activity in vivo. Doses of digoxin that prevent and treat murine
      hypoxic pulmonary hypertension partially protect from hypoxia-induced erythrocytosis. These
      doses lead to plasma digoxin levels in mice that are at or below the therapeutic range for
      humans. In unpublished data, therapeutic doses of digoxin diminished exaggerated
      erythropoiesis in vitro in a CE subject.

      The study hypothesizes that pharmacologic doses and levels of digoxin will decrease
      hemoglobin and hematocrit, decrease need for phlebotomy, decrease the propensity to
      thrombosis and decrease pulmonary pressure in patients with erythrocytosis due to upregulated
      hypoxic responses. The proposed study is conducted under IND138480 and is approved by the
      FDA.

      Aim 1. Determine if digoxin is safe and will decrease EPO, hemoglobin concentration and
      pulmonary pressure in patients with congenital erythrocytosis due to up-regulated hypoxia
      sensing.

      Aim 2. Determine if digoxin will decrease purified blood cell lineage transcription and
      reduce plasma levels of the products of pro-thrombotic genes up-regulated by the hypoxic
      response, including IL1B (interleukin-1 beta), THBS1 (thrombospondin), EGR1 (early growth
      response 1), NLRP3 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 3), SERPINE1 (serpin family E member
      1), and F3 (tissue factor).

      Aim 3. In a corollary study, determine if in vivo achievable digoxin concentrations abrogate
      in vitro erythroid progenitor EPO hypersensitivity of mutations other than VHL R200W, and if
      HIF-2α inhibitors (already in clinical trials) abrogate erythroid progenitor EPO
      hypersensitivity alone or in combination with digoxin.

      In summary, this proposal provides an unprecedented opportunity to identify inexpensive
      therapy for rare forms of erythrocytosis due to up-regulated hypoxia sensing for which there
      is now no safe, effective therapy. As such, this proposal fully coincides with the goals of
      the FDA's Orphan Products Program. The research will also help define the role of hypoxia in
      common maladies of mankind including chronic mountain sickness, obstructive sleep apnea, deep
      vein thrombosis, cancer associated thrombosis and pulmonary hypertension.
    
  