
    
      Chronic Renal Failure (CRF); The result of a decrease in the glomerular filtration value is
      defined as a chronic and progressive deterioration in the fluid-solute balance of the kidney
      and metabolic-endocrine functions. CRF is an irreversible, progressive disease involving many
      systems. Its treatment is kidney transplant or dialysis. CRF affects 10-15% of adults
      worldwide. In other words, one out of every six adults has CRF. CRF rate in the general adult
      population in Turkey is 15.7%. According to the data of the Turkish Nephrology Association,
      renal replacement therapy (RRT) is applied to a total of 77,311 patients in our country as of
      the end of 2017. The most common (76%) applied RRT type is hemodialysis treatment. In
      individuals receiving hemodialysis treatment, nausea-vomiting, weakness, fatigue, itching,
      fluid-solute imbalances, hypotension and pain can be seen due to uremia. This situation
      reduces the functionality of the patient and the limitation of physical activities brings
      physical and psycho-social effects with it. The dependence of the person on the dialysis
      machine, the healthcare team and the family in the treatment programs that last three days a
      week, an average of four hours a day, affects the personal lives of the patients. It can be
      said that nursing care and education are of great importance in resolving the existing or
      potential problems of patients whose CRF result is due to hemodialysis, and in adapting
      patients to life with their disease. It is the nursing theories that will guide these
      attempts of nurses. Because nursing theories interpret and define the profession; thus
      helping nurses in training, practice, research activities as a professional. Nursing Model of
      Roper, Logan-Tierney (RLT), one of the important theories of nursing, is based on the life
      model. In this model, the main purpose of nursing is to ensure that people are informed so
      that they can lead a quality and healthy life. In the "Nursing Model" developed by RLT based
      on the Life Model, they focused on providing nursing care based on human characteristics,
      believed in the necessity of observations and measurable events and activities, and based
      their nursing services on these beliefs. This model, which can be integrated into all service
      areas of the health care system and handles individual-centered care with a humanistic and
      holistic approach, supports the participation of the individual in care. It is predicted that
      the patient education program created using the Nursing Model of RLT will support the
      increase of the independence levels and self-care abilities of individuals who receive
      hemodialysis treatment. In this study, it is planned to evaluate the effect of the education
      given to individuals receiving hemodialysis based on Roper, Logan-Tierney's Nursing Model on
      the level of independence and self-care ability in daily living activities.

      Research for the development of the nursing profession contributes to the knowledge of
      nursing science by developing and testing nursing models / theories. In the literature, it is
      seen that the use of the Nursing Model of RLT is limited only by mentioning the content of
      the theory in certain parts of the study rather than reflecting it on the whole study. There
      are no extensive explanations about the model and enough information about how it can be used
      in practice. It has been determined that postgraduate studies conducted using the Nursing
      Model of RLT are mostly descriptive studies. However, nursing theories and models should be
      used effectively in research and practice. When the studies on individuals who receive
      hemodialysis treatment are examined, it has been determined that the use of the Nursing Model
      of RLT is very low. It is predicted that the patient education program created using this
      Nursing Model will support the increase of the independence levels and self-care abilities of
      individuals who receive hemodialysis treatment.

      At the end of the patient education program based on the Nursing Model of RLT, individuals
      who receive hemodialysis treatment will increase their independence levels and self-care
      abilities in daily living activities. It will be ensured that caregiving healthcare
      professionals perform hemodialysis treatment with less stress.
    
  