
    
      The bases of parental sensitivity and infants' joint attention skills are probably
      established during the child's first year of life. Research suggests that the quality of
      early social interaction is related to children's later development and mental health.
      Preterm infants are at risk for developing interaction disturbances in the first year of
      life, and such aberrancies often lay the foundation for later problems of adaptation.
      Following preterm birth the infant is exposed to an atypical extra uterine environment. In
      such an environment it is hard for an immature brain to modulate the infant's behaviour
      properly.

      Under such circumstances there are several factors to consider. The disturbances that may be
      seen later may be mediated and moderated by the infant's state, parental circumstances and
      conditions in the hospital environment. Parents of preterm infants experience interruption of
      normal pregnancy and may be in a difficult emotional state after preterm birth, and often
      they are not prepared for their role as parents. They are also vulnerable to stress and
      worries concerning survival of their baby. These conditions are assumed to have a negative
      influence on the social interaction between preterm infant and parents, and can make it
      difficult for the caretakers to adapt to their low birth weight infant and to engage in
      social interaction with their baby.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of a neonatal intervention program
      (Vermont-intervention) on parental sensitivity and the interaction skills between parents and
      preterm babies in the first year of life. The intervention is based on a transactional model
      of development, which emphasizes the mutual regulation and interaction going on between a
      child and its caretakers over time.

      The study is a randomized controlled trial in a NICU environment. 100 preterm children born
      between 30 and 36 weeks of gestation are randomly assigned to a control group and an
      experimental group. The intervention is the Mother Infant Transaction Program (MITP) called
      the Vermont intervention. In addition, 50 full term normal-weight infants are recruited into
      a full term control group. The work of recruitment and randomizing of the 150 families to the
      three groups is carried out by a paediatric research assistant who will also be responsible
      for the organization and implementation of the interventions at hospital and at home after
      discharge from hospital. To the extent it is possible, the nurse researcher is not supposed
      to recognize the group identity of the participants in the three groups when administering
      questionnaires and scoring video recordings of social interaction and joint attention between
      mother and child at ages 6, 9 and 12 months.
    
  