
    
      Introduction: chronic shoulder pain is a frequent consequence after breast cancer treatment
      with a reported prevalence of 25% to 60% and is commonly termed "Persistent Pain after Breast
      Cancer Treatment" (PPBCT). Frequently, PPBCT includes neuropathic pain due to damage of
      neural tissue during surgery. However, recent studies, consider that myofascial pain syndrome
      and heightened mechanosensitivity of neural tissue can be also present in this women.
      Although PPBCT is typically managed with pharmacological treatment,currently, physiotherapy
      is presented as an alternative method. Physiotherapy in relation to the shoulder, commonly,
      focuses its treatment with therapeutic exercise. In this sense, there is great controversy
      about which are the most appropriate exercises. Recent authors, bet for more precise and
      analytical exercises in relation with scapula and reject conventional exercises for the
      shoulder. Taking into account each of the sources of pain presented by these women and the
      benefits of therapeutic exercise, it would be interesting to study which approach of
      physiotherapy treatment would be more appropriate in these women.

      Subjects and methods: A randomized clinical trial, the examiner being blinded unaware of the
      intervention group to which subjects were assigned. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      three groups:

      An experimental group, where the participants will be treated with Multimodal Physiotherapy;

      Another experimental group where will be realized Scapular Exercises only;

      And a third group where will be done Shoulder Conventional Exercises.

      Pre- intervention, immediate post-intervention, 3, and 6 months assessments will be made. The
      selection criteria will be: women with peripheral persistent pain following breast cancer
      treatment (surgery and/or radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy) with pain for at least 6 months.
      The participants must understand and sign freely Informed Consent.

      Sample size: 30 women for each group.

      Data Analysis: A descriptive analysis of all variables will be performed. It will be
      established for all cases a confidence level of 95% (p <0.05). The effectiveness will be
      assessed by comparing the experienced change of the three goups in outcome variables between
      physicaltherapy examinations.
    
  