
    
      The research content PD patients admitted to the Department of Neurology of our hospital from
      January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2022 were evaluated according to the assessment criteria for
      Asian sarcopenia patients (pre-sarcopenia, sarcopenia stage and severe sarcopenia stage), and
      the muscle mass, muscle strength and functional status of each patient were recorded. To
      understand the current situation of sarcopenia in PD patients, and to clarify the correlation
      between sarcopenia and the course and severity of disease in Parkinson's disease patients,
      and actively look for the influencing factors that can be intervened to guide the development
      of nursing intervention measures.

      The research target This project through the cross-sectional survey of Parkinson's disease
      less muscle disease prevalence situation, further clear according to Parkinson's disease
      staging classification muscle disease prevalence, less and less by Logistic regression
      analysis to investigate the muscle disease and Parkinson's disease progression and the
      correlation between the severity of disease, for further implementation of PD patients with
      less muscle disease provide guidance on the basis of nursing intervention strategies.

      The problem to be solved Dyskinesia, static tremor, and myotonia are common features of
      Parkinson's disease, which contribute to the loss of function and independence of Parkinson's
      patients. The methods used for the assessment of sarcopenia in the general population (such
      as the inability to measure walking speed and muscle strength) may not be applicable to PD
      patients, so it is necessary to consult clinical experts and teachers in the implementation
      process of the project.

      Future research ideas

        1. Through a large sample size cross-sectional survey, this project clarified the
           prevalence of sarcopenia in Parkinson's disease patients, collected data to clarify
           related preventive measures to reduce the disease burden, and provided theoretical basis
           for further implementation of nursing intervention strategies in the future.

        2. To conduct further multicenter and cross-sectional investigation and study in the
           future, so as to better define the correlation between Parkinson's disease and
           sarcopenia.

        3. To gradually develop sarcopenia assessment criteria for patients with Parkinson's
           disease.

      1. Research method, technical route and schedule The research methods Study Design This study
      was a cross-sectional survey Subjects: PD patients who were admitted to the outpatient and
      inpatient departments of the Department of Neurology of our hospital on January 1, 2021 and
      December 31, 2022 were evaluated by H-Y grading scale and UPDRS-3 scale. Obtain basic patient
      information by consulting patient's medical records or asking patient's family members.

      Included in the standard

      1) Meets MDS-2015 diagnostic criteria for Parkinson's disease; 2) The patient can stand
      independently; 3) Informed consent of patients and their families. Exclusion criteria

      1) Parkinson's disease syndrome caused by cerebrovascular diseases, encephalitis and trauma;
      2) Progressive nuclear ascending paralysis, multiple system atrophy, Lewy body dementia and
      other Parkinson's superposition syndrome; 3) severe physical disease; 4) diseases of the
      digestive system; 5) wasting diseases such as infection and tumor 6) with severe mental
      illness or cognitive impairment. Withdrawal criteria The patient requested withdrawal.
      According to the literature, the incidence of sarcopenia in Parkinson's disease patients was
      30.6%, the allowable error was 3%, the confidence was 0.95, and the qualified rate of the
      questionnaire was 90%. Combined with the above data, the sample size was calculated to be 908
      cases.

      Research tools and evaluation indicators Patients' basic information was obtained by
      consulting patients' cases or inquiring patients' family members through self-developed
      patients' basic information table.

        1. General information: gender, age and course of disease of the patient

        2. Nutrition status assessment: height, weight, triceps skin fold thickness, leg
           circumference, diet, MNA scale

        3. Parkinson's disease symptom assessment H-Y scale, Parkinson's disease non-motor symptom
           rating scale (NMSS), bell drawing test

        4. Patients were screened using the calf circumference and SARC-F questionnaire.<SARC-F> is
           a simple patient-assessed screening questionnaire, which includes 5 items in total,
           including strength, assisted walking, standing up, stair climbing, and the number of
           falls in a year. A total score of 4 or more was considered positive.

           Sarcopenia evaluation

        5. Evaluation of muscle mass Bioelectrical independence analysis (BIA) was used to evaluate
           the patient's muscle mass (male <7.0kg/m2, female <5.7kg/m2)

        6. Muscle strength assessment Hand-held gripper was used to measure the patient's main
           hand. When measuring grip strength, let the patient exert his hand at a constant speed
           to the maximum, and avoid visual feedback and verbal stimulation during exertion.
           Posture: 1) Standing posture: feet naturally on the ground, arms naturally droop; 2)
           Sitting posture: shoulder adducted neutral position, elbow flexed 90 degrees, upper arm
           flat with chest, forearm in neutral position; 3) Prostrate: the upper arm ababducts, the
           elbow is straight, and the body is 30 degrees, the forearm is neutral, the jaws up to
           hold the gripper, the lower end of the gripper is supported on the bed, the upper limb
           joints can not be flexed, moved, the gripper can not contact the body or press down.

           The AWGS 2019 recommended diagnostic threshold for grip strength for sarcopenia is less
           than 28.0kg for men and less than 18.0kg for women.

        7. Physical function AWGS recommends the use of the 6M walking test, 5 times sitting up
           test to assess physical function. The time required to walk 6m at a normal pace from the
           beginning of the movement, without acceleration or deceleration halfway, and measured at
           least 2 times to record the average speed. The bound value is 1.0m/s. If the patient was
           unable to walk independently, a five-time sitting test was used to replace the walking
           test, with a threshold of ≥12s.

      Data statistics

      1) The prevalence of sarcopenia in PD patients was statistically analyzed; 2) The prevalence
      of sarcopenia in PD patients stratified by age, sex and H-Y; 3) Correlation between
      sarcopenia and other factors using Logistic regression model.5. Main innovations

        1. Currently, there are few studies on the prevalence of sarcopenia in PD patients at home
           and abroad, and most of them are small sample size studies.

        2. The prevalence of sarcopenia was determined according to the disease stage of PD
           patients.

      6. Expected results and assessment indicators of the project

        1. The prevalence of sarcopenia in PD patients was determined through a cross-sectional
           survey of outpatients with PD.

        2. Logistic regression was used to analyze the correlation between sarcopenia and disease
           course, disease grade and other factors of Parkinson's disease, and to actively seek
           potential causes, especially reversible causes, so as to provide guidance for the
           further implementation of individualized lifestyle intervention (exercise combined
           nutrition) and related health education for sarcopenia.

      Assessment indicators Published 1 paper in the core journal.
    
  