
    
      This study will be a Phase IV, open label, non-randomized efficacy and safety pilot trial in
      patients with AAE and hypertension requiring parenteral antihypertensive therapy. For the
      purpose of this study hypertension is defined as SBP ≥120 mm Hg immediately prior to
      clevidipine administration.

      Patients will be enrolled at the Methodist DeBakey Heart & Vascular Center in Houston, TX.
      Enrollment of approximately 30 patients is anticipated and enrollment will continue until
      this goal is met.

      The study will include three separate periods: Screening Period, Treatment Period (up to 48
      hours) and Follow-up Period (up to 7 days or hospital discharge, whichever occurs first)
      representing approximately a maximum of 7 days on study. Eligible patients will be enrolled
      to receive clevidipine IV antihypertensive treatment (study drug) in an open label manner.

      Clevidipine will be infused at an initial rate of 2 mg/h (4 mL/hr) for the first 3 minutes.
      Thereafter, titration to higher infusion rates can be attempted as needed to obtain the
      target SBP goal < 120 mmHg. Titration to effect is to proceed by doubling the dose every 3
      minutes, up to a maximum of 32 mg/h (64 mL/hr), until the SBP < 120 mmHg is attained.

      If the desired BP lowering effect is not attained with study drug within 1 hour or not
      maintained thereafter, an alternative antihypertensive agent may be used, with or without
      stopping clevidipine IV antihypertensive infusion. The alternative agent should be used per
      institutional treatment practice. During the initial 1 hour of the treatment period, however,
      clevidipine IV antihypertensive treatment should be administered as monotherapy until 1 hour
      post initiation of study drug. The use of an alternative antihypertensive agent(s) is
      discouraged and limited to where medically necessary to maintain patient safety.

      Clevidipine IV antihypertensive infusion may continue for a maximum of 48 hours. However, if
      medically warranted, clevidipine treatment may continue beyond 48 hours at the investigator's
      discretion.
    
  