
    
      CNTO 888 is a monoclonal antibody. Antibodies are substances in the body that are involved in
      many biological processes. CNTO 888 is thought to work by blocking a protein called
      CC-Chemokine Ligand 2 (CCL2). In research studies CCL2 has been shown to increase the growth
      of new blood vessels which help the tumor to survive. When new blood vessels do not grow,
      tumors cannot get the food or oxygen they need to grow. Blocking CCL2 may help fight
      disease.This study consists of two parts, Part A and Part B. In Part A, five different groups
      of patients will be treated with five different, increasing dose levels of CNTO 888. In Part
      B, two of the dose levels of CNTO 888 will be tested further in different treatment
      schedules. CNTO 888 is given by intravenous (into the vein) infusion. Between 1 and 30
      patients with advanced cancer will take part in Part A of the study. Between 24 and 33
      patients with advanced cancer will take part in Part B of the study.There are three phases in
      part A of the study. Screening phase, which may last up to 4 weeks. Treatment phase, which
      may last up to 8 weeks (4 treatments) and can be extended for an extra 9 weeks (4 extra
      treatments) in case the patient's tumor is not getting bigger. The total treatment period
      could be up to 17 weeks. Follow up phase will include an end of treatment visit 4 weeks after
      the last infusion of CNTO 888, visits through week 18 after last infusion as well as long
      term collection of follow up data. After Part A is completed, up to two doses will be
      selected for evaluation in part B. In Part B, patients will be placed into one of 3 study
      groups. There are three phases in Part B of this study. The screening phase, which may last
      up to 4 weeks. The treatment phase, which may last up to 9 weeks (4 treatments). If the
      patient's tumor is not getting bigger, the patient's treatment phase may be extended up to 12
      weeks (4 treatments). The total treatment period could be up to 21 weeks. The follow up phase
      will include an end of treatment visit 4 weeks after the last infusion of CNTO 888, visits
      through week 18 after last infusion as well as long-term collection of follow up data. Safety
      and effectiveness evaluations will be performed at specified intervals throughout the study
      and will consist of laboratory tests, vital signs (such as blood pressure), physical
      examinations and collection of information about the occurrence and severity of adverse
      events. In Part A of this study, patients will receive either 0.3 , 1.0, 3.0, 10, or 15 mg/kg
      CNTO 888. The time between the first and second infusion is 4 weeks, with all of the
      following infusions will be given 2 weeks apart. Patients eligible for Part B will be
      assigned to either the lower dose selected from Part A, given every 2 weeks or the higher
      dose selected from Part A given either every 2 weeks or every 3 weeks. All patients may be in
      the study for 18 weeks after their last infusion.
    
  