
    
      4. Procedures/evaluation of the trial 4.1 Evaluation at entry

      The selected oxidative parameters that will be assessed in this study will be:

      oxidation-reduction potential (ORP) in plasma thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS)
      in plasma protein carbonyls (CO) in plasma total antioxidant capacity in plasma (TAC)

      The inflammatory parameters that will be measured are:

      C-Reactive protein in plasma Brain Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) in whole blood Troponin-I in
      whole blood Soluble CD14 subtype presepsin ( sCD14-ST) in whole blood

      .2. Time of assessment Measurements will be performed within the first 24hours upon entry and
      daily regarding the ORP detection and oxidative markers for a period of 10 days, if sepsis is
      not present.

      In the presence of sepsis diagnosis, measurements will be performed daily until the 7th day
      of the septic episode plus at the time of sepsis resolution or at the point of death and at
      the end of the follow-up period, on the 28th day.

      For the inflammatory markers measurements will be performed as followed:

      C-Reactive protein in plasma daily Brain Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) in whole blood at
      admission and/or sepsis diagnosis and every 72h until resolution/death and on the 28th day.

      Troponin-I in whole blood at admission and/or sepsis diagnosis and during sepsis according to
      heart ultrasound findings and on the 28th day.

      Soluble CD14 subtype presepsin ( sCD14-ST) in whole blood

      4.3. Blood collection and store Arterial blood from an indwelling arterial catheter will be
      drawn from each patient.

      The blood will be kept in a tube with sodium heparin, immediately centrifuged at 1,370g and a
      small portion will be used for the detection of ORP while the remaining fraction will be
      collected and stored at -80o C until further analysis.

      4.4. Assessment of the oxidative markers ORP will be immediately assessed using the device
      RedoxSYS of Luoxis (Ampio Pharmaceuticals Inc, CO, USA) The device reports two measurements
      static ORP, and capacity for every plasma sample [11 ].

      For TBARS, a slightly modified assay of Keles et al. [12 ] will be used, while plasma protein
      carbonyls will be determined based on the method of Patsoukis et al. [13 ]. TAC determination
      will be based on a previously described method [14].

      5. Data collection

      Data to be recorded for each subject are:

      Past medical history Patients wil be divided in medical, surgical and trauma groups.
      (comprising patients with renal disease, diabetes, Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
      coronary artery disease, immunocompromized states, cerebrovascular disease).

      Data to be recorded during ICU stay for each subject, are:

      APACHE II score at entry SOFA score at enry and upon all other timepoints. Sepsis severity
      (sepsis, severe sepsis, septic shock), upon diagnosis and for the rest timepoints.

      In all timepoints:

      Oxygen concentration (FiO2), partial oxygen pressure , mode of mechanical ventilation, static
      compliance, tidal volume.

      Blood pH Blood lactate Levels of vasopressors and inotropes (noradrenaline, adrenaline,
      dopamine, dobutamine, vasopressin. The peak dose will be recorded within the last 24h).

      Temperature (peak value in the last 24h)

      Every day a full blood count and biochemical examinations will take place. Data to be
      recorded in all timepoints are:

      Blood leukocyte count Platelets Fibrinogen Prothrombin time/Partial thromboplastin time
      Urea/Creatinine Transaminases Bilirubin (total, conjugated) Uric acid Blood albumin (every 3
      days).

      In addition :

      Surveillance cultures upon entry. Blood, bronchial secretions, urine cultures at sepsis
      diagnosis and of any other fluid or tissue connected with the sepsis cause according to the
      attending physician. Specimens of all cultures will be repeated during the septic episode
      according to the attending physician's opinion and will also be recorded.
    
  