
    
      Use of polypharmacy has significantly increased over the past two decades, which has unproven
      clinical benefit and increased the risk of drug-drug interactions and adverse side effects.
      Pharmacogenetic assays have the purported benefit of being able to predict response(s) to
      specific medication based on genetic markers. One such assay is the Genecept® Assay produced
      by Genomind, which detects 63 allele polymorphisms of 18 genes. In addition, Genomind has
      developed the Genomind Drug Interaction Guide (G-DIG), which examines drug-drug-gene
      interactions. This computerized decision tool for medication providers uses the genetic
      information from the Genecept® Assay to look at the current medications being utilized to
      determine if there are specific drug-drug interactions that may be relevant given the
      individual's specific genetic test results.

      This is a 12-week open-label, naturalistic study of the provision of pharmacogenetic testing
      information to both providers and patients. Fifty Veterans within the VAPSHCS who are
      prescribed polypharmacy, as defined as five or more medications, with at least two prescribed
      for a mental health diagnosis, and have a sub-optimal treatment effect will be enrolled in
      this study. Participating subjects will sign informed consent and a sample will be obtained
      in order to complete the pharmacogenomic testing. Medication providers who are participating
      in this study will utilize the pharmacogenetic assay results along with the G-DIG tool to
      design an optimized medication regime. The overall global level of symptoms and other patient
      symptoms measures will be administered at baseline, 6-weeks, and 12-weeks. The provider's
      medication plans will be compared before and after the pharmacogenetic assay information is
      provided. Number of medications will be reviewed to determine any reduction in polypharmacy
      and healthcare costs. The clinical global improvement scale (CGI) and patient assessments,
      including measures of depression, anxiety, PTSD, insomnia, pain, drug and alcohol use,
      quality of life, side effects, and medication adherence will be administered at baseline,
      6-weeks, and 12-weeks.
    
  