
    
      A) Right ventricle (RV) in pulmonary hypertension

      RV failure is the main cause of death in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH),
      and the ability of the RV to adapt to the progressive increase in pulmonary vascular
      resistance associated with changes to the pulmonary vasculature in PAH is the main
      determinant of a patient's functional capacity and survival.

      The response of the right ventricle (RV) to the increase in afterload produced by the
      pulmonary vascular changes characteristic of PAH is the key factor in the development of
      symptoms and in determining survival. Structurally, rising systolic and diastolic ventricular
      pressures increase diastolic and systolic stretch on the RV wall, which leads initially to an
      increase in muscle mass (adaptive hypertrophy) due to increased protein synthesis and an
      increase in cardiomyocyte size through the addition of sarcomeres. However, the RV cannot
      maintain adaptive hypertrophy in the face of sustained pressure overload, and eventually
      there is a transition to dilatation. At this stage there is no further increase, or even a
      decrease, in RV contractility, despite a further increase in load. One consequence of RV
      dilatation is an increase in wall tension, which increases myocardial oxygen demand and
      simultaneously decreases RV perfusion, leading to further compromised contractility and
      dilatation.

      The exact mechanisms leading to the development of RV failure in patients with PAH are still
      unclear. Several mechanisms have been hypothesized: RV myocardial ischaemia, microvascular
      endothelial cell dysfunction, and myocyte apoptosis. In severe end-stage PAH, the RV changes
      its shape from the normal conformation to a more spherical one, and RV wall stress increases
      because RV wall thickness does not increase proportionally.

      Given the importance of the RV in PAH, preservation and improvement of its function should be
      important aspects of therapy; however, there are currently few data specifically related to
      this aspect of treatment response.

      B) Vasodilator therapy and RV in pulmonary hypertension Although RV failure is the main cause
      of death in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), there is insufficient data
      about the effects of PAH treatment on RV geometry and function mainly because the RV
      assessment has been hampered by its complex crescentic shape, large infundibulum, and its
      trabecular nature. . This is specifically true for vasodilator therapies. Such therapies may
      affect the RV via direct cardiac-specific effects or indirect effects by reducing RV load. In
      a meta-analysis of clinical studies of PAH-specific therapies, active treatment was
      associated with a reduction in pulmonary vascular resistance which was accompanied by a
      decrease in pulmonary artery pressure, and an increase in stroke volume, but without an
      increase in contractility, suggesting that current PAH therapies have predominantly pulmonary
      vasodilating effects and have limited cardiac-specific effects. In a study of epoprostenol
      therapy, beneficial effects on RV structure and function (RV dilatation, curvature of the
      interventricular septum and maximal tricuspid regurgitant jet velocity) compared with placebo
      were reported following 12 weeks of treatment, with change in 6-min walk distance between
      baseline and 12 weeks being inversely related to the change in diastolic eccentricity index
      and pericardial effusion size. Such improvements may contribute to the clinical improvement
      and prolonged survival observed with epoprostenol in other studies.

      Other evidence of improvements in RV parameters has come from descriptive studies using a
      number of PAH-specific therapies; however, these generally include a small number of
      patients, and this, together with the fact that such studies evaluated different parameters
      (both in terms of functional parameters and measures of RV size/mass), makes the assessment
      of results difficult. longer term studies of epoprostenol have not shown a positive treatment
      effect on RV size/mass although without a comparator arm it is not possible to determine
      whether long-term therapy slowed down the rate of RV hypertrophy or dilatation.

      Overall, therefore, the effects of PAH-specific therapies on RV function remain to be fully
      investigated.

      C) Treprostinil Treprostinil is a tricyclic benzindene analogue of prostacyclin, and has as
      such similar anti-platelet and vasodilatory actions, including acute pulmonary vasodilation.

      Treprostinil, a stable prostacyclin analog, has similar pharmacologic effects to
      epoprostenol, However, in contrast to epoprostenol, treprostinil is chemically stable at room
      temperature and neutral 'power of hydrogen' (pH) and has a longer half-life (elimination
      half-life of 4.5 h with distribution half-life of 40 min, compared with 2 to 3 min for
      epoprostenol) permitting continuous subcutaneous infusion (16). Treprostinil has been shown
      in a large multicenter randomized controlled trial to improve exercise capacity, clinical
      state, functional class, pulmonary hemodynamics, and quality of life in patients with
      pulmonary arterial hypertension.

      D) Assessment of RV with cardiac magnetic resonance imaging Currently, the most widely used
      noninvasive techniques are echocardiography and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging), and a
      number of potential indicators assessed using these methods have been proposed. Cardiac
      magnetic resonance imaging provides a higher spatial resolution, and is not limited by
      factors affecting echocardiography (e.g. acoustic window). Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging
      allows for the visualisation and measurement of complex three-dimensional geometry and it is
      therefore particularly suited to the complex morphology of the RV. Precise, noninvasive
      assessment of cardiac volumes and function is possible, without the need for geometric
      approximations, while assessments such as flow measurements in the heart and great vessels
      using techniques such as cine phase-contrast provide more comprehensive data on cardiac
      function than echocardiography.
    
  