
    
      Analgesia nociception index (ANI) is an objective pain monitoring device, it could measure
      parasympathetic tone base on heart rate variability analysis, which is a way to measure the
      effect of respiratory sinus arrhythmia on heart rate. In the previous studies, ANI had been
      used to predict immediate postoperative pain, intraoperative analgesia in children, and
      intraoperative analgesia in bariatric surgery, which showed ANI can be used to detect
      surgical stimuli, reduce intraoperative consumption of narcotics, and assess immediate
      postoperative pain intensity. However, no publication has mentioned ANI been used in
      low-pressure anesthesia.

      Participants with ASA physical status class I or II, age between 20-65, and body mass index
      less than 35 who would undergo FESS are enrolled and randomly allocated by using
      computer-generated random number table into two groups with equal probability: ANI-guided
      remifentanil titration or remifentanil titration by standard care. Total intravenous
      anesthesia with propofol TCI(target controlled infusion) and remifentanil TCI are used for
      anesthesia maintenance, targeting bispectral index between 40 and 60. The ANI value in
      experimental group would be maintained between 50 and 70. Intraoperative mean arterial
      pressure (MAP) would be targeted at 55-65 mmHg, and calcium channel blocker would be
      administered if MAP could not achieve target despite of propofol and remifentanil titration.

      Participant's demographics, baseline information, type and duration of the operation,
      duration from end of the surgery till participant awaken, ANI value, vital signs, the amount
      of narcotics, anesthetics and antihypertensive medications used, intraoperative blood loss,
      surgeon's satisfaction to the operation field, participant first recorded pain score in
      postoperative recovery room using visual analogue scale, and opioid-associated side effects
      such as nausea, vomiting, pruritis, dizziness in postoperative recovery room, will be
      recorded and analyzed. The statisticians will apply Chi-square for categorical data, T-test
      for continuous data, and multiple regressions analysis. P value less than 0.05 was considered
      statistically significant. Using G-power software to estimate, predicted sample size is 120
      presuming type I error 0.05, power 0.95, and medium effect size.
    
  