
    
      Sepsis is the major cause of death in intensive care unit(ICU). According to the latest
      literature statistics in 2012, the mortality of sepsis was growing at 2% a year in the United
      States, and the average hospitalization costs of septic patients was more than $20000. Sepsis
      has become one of the big challenges to doctors in ICU all over the world. Previous studies
      found that intestinal dysfunction may be the main promoter and stimulating factor of systemic
      inflammatory response syndrome(SIRS), which plays an important role of in the development of
      sepsis to multiple organ dysfunction syndrome(MODS). But at present there is no effective
      treatment of intestinal dysfunction. Nutrient intake is considered part of the resuscitation
      of critical patients. Enteral feedings are considered standard treatment of the critically
      ill patients. A number of study have found enteral feedings could cure intestine dysfunction
      through improving circulation perfusion and oxygen delivery, maintaining intestinal mucosal
      barrier, reconstructing intestinal continuity and adjusting internal environment. Recent
      clinical researches and guidelines pointed out the importance of early enteral nutrition.
      However, guidelines made no mention of how to carry on the feeding method in severe patients,
      and related research is few.The current research mostly thinks, enteral nutrition
      preparations continuously pumped by stomach tube is a more accepted way.The researches cited
      by the guideline showed that the continuous feeding was better than that of intermittent
      feeding. But 24 hours of continuous pumping nutrition preparation will not only cause
      continuous stimulation to the intestinal mucosa, but also lead to gastrointestinal tract have
      not rest time. Some previous studies found intermittent feedings were better than continuous
      feedings to critical patients. So，was intermittent feeding really better? Therefore this
      research will compare the results of different feeding methods of EN: continuously-pumped in
      24 hours, continuously-pumped in 16 hours and intermittently-pumped through the stomach tube.
      Then observe the effects of different feeding methods on intestinal function in septic
      patients so as to offer a more suitable EN feeding method for septic patients.
    
  