
    
      Retinal degenerations are a group of inherited diseases that result in progressive death of
      the vision cells, or photoreceptors. Currently there is no treatment or cure for any of these
      diseases and they ultimately cause blindness in affected patients. We propose to investigate
      the structure and function of the human retina in patients with inherited retinal
      degenerations using the Adaptive Optics Scanning Laser Ophthalmoscope (AOSLO). We will
      correlate the images of retinal structure produced by the AOSLO with Optical Coherence
      Tomography (OCT) images of the retina. In addition, we will study the vision of individual
      photoreceptors using the AOSLO to perform a novel technique, microperimetry, in patients with
      retinal degenerations. We will compare the results of microperimetry with standard measures
      of vision used in Ophthalmology clinics, including visual acuity, automated perimetry, fundus
      photography and multifocal electroretinography (mfERG).

      The results of this work will provide insight into the mechanism of vision loss among
      patients with diverse retinal disorders. Specifically, we will study cone structure and
      function in patients with retinal degenerations with different etiologies: retinitis
      pigmentosa, a disease usually caused by rod-specific mutations; cone-rod dystrophy, which
      primarily affects cones rather than rods; and Best's disease, a disease caused by a defect in
      the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). In addition, we will study the effect that lipofuscin,
      a byproduct of photoreceptor metabolism that accumulates in the RPE in diseases such as
      Stargardt's disease, Best's disease and age-related macular degeneration (AMD), has on cone
      structure and function, with the goal of understanding how these diseases cause blindness.
      Better understanding of the mechanisms of vision loss in patients with retinal degeneration
      should ultimately lead to treatments for these blinding conditions.
    
  