
    
      Study centres and number of patients planned This pilot study will be conducted in
      approximately 24 patients recruited from two hospital-based Danish centres: department of
      Urology K, Aarhus University Hospital, Skejby and department of Urologic Surgery D,
      Rigshospitalet. The recruitment of patients will be competitive among centres. 1-2 months
      before expected LSI it should be discussed if the target accrual should be expanded.

      Study period Phase of development Estimated date of first patient enrolled August 1th 2009 II
      Estimated date of last patient completed July 31th 2012 Total study duration is approximately
      36 months, which includes 12 months' recruitment, 36-month follow-up for safety and final
      survival analysis.

      Objectives

      The primary objective of this study is:

      To assess the safety and tolerability profile of ZD4054 after treatment with chemotherapy

        -  Adverse events

        -  Vital signs

        -  Laboratory data

        -  ECGs

        -  Physical Exam

        -  Death from any cause

      The secondary objectives of the study are:

        1. To investigate the effect of ZD4054 on rate of rise of PSA

        2. To investigate the effect of ZD4054 on prostate cancer related pain

        3. To investigate the effect of ZD4054 on the plasma concentration of circulating tumour
           cells (CTC).

      In addition, Time to Progression and Overall Survival (time to death) will be compared with
      historical data in a post chemotherapy population.

      Study design This is a prospective, Open, One-arm, Phase II clinical safety pilot-study. The
      trial is designed to gain initial safety and efficacy-related data on once-daily orally
      administered ZD4054 10 mg in prior chemotherapy treated patients with metastatic
      hormone-resistant prostate cancer.

      Patients could receive other therapies including prednisolone, estramustine, ketoconazole and
      second-line or third-line antiandrogens at investigator's discretion without being considered
      treatment failures or having to stop study therapy; however every attempt will be made to
      avoid changes in medication for at least 12 weeks to minimise potential for confounding on
      study endpoints over this time period. Chemotherapy and radiation therapy may also be
      administered in addition to study therapy at investigator's discretion after objective
      progression if the patient is considered likely to derive benefit. Patients will be followed
      to death.

      Target patient population A total number of 24 male patients aged 18 years or older with
      metastatic hormone-resistant prostate cancer who have progressive disease (defined by rising
      serum prostate-specific antigen levels despite medical or surgical castration) and previously
      received cytotoxic chemotherapy (docetaxel) for the treatment of HRPC.

      Investigational product, dosage and mode of administration

      Patients will not be randomised and all patients will receive:

      • ZD4054 10 mg given orally, once daily in tablet form. Duration of treatment Patients will
      receive daily ZD4054 as long as they meet no withdrawal criteria. Following completion of 24
      months of ZD4054, patients, who in the investigator's opinion are experiencing benefit from
      study treatment, may continue on ZD4054, for as long as they meet no withdrawal criteria.

      Statistical methods The study is a pilot study designed to collect safety/tolerability data
      and assess markers of efficacy. A total of 24 patients will be recruited into this pilot
      study and this is based primarily on the number of patients that can be recruited in a
      reasonable time period at the centres and should be sufficient to make an initial assessment
      of safety/tolerability and the efficacy markers.

      For the assessment of tolerability and safety, incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs)
      (based on National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 3
      (NCI CTCAE) grading), laboratory values, vital signs, ECGs and physical exam will be
      summarised.

      Secondary endpoints will be presented and analysed to investigate trends in the data. The
      interpretation of the analyses will consider the number of assessments being undertaken.

      Pain will be assessed using the Brief Pain Inventory Demography and baseline data will be
      summarised. Any analyses will be performed using SPSS and other validated software as
      appropriate.
    
  