
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the overall response rate after 6 cycles of treatment with daratumumab in
      combination with ibrutinib in patients who are on /or are previously treated with ibrutinib.
      (Cohort 1) II. Determine the overall response rate after 6 cycles of treatment with
      daratumumab in combination with ibrutinib in patients who are naive to ibrutinib treatment.
      (Cohort 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the best overall response rate to treatment with daratumumab plus ibrutinib at
      any time during the course of the therapy. (Cohort 1) II. The overall incidence of MRD
      (minimal residual disease) negative state and the time to achieving MRD negativity at any
      time during this therapy. (Cohort 1) III. Progression free survival (as determined by the
      International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia [IWCLL] criteria) among all patients.
      (Cohort 1) IV. The overall toxicity profile of daratumumab/ibrutinib treatment in this group
      of patients. (Cohort 1) V. Determine the best overall response rate to treatment with
      daratumumab plus ibrutinib at any time during the course of the therapy. (Cohort 2) VI. The
      overall incidence of MRD (minimal residual disease) negative state and the time to achieving
      MRD negativity at any time during this therapy. (Cohort 2) VII. The overall toxicity profile
      of daratumumab/ibrutinib treatment in this group of patients. (Cohort 2)

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive daratumumab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of cycles 1-2, on
      days 1 and 15 of cycles 3-6, and then on day 1 of subsequent cycles. Beginning in cycle 2,
      patients also receive ibrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every
      28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study registration, patients are followed up periodically for up to 5
      years.
    
  