
    
      Chest trauma is frequent in the multiply-injured patient and is directly responsible for
      20-25% of trauma deaths. Additionally, chest trauma is a major contributory factor in another
      25% of deaths after trauma. Besides short term mortality, injuries to the chest result in
      significant morbidity and cost of care and long term disability. Among patients sustaining
      chest trauma, flail chest is one of the more serious injuries. Patients require prolonged
      ventilation, ICU and hospital stays and have a high incidence of pulmonary infections.
      Survivors often go on to have significant impairment of pulmonary function and over half may
      never return to gainful employment.

      The standard therapy of injuries to the chest wall, including flail chest has been effective
      analgesia, pulmonary toilet with postural drainage and aggressive chest physical therapy.
      Despite these measures, flail chest patients often do not do well. Early operative fixation
      (surgical anchoring and bracing of bones) to stabilize the chest wall and restore pulmonary
      dynamics has always been an attractive option. With improvements in patient selection,
      availability of good modern anesthesia and critical care, and mechanical fixation devices,
      small studies and several case reports testify to the feasibility of the concept and possible
      short and long term benefits. All but one small institutional study are retrospective in
      nature limiting the generalizability of the conclusions. In that small single institutional
      prospective trial in which patients with flail chest were randomized to either early
      operative fixation or standard non-operative therapy, patients randomized to early operative
      fixation showed significant improvements in both short- and long-term health outcomes
      resulting in lower in-hospital costs in the surgically treated group. Despite these very
      impressive results, although prospective, it is one study with a small number of patients
      from a single institution. The question of the benefits of operative fixation can only be
      conclusively answered by a larger multi-institutional prospective randomized study.
    
  