
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients with previously untreated stage I-III multiple
           myelome treated with melphalan combined with dexamethasone or prednisone as induction
           therapy.

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients with stable or responding disease after
           induction treated with dexamethasone vs observation alone as maintenance therapy.

        -  Compare the time to progression, response rate, and quality of life of patients treated
           with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified by center, stage (I
      or II vs III), creatinine (less than 2.0 mg/dL vs 2.0 mg/dL or greater), and intention to use
      prophylactic bisphosphonate (yes vs no).

        -  Induction: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

             -  Arms I and II: Patients receive induction comprising oral prednisone followed by
                oral melphalan on days 1-4.

             -  Arms III and IV: Patients receive induction comprising oral melphalan and oral
                dexamethasone (DM) on days 1-4 of all courses and DM on days 15-18 of courses 1-3.

      Induction for arms I-IV continues every 4 weeks for 12 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with stable or responding disease after
      induction proceed to maintenance therapy.

        -  Maintenance:

             -  Arms I and III: Patients undergo observation.

             -  Arms II and IV: Patients receive oral DM on days 1-4. Maintenance therapy continues
                every 4 weeks for arms II and IV and every 3 months for arms I and III in the
                absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients on arms I-IV who
                develop disease progression proceed to reinduction.

        -  Reinduction: Patients restart induction on the arm to which they were originally
           randomized. Reinduction continues every 4 weeks in the absence of stable response
           lasting 16 weeks, disease progression, or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve a
           stable response lasting 16 weeks restart maintenance therapy. Patients who experience
           further disease progression during reinduction are taken off study.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, on day 1 of courses 1-3 and then every 3 courses
      during induction, and then every 3 months during maintenance therapy.

      Patients are followed every 6 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 600 patients will be accrued for this study within 6 years.
    
  