
    
      Abuse of psychoactive substances is a behavior belonging to the field of risk behaviors that
      begins and takes place during adolescence. These risk behaviors are a major public health
      problem in France and worldwide.

      Cannabis is the first illicit drug consumed by adolescents in France. His experimentation
      progresses rapidly between 11 and 17 years. The relationship between cannabis use and mental
      health has been shown by several studies. In particular Attention Deficit Hyperactivity
      Disorder (ADHD), characterized by attention deficit, impulsivity and disabling motor
      hyperactivity and beginning before 12 years of age (DSM-5), is a major risk factor for the
      consumption of cannabis. ADHD is a common condition (9% of children and 5% of adults), but
      often undiagnosed or untreated. It has been shown that the treatment of ADHD in childhood
      protects against the use of cannabis during adolescence or adulthood. However, there is no
      study showing that treatment with methylphenidate in an ADHD patient - not treated - but
      already a cannabis user, was a positive prognostic factor in the decrease in cannabis use.

      Hypothesis: The hypothesis of this study is that patients diagnosed with ADHD and
      cannabis-treated patients treated with methylphenidate will decrease their number of days of
      cannabis use compared to ADHD patients receiving placebo.

      Originality and Innovative There is no study showing that treatment with methylphenidate in
      an ADHD patient - not treated - but already a problematic cannabis user, was a positive
      prognostic factor in decreasing cannabis use.

      Moreover, there is not enough team in addiction trained in the detection of attention deficit
      disorder which is now recognized as a factor of vulnerability for the development of
      addictions. This project is the opportunity for a training in the detection of the ADHD in
      the adolescent and the young adult of the professionals of the addiction and the setting up
      of a treatment by Methylphenidate as well as its handling.
    
  