
    
      Breast cancer characterized by diffuse erythema and edema, or peau d'orange, of the breast
      (inflammatory breast cancer (IBC)) is rare, particularly aggressive, and poorly understood.
      The extent of redness and edema or peau d'orange, of the breast required for a diagnosis of
      IBC has not been standardized. According to the most recent American Joint Committee on
      Cancer (AJCC) definition of inflammatory breast cancer, the signs of redness and edema or
      peau d'orange, should cover the majority of the breast, and should have arisen quickly.
      Breast cancers with redness and edema or peau d'orange, account for approximately 4 percent
      of breast cancers in the United States, but up to 23 percent of breast cancers in Egypt and
      Tunisia.

      The proposed pilot study will determine the feasibility of conducting a case-control study of
      inflammatory breast cancer in collaboration with the National Cancer Institute-Cairo, Egypt,
      and the Institut Salah Azaiz, Tunis, Tunisia, the major cancer centers in Egypt and Tunisia,
      and Cairo University Hospital and Charles Nicolle Hospital, affiliated general hospitals from
      which controls will be selected. Currently, neither case study hospital collects data on the
      number of inflammatory breast cancer cases meeting the AJCC definition which will be used for
      the proposed case-control study. In addition, the geographic distribution of IBC cases at the
      two study hospitals (knowledge of which is necessary for the selection of appropriate
      controls) is unknown.

      The goals of the pilot study are to assess the feasibility of the following critical
      components of the case-control study: 1) identifying a sufficient number of IBC cases at the
      time of diagnosis in the two study hospitals; 2) selecting appropriate hospital-based control
      subjects; 3) collecting frozen pre-treatment tumor tissue; 4) obtaining digital photographs
      of the breasts of IBC cases; and 5) communicating and working collaboratively with the study
      hospitals and personnel in Egypt and Tunisia. To accomplish these objectives, IBC cases
      meeting the AJCC definition as well as cases meeting other definitions of IBC will be
      identified over a one-year period at each of the two study hospitals. Computerized records at
      the control hospital for the years 2000-2003 will be used to enumerate the number of female
      patients with non-chronic diseases (and their age and geographic distribution) in the
      Departments of Ophthalmology and Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT). Pre-treatment frozen tumor
      tissue and digital photographs of the breast will be collected from five IBC cases at each
      study site.
    
  