
    
      Method. A prospective, randomised, blinded study to compare continuous prolene anastomosis
      with interrupted U clip anastomosis in creation of autologous AV fistula.

      Recruitement. Patients will be referred by the nephrologists to the vascular surgeons for
      assessment prior to creation of an AV fistula in the usual way. Current unit guidelines are
      that all patients have a pre operative duplex scan to assess the superficial veins. If the
      patient meets the entry criteria and there are no exclusion criteria, the patient will be
      consented to be involved in the trial.

      The patient will be admitted for surgery and anaethetised in the usual way. Once the vein and
      artery have been dissected and prepared for anastomosis a sealed envelop will be opened. This
      will instruct the surgeon to perform the anastomosis with either a conventional continuous
      prolene suture or interrupted U Clips. The envelop will also contain a study number which is
      recorded on the operation note. The operation not must no include the words prolene
      anastomoiss or clipped anastomosis. In this way subsequent assessment by nephrologists will
      be blinded.

      Patients will then undergo follow up in the usual way by their nephrologists. The
      nephrologist should then report the subsequent outcome of the fistula and patients will
      undergo clinical follow up alone.

      Randomisation. This will be performed using an electronic random number generator. This will
      result in a study number and surgeon instruction being placed in an opaque sealed envelop
      which will only be opened in theatre just before the anastomosis is performed. It will be a
      1:1 randomisation.

      Primary outcome measure. A functioning fistula which is used for haemodialysis on three or
      more occasions.

      Secondary outcome measures.

        1. Fistula patency as assessed clinically.

        2. Need for fistula intervention in order to maintain patency.
    
  