
    
      This research study is for patients who have been diagnosed with Diffuse Large B-cell
      Lymphoma (DLBCL) that did not respond to (refractory) or that has come back after
      chemotherapy treatment (relapsed). Lymphoma is a cancer of a type of blood cell called
      lymphocytes. DLBCL is just one type of lymphoma. Within DLBCL there are two different
      subtypes called Germinal Center B-cell (GCB) and non-GCB which can be determined by cell
      surface marker tests or by gene expression tests. Scientists can look at cells and genes in
      the laboratory and see that the two kinds are different, but they don't know yet what the
      difference means. To patients and doctors these two kinds seem the same. Right now doctors
      don't usually do tests to find out which kind a patient has because the treatment is the same
      for both.

      This study will have two stages, 1 and 2. The main purpose of Stage 1 is to separate patients
      by subtype and then test whether patients taking lenalidomide or any one of four other drugs
      have a better response. It is possible that lenalidomide will work better than one of the
      other drugs in zero, one, or both subtypes. Stage 2 will further test only the subtype(s)
      from Stage 1 that showed a good response to lenalidomide. The main purpose of Stage 2 is to
      test how long patients are disease free on lenalidomide compared to one of the four other
      drugs.

      On 29 January 2013 the enrolment goal for the Stage 1 portion of the study was met and
      enrollment was stopped. The final analysis for Stage 1 was performed as of the 04 Jul 2013
      data cutoff date. According to the Stage 1 results as assessed by the independent response
      adjudication committee (IRAC), neither subtype met the pre specified requirement to be
      further studied in Stage 2. Additionally, a suitable assay for the selection of participants
      for the Stage 2 study was not available. Therefore, on 6 January 2014, Celgene decided to not
      open Stage 2.
    
  