
    
      For patients with testicular GCT, there is no consensus on the most effective treatment for
      men who relapse after first-line chemotherapy for advanced disease, between salvage
      conventional cisplatin-based dose chemotherapy and high-dose chemotherapy (HDCT) with
      autologous hematopoietic stem cell rescue (ASCT). A significant number of patients with
      recurrent metastatic testicular GCT can still be cured with salvage chemotherapy but long
      term survival becomes negligible for cisplatin-refractory disease or for patients beyond
      second relapse. HDCT with ASCT should be considered for patients with recurrent metastatic
      disease, at least beyond second relapse, although its therapeutic impact has not yet been
      proven in randomized controlled trials. In contrast, patients with platinum-refractory
      metastatic GCT and those with recurrent primary mediastinal nonseminomatous GCT (PMNSGCT) are
      rarely cured by conventional dose salvage chemotherapy.

      Immunotherapy with anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 antibodies have demonstrated clinical activity in
      multiple malignancies, with durable remissions and long-term survivors in patients with
      metastatic malignant melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer and renal cell cancer, and are
      being studied in several other tumor types. In GCT a recent study identified PD-L1 expression
      in 73% of all seminomas and in 64% of all non-seminomas. Patients with low PD-L1 expression
      had significantly better progression-free survival (PFS) and OS compared to patients with
      high PD-L1 expression. Frequent expression of PD-L1 in testicular GCT suggests that these
      patients may benefit from checkpoint inhibitor treatment with anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1
      antibodies. So far there are only case reports of nine patients with GCT treated with immune
      check-point inhibitors. One patient, initially diagnosed with metastatic melanoma but
      subsequently reclassified as non-seminomatous GCT, was treated with a single dose of
      nivolumab and experienced clinical resolution of lymphadenopathy, decrease in serum tumor
      markers and a 47% tumor burden reduction by immune-related response criteria. Another report
      includes seven patients treated with checkpoint inhibitors (nivolumab or pembrolizumab) as a
      compassionate use off-label treatment attempt for highly-pretreated GCT. Four patients died
      shortly after beginning treatment due to tumour progression, the remaining three patients
      received treatment for at least 6 months and long-term tumor response was achieved in two of
      the three, both of them with tumors highly positive for PD-L1 staining. Another case report
      was published of a man with a poor-risk nonseminomatous GCT who had disease progression after
      HDTC/ASCT and had a durable response to immune checkpoint inhibitor.

      Recently a single arm phase II trial of pembrolizumab in patients with incurable platinum
      refractory GCT was presented at ASCO Annual Meeting 2017. This was the first reported trial
      evaluating immune checkpoint inhibitors in GCT, enrolling 12 male patients age ≥ 18 with
      metastatic GCT that had progressed after first line cisplatin-based chemotherapy and after at
      least 1 salvage regimen (CDCT or HDCT). All patients had non-seminoma, the primary tumor site
      was testis in 11 patients and mediastinum in 1 patient. 5 patients had late relapse (> 2
      years) and 6 patients had received prior HDCT. No partial or complete responses were
      observed, 2 patients achieved radiographic stable disease for 12 and 9 weeks but with
      continuing rise of AFP, suggesting that Pembrolizumab has no clinically meaningful activity
      in refractory GCT.

      Thus, with limited and conflicting data, further studies with immune checkpoint inhibitors in
      patients with recurrent metastatic GCT are required.
    
  