
    
      This is a pilot study designed to explore the combined effects of acute use of alcohol, mood,
      and alcohol expectancies on attentional bias towards suicide. Community adults (n = 120) will
      be recruited from the University of Alabama at Birmingham campus and greater Birmingham area
      through distribution of flyers and posts to social media sites (i.e., Facebook and
      Craigslist). The investigators are recruiting individuals who are ages 21-65, generally
      healthy, without current psychiatric disorders, distress, or suicidal ideation, and able to
      safely consume alcohol. Interested individuals will telephone our research lab, and an
      initial telephone screening will take place to exclude ineligible participants. Eligible
      participants will attend an initial study session (lasting about one hour), where informed
      consent will be obtained,eligibility criteria will be more thoroughly assessed, and baseline
      measures (e.g., alcohol expectancies) will be completed. Participants who remain eligible
      will be scheduled for a second session, lasting between 3-10 hours (depending on condition),
      and will be randomly assigned (individually) to an alcohol condition (alcohol-placebo) and a
      mood condition (negative-positive mood). Participants in the alcohol condition will be
      administered alcoholic beverages that will raise their breath alcohol content to .08.
      Participants in the placebo condition will be told they are receiving alcohol but will
      receive a nonalcoholic beverage that smells and tastes like alcohol. Participants will
      participate in a mood induction procedure that involves listening to music and reading
      statements about the self that are designed to induce a temporary mood state (positive or
      negative). Immediately following the mood induction, participants will rate their mood using
      a rating scale and then will complete a computerized assessment of their attentional bias
      towards suicide-related words (i.e., the Suicide Stroop). This measure involves naming colors
      of words that vary in meaning (neutral, happy, depressed, and suicide-related words).
      Participants' response times to name the color of suicide-related words are compared to
      response times to name neutral words, creating a score of suicide-related attentional bias.
      Following completion of this task, individuals in the placebo condition will complete a
      post-study interview, where their experiences and the effectiveness of deception will be
      assessed. Participants will be debriefed and the deception and reasons for it will be
      revealed. Participants' suicide risk will be assessed and they will be allowed to leave if
      risk is low (which the investigators anticipate will be the case for all participants).
      Individuals in the alcoholic beverage condition will complete the same post-study procedures
      but after their breath alcohol content lowers to .03. While awaiting their breath alcohol
      content to lower, these participants will be provided with a comfortable area to rest and
      watch or read entertainment. They will be provided a full meal and nonalcoholic beverages and
      will be encouraged to drink some water. Participants' driver's license or government-issued
      ID will be held by study personnel until their breath alcohol content lowers to .03.
      Participants will not be allowed to leave until their breath alcohol content lowers to .03,
      and they pass a field sobriety test. All participants will be provided with cab fare for a
      safe ride home. Safety checks will be performed for all participants the evening of, day
      following, and week following the study appointment.
    
  