
    
      Patients admitted to ICU are normally ventilated due to their critical illness and sedated
      for their comfort. This prolonged immobility from sedation leads to accelerated muscle
      atrophy and reconditioning when they recover from their critical illness. This leads to
      further complications from immobility like bed sores, hospital acquired infections, deep vein
      thrombosis and pulmonary embolisms. Many patients do not return to their pre-illness level of
      function and require long term care.

      Nutrition is frequently hard to assess when patients is in a catabolic state and sedated.
      There is a loss of appetite if the patient is awake to express it, and if sedated is depended
      on nasogastric feeding based on caloric empirical formulas invented more than 50 years ago.
      These formulas also do not accurately take into account exercise physiotherapy which patients
      will undergo while on ICU. With indirect calorimetry (IC), patients energy requirements can
      be estimated on a daily basis and can be fed accordingly. The IC is considered the gold
      standard in many guidelines for nutritional assessments but it is not commonly used due to
      cost and practical difficulties in measurements. The investigators intend to use the IC based
      on international recommendations to assess energy requirements daily and feed patients based
      on the data provided by the IC.

      Early rehabilitative type of exercises have been show to increase muscle mass and reduce
      length of stay in the elderly geriatric population by preventing deconditioning. There is
      some evidence that this also applies to the ICU population but in a ventilated patient on
      multiple therapies, this is extremely labour intensive. By utilising the cycle ergometry,
      this muscle atrophy may be reduced. Interestingly, studies on intensive physiotherapy have
      not shown to have a dramatic outcome in the elderly ICU population. This could be due to the
      catabolic rates and the inadequate feeding of a sedated patient who cannot express their
      hunger or satiety. By using the indirect calorimetry, a more accurate energy expenditure can
      be estimated and nutrition can be targeted. By combining these 2 therapies, the lengths of
      stay in hospital can be reduced and functional outcomes improved in this silver population.

      The investigators plan to conduct a randomised controlled trial. Participants will be
      randomised into 2 groups; the intervention and control group. Participants in the control
      group will receive standard empiric weight based feeding and standard physiotherapy.
      Participants in the intervention group will undergo daily IC measurements on admission and
      fed according to the energy expenditure measured by IC. In addition to standard
      physiotherapy, the participants in the intervention group will undergo cycle ergometry for up
      to 60 minutes daily. The participants in the intervention group will undergo 14 days of IC
      and cycle ergometry or until extubation (for IC), whichever is earlier.

      During this 14 day period, participants in both groups will undergo twice weekly quadriceps
      muscle ultrasounds to assess muscle thickness as a surrogate measure of muscle atrophy. After
      this 14 day period, the investigators will perform regular assessments of functional status
      (during the ICU/HD stay, on discharge to general ward, and on discharge from hospital). The
      investigators will also collect demographic and ICU assessment data from medical records.
    
  