
    
      HIV continues to be a global health problem, particularly mental health status and
      non-adherence to ART remains challenges in people living with HIV (PLHIV) in low- and
      middle-income countries. Mental health disorders, particularly those who experience
      depression and anxiety may endure poor satisfaction or trust to the treatment, leading to
      non-adherence to ART. Also, those, who have high level of perceived stress may not seek
      adequate social support from care givers and service providers, that may worsen their ART
      adherence. Substance use also induces poor coping skills and poor dependence on treatment.

      HIV positive people also experience co-occurring mental health disorders and substance use.
      For instance, those who experienced depression are more likely to develop the risk of
      substance use compared to those who did not experience depression. Similarly, those who
      engage in substance use such as amphetamine, cocaine, and opioid may develop the risk of
      chronic stress. However, evidence is limited about the prevalence of co-occurring pattern of
      these conditions on ART adherence among them worldwide.

      Psychosocial support may be an integral part of HIV care and support to meet the mental
      health needs of people living with HIV. To address the need for psychosocial support, WHO
      provided the guideline to manage their psychological and social problems. The guideline
      recommends that HIV-positive people, their families, and caregivers receive psychosocial
      support at family, community, and health facility level. It also suggests that psychosocial
      support should be an integral part of care and support framework for HIV services.

      Community and home-based care program is designed as a WHO framework for providing
      psychosocial support and basic health care to PLHIV. According to this framework, it is
      defined as any form of care given to ill people in their homes. Such care includes physical,
      psychosocial, palliative, and spiritual activities. The goal of this program is to provide
      hope through high-quality and appropriate care that helps ill people and families to maintain
      their independence and achieve the best possible QOL. The program may incur low cost or can
      be sustainable strategy for providing comprehensive services at the home of PLHIV.

      In Nepal, 23 non-governmental organizations (NGOs) provide care and support services through
      community home-based care program in Nepal. The program comprises psychosocial support, ART
      adherence and support, peer counseling, basic health care, referral for further care.
      However, little is known about the role of community home-based care program in reducing
      depression, anxiety and high stress level among people living with HIV in the country. In
      addition, they receive peer counseling about their substance use, however, no study examined
      the role of such intervention to reduce substance use. Also, the program comprises ART
      support and counseling to HIV positive people and their family, no study has examined its
      effect on non-adherence to ART. This study is aimed to assess the impact of community home
      based care program on depressive symptoms, anxiety, high stress, and substance use and
      non-adherence to ART.

      A intervention study was conducted among 682 PLHIV in Nepal. Among them, 344 participants
      were assigned for community and home-based care intervention and 338 were assigned for
      control. Baseline information was collected including sociodemographic characteristics,
      HIV/AIDS clinical staging, depressive symptoms, anxiety, and stress scores, substance use.
      Depressive symptoms were measured using center for epidemiological study depression scale
      (CESD). Anxiety was measured with composite international diagnostic interview-short form
      (CIDI-SF). Perceived Stress Scale measured stress scores. ART non-adherence was measured if
      participants missed at least two pills in past months.

      After six months, a follow up survey was done and collected the information as baseline. The
      analysis was done with mainly three strategies. First, the associations of independent and
      combined mental health disorders and substance use with non-adherence to ART were examined
      using logistic regressions stratified by gender. Separate models for generalized estimating
      equation (GEE) were applied to measure the effect of community home-based care intervention
      on various outcomes. Two models for GEE were developed. First, the effect of community
      home-based care intervention on depression, anxiety, high stress and substance use were
      assessed. Second GEE model examined the effect of intervention on non-adherence to ART. In
      all GEE multivariable models, age, gender, marital status, education, employment, HIV/AIDS
      clinical staging, and presence of physical symptoms were controlled.

      Keywords: Mental health, Anti-retroviral therapy adherence, intervention, Nepal
    
  