
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the feasibility and toxicity of timed sequential remission induction
      and consolidation in children with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia. II. Determine the
      feasibility and toxicity of a single high dose of melphalan with peripheral blood stem cell
      rescue following an intense timed sequential induction and consolidation in these children.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Remission induction: Patients receive daunorubicin IV
      over 15 minutes on days 1-3, cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-7, oral thioguanine daily
      on days 1-7, and cytarabine intrathecally (IT) on day 1. Cytarabine IV over 3 hours is
      administered every 12 hours on days 10-12. Filgrastim (G-CSF) is administered IV or
      subcutaneously (SQ) beginning on day 13 and continuing until blood counts recover. On
      approximately day 28, patients undergo a bone marrow aspirate and biopsy to assess response.
      Patients who have attained an M1 or M2a status proceed to consolidation or, if a 5/5 or 6/6
      HLA matched sibling donor is available, proceed to allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.
      Patients with greater than 25% blasts go off study. Consolidation 1: Patients receive
      daunorubicin IV over 15 minutes on days 1 and 2, cytarabine IV over 3 hours every 12 hours on
      days 1, 2, 8, and 9, and asparaginase on days 2 and 9. G-CSF IV or SQ begins on day 10 and
      continues until blood counts recover. Consolidation 2: Patients receive cytarabine IV over 3
      hours every 12 hours on days 1, 3, and 5. G-CSF IV or SQ begins on day 6 and continues until
      blood counts recover. Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are collected after the second
      course of consolidation. Consolidation 3: Treatment is repeated as in consolidation 1.
      Patients who remain in morphologic remission after consolidation 3 proceed with therapy.
      Patients receive melphalan IV over 30 minutes on day -2, then PBSC are reinfused on day 0.
      G-CSF IV or SQ begins on day 1 and continues until blood counts recover. Patients are
      followed every 6 months for 4 years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20-30 patients will be accrued for this study within 8 months.
    
  