
    
      The purpose of the present studies is to show that the types of vegetable oil in a meal alter
      postprandial lipaemia and the transport of n-3 fatty acids. The hypothesis is that a meal
      which is low in 18:2n-6 and high in the monounsaturated fatty acid 18:1n-9 and 18:3n-3 will
      result in lower postprandial lipaemia and higher long chain n-3 fatty acids in the
      unesterified fatty acids when compared to the same meal either high 18:2n-6 and low 18:3n-3.
      The specific objectives are to determine the magnitude and duration of the increase in plasma
      TG and the fatty acid composition of chylomicron, LDL and HDL and unesterified fatty acids
      over 8 hours following the intake of a standard meal with approx 35- 40% energy from fat
      containing different vegetable oils. The objectives are to show that amount and balance of
      18:1n-9, 18:2n-6 and 18:3n-3 in the meal is an important determinant of the extent and
      duration of postprandial lipaemia, and the appearance of 18:3n-3 and its metabolites in TG
      and unesterified fatty acids. We will use test meals prepared with different amounts of
      common fats and oils to provide varying 18:2n-6, 18:3n-3 and 18:1n-9. All the meals will
      provide less than 10% energy as saturated fatty acids with approx 35% total energy from fat.
      We also aim to identify the most useful single time point to show differences in plasma
      post-prandial lipaemia and fatty acids for use in studies in which sequential, repeated blood
      sampling in the post meal phase is not practical.

      Subject characteristics and baseline parameters will be presented using descriptive
      statistics. Differences in the TG response among subjects and different fats and oils will be
      assessed using ANOVA, with the use of ANCOVA. Differences in fatty acids at the same time
      point among the diets will be compared using ANOVA. Prior to analysis, all data will be
      checked and for those displaying non normal distributions. A P-value <0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant.
    
  