
    
      One of the major problems in the prevention and treatment of neurological disorders, is the
      lack of cost effective and reliable tools to assess neurodegeneration on a large scale at a
      very early stage. Although current imaging methods give a clear image of the brain atrophy
      involved in neurodegenerative disorders, there are deficiencies prohibiting their usage for
      prevention-scanning of large high-risk population such as high price, long set-up time and
      the need for trained personnel to conduct the test. Therefore, the development of a reliable
      tool to assess brain neurodegeneration, associated with cognitive decline independent of
      personal interpretation and/or variance between clinicians and between medical facilities
      would be highly valuable. This tool would allow the healthcare team to make appropriate
      treatment decisions that could aid in neurodegenerative disease prevention.

      The Neurosteer system provides objective neurological biomarkers using a wearable easy-to-use
      affordable system. The system facilitate the capture and interpretation of EEG data with only
      a single patch of electrodes, attached on the subject's forehead. Neurosteer examination
      includes completing auditory tasks while measuring brain activity with the device. The data
      is analyzed using machine learning methods to produce biomarkers, enabling a report of the
      patient's activity in real time and offline. The examination is easy to preform and can be
      conducted in every clinic or in patients' homes.

      In this study, clinical staff will identify potential subjects and will examine the
      eligibility of subject according to inclusion and exclusion criteria. Research staff will
      inform the patient on study's objective and design. Patients will sign the Informed Consent
      Form (ICF). Research staff will set up an initial assessment session using the Neurosteer
      system. In this session the patient will listen to the auditory assessment battery and
      perform tasks. The patient will be re-examined in the same experimental setting over the next
      7 days and at least 1 day later. Level of cognition will be assessed by Neurosteer
      technology.
    
  