
    
      All patients receive premedication with midazolam 7.5 mg p.o.. After induction of anesthesia
      with sufentanil (0.5 µg/kg) and propofol (1.5 mg/kg), orotracheal intubation is facilitated
      with rocuronium (0.6 mg/kg). Anesthesia is maintained with sufentanil (1 µg/kg/h) and
      propofol (3 mg/kg/h) and patients are ventilated with an oxygen/air mixture in
      volume-controlled mode, using a tidal volume of 8 ml/kg related to the ideal body weight.
      Positive end-expiratory pressure is set at 5 cmH2O. Continuous monitoring is performed
      including electrocardiogram, radial arterial pressure catheter and a central venous catheter
      in the right or left internal jugular vein. Before placement of a transpulmonary
      thermodilution catheter a transesophageal echocardiography (TOE) is performed. TOE is used to
      detect diastolic dysfunction of the left ventricle and to exclude right ventricular
      dysfunction. In presence of left ventricular dysfunction a transpulmonary thermodilution
      catheter is placed in the femoral artery and connected to a PiCCO2 monitor (PiCCO2, Pulsion
      Medical Systems, Munich, Germany). Additionally capnography, urine output, temperature
      (blood, bladder and nasopharyngeal), airway pressure, and pulse oximetry are recorded.

      Before starting operation a passive leg raising is performed. The passive leg raising
      maneuver (PLR) involves a leg elevation up to 45° with the trunk in a horizontal position and
      was performed to induce hemodynamic effects by a volume challenge, turning unstressed blood
      volume to stressed volume proportional to body size. In case of an increase of stroke volume
      index (SVI) >15% during PLR, patients were defined as responders.

      All patients were studied with no changes in anesthesia management. Measurements of SVI,
      GEDVI, SVV and PPV are performed before, during and after PLR. Thereafter, patients receive a
      fluid Bolus of 500 ml crystalloids. Again, measurements are performed before and after fluid
      replacement.
    
  