
    
      The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on patients with cardiomyopathy has not been explored and
      represents a critical unmet need. Insights into exposure, healthcare outcomes, behavioural
      changes and the psychosocial ramifications of the pandemic are required to better understand
      the health needs of this population during these unprecedented circumstances and to adapt
      clinical services to meet these.

      The requirements for the population to limit social interaction and stay at home
      significantly limits conventional research approaches to studying the effect of the pandemic
      on patients. The Heart Hive platform circumnavigates this by offering an online mechanism to
      gain insight into the effect of the pandemic in a pre-assembled cohort of patients rapidly
      and in real-time as the pandemic evolves without any risk to patients.

      This study is framed around the following hypotheses:

        1. Patients with cardiomyopathy who contract COVID-19 are at greater risk or death or
           hospitalisation than subjects without heart disease.

        2. Patients with cardiomyopathy perceive themselves to be at enhanced risk and are more
           likely to be following national recommendations on social restriction measures than
           subjects without heart disease.

        3. Patients with cardiomyopathy have experienced interruption to the delivery of their
           usual cardiology/cardiomyopathy clinical service as a result of the pandemic.

        4. Patients with cardiomyopathy are less likely to seek medical help due to fear of
           contracting COVID-19.

        5. The psychological impact of the pandemic is greater in patients with cardiomyopathy than
           in subjects without heart disease.

      Primary Objectives:

        1. To conduct serial surveys in patients with cardiomyopathy and subjects without heart
           disease evaluating the health-related, behavioural and psychosocial impact of the
           COVID-19 pandemic.

        2. To use national registries, including NHS Digital, Office for National Statistics (ONS),
           Hospital Episodes Statistics (HES) and medical records to longitudinally assess hospital
           admissions and patient mortality from COVID-19 for UK-based participants.

      Secondary Objectives:

      1. To use serial surveys to evaluate the indirect impact of COVID-19 on access to healthcare
      amongst patients with cardiomyopathy.

      The Heart Hive COVID-19 study is an international online pilot observational cohort study
      evaluating the impact and clinical outcomes of the COVID-19 pandemic on subjects enrolled in
      the Heart Hive. Patients with heart muscle disease and subjects without heart disease who are
      Heart Hive registry members are eligible to enrol. Eligible subjects who provide informed
      consent will be enrolled. The study will entail completing serial online surveys during the
      pandemic. For subjects who live in the UK who provide consent, health information and outcome
      data will also be collected from NHS digital, national registries (e.g. ONS, HES, DID) and
      medical records.
    
  