
    
      Roughly half of women diagnosed with pre-menopausal breast cancer will have hormone
      receptor-positive tumors, which will make them candidates for anti-estrogen therapies. Both
      endocrine therapy and ovarian ablation have also been shown to improve outcomes in this
      population.

      Hot flashes are a frequent side effect in women receiving anti-estrogen therapy for breast
      cancer, and have been shown to have a significant impact on patients' quality of life. For
      example, it has been reported that hot flashes in breast cancer survivors are more severe and
      result in a more significant impact on quality of life measures when compared with healthy
      women.

      Hormone replacement, the gold standard for the treatment of hot flashes in postmenopausal
      women, is contraindicated in this population. Non-hormonal drug therapies have been explored
      for the treatment of hot flashes in this population of women with moderate results. In
      randomized controlled trials, venlafaxine has been shown to reduce self-reported hot flashes
      in patients with breast cancer by 25-61%. However, selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors
      (SSRIs) and selective norepinephrine re-uptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may interfere with the
      metabolism of tamoxifen, a common treatment for estrogen-receptor positive breast cancers, by
      inhibiting the cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) enzyme. Gabapentin is a gamma-aminobutyric acid
      (GABA) analogue commonly used for the treatment of seizure disorders and neuropathic pain.
      There is some evidence to demonstrate its efficacy in hot flashes to be equivalent to
      estrogen and superior to antidepressants in postmenopausal women.

      In a pilot study of 22 women with breast cancer on tamoxifen, the use of gabapentin for four
      weeks reduced the frequency of hot flashes by 44.2%, and decreased the hot flash severity
      scores by 52.6%. These results were confirmed in a larger study of 420 breast cancer
      survivors who were randomized to receive gabapentin 300mg/d, gabapentin 900mg/d, or placebo.
      The 900mg/d dose of gabapentin was the most effective; decreasing the frequency of hot
      flashes by 49% at four weeks. In the group receiving 900mg of gabapentin daily, there was a
      12% withdrawal rate at 4 weeks, and 17% at 8 weeks, owing to side effects and subjective
      inefficacy.

      Hypnosis or hypnotherapy, defined as the induction of a deeply relaxed condition that allows
      the patient to suspend critical faculties and allow suggestibility, has been shown to be
      effective in not only reducing the daily frequency of hot flashes (by 59%), but also in
      improving quality of life variables such as insomnia in patients with breast cancer. However,
      this therapy has never been compared directly to pharmacotherapy in the treatment of
      therapy-induced hot flashes in patients with breast cancer.

      In response to the NCI's 2006 initiatives to expand the goals of clinical trials and include
      symptom management studies, we are interested in evaluating the role of complementary and
      alternative therapies for improvement of symptoms in women with breast cancer. This trial is
      to determine whether hypnotherapy, administered in a standard way, can improve the frequency
      of hot flashes and breast cancer specific quality of life in women diagnosed with
      pre-menopausal breast cancer. We propose to evaluate this through a pilot feasibility study
      which will randomize participants to an eight week course of gabapentin or hypnosis.
    
  