
    
      Delirium is one of several geriatric syndromes, and is among the most common postoperative
      complications, affecting up to 70% of surgical patients older than 60. Delirium is an acute
      change that manifests as inattention and inability to think logically, and is deeply
      distressing to patients and their families. Based on our surveys of 1,000 surgical patients,
      over 30% were worried about experiencing delirium. Delirious patients are unable to
      participate effectively in rehabilitation exercises and are susceptible to other geriatric
      syndromes, like falls. The occurrence and duration of delirium are associated with longer
      intensive care unit and hospital stay, persistent cognitive deterioration, hospital
      readmission and increased mortality rate. Additionally, delirium carries a huge social and
      economic burden, costing over $60,000 per patient per year. Despite the importance of
      delirium to patients and to society, no approach has been proven to prevent postoperative
      delirium. Furthermore postoperative delirium is frequently unrecognized, and surgical
      patients are not followed systematically after they are discharged from hospital. Without
      diagnosing delirium or following patients postoperatively, we are limited in our ability to
      test the effectiveness of any intervention to prevent or treat postoperative delirium and its
      sequelae. There is mounting evidence that electroencephalography guidance of general
      anesthesia can decrease postoperative delirium. Specifically, our group has found that a
      suppressed electroencephalogram pattern, which occurs with deep anesthesia, is associated
      with increased delirium and death after surgery. The Electroencephalography Guidance of
      Anesthesia to Alleviate Geriatric Syndromes (ENGAGES) Study will therefore compare the
      effectiveness of two anesthetic protocols for reduction of postoperative delirium. One
      protocol will be based on current standard anesthetic practice, and the other protocol will
      be based on electroencephalography guidance. We also expect to determine the impact of the
      anesthetic protocols on patient reported outcomes of health-related quality of life. At
      Washington University, we have successfully implemented an ambitious study that enrolls
      patients at the preoperative assessment clinic, and tracks their health and wellbeing at 30
      days and at 1-year postoperatively. This will enable us to assess the consequences of
      postoperative delirium and to determine whether anesthetic management can impact patient
      reported outcomes, such as health-related quality of life. We shall also explore whether a
      multi-component safety intervention for delirious patients prevents downstream adverse
      events, like falls. The ENGAGES study - through its structured anesthesia protocols, its
      thorough approach to delirium assessment, and its ability to track patients' health and
      wellbeing postoperatively - is poised to make a major contribution to the care of elderly
      patients who are at risk of postoperative delirium and other adverse outcomes.
    
  