
    
      The purpose was to determine the impact of the implementation of the World Health
      Organization (WHO) Surgical Safety Checklist in terms of morbidity and mortality in adult
      surgical patients in a tertiary healthcare institution in Chile.

      After Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval (Facultad de Medicina, Pontificia Universidad
      Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile), a retrospective analysis of all surgical encounters on
      patients age 15 and above from January 2005 to December 2012 at our center will be reviewed.

      Encounter data will include up to 14 diagnostic and procedure International Classification of
      Diseases, 9th Revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM) codes, demographic data, date of
      admission and discharge, emergency status, healthcare system used and in-hospital death. A
      5-level "high risk" variable was created in order to account for surgical complexity and
      associated in-hospital mortality (level 1, surgeries with <1% in-hospital mortality; level 2,
      1% to <5%; level 3, 5% to <10%; level 4, 10% to <15%; level 5, > or = 15%)6.

      Surgical heterogeneity will be calculated by the Internal Herfindahl Index, which represents
      the diversity or comprehensiveness of the types of procedures performed at a facility.

      Statistics:

      Propensity score (PS) analysis will be used to control for differences in baseline
      characteristics. The PS is the conditional probability of receiving an exposure (e.g.
      checklist) given a set of measured covariates. To estimate the PS, a logistic regression
      model will be used in which "treatment" status (checklist performed vs. not performed) will
      be regressed on the baseline (pre-treatment) characteristics.

      PS analysis will be implemented in two ways to control for confounding:

        1. PS matching: matching will be performed using a one-to-one nearest neighbor caliper
           matching without replacement with a caliper size of 0.2 standard deviations. Balances in
           the distribution of baseline covariates will be assessed by estimating absolute
           standardized differences of the covariates between the two groups before and after
           matching. Any imbalanced covariates (standardized difference >10%) after matching will
           be adjusted for in the final analysis. As the PS matched sample does not consist of
           independent observations, we will use a marginal regression model with robust standard
           errors.

        2. PS weighting: the entire sample will be weighted by the inverse probability of the
           treatment weights derived from the PS. If a subject has a higher probability of being in
           a group, it will be considered over-represented and therefore will be assigned a lower
           weight. Conversely, if the subject has a smaller probability, it will be considered as
           under-represented and will be assigned a higher weight. We then will fit a weighted
           linear regression model using an indicator variable representing checklist intervention
           status as the sole predictor, and mortality as our outcome variable.

      Data will be expressed as mean (SD; standard deviation) or median (IQR, interquartile range)
      unless otherwise stated. A two-sided p value less than 0.05 will be considered significant.
      The analyses will be performed using STATA v.12.0 (StataCorp, College Station, TX).
    
  