
    
      Background: Among all types of cancer, colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most frequent,
      and Spain is among the countries with the highest incidence of CCR with a ratio of about
      100,000 people. Fortunately the data of survival are very encouraging according to the
      National Cancer Institute, it is around 70% at 5 years when the cancer is regional and it
      could reaching up to 90% when it is more localized. During this survival, however, a high
      number of patients suffer physical and psychological sequelae that limited their quality of
      life.

      This is why that, to try to minimize these effects, it is essential to try to instill healthy
      habits (food and physical exercise), since as it confirms the current literature, obesity is
      related to a lower survival and a greater presence of other diseases, and increased
      consumption of fruits and vegetables and physical activity practice improves the quality of
      life in survivors of CRC. However, changes in lifestyle are complicated to maintain
      long-term. In this sense, the technological development offers possibilities to try to
      resolve this lack of adherence in patients with cancer. However, the evidence highlights the
      need to improve knowledge about its applicability and efficacy in patients with this
      pathology betting on technologies more innovative.

      Objective: The purpose of this randomized study is to assess the efficacy of a mobile
      application for the promotion of healthy lifestyle habits (diet and exercise) in CRC
      survivors. In a more specific way, analyze the effectiveness of the implementation to
      maintain healthy lifestyle habits in patients newly diagnosed with CRC through adherence to a
      healthy lifestyle (exercise and diet), as well as facilitate changes in clinical variables:
      body composition, quality of life, physical condition related to health (functional ability,
      strength and flexibility).

      Methods: 54 patients will be recruited from the Virgen de las Nieves Hospital from Granada
      (Spain). Patients will be randomized in two groups: control and experimental group. The
      assessment of the end points will be made in IMUDS (Instituto Mixto Deporte y Salud) from
      Granada (Spain) at three moments: at baseline, at 8 weeks (at the end of the program) and at
      12 months of follow-up. The intervention will consist in: 1)Feedback daily or weekly of
      physical exercise and diet through the application (notice) according to the records of diet
      and exercise and following recommendations of International Organizations 2) Participation in
      three sessions of seminars (1 hour each every 15 days) on habits of life healthy and cancer
      and the self-regulation through measurements performed by the application 3) Calls weekly to
      the patients of way individual to comment possible errors or doubts about the application, of
      10 min of duration (8 calls). The control group will follow the usual indications of their
      oncologist and completion of the study will be offered access to the application.

      Discussion: Health mobile applications (mobile health, mHealth) are potential tools to
      address the needs of cancer patients, because it enabling personalized interventions and the
      adherence to them. Previous studies have showed: 1) Are effective for weight loss in people
      with obesity or overweight. 2) You can count on are to promote a healthy lifestyle focused on
      the loss of weight in cancer patients. 3) Strategies based on self-regulation will not only
      improve the regulation of the exercise by the patient, but they also produce a greater
      adherence to the same. However, despite all these advances, are few them studies that have
      analyzed the efficiency of mobile applications as tool appropriate for foster the acquisition
      of habits of life healthy in cancer patients. Therefore are necessary studies that improve
      the adequacy of interventions to the needs of patients with CRC with support from
      technologies that show its effectiveness.
    
  