
    
      Evaluate the health impact of an intervention targeting the hunger relief network and the
      clients with food insecurity it serves. The long-term goal of this work is to reduce
      nutrition-related health disparities by intervening on a system that serves individuals at
      high risk for chronic disease. In 2014, an estimated 14% of U.S. households experienced food
      insecurity (i.e., they lacked access to enough food for an active, healthy life for all
      household members). Large numbers of low-income, racial/ethnic minority, and immigrant
      families who experience food insecurity rely on a hunger relief network that includes food
      banks and food pantries. Pantry clients have demonstrated poor nutritional outcomes, high
      chronic disease rates, and dissatisfaction with the quality and cultural-appropriateness of
      food offered. Unlike other food assistance programs, there are currently no standards on the
      nutritional quality of pantry offerings, but recent work by our study team demonstrated the
      need to improve the healthfulness of hunger relief network inventory. We proposed an
      evaluation of a randomized, sustainable intervention in 8 intervention and 8 control
      pantries. We will enroll 272 clients at baseline and follow them for 1 year to assess changes
      in overall diet quality (the primary outcome). Working with our food bank partners, the
      intervention at the pantry level targets the supply of nutritious foods. At the client level,
      the intervention targets healthy food demand. Measured outcomes include overall diet quality
      (the primary outcome), as assessed by the Healthy Eating Index-2015 (HEI), the nutritional
      quality of foods selected at the food shelf visit, and cardiovascular disease health
      (assessed by the American Heart Association's Life's Simple 7 scores). The study will also
      evaluate the impact of a multilevel intervention on the nutritional quality of pantry
      offerings. The study also aims to improve implementation of practices that promote a
      nutrition-focused hunger relief network, as assessed by survey and key informant interviews.
      As an exploratory aim, the study will evaluate the cultural appropriateness of pantry foods
      and services, given the burden of poor food access on minority, immigrant, and refugee
      families.
    
  