
    
      The incidence of hip fracture in Spain is estimated at 551 cases per 100,000 population aged
      65 years, with an average cost of treatment for a broken € 9,996.00 and more days of
      hospitalization than heart attacks. In-hospital mortality is 5.3%. Data from a multicenter
      study in 77 hospitals of the Spanish territory in 2003 coincide with those of studies
      conducted in other European countries regarding the incidence, the highest percentage in
      women and increased exponentially with age.

      The fracture of the proximal femur (hip) is a substantial cause of morbidity and mortality in
      the elderly. Mortality at one year after hip fracture varies between 12 and 37%, with an
      incidence of 11% during the first months.

      25% of elderly patients with hip fracture requires institutionalization, at least
      temporarily, and only 40% fully recover their functional status before the fracture.

      Hip fracture is a major public health problem. It happens more often in the elderly, the
      average age of patients admitted is 81.4 ± 8.1 years and its incidence has increased
      significantly in recent years. It causes a high degree of disability, mortality and frequent
      large economic costs. 50% of patients independent before a hip fracture are unable to recover
      fully the functionality, face and often the inability to institutionalization.

      Only 30-35% of elderly hip fractures regain their previous degree of independence in basic
      activities of daily living, and only 20-25% do so for instrumental activities.

      The investigators hope to find a high prevalence of sarcopenia in patients admitted with hip
      fracture, and patients with more severe sarcopenia are those having lower functional levels
      at admission and discharge phenomenon recover. The investigators hope to find a relationship
      between elevated inflammatory indices and severity of sarcopenia. The investigators hope that
      the presence of sarcopenia, and its severity, correlates positively with the occurrence of
      complications during hospitalization.
    
  