
    
      Background: Several lines of investigation indicate there to be potential beneficial effects
      of interventions that augment cerebral blood flow (CBF) to irrigate the ischemic penumbra in
      acute ischemic stroke. The simplest manner to do this is to place the patient in a 'lying
      flat' rather than upright head position. However, any potential benefits on the brain may be
      offset by an increased hazard of aspiration pneumonia or exacerbation of cardiac failure in
      vulnerable patients. Given uncertainty over the balance of potential modest benefits and
      risks, and variability regarding the ideal head position policy for patients with acute
      ischemic stroke around the world, reliable randomized evidence is required to standardize
      clinical practice.

      Aims: The main objectives of this pilot phase clinical trial are to determine the
      feasibility, safety and potential efficacy of a large-scale cluster randomized clinical trial
      to assess whether a simple nursing care policy - 'lying flat head position' - provides
      beneficial effects as compared to the standard upright head position in patients with acute
      ischemic stroke. The main efficacy outcome of the pilot phase is demonstration of increased
      mean cerebral blood flow velocity (CBFV) in the lying flat head position compared to the
      upright head position, as assessed by transcranial Doppler (TCD) to the medial cerebral
      arteries of patients with anterior circulation infarction. Secondary efficacy objectives are
      to demonstrate that the lying flat head position improves neurological status at 7 days and
      disability at 90 days.

      Methods: Inclusion criteria include consecutive adult patients with acute ischemic stroke
      within 12 hours of onset admitted to participating centers. A cluster (month) method of
      randomization to lying flat or upright head position for 48 hours, stratified by site The
      primary outcome is change in mean CBFV measured by TCD at 24 hours. Secondary outcomes
      include proportion of adverse events at 7 days, distribution of NIHSS at 7 days, and
      distribution of mRS disability scale scores at 90 days. Sample size is 46 clusters of 2
      patients totaling approximately 92 patients to detect an increase of 8.31 (CI 95% 4.82-12.0)
      cm/sec in average CBFV from 30° to 0° head position. This sample size will also allow
      detection of that difference with 90% power at a 5% significance level, considering an ICC of
      0.037.
    
  