
    
      Heart failure accounts for substantial morbidity and mortality in the western world. In
      addition, the financial burden associated with the disease is considerable. Prognosis is
      generally poor and quality of life is significantly reduced. The causes of heart failure are
      diverse. Identification of the underlying pathophysiological mechanism is essential, because
      a specific patient tailored therapy may help to improve the clinical status of the individual
      patient. In addition, some patients may have a potentially reversible cardiomyopathy (CMP).
      The present study will focus on the role of frequent premature ventricular contractions
      (PVCs) as a cause of left ventricular (LV) dysfunction. This is a potential reversible CMP
      generally unknown to the cardiological society.

      Frequent ventricular ectopy in patients without structural heart disease is generally thought
      to be a benign finding with no prognostic significance. Suppression of PVCs with
      anti-arrhythmic drugs or catheter ablation is therefore usually only considered when PVCs are
      accompanied by disabling symptoms. However, recent data suggest that frequent monomorphic
      PVCs (symptomatic or asymptomatic) can cause a form of CMP that may be reversible by
      suppression of the ectopic focus. Furthermore, the high prevalence of frequent PVCs in
      patients with heart disease suggests that PVC-induced CMP may be a common phenomenon.
      Suppression of frequent monomorphic PVCs to improve LV systolic function may therefore emerge
      as a new and effective treatment strategy for patients with heart failure.

      Beta-blockers are safe and effective anti-arrhythmic agents and are considered the first line
      therapy for suppression of PVCs. Most patients with HF are already taking a beta-blocker as
      part of standard therapy for their underlying disease. According to international guidelines,
      other AADs can be used if beta-blockers are ineffective, but they have potential adverse
      (arrhythmic) side-effects, especially in patients with diminished LV function, and may even
      be contra-indicated in this patient group. In patients with LV dysfunction and frequent
      monomorphic PVCs that are refractory to beta-blockers, long-term drug therapy and the
      potential adverse (arrhythmic) side-effects of AADs can be avoided by using catheter ablation
      as a first alternative treatment. RFCA is already a frequently applied, widely accepted,
      safe, effective and potentially curative treatment for symptomatic drug refractory PVCs. It
      has also been safely and effectively employed in patients with tachycardia-induced CMP and
      patients with PVC-induced CMP. A high acute success rate of 93% and a very low PVC recurrence
      rate of 3% have been reported. Although recent available data suggest that elimination of the
      PVC source by RFCA improves LV systolic function in HF patients, it is still applied in a
      limited fashion for this indication because the evidence supporting this is weak. The patient
      series published so far were not controlled and retrospective in nature. We intend to conduct
      a controlled, randomized, prospective study with careful documentation and long-term
      follow-up to evaluate the effect of PVC suppression therapy (with RFCA as primary treatment)
      on cardiac systolic function in patients with CMP and beta-blocker refractory frequent
      monomorphic PVCs. This could establish suppression of frequent monomorphic PVCs as a
      potential curative treatment strategy for patients with HF.
    
  