
    
      This is a descriptive study to establish best practices for ENG implant localization and
      non-palpable ENG implant removal.

      Women presenting to UCLA Obstetrics and Gynecology service for ENG non-palpable and palpable
      implant removal or with ENG implant in place but desiring continuation will be enrolled.
      Investigators aim to enroll 20 women in each group. Screening data will be reviewed to
      determine subject eligibility. Subjects who meet all inclusion criteria will be entered into
      the study.

      Study duration for each participant is one visit for continuation group and two weeks for
      group desiring implant removal. Total study duration is expected to be 18 months.

        1. For women desiring implant removal: document ENG implant using in-office imaging of ENG
           implant in the FP clinic with standard ob/gyn office ultrasound (abdominal 15 MHz linear
           probe with color doppler) and the same, using high frequency vascular probe (20+ MHz) in
           the radiology department.

        2. Create an image gallery of office and radiology department obtained images of ENG
           implant localization. This will include:

             1. Ultrasound images obtained in women with palpable or non-palpable ENG implants in
                place at various time intervals after insertion who desire ENG implant continuation
                (office imaging only).

             2. Ultrasound images obtained in women seeking removal of non-palpable ENG implants,
                primarily referred patients who have either failed outside implant removal or have
                a non-palpable implant on presentation for removal.

        3. Document and describe all cases of non palpable ENG implant removal with standard,
           in-office US versus radiology ultrasound equipment. Investigators will collect
           radiographic images, clinical findings, instruments used, patient characteristics (BMI,
           weight gain, time since of insertion), success of procedure, duration of procedure,
           number of attempts, final location of implant, and need for referral to general or
           vascular surgeon.
    
  