
    
      This prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center, randomized trial will
      evaluate the effect of rituximab on disease progression in subjects with SSc-PAH receiving
      concurrent stable-dose standard medical therapy with a prostanoid, endothelin receptor
      antagonist, and/or phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE-5) inhibitor. The study will focus on assessment
      of clinical response and safety measures longitudinally. In addition, the effects of
      treatment with rituximab on the underlying immune mechanisms associated with B-cell
      dysregulation and pathogenic autoantibody response in this disease will be investigated. 1000
      mg of rituximab or placebo will be administered as two IV infusions given two weeks apart.
      Clinical assessments and sample collection will occur at monthly visits through Week 48. If a
      participant has not recovered B cells by Week 48, B cell studies will be conducted quarterly
      until reconstitution is documented or for 2 years after initial treatment.

      This trial will include a sub-study, entitled "Right Ventricular Response to Rituximab in
      Systemic Sclerosis-Associated Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension - A Magnetic Resonance Imaging
      Sub-study" (RESTORE Sub-study). The objective of the RESTORE sub-study is to evaluate the
      therapeutic effect of rituximab on the right ventricle of patients with SSc-PAH. Changes in
      right ventricular end diastolic volume index (RVEDVI) and stroke volume (SV) determined by
      cardiac MRI will be used as surrogates of right ventricle function and prognosis. Enrollment
      for the RESTORE sub-study will parallel that of main trial. Twenty patients from each
      treatment arm, distributed among all participating sites, will be recruited for this
      sub-study. Each patient will be studied at baseline (i.e. prior to initiation of study drug)
      and after 24 weeks or at time of discontinuation. In addition to the data collection and
      testing specified in the main trial, participants in RESTORE will undergo comprehensive
      cardiac MRI evaluation. All main trial study inclusion and exclusion criteria apply, as well
      as additional exclusion criteria that pertain only to the RESTORE sub-study: 1) known
      hypersensitivity to Gadolinium; 2) inability to tolerate or cooperate with MRI; 3) morbid
      obesity; and 4) presence of metallic objects or pacemakers.
    
  