
    
      The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the overall response rate to DOXIL/VELCADE
      treatment in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma previously treated with VELCADE. Overall
      response rate is defined as the proportion of patients achieving either a complete response
      (CR) or partial response (PR) to treatment according to the European Group for Blood and
      Marrow Transplantation (EBMT) criteria. This is a single arm (all patients will receive the
      same drug combination and dose), multi-center (many study sites), open label (the patient and
      the physician know the drug treatment being received) of approximately 60 patients with
      multiple myeloma whose disease has progressed after initial response to VELCADE-based
      therapy. During each 21-day treatment cycle, patients will receive VELCADE by intravenous
      bolus on 4 designated days, and DOXIL by intravenous infusion on one designated day.
      Treatment will continue until disease progression, or the occurrence of unacceptable
      treatment-related toxicity or up to a total of 8 cycles of therapy. Drug doses may be delayed
      or dropped as needed to allow for platelet transfusions or other treatment requirements.
      Patients responding to treatment at study end may be evaluated for continued treatment for as
      long as treatment can be tolerated and they continue to respond. After discontinuation of all
      study drugs, patients who have not had disease progression will be followed for 6 months
      after receiving the last dose of study drug. The primary endpoint is overall response rate as
      defined by the proportion of patients achieving either a complete response or a partial
      response. Response will be assessed at each cycle. Safety will be monitored throughout the
      study by physical examination, clinical laboratory testing, and the incidence and severity of
      reported adverse events. Overall safety will be summarized at study-end.

      During each 21-day treatment cycle, patients will receive bortezomib 1.3 mg/m2 by intravenous
      bolus on Days 1, 4, 8 and 11 and pegylated liposomal doxorubicin 30 mg/m2 by intravenous
      infusion on Day 4.
    
  