
    
      This is a clinical intervention study to calibrate infant milk or formula intake and modulate
      infant weight gain to prevent the development of infant obesity. We will study only OW/OB
      women, as these patients are at increased risk of infants with excessive weight gain. The
      study will be conducted using clinical site at Harbor-UCLA Medical Center and at CTSI, The
      Lundquist Institute.

      OW/OB women (pre-pregnant BMI >25-29.9 and ≥30) who are providing exclusive human milk via
      pumping and bottle (n= 120; 50% male and 50% female) will be recruited postpartum in the
      hospital or at postpartum visit (typically 3-6 weeks). Study women will be randomly assigned
      to a Standard Feed (SF) or Calibrated Feed (CF) groups. Mother-infant dyads will be seen at
      2-week intervals for assessment of infant milk intake, weight gain, supine length, BMI and
      skinfold thickness till 6 months of age. Continuation of exclusive human milk will be
      confirmed with questionnaires.

      In the SF group, mothers will provide bottled human milk based upon the volume guidelines:
      Total daily milk intake recommended will be calculated as infant's weight in ounces divided
      by 6, with individual feed volume calculated as the total daily volume divided by 6 to 8
      (maternal discretion as to number of daily feeds). It is understood that mothers may elect an
      increased or reduced volume of feed dependent upon infant appetite, behavior, etc. throughout
      the study, at which time recommended feed volume will be adjusted by the standard formula
      based upon infant weight.

      In the CF group, initial feeding volume will be based upon standard volume guidelines as
      described above. At the 2 week visits, should infants be within the 75%ile of WHO BMI growth
      curves, standard weight-based recommended feed volumes will be made. Should the infant be
      equal or greater than 75%ile of WHO BMI, the recommended human milk feed volume will be
      reduced by 5% of the weight-based determination, following a consultative assessment by our
      pediatric/neonatal physician. At subsequent visits, adjustments in human milk volume will
      continue if the infant exceeds 75%ile of WHO BMI, accommodating the normal increase in human
      milk intake with advancing weight. In no case, will the daily human milk volume be reduced by
      more than 10% from the weight-based calculation.

      Should the infant be less than 10th percentile of WHO BMI, the maternal-infant dyad will be
      referred for a pediatric and nutrition consults to assess the cause and treatment for
      potential nutrient deficiency. At 6 months, we will assess the distribution of infant weight
      BMI between SF and CF groups.

      At the final study visit (6 months), prior to infant feeding, a sample of infant urine will
      be collected, using the Quick-Wee method with samples collected from voids into plastic bags
      taped to the genital region. Samples will be analyzed for leptin by ELISA (DLP00, R&D
      Systems, MN). Urine leptin concentrations correlate significantly with plasma leptin
      concentration and will provide a non-invasive, semi-quantitative assessment of neonatal
      hyperleptinemia.

      All mothers will quantify and record the daily bottle intake of infants (nearest ml) and will
      provide a midpumping (8 min) milk sample (10 ml) obtained monthly prior to their visit
      (morning pumping, frozen) for analysis of protein, carbohydrates and fat (Miris) and total
      caloric content (bomb calorimetry).

      At 6 months, we will assess the distribution of infant weight/BMI between SF and CF groups.

      An identical Study (Standard Feed and Calibrated Feed; (n=60 per group; 50% male and 50%
      female)) will be performed, with the exception that only current formula feed mothers will be
      enrolled. Daily volume and adjustment of formula feeds will be as described above for human
      milk. Women will utilize their chosen brand of commercial formula feed, for which total
      caloric content and composition will be determined.

      Data analysis: The proportion of infants whose BMI exceed the 75%ile of WHO BMI at 26 weeks
      (1st co-primary outcome) will be compared between the two group (SF vs CF) using a pooled
      z-test or Fisher's exact test. Growth curves for SF and CF over 26 weeks will be estimated
      and the area under the curve (AUC) compared with the 75%ile curve of WHO BMI. AUCs (secondary
      outcome) will be computed using the trapezoidal method or integrations of the estimated
      closed form of the mathematical function. The difference between these AUCs represents the
      magnitude of how long and much BMI exceed the 75%ile of WHO BMI over the 6 month period.
      These AUC between the two groups will be compared using a two sample t-test. As exploratory
      analyses, if potential covariates are found, multivariate analyses (linear and generalized
      linear regression models) will be used to adjust confounding effects. Sub-group analyses will
      be also carried out, such as by gender. We will also investigate if early changes in growth
      curves or maternal human milk composition are associated with infant weight changes, so as to
      determine the potential for invention prior to exceeding the 75%ile of WHO BMI.
    
  