
    
      60 Connecticut Mental Health Center patients enrolled in BHH will be recruited for the study.
      The research team will begin working closely with BHH data administrators and staff to start
      the recruitment process. A BHH data manager will create a randomly sorted list of the current
      BHH roster. This list will be stratified with respect to gender, race, and ethnicity so that
      the research team can collect a stratified sample for this research that is representative of
      the population. This stratified list will be given to BHH care coordinators, who will contact
      patients in each strata of the population and provide a brief, scripted introduction to the
      study, and attempt to obtain permission to contact. A flyer will be posted at the BHH
      program, providing information about the study for persons interested to self-refer to the
      research team. The research team will not have access to names of individuals on this roster,
      and will only be given names and contact information of individuals who provide permission to
      contact or who self-refer. The research team will then contact patients, provide preliminary
      information about the study and assessment procedures, answer any questions, and invite
      patients to participate. A consent and baseline interview time and date will be scheduled, at
      which time more detailed explanations about the study will be provided, ability to provide
      informed consent will be assessed, consent forms reviewed, signatures obtained, and release
      of information forms for retrieval of administrative data and to allow contact with BHH
      coordinator, if needed. BHH coordinators will continue working down the randomly sorted list
      to obtain permissions to contact until 60 BHH patients have enrolled and provided consent
      into the study. After completion of the consent process, patients will be randomly assigned
      into one of three waves of WE Harambee implementation and baseline interviews will be
      conducted. The first wave of implementation will be standard WE Harambee intervention, as
      implemented in our recent pilot trial (i.e., with no modifications or adaptations to design).
      While Wave 1 participants are receiving the group intervention (consisting of twice a week
      group meetings), the research team will be analyzing the administrative data and baseline
      interviews obtained on all 60 participants. Following completion of the 3 months, group
      intervention, Wave 1 participants will complete a follow-up quantitative interview and a
      follow-up qualitative interview to gather additional information about specific aspects of
      the intervention that have worked well, areas for improvement, and questions related to
      feasibility and acceptability of the intervention thus far. Wave 1 participants will then be
      offered 1:1 peer mentorship/coaching with a peer leader of his/her choice. Individual peer
      mentoring will be offered for the next three months. During this time, the research team and
      stakeholder advisory group will be analyzing the 3-month follow-up data, graphing mean
      changes from baseline in the targets of the intervention, and analyzing the qualitative
      interviews. The stakeholder advisory group members are people that have lived experience with
      both mental and primary healthcare problems. The stakeholder advisory group member's
      experience navigating the healthcare system will guide the research, providing special
      attention to the challenges, barriers and facilitators that stakeholders experienced in their
      journey of healthcare. The data will be shared with the stakeholder advisory group and, in
      tandem with the research team, identify initial modifications that can be made to the WE
      Harambee intervention, that can be instituted in Wave 2 administration. As Wave 1
      participants are nearing completion of the 12-week individual peer mentoring phase, research
      team will contact all 60 participants to schedule Time 2 (T2) interviews. The interviews will
      occur after Wave 1 participants fully complete the intervention and will mirror the baseline
      (T1) and post-group interview. Adaptations will be formalized for the Wave 2 implementation,
      which will begin in month 10 of the study. The research process will proceed in a similar
      manner, with all Wave 2 participants completing a post-group interview and a qualitative
      interview. Analyses and interpretation of data collected to date will occur while Wave 2
      participants are receiving the 1:1 peer mentoring component of the WE Harambee intervention.
      Adaptations will again be made, this time greater attention will be paid to measures of
      fidelity and changes to be reflected in the intervention manual, although any changes in
      process, assessment, or implementation that improves the fit of the intervention will also be
      made. All 60 participants will complete a T3 assessment following completion of Wave 2. Final
      adaptations will be made to intervention and tools and in month 17, the third and final wave
      of 20 participants will be offered the refined intervention. As before, Wave 3 participants
      will complete a post-group interview and qualitative interviews following completion of the
      group component of the intervention. Data will be analyzed and interpreted and final
      adjustments will be made, in conjunction with the stakeholder advisory board, to the
      implementation manuals, fidelity tools, assessment protocols, and recruitment strategies, in
      preparation for a full-scale clinical trial. A final assessment will be completed with all 60
      participants following the end of Wave 3 (T4; month 23). Recruitment and timeline will be
      analyzed for between and within-Wave comparisons in target engagement and outcomes. If the
      hypothesized targets are engaged (i.e., participants demonstrate improvement in the direction
      expected) and if there is some evidence of the association between target engagement and
      outcomes, the researchers will move forward with plans to launch full-scale clinical trial.
      In brief, all 60 patients enrolled in the study will participate in individual interviews in
      4 different time periods of the study: T1 (before Wave 1), T2 (after Wave 1 and before Wave
      2), T3 (after Wave 2 and before Wave 3), and T4 (after Wave 3). Additionally, each
      participant will have one additional interview following completion of the group component of
      the WE Harambee intervention. The post-intervention interviews will be administered to all 60
      participants who have completed the group intervention. Thirty Participants will also be
      invited to participate in a qualitative interview (n=20 from Wave 1, n=5 from Wave 2, n=5
      from Wave 3) . The wave-specific interviews are designed to provide within-group, preliminary
      data that can be used to inform any adaptations/modifications to subsequent waves of
      intervention.
    
  