
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) remains a top 10 cause of child mortality in sub-Saharan Africa.
      Short-course combination TB preventive therapy (TPT) regimens are highly effective with high
      completion rates and therefore hold promise to reduce the 1 million pediatric TB patients and
      233,000 child TB deaths annually. TPT effectiveness requires improvement in access to
      pediatric TB preventive care. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates only 23% of the
      1.3 million TB-exposed children under 5 years old initiated TPT in 2017. The investigators'
      previous data suggest 50-75% of TB-exposed children under 5 years old fail to be either
      identified or linked to TB preventive care. Children under 5 years are at exceptionally high
      risk of TB disease due to not only immature immune systems, but also HIV infection and HIV
      exposure. Guidelines have long recommended TPT for children under 5 years, but have recently
      been expanded to children under 15 years. Developing and testing innovative health care
      delivery models to accompany new WHO-endorsed short-course combination TPT regimens is
      essential to reduce TB-associated global child morbidity and mortality.

      Integrated community case management (iCCM) is a cost-effective intervention that increases
      child survival by bringing curative therapies to at risk children in the community. Recently,
      algorithms for screening pediatric patients with household exposure to TB have been
      simplified to include symptom screening only, eliminating costly laboratory and radiographic
      evaluations that are barriers to treatment and do not improve sensitivity and specificity of
      the assessment. The CHIP-TB Trial plans to assess whether integrated community-based
      pediatric TB/HIV prevention services is feasible, acceptable and effective in increasing TPT
      uptake among child TB contacts under 15 years in a cluster-randomized trial in South Africa
      and Ethiopia, two high-burden, resource-limited settings.

      Nested within this larger trial, the investigators will use qualitative research to (1)
      describe the social context in which the community health teams perform the team's duties,
      (2) make context-specific adaptations to the intervention to maximize its effectiveness, (3)
      define a context-specific implementation strategy and evaluation plan, and (4) learn
      important lessons for the future scale up and dissemination of the community-based
      intervention.

      The investigators will conduct 10-15 paired semi-structured individual in-depth interviews
      (IDI) for each of the four key stakeholder groups: (1) caregivers of TB-exposed children, (2)
      community health team members, (3) clinic-based nurse and clinic or hospital-based physician
      providers, and (4) health system managers and policy makers, for a total of ~120 IDIs (~60 in
      South Africa and ~60 in Ethiopia) both pre and post trial. Before the intervention the
      investigators will conduct a one-hour interview that will explore the inner setting of the
      community health team's environment from each stakeholder perspective and will develop and
      decide upon key intervention adaptations and implementation strategies for the
      community-based TB/HIV prevention program that will be assessed with a one-year
      cluster-randomized trial. Upon trial completion, the investigators will conduct another 10-15
      semi-structured IDIs with each stakeholder group in each country (total ~120 IDIs) to
      identify key facilitators and barriers to the implementation. Thematic content analysis with
      an inductive approach will be used to analyze transcripts for both a priori and emergent
      domains of interest. A coding scheme will be adapted from Consolidated Framework for
      Implementation Research (CFIR) constructs. Free listing, ranking, and cultural consensus will
      be used to identify intervention adaptations and implementation strategies that are context
      specific. The investigators will use Smith's Saliency Index to analyze the free listed data,
      mean rank order to assess ranking exercises, and the Eigenvalue to evaluate consensus across
      groups all using the ANTHROPAC ® 4.0 software.
    
  