
    
      The study will be introduced to pregnant smokers age 18-45 by clinic staff at the DMC
      prenatal care clinic located at the University Health Center, or at a UPG prenatal care
      clinic. Medical staff will give potential participants a flyer briefly describing the study
      and providing a link to a website (www.mommycheckup.net). Participants who meet all
      inclusions and exclusion criteria and pass the quiz will be randomized to one of the eight
      possible combinations of the three different interventions: Brief intervention, SmokeFreeMoms
      texting, or Quitline referral. This use of a factorial design to examine the relative
      efficacy of various intervention components is consistent with the Multiphase Optimization
      Strategy (the MOST) approach. Follow-up evaluation will take place at 4 weeks, and will have
      two elements, one computer- or mobile device-based and the other involving provision of a
      saliva/urine and breath sample. These will be done separately (if the participant does the
      online version remotely) or together (if the participant does the online component while
      providing the samples). Online follow-up: Participants will be sent a link to the online
      system, through which they will be asked about smoking. The clinic follow-up assessment will
      be performed at the next clinic visit. All participants will be asked to provide a urine
      sample (to be tested for cotinine, a biomarker of cigarette smoking) and a breath sample (to
      be tested for carbon monoxide level).

      Data will be analyzed using a 2 (brief intervention yes vs. no)) X 2 (texting referral
      yes-no) X 2 (quitline referral yes-no) ANCOVA (controlling for baseline smoking) test with a
      power of 75%, α=0.05, and 200 patients will be required for this study. The information will
      be analyzed using SPSS. We will examine main effects for each of the three factors. Based on
      an incidence of tobacco smoke in pregnancy, the total recruitment will take 3-4 months.
    
  