
    
      The median survival of untreated advanced stage NSCLC is 5-6 months (2,3). Patients with poor
      performance status due to malignancy or co-morbidities have a poorer survival. This group of
      patients is underrepresented in clinical trials and may not receive chemotherapy due to fear
      of increased toxicities with systemic chemotherapy. The overall median survival of patients
      with advanced NSCLC treated with first-line platinum-based doublets is less than 12 months (8
      10 months) with a 1-year and 2-year survival rate of 33% and 11%, respectively (4 6). No
      chemotherapy regimen has a significant advantage over the others in the treatment of advanced
      NSCLC. Agents targeting epidermal growth factor receptor, matrix metalloproteinase, farnesyl
      transferase, protein kinase C and retinoic X receptor have so far shown no survival benefit
      in combination with chemotherapy in advanced NSCLC (7-13). Docetaxel has activity in NSCLC in
      both first line and second line settings. In poor performance status patients or elderly
      patients, single agent chemotherapy is recommended. Weekly docetaxel administration is well
      tolerated and has lesser incidence of hematologic toxicity with no difference in overall
      survival when compared to patients receiving higher doses (75 mg/m2) q 3 weeks (14-18). There
      is an increased need for better strategies to improve survival as well as reduce regimen
      related toxicity for this large group of patients. The use of targeted therapy as well as low
      dose-protracted chemotherapy (metronomic chemotherapy) needs evaluation as such therapies
      have a better toxicity profile.

      Sorafenib (BAY 49-bursts of toxic maximum tolerated dose (MTD) chemotherapy interspersed with
      long breaks, there is now a shift in thinking towards the view that more compressed or
      accelerated schedules of drug administration using much smaller individual doses than the MTD
      would be more effective; not only in terms of reducing certain toxicities, but perhaps even
      in improving antitumor effect as well. Moreover, some of these dosing/scheduling strategies
      are ideally suited to combining chemotherapeutic agents with many of the new targeted
      biologic drugs. The most recent refinement of this concept is called "metronomic"
      chemotherapy, which refers to the frequent administration of cytotoxic chemotherapeutic
      agents at doses significantly below the MTD, with no prolonged drug-free breaks.
    
  