
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody TNT-1/B in
           patients with progressive or recurrent glioblastoma multiforme.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the biodistribution and radiation dosimetry of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the toxicity and tolerability of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the overall survival, median time of survival, and 6-month survival of
           patients treated with this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study of therapeutic doses of
      iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody TNT-1/B (^131I MOAB TNT-1/B).

      The first 12 patients accrued to the study undergo stereotactic placement of 2 catheters
      within the contrast-enhancing tumor on day 0. These patients then receive an imaging dose of
      ^131I MOAB TNT-1/B interstitially over approximately 25 hours on day 1 followed by dosimetry,
      biodistribution evaluations, and whole body imaging over an 8-10 day period. Beginning at
      least 2 weeks, but no more than 4 weeks later, all patients undergo catheter placement as
      above. One day later, patients receive a therapeutic dose of ^131I MOAB TNT-1/B
      interstitially over approximately 25 hours.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating therapeutic doses of ^131I MOAB TNT-1/B until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at
      which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. An additional 10 patients
      are treated at the MTD.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed weekly for 3 weeks, at 6 weeks, at
      4, 8, and 12 weeks (for the first 12 patients accrued to the study), every 4 weeks until
      disease progression, and then every 8 weeks thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 22 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  