
    
      The research questions are as follows:

        1. What is the association between psychological trauma symptoms, and perceived/clinical
           severity of the condition?

        2. What are the levels of psychological trauma symptoms exhibited in patients with acne?

        3. What are the associations between traumatic history (in childhood and adulthood),
           current traumatic symptoms exhibited and perceived/clinical severity?

        4. What is the association between psychological trauma symptomatology, trauma history,
           general psychological distress, appearance-related distress and perceived/clinical
           severity?

      Design: A quantitative cross--sectional design will be used. Five self-report, standardised
      questionnaires will be completed by participants and assisted by the Chief Investigator (CI)
      or the Research Assistant (RA) to the study. The questionnaires contains measures on:

      psychological trauma history; perceived severity of acne; general appearance--related
      distress; and depression, stress and anxiety.

      Basic demographics will be collected by asking participants to also complete a Demographics
      Information sheet (measuring age, gender, time since diagnosis etc.). Information on
      objective severity of acne will be provided by staff (e.g. named specialist nurse of
      consultant dermatologist for each clinical site). Information on objective severity is
      routinely measured in dermatology clinical practice and such information will be available in
      file for each patient.

      Participants: The population sample will be recruited from NHS Tayside dermatology
      departments, i.e. Ninewells, Strathcathro and Perth Hospital.

      Procedure & recruitment: The CI will liaise with Principal Investigator (PI), Dr Andrew
      Affleck, and arrange to present the study to clinical staff teams in each of the names
      clinical sites. The CI and RA will meet with relevant staff at the recruitment sites to
      discuss the purpose and nature of the study prior to and throughout the recruitment and data
      collection process. The researchers will also commit to present the findings of the research
      to the participating clinical teams when the study is completed.

      Pre-Testing Phase: Information packs regarding the study will be provided to clinical staff
      at the recruitment sites. The information packs will include: background information and
      purpose of the study, and participant exclusion/inclusion criteria. Staff at the recruitment
      sites will be asked to identify suitable participants who meet the criteria outlines in the
      study. The CI and RA will not be required to review patient records.

      Suitable participants will be initially approached by a familiar member of staff. The
      clinician will inform the potential participant about the research, introduce the study with
      an explanation of what would be involved in taking part and the potential participants will
      be asked if they would be interested in considering participation in the study. If interest
      is expressed, the potential participants will be provided with further information, including
      a Participant Information Letter and a consent form. The potential participant will be given
      the opportunity to ask the clinician questions about the study. Verbal consent will be
      obtained from the potential participant to pass their details onto the CI/RA so a meeting can
      be arranged. Contact details will be given to the CI/RA either in person or via telephone.

      The potential participant will be given at least 24 hours to further consider the study
      before the CI/RAcalls to arrange a meeting. A meeting will be arranged, at a mutually agreed
      time at the clinic to meet each potential participant. The meeting will be arranged either at
      the time of their follow up appointment or at another agreed time which is convenient for the
      potential participant. The time between arranging the meeting and the actual meeting provides
      the potential participants with additional time to consider participation in the study. On
      the day of the scheduled appointment, the CI/RA will liaise with clinical staff in charge of
      the care of the patient to check if the participant still meets eligibility criteria and if
      they still wish to meet with the CI/RA. The CI/RA to the study will meet with the potential
      participant to verbally review the Participant Information Letter and provide an opportunity
      for the participants to ask any questions about the study. This will help ensure that the
      potential participant understands the information presented and are able to provide informed
      consent. If the potential participant would like to further consider participation, a further
      meeting will be arranged. If the CI/RA contacts clinical staff and is informed that it is not
      appropriate to meet with the participant at this time, for example, if the potential
      participant is distressed or unwell on the day, the meeting will not take place that day.
      However, if the participant still meets the eligibility criteria at a later date and wishes
      to take part, the appointment can be rescheduled.

      Testing Phase: Further to reviewing the Patient Information Letter, if the participant meets
      the inclusion criteria and provides agreement to take part, a signed informed consent will be
      obtained. After the CI/RA has obtained signed consent from the participant, the study
      measures will be completed. The CI/RA will remain present throughout the testing phase to
      provide appropriate assistance with the completion of the measures. The CI/RA will offer to
      read the questions and record the participant's responses in case the participant has
      literacy difficulties or visual difficulties. The participant will also have a copy of the
      questionnaires to view when they are being completed. Participants will be offered breaks,
      however, if they become fatigued, they will also be offered to continue the testing on
      another date or withdraw from the study. If for any other reason the participant becomes
      distressed or the CI/RA deems the participant as unable to understand the study related
      information or questionnaires, the testing will be discontinued and appropriate action in
      line with clinical practice will be taken.

      Post-Testing Phase: Following the completion of the testing phase, each participant will be
      given the opportunity to discuss their participation in the study and raise concerns of
      difficulties they experienced during completion of the study. Participants will also be made
      aware that they can discuss their experience with a named independent person, whose contact
      will be clearly mentioned in the Debrief. Should participants become distressed or highlight
      concerns, the CI will use her clinical skills, as a Practitioner Counselling and Health
      Psychologist and Psychotherapist Counsellor. The RA to the study will be supervised closely
      and frequently by the CI. The RA is knowledgeable in the area of skin disorders and acne in
      particular at Masters level, and has worked in many clinical studies before as part of her
      post with the Mental Health Research Network. She also has a certificate in Good Clinical
      Practice (June, 2014). When data collection is carried out by the RA, the RA will perform her
      duty of care at all times and will follow good practice and ethics for research guidelines.
      Any concerns the RA has, she will discuss with the CI immediately, who will be available to
      be contacted during meeting with participants and will provide her with further guidance
      about which course of action should it be necessary. If distress escalates and the CI is
      unavailable, the RA will contact appropriate clinical staff (e.g. Dr Andrew Affleck, a named
      nurse or another consultant dermatologist on site) for advice and input, if necessary.
      Potential participants will be made aware of these stages and limitations to confidentiality
      prior to consenting to take part. A Patient Information Sheet will be completed by the
      patient along with the rest of the measures.

      Clinical severity score will be obtained from patient files by clinical staff. The CI and the
      RA will have no contact with patient files. The study packs will be anonymised prior to
      administration, i.e. a participant code will be printed on every page of the pack, including
      the participant information letter, consent form and participant debrief. Consent forms will
      be separately handed to Dr Andrew Affleck in person and will be securely kept locked in a
      cabinet on NHS Tayside premises. Completed questionnaires will be separated from consent
      forms immediately after completion and questionnaires will be kept separately on Edinburgh
      Napier University premises. From that point on, the CI and the RA will have no access to the
      consent forms. Only Dr Affleck will have access to the consent forms. Anonymised data will be
      entered on a electronic statistical package (SPSSX) that will be password protected. As part
      of the governance of the study, we have now put in place, Professor Kevin Power, Head of
      Psychological Services, NHS Tayside, has agreed to monitor the clinical governance of this
      research study. The researchers, i.e. CI and the RA, will score the psychological trauma
      screening questionnaires on the spot. If the participants are identified in the testing phase
      as scoring within the clinical range in post-traumatic symptoms, the CI will notify the
      consultant dermatologist in charge of this patient, who will then notify Prof. Power. Prof.
      Power will ensure that such patients enter an appropriate clinical pathway via appropriate
      referral. Participants will be notified of this governance as part of their information
      letter and participant debrief.

      Measures: The measures will be administered by the CI or the RA by paper and pencil or
      verbally, if required.
    
  