
    
      The experimental procedure to be performed is omental transposition surgery, during which a
      general surgeon and a neurosurgeon work as a team to transpose a pedicle omental graft to the
      surface of the brain. The general surgeon is responsible for performing a
      laparotomy/laparoscopy, elongating the omentum into a long pedicle and developing an
      extensive subcutaneous tunnel up the chest and neck to the head. The neurosurgeon is
      responsible for performing the craniotomy and securing the omentum on the brain.

      Creating an intact omental pedicled flap requires the services of a general surgeon and
      neurosurgeon. The first step in the operation is to obtain access to the abdominal cavity
      laparoscopically using four 5cm trocars, or via laparotomy through an upper midline incision.
      The omentum is then removed from the transverse colon, after which it is separated from its
      proximal and central attachments to the stomach. The omentum detachments are made directly on
      the greater curvature of the stomach, leaving the gastroepiploic arteries and veins within
      the still-connected omentum apron.

      Final separation of the omentum from the proximal portion of the stomach is done by dividing
      the left gastroepiploic vessels, which at the highest proximal level on the stomach become
      the short gastric vessels. The vascular connections to and from the omentum are now
      maintained solely from the right gastric and right gastroepiploic vessels. In order for the
      omental pedicle graft to reach the brain without tension, further surgical tailoring of the
      omentum is carried out, with care being taken to ensure the preservation of a major omental
      artery and vein.

      After the omentum has been lengthened to an appropriate extent to reach the head, several
      small (3- to 4-inch) transverse incisions are made on the chest wall slightly lateral to the
      midline, with the side of the midline to make the transverse incisions depending on which
      cerebral hemisphere the omentum is to be placed. These transverse incisions are connected
      subcutaneously, thus creating a tunnel that begins at the upper pole of the midline abdominal
      incision and travels subcutaneously, up the chest wall and neck to behind the ear.

      Although the subcutaneous tissue behind the ear is extremely dense, it is essential that the
      tunnel at this location be at least 2-3 finger lengths in width so that there is no
      constriction on the omentum in this particular area within the tunnel. As the omentum in the
      tunnel passes behind the ear, it goes beneath the base of the scalp flap that had been
      previously dissected in making the initial craniotomy incision.

      The neurosurgery portion of the operation involves removal of a single piece of bone over the
      temporal-frontal area, opening the dura mater, followed by the removal of patches of
      arachnoid membrane, with care being taken to avoid blood vessels on the surface of the brain.

      At this point in the operation, the omentum is laid directly upon the
      parietal-temporal-frontal area, after which the dura mater is sutured to the omentum. It is
      not necessary that the edges of the omentum be applied to the cut edges of the dura since the
      omentum can be tucked under the edges of the dura for greater coverage of the brain. The
      edges of the dura are then sewn to the top surface of the omentum using absorbable sutures
      and the craniotomy is closed.
    
  