
    
      A phosphatidylcholine species enriched with lauric acid at both the sn-1 and sn-2 positions,
      dilauroylphosphatidylcholine (DLPC), was recently identified as a ligand for the nuclear
      receptor, liver receptor homolog-1 (LRH-1). LRH-1 has notable roles in regulating sterol
      metabolism, with downstream impacts on reproductive capacity, bile acid production, glucose
      metabolism, and cell proliferation. Manipulation of LRH-1 activity via ligand-inducing
      binding and activation has the potential to act as a therapy in certain metabolic disorders,
      such as type 2 diabetes. To date, the LRH-1 ligand, DLPC, has not been reported in vitro or
      in vivo, and has yet to be indexed in the Human Metabolomics Database, suggesting that it's
      therapeutic potential is limited to pharmacological administration. The investigators'
      forthcoming unpublished research tested the hypothesis that the lack of DLPC in physiological
      systems results from substrate insufficiency, and have observed that consumption of dietary
      lauric acid facilitates the production of DLPC in animal models, and addition of lauric acid
      to the culture media of cells additionally leads to its production. A single acute gavage of
      coconut oil results in the production of DLPC in the intestine and export in the serum 1-2
      hours post-gavage. To extend this work to humans, the investigators are undertaking an acute,
      randomized, cross-over trial of dietary lauric acid consumption. This intervention trial aims
      to determine whether dietary lauric acid, in the form of coconut oil (49% lauric acid), can
      facilitate the production of DLPC in humans. The investigators have hypothesized that
      consumption of a single breakfast shake containing coconut oil will result in DLPC in
      post-prandial serum. Participants will be invited to the Cornell University Human Metabolic
      Research Unit (HMRU) on 2 separate occasions to consume 1 of 2 breakfast shake , delivered in
      random order. Shakes will be made with either 2 tablespoons of olive oil (control) or coconut
      oil (intervention). Participants will arrive to the HMRU fasted and provide a baseline blood
      sample, prior to consumption of the breakfast shake ; at 2, 4, and 6 hours following the
      meal, participants will provide additional blood samples. Prior to and throughout the
      duration of the study, participants will be asked to avoid consumption of tropical oils.
      Lauric acid is typically a minimal component of the common diet, though substantial intakes
      can occur with the consumption of tropical oils, such as coconut oil or palm kernel oil.
      Lauric acid is considered one of the three primary hypercholesterolemic saturated fatty acids
      and is currently not recommended to constitute a major component of the diet; participants
      for whom a cholesterol lowering diet is recommended will not be able to enroll in the study.
    
  