
    
      Trial design: A randomised non-inferiority controlled trial in primary care comparing
      facilitated access to a website for risky drinkers against a standard face-to-face BI. With
      the exception of the non-experimental intervention, all components of the study will be
      administered online to patients. Patients will be actively encouraged by their PHCP to access
      the application, which is available on the website of the programme 'Alcohol y Salud'
      (http:// www.alcoholysalud.cat), and will be provided with a unique registration code. The
      trial website is a Spanish adaptation of the English version of
      http://www.DownYourDrink.org.uk (DYD) developed in the UK, which includes modules for all the
      key trial components including screening, consent, assessment, randomisation and follow-up.
      It also incorporates the alcohol reduction website for the patients in the experimental
      group. The site has been adapted from the http://www.DownYourDrink.org.uk website developed
      for the DYD-RCT (randomised controlled trial).14 Details of DYD and the psychological theory
      that underpinned its development have been reported elsewhere. 21 Country-specific
      information such as recommended guidelines for alcohol intake, definitions of standard drinks
      and alcohol-related laws will be included. The website also incorporates a menu-driven
      facility to enable PHCP to customise automated messages to patients, for example, by adding
      photographs and pre-recorded messages. The personalised messages will appear to each patient
      using the log-in code provided by that practitioner.

      Practitioner recruitment, training and incentives:

      Recruitment will be based on the XaROH network. A 3 h seminar on new technologies, and EI and
      BI, introducing the trial, will be offered to all members of the XaROH, and those attending
      will be invited to sign up for the trial. In addition, several advertisements will be posted
      on the 'Beveu Menys' platform offering participation in the trial. In selecting practices,
      preference will be given to those with at least 5000 registered patients. Those practices
      that are selected as participants will be required to undergo a 1-day training programme. The
      training has four steps: (1) introduction to trial; (2) familiarisation with website; (3)
      update about EI and BI; and (4) practice in EI and BI (role-playing). Finally, participants
      will be encouraged to use the website and to tailor-make patient messages. Participating
      PHCPs will receive a financial incentive of €20 per patient recruited to the trial.
    
  