
    
      This is primarily an observational trial in patients with chronic anemia syndromes (sickle
      cell disease and thalassemia) and control subjects. The key purpose is to understand how
      brain blood flow reserve (the ability of the brain to increase its flow in response to
      stress) is altered in patients with chronic anemia. Since this parameter may depend on anemia
      severity, we will perform the MRI monitoring prior to and following clinically indicated
      transfusions in a subset of patients. Most patients will already be prescribed hydroxyurea as
      part of their standard of care. Since hydroxyurea could impact brain blood flow, there is
      also a small pilot study (20 patients, nonrandomized, open label) where MRI imaging will be
      performed prior to and following administration of hydroxyurea up to maximum tolerated dose.
      The study will enroll 90 adult subjects with transfusion independent sickle cell disease (70
      SS, 10 SC, 10 Sβ0) and 60 patients with transfusion-dependent sickle cell disease. It will
      also include 10 transfusion independent thalassemia patients and 20 transfusion dependent
      thalassemia patients as well as 40 control subjects recruited from first degree relatives of
      the sickle cell disease population. All eligible subjects will be asked to provide informed
      consent before participating in the study.

      Treatment:

      All patients will undergo baseline phlebotomy, brain MRI, and neurocognitive testing. The MRI
      will include measurements of brain blood flow prior to and following administration of 16
      mg/kg of acetazolamide to maximally vasodilate the cerebral vasculature. All transfusion
      dependent patients will have their MRI performed immediately prior to a routinely scheduled
      transfusion at their hemoglobin nadir. 20 sickle cell disease patients on chronic simple
      transfusions and 10 thalassemia patients on chronic simple transfusions will undergo repeat
      MRI assessment of cerebral blood flow and reactivity following their clinically indicated
      blood transfusion. 10 sickle cell disease patients on exchange transfusions will undergo
      repeat MRI assessment of cerebral blood flow and reactivity following their clinically
      indicated exchange transfusion; this transfusion will be performed to lower their hemoglobin
      S percentage by 25% points while keeping the total hemoglobin unchanged (isocrit exchange).
      20 non transfusion dependent sickle cell disease patients not already receiving hydroxyurea
      will be placed on hydroxyurea following their baseline exam and titrated to maximal tolerated
      dose. They will then undergo a repeat MRI within two months of reaching that dose and be
      given the option to continue on hydroxyurea or stop.

      Safety Assessment:

      All patients will have a physician present during the MRI examination to monitor vital signs
      and response to acetazolamide. Patients placed onto hydroxyurea will have monthly study
      visits with monitoring of complete blood count, vital signs, complete metabolic panel, and
      hemoglobin electrophoresis. Adverse events will be assessed at every study visit after the
      first dose through to the last subject visit.

      Efficacy Assessments:

      Baseline cerebrovascular reserve (CVR) predictors will be assessed by multivariate regression
      after appropriate transformations. Potential independent predictors include oxygen content,
      hemoglobin subtype, as well as markers of hemolysis, inflammation, and iron overload.
    
  