
    
      Study design :

      Prospective, single-center, randomized, controlled, single-blind, with RIPC procedure
      (Pre-CI) versus "SHAM" ischemic preconditioning (SHAM Pre -CI) (control). This test will
      follow the CONSORT Statement (http://www.consort-statement.org/).

      This is a randomized, controlled, single-blind trial, assessing the incidence of NPCI (after
      a CTA ) between two group of patients, one receiving RIPC procedure and the other group
      receiving a "SHAM" RIPC (control group).

      RIPC is accomplished by performing 4 cycles of alternating 5-minute inflation and 5-minute
      deflation of a standard upper-arm blood pressure cuff, to induce transient and repetitive arm
      ischemia and reperfusion.

      RIPC will be started just before the CTA, and the time between the last inflation cycle and
      the beginning of the CTA will be less than 45 minutes. The "SHAM" RIPC will be carried out
      with the same number of cycles that the RIPC but cuff will be inflated to the diastolic
      pressure of the subject and the cuff will be deflated to10 mmHg in order to maintain a non-
      ischemic compression (blind patient protocol).

      Main objective :

      To assess the efficacy of remote ischemic preconditioning (RIPC) in preventing
      contrast-induced nephropathy (NPCI) after injected CT scanner in patients at high risk of
      NPCI.

      Secondary objectives :

        1. To assess the effects of RIPC on a second marker of renal failure (Cystatin C ) ;

        2. To determine the pathophysiological mechanisms involved in the RIPC (role of oxidative
           stress ; for the first 40 patients) ;

        3. To assess the effect of RIPC on renal function after a second injection of
           contrast-medium during coronary angiography performed 2 to 4 days after the injected CTA
           ;

        4. To assess the tolerance of RIPC procedure ;

        5. To assess the impact on mortality at 6 months.
    
  