
    
      INTRODUCTION It is not unusual to find a stone in the lacrimal sac during
      dacryocystorhinostomy (DCR). Although patients with dacryolithiasis often have a history of
      long-term intermittent epiphora, lacrimal sac distention, and/or partial obstruction of the
      nasolacrimal duct (NLD), dacryoliths are often only detected during DCR. The incidence of
      dacryoliths in the lacrimal sac of patients that undergo DCR ranges from 6.0-18.0%; however,
      the incidence of dacryoliths has not been evaluated in the general population. Unfortunately,
      most published studies on dacryoliths have included quite a small number of samples.

      Canalicular concretions have long been associated with canaliculitis caused by actinomycotic
      infection. However, despite recent, significant progress, an understanding of the
      pathophysiology of lacrimal sac dacryoliths is still missing. Several predisposing factors
      have been suggested to contribute to the mechanism that gives rise to dacryolith formation.
      These factors include age (under 50 years old), sex (increased frequency in females),
      cigarette smoking, and previous occurrence of chronic dacryocystitis and primary acquired
      nasolacrimal duct obstruction (PANDO). Recent analyses have shown that dacryolith development
      may be related to lacrimal sac epithelial and NLD production of a broad spectrum of mucins
      and expression of two peptide members of the trefoil factor family (TFF), TFF1 and TFF3.
      Because dacryoliths occur at low frequency, few studies have focused on their composition.

      In this study, the authors aimed to present findings from morphological, chemical, and
      mineralogic analysis of 86 dacryoliths.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS A total of 967 primary EDCRs were performed at the Department of
      Otorhinolaryngology of the University Hospital of Ostrava and at the Department of
      Otorhinolaryngology of the Frydek-Mistek City Hospital between 1994 and April 2012. Only
      EDCRs performed for postsaccal stenosis/obstruction (832 procedures) were included in the
      study. Exclusion criteria were presaccal obstruction treatment, revision EDCRs, and
      incomplete follow-ups.

      The study was performed in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki, Good Clinical
      Practice, and applicable regulatory requirements. Written consent was obtained from all
      patients before the initiation of surgery and dacryolith analysis.

      Among the group of 832 EDCRs, 86 stones of the lacrimal sac (dacryoliths) were found,
      including 61/86 (70.9%) in women and 25/86 (29.1%) in men. Clinical information was obtained
      from patient medical records, including the involved side, the etiology of the nasolacrimal
      duct (NLD) obstruction, the outcome of EDCR at one year after surgery, the size of the
      dacryolith, and data from dacryolith analysis. The investigators also performed infrared
      spectrometry, amino acid analysis, and imaging and morphological analyses with a scanning
      electronic microscope. The association with cigarette smoking was not examined.

      Infrared spectroscopy The authors examined the dacryoliths with Fourier transform infrared
      spectrometry (FTIR; IMPACT 410, fy Nicolet) and a tableting method with potassium bromide
      (KBr). Evaluations were performed with OMNIC software, and the obtained spectra were compared
      with a library of spectra from kidney stones.

      Amino acids analysis Proteins in the samples (≤ 20 mg) were hydrolyzed with hydrochloric acid
      [1,2]. Then, 1 mL of distilled water was added, the solution was filtered, then evaporated at
      90 ºC under nitrogen, and the residue was dissolved in 2 mL of 1% aqueous NaOH. An aliquot
      (~0.5 mg of the initial sample) was transferred to another tube, the volume adjusted to ± 100
      µL with 1% NaOH, and a derivatization was performed with ethyl chloroformate (4). Next, gas
      chromatography in tandem with mass spectrometry with a 7890A and MSD5975C (Agilent) was
      performed, equipped with a 30-m, VF-17ms capillary column (0.25 mm × 0.15 μm; CP8981 from
      HPST, Praque). Samples were run at temperatures ramped from 60 to 300 ºC at a rate of 6 ºC
      /min; split injection (10:1) was employed. Electron impact (EI) mass spectrometry detection
      at 70 eV was performed at temperatures of 230 ºC for the ion source, 250 ºC for the transfer
      line, and 150 ºC for the quad. We performed full-scan analyses with a helium-carrier gas flow
      of 1.2 mL/min.

      Imaging and morphological analysis Morphological analyses were performed with a scanning
      electron microscope (QUANTA FEG 450, FEI Company, WA, USA). An electron microprobe with an
      energy dispersive detector (EDS) was used for the elemental analysis of the organic matrix of
      the stone and for the analysis of fine inorganic particulates in the stone.

      Statistical analysis For statistical analysis, binomial confidence intervals (CI) for the
      success rates at the 95% CI were calculated. The two-sample t-test and X2 test were used to
      evaluate differences in age, sex, and surgical success between groups I and II; p<0.05 was
      considered statistically significant.
    
  