
    
      Daily ECG transmission versus serial 7-day Holter ECG for assessment of efficacy of ablation
      for atrial fibrillation - the AGNES-ECG study

      Introduction. The optimal method for the assessment of efficacy of ablation for atrial
      fibrillation (AF) has not yet been established. The symptom-based evaluation is not accurate
      because many AF episodes are asymptomatic. It has been well documented that the more frequent
      and/or longer ECG recording the more the AF recurrences are detected. However, such devices
      for long-term ECG monitoring as implantable loop recorders are expensive whereas external ECG
      monitoring is not well tolerated over a period longer than one month. The most frequently
      used approach is periodic 1-7 day Holter ECG monitoring, usually performed 3, 6 and 12 months
      after the procedure and additional standard ECG recordings when symptoms occur [1]. Using
      this method, asymptomatic AF episodes occurring between Holter ECG recordings are missed.

      Recently, several types of external ECG recorders have been introduced, enabling good quality
      frequent ECG recordings and transmission via mobile phones. Only a few studies documented the
      usefulness of this method in detecting silent AF in a high-risk population [2], however, the
      value of short but frequent ECG recordings after AF ablation has not yet been established.
      Kimura et al. [3] tested three methods for AF detection after ablation in 30 patients. The
      follow-up lasted 6 months and each patient underwent three types of ECG recordings (1)
      repeated 10-second standard ECG recordings, obtained during outpatient visits, (2) 24-hour
      Holter ECG performed every month and (3) short 30-second ECG recordings performed twice daily
      and when symptoms occur, transmitted by telemetry. As expected, the latter method enabled
      detection of the highest number of AF episodes, however, the number of recordings declined
      steadily throughout the period of the study, suggesting some technical difficulties with
      performing recordings and decreased patient compliance.

      Similar study was conducted by Senatore et al. [4] who compared diagnostic yield of twice
      daily ECG tele-transmission versus repeated 24 hour ECG recordings in 72 patients after AF
      ablation. Using daily ECG transmissions, significantly more patients had AF episodes detected
      (27.8% vs 13.9%, p = 0,001). In another study [5] twice daily ECG transmissions using
      smartphone and AliveCor system were compared with standard medical care in patients with a
      history of AF undergoing ablation or cardioversion. Also in this study frequent ECG
      transmissions using smartphone occurred more effective in detecting AF recurrences than
      standard care (61% vs 30%; P = 0,04).

      In summary, data on the optimal type of ECG monitoring after AF ablation are scarce. It seems
      that frequent, short ECG recordings have more diagnostic yield than 24-hour ECG monitoring,
      even when performed monthly, or standard care with recording ECG only when symptoms
      suggesting AF occur. However, the optimal mode of monitoring is not known. Such questions as
      whether once-a-day ECG transmission is enough and whether longer i.e. 7-day Holter ECG may be
      as valuable as daily ECG transmissions, remain unanswered.

      Aim: to compare daily ECG transmissions with repeated 7-day Holter ECG in detecting AF
      episodes following AF ablation.

      Hypothesis: daily ECG recordings have significantly higher yield in AF detection than
      repeated 7-day Holter ECG.

      Methods:

      Patients:

      The study group will consists of 50 consecutive patients undergoing AF ablation in the
      investigator's center. The follow-up will last 12 months. The AF detection will be performed
      using two recording methods in each patient. The number of 50 patients has been chosen based
      on the assumption that Holter ECG will detect AF recurrence in 15% of patients and daily
      transmission will detect AF recurrence in 38% patients (alfa error = 0.05 and beta error =
      0.2)

      Daily ECG recordings and transmissions will be performed using the HR-2000 recorder (ISTEL,
      Poland). This device enables recording of 30 seconds of 6-channel ECG (I, II, III, aVR, aVL,
      aVF) from 4 metal electrodes build in the recorder. In order to record ECG, the device is
      activated by a patient and attached to the thorax, at the area of sternum. The duration of
      recording may vary from 30 seconds to 3 minutes, however, only 30-second recordings will be
      used in the present study. After recording, ECG will be transmitted using Bluetooth to
      patient's smartphone and then transmitted to the central station where they will be stored
      and analyzed. Analysis will be performed on a daily basis by an experienced ECG technician,
      not directly involved in patient's recruitment and treatment. The results of all recordings
      will be available for study team after 3, 6 and 12 months after ablation, at the time when
      concurrent Holter ECG recordings will be analyzed. Only in case of serious, life-threatening
      arrhythmias (non-sustained or sustained ventricular tachycardia, or pauses > 6 seconds) the
      study team will be informed immediately by a technician about the results of 30-second ECG
      recording in order to undertake proper action. Specifically, asymptomatic episodes of AF will
      not be unblinded to the study team in order not to interfere with medication and to allow
      continuing follow-up till next Holter ECG monitoring.

      The second method of ECG recording will be 7-day Holter ECG (DMS 300-4A recorders, DM
      Software, NV, USA) performed 3, 6 and 12 months after ablation.

      The patients will be allowed to record additional ECG when symptoms suggesting AF occur. This
      may be performed by ISTEL recorder or standard 12-lead ECG if available.

      At each time-point (3, 6 and 12 months) the study team will analyze all recorded ECGs and
      7-day Holter ECG, and make appropriate therapeutic decisions.

      Inclusion criteria

        1. AF ablation 1-3 days prior to inclusion

        2. Access to smartphone and ability to maintain ISTEL recorder and transmitting ECG.

      Exclusion criteria.

        1. Pacemaker implanted.

        2. Known presence of other than AF cardiac arrhythmias requiring frequent ECG monitoring
           (ventricular arrhythmia, second or third-degree atrioventricular block)

        3. Lack of smartphone or inability to manage ISTEL recorder.

      1. Primary end-point: Time to detection of first AF episode after ablation 2. Secondary
      end-point: Number of patients with AF recurrence after ablation Number of patients with
      asymptomatic AF recurrence after ablation

      Definitions AF episode - episode lasting ≥30 seconds Study period: August 2018 - August 2020
    
  