
    
      Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a disease that causes airway blockage and infection that damages the
      lung. The lungs of CF patients are frequently loaded with inflammatory cells, damaging
      proteins and oxidants. Oxidants are molecules that contain oxygen and are capable of
      disrupting cells and tissue. The CF protein is involved in the transport of the important
      antioxidant glutathione (GSH). Antioxidants are molecules that block oxidants and render them
      inactive. The absence of this protection in the airways makes them prone to damage from
      oxidants. Sodium pyruvate is part of the body's natural anti-oxidant defense system. Sodium
      pyruvate reacts directly with oxygen radicals to neutralize them and increases cellular
      levels of glutathione.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate the safety and tolerability of 3 different single
      dose levels of sodium pyruvate administered via a nebulizer to persons with CF lung disease.

      This will be a phase I study with 3 stages. In the first stage subjects will receive one of 3
      possible doses of the active drug only once. In the second stage subjects will receive 2
      doses of the active drug 12 hours apart. In the third stage subjects will receive either
      active drug or placebo every 12 hours for 4 weeks.

      For stage 1 subjects will come to the University of Minnesota's General Clinical Research
      Center (GCRC) for a screening visit. They will return to the GCRC 1 to 7 days later for a
      baseline assessment that will be followed by study drug administration. The subject will be
      observed for 4 hours and safety parameters will be obtained.

      For stage 2 subjects will come to the GCRC for a screening visit. They will return to the
      GCRC 1 to 7 days later for a baseline assessment that will be followed by study drug
      administration. Safety parameters will be obtained for the following 4 hours. 12 hours after
      the first dose was given the subject will receive a second dose and safety parameters will
      again be obtained over the next 4 hours.

      For stage 3 subjects will come to the GCRC for a screening visit. They will return to the
      GCRC 1 to 7 days later for a baseline assessment that will be followed by study drug
      administration. Safety parameters will be obtained for the following 4 hours. The subject
      will be sent home to continue on study drug every 12 hours for the following 4 weeks. The
      subject will be asked to return to the GCRC once a week for safety assessments.
    
  