
    
      The subdermal etonogestrel (ENG) implant, a long-acting reversible contraceptive (LARC)
      method, is among the most effective forms of reversible contraception and thus, an important
      tool in the quest to reduce unintended pregnancy. Despite this, ENG implant users make up a
      small percent of overall women that use LARC in the United States. Previous studies have
      demonstrated that among women dissatisfied with their implant, the majority cite
      unpredictable and irregular bleeding as a primary reason. Dissatisfaction with a
      contraceptive method can lead to discontinuation, which can put a woman at risk for unplanned
      pregnancy. Although irregular bleeding is a common side effect of all progestin-only
      contraceptives, there are significant gaps in our knowledge regarding the etiology of and
      effective therapies for unscheduled bleeding. While several mechanisms have been proposed and
      therapies have been studied, lack of convincing scientific evidence, in addition to possible
      contraindications to these therapies, demonstrates the need to investigate additional
      effective interventions.

      Studies evaluating interventions for abnormal uterine bleeding resulting from uterine
      leiomyoma provide insight into potential therapies for progestin-mediated bleeding. In prior
      studies, ulipristal acetate (UPA) has been shown to reduce bleeding symptoms associated with
      uterine leiomyoma, including decreasing or stopping excessive bleeding. Progestin-associated
      irregular bleeding has been proposed to be secondary to a disruption in endometrial
      angiogenesis, therefore creating a fragile venous network. UPA may displace local progestin
      to counteract this effect. Thus, this medication has demonstrated both biologic plausibility
      as well as clinically important benefits. UPA may provide an additional safe and effective
      option for treatment of irregular bleeding in implant users. As women are often dissatisfied
      with irregular bleeding with the implant as noted above, improving bleeding profiles could
      potentially improve uptake and continuation of the device.

      The investigators will perform a double blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. Women
      will be randomized to receive either 15mg of UPA daily for 7 days or placebo for the same
      duration. The investigators hypothesize that UPA will decrease bleeding and spotting days in
      users of the ENG implant with unscheduled bleeding when compared to placebo as assessed by
      daily bleeding diaries.
    
  