
    
      Background:Cervical radiculopathy (CR) is a disorder of the peripheral nervous system where
      the resulted cervical nerve root (CNR) pathology produces a chronic pain and disability.
      Based on some epidemiological findings, CR is a common clinical diagnosis since its annual
      incidence has been estimated to be 83 cases per 100,000, with an increased prevalence noted
      in the fifth decade of life. In addition, C6 and C7 nerve roots are most commonly involved in
      this disorder, mainly due to the high range of motion occurring between cervical vertebrae
      C5-C6 and C6-C7.

      CR is caused by a disc herniation, or a space-occupying lesion that can result in CNR
      inflammation, impingement, or both. In normal situations, CNRs ensure the normal function of
      sensation, movement and motor coordination of the upper limb. Therefore, the development of
      CR can produce sensory and motor deficits in the involved limb, including pins and needles,
      numbness and muscle weakness, along with a neuropathic pain described as a burning or
      shooting pain. These symptoms lead patients to exhibit severe functional limitations such as
      difficulties to work, to sleep or to participate in hobbies. Studies on this topic identified
      several socioeconomic and psychological deficits, from lost work and wages to prolonged pain
      and impaired social functioning, leading patients with CR to express symptoms of anxiety and
      depression.

      Treatment of CR has been the subject of debate between physiotherapists and researchers.
      Several non-operative treatment approaches have been advocated to reduce CR pain and their
      analgesic effect has been recognized in a number of randomized clinical trials with these in
      turn being analyzed in few systematic reviews. Based on these studies, patients with CR can
      benefit from a multimodal treatment approach including the application of postural education,
      cervical traction and manual therapy techniques (mobilization, thrust manipulation etc.)
      applied to the cervical spine. However the small number of these studies as well as their
      poor methodological quality due to the short-term follow ups, lack of patient's homogeneity,
      randomization or control group etc., raise several questions about the validity of research
      findings and therefore much more studies are necessary. Among manual therapy techniques that
      have been recommended to improve the patient's pain and functional limitations, neural
      mobilization (NM) has been advocated as an effective treatment option. NM introduced as an
      intervention for pain relief more than 25 years ago are techniques that involve a specific
      sequence of joint movements to mobilize the involved peripheral nerve in order to facilitate
      the reduced nerve gliding and reduced the increased neural mechanosensitivity.

      The application of NM is common but since now little research attention has been given to
      support its usage in patients with CR. Recently, a case study and a randomized controlled
      study concluded that neural mobilization applied simultaneously with cervical traction can
      produce clinically meaningful improvements over a 4-week period, in terms of pain,
      disability, function, grip strength and cervical spine range of motion. However, both
      methodological designs did not allow determining whether NM provided these benefits. Thus,
      the purpose of the present study was to examine the effects of cervical traction with or
      without the addition of NM, in patients with CR.
    
  