
    
      Sacral nerve stimulation (SNS) has over the last 20 years been recognised as an efficient
      treatment option for faecal incontinence (FI). The therapy is recommended by the
      International Continence Society (ICS) if conservative treatments such as; regulation of diet
      and fibre supplements, medication, biofeedback therapy, glycerol suppositories, mini enema or
      transanal irrigation have been insufficient to improve continence to a satisfactory level.

      The SNS therapy has traditionally been applied as a two step procedure. Firstly, a 3-4 week
      test-period, often with a permanent electrode with tines, followed by permanent implantation
      if at least a 50% symptom reduction has been obtained during the test stimulation.

      In a selected patient group(idiopathic faecal incontinence or incontinence as a result of an
      external anal sphincter tear (<160 degrees)) we have evidence that 90% of patients will have
      a successful test period (≥50% reduction in incontinence episodes). If preoperative there is
      motor response on at least 3 out of 4 poles on the lead, at a threshold ≤1.5 mAMP(unpublished
      data, submitted for publication) .

      Thus, only 10% of the patients have the lead explanted after 3 to 4 weeks. In 90% of the
      patients a pacemaker is implanted after the test period, these patients will have an
      additional operation that could have been avoided if they had the permanent pacemaker
      implanted at the first stage.

      Hypotheses In a selected patient group suffering from faecal incontinence a one-stage
      permanent implant will be possible. The functional results will be improved as more time can
      be spent finding the optimal pacemaker settings as the risk of infection is reduced compared
      to the stage implant. One-Stage implantation gives the opportunity to test the amount of
      placebo effect with SNS.

      During the first 3 months postoperative patients will be randomized to either stimulation
      amplitude set at 90% of sensory threshold (control group) or 3 periods of stimulation at
      0.05v (placebo), 50% and 90% of sensory threshold. Patients are randomized in a 1 to 2
      pattern. After the initial 3 months the stimulation amplitude is increased to sensory
      threshold. After six months the project ends and the number of patients achieving the 50%
      improvement in incontinence episodes are evaluated.
    
  