
    
      The aim of the study is to investigate the effects of tocilizumab on the expression of
      biomarkers like adipocytokines and miRNAs in peripheral blood leukocytes and in serum samples
      obtained from rheumatoid arthritis patients. Candidate miRNAs that are likely to be
      quantitated are for example miR-9, 16, 125, 132, 146a, 150, 155, 181 and, 223. The results
      obtained will help the investigators determine if cytokines and miRNAs expression can be used
      as a novel biomarker for the determination of the effectiveness of tocilizumab treatment.

      The study is designed as a prospective study investigating the effect of tocilizumab on the
      expression of cytokines and miRNA in rheumatoid arthritis patients. Sixty rheumatoid
      arthritis patients designated to be treated with tocilizumab and followed in rheumatology
      clinics.

      After receiving informed consent, three blood samples of 5cc blood each will be drawn: the
      first - before tocilizumab treatment to set the basal level of expression in untreated
      patients, the second and third samples will be taken one month and four months after
      initiation of tocilizumab treatment. The investigators will use selected samples (from 5
      patients) to perform microarray analysis for miRNAs expression, and based on the results, we
      will confirm the expression of specific miRNAs by quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR). Based on
      current knowledge, the investigators expect that miR-9, 16, 125, 132, 146a, 150, 155, 181
      and, 223 will show significant changes in expression upon tocilizumab treatment. Cytokines
      levels are measured using ELISA tests for each individual biomarker. The changes in cytokines
      and miRNAs expression, either up-regulation or down-regulation, will be correlated to the
      severity of the disease and to the clinical effect of tocilizumab. Information regarding
      disease duration, activity as measured by disease activity score, concomitant treatment and
      serology status will be collected. Also demographic characteristics - age, sex and smoking
      status will be recorded. The results will be compared to 60 healthy controls gender- and age
      matched, without any rheumatic, inflammatory or malignant disorders
    
  