
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is the 4th leading cause of death worldwide and
      affects 1.2 million people in the UK, costing the NHS >£800 million annually. COPD patients
      are more susceptible to both chronic and acute bacterial infections. Patients with chronic
      lung bacterial infection have worse quality of life, faster disease progression, more
      symptoms and frequent exacerbations. Acute infections are the main cause of acute COPD
      exacerbations which cause COPD patients to become acutely unwell and often result in
      hospitalisation especially in the winter. Bacteria are detected in 50-60% of COPD
      exacerbations. Antibiotics are frequently used to treat COPD exacerbations and this
      contributes to the development of antibiotic resistance. Therefore any intervention that
      prevents or reduces bacterial infection in COPD, especially if it is not an antibiotic, will
      have major benefits for COPD patients, the NHS and for society as a whole.

      It is likely that there are many reasons why COPD patients are more susceptible to bacterial
      infections. From experimental work the investigators have carried out one of the reasons may
      be high glucose concentrations in the lung.

      In healthy lungs glucose levels are kept low and this is probably a mechanism that inhibits
      bacterial growth by depriving them of an essential nutrient. In animal studies the
      investigators have demonstrated that when levels of glucose in the lung are high, bacterial
      lung infection is more common. The investigators measured lung glucose concentrations in COPD
      patients and found that they are higher compared with people without COPD. COPD patients with
      higher levels of glucose also had more bacteria in their lungs and sputum samples from COPD
      patients with higher glucose concentrations supported greater bacterial growth in the
      laboratory.

      Therefore this study was the first to link elevated glucose in the lung to bacterial
      infection in COPD. Therefore reducing airway glucose has the potential to inhibit bacterial
      growth in COPD patients.

      Study Design The proposed study will be a randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled,
      cross-over study of metformin in COPD patients. The primary outcome will be sputum glucose
      after 3 months' treatment with metformin compared with sputum glucose in those taking
      placebo. In order to account for potential withdrawals 40 subjects will be recruited.

      Study Procedures Potential participants will attend for a screening visit where they will
      have a full medical history, a physical examination and spirometry carried out to confirm the
      diagnosis of COPD. A blood test will also be done to measure kidney and liver function and
      blood glucose to exclude undiagnosed diabetes, kidney disease or liver disease.

      If they fulfil the entry criteria and consent to taking part in the study they will have a
      baseline visit prior to being randomised.

      The baseline visit will include:

        1. Physical examination and measurement of vital signs

        2. Completion of quality of life (St George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ)) and symptom
           questionnaires (COPD Assessment Test (CAT))

        3. Collection of samples. The samples collected will include blood samples, nose samples
           collected using nasal synthetic absorbtion matrix (SAM) strips and induced sputum.

      After baseline assessment, subjects will either be commenced on metformin (500mg twice a day
      after meals) or placebo for 3 months during which time the participants will have monthly
      visits. At these visits the same assessments and sampling as the baseline will be carried
      out, together with collection of data regarding exacerbations and adverse events. Following a
      2 week washout period the subjects will crossover to the other study arm for another 3 months
      and follow the same study protocol.
    
  