
    
      Persistent atrial fibrillation (PeAF) is defined as continuous atrial fibrillation for 7 days
      or more. Approximately 10% of people are diagnosed with atrial fibrillation (AF) by age 80
      years; and among people of European descent, 26% of men and 23% of women have a lifetime risk
      of developing AF after age 40.

      Catheter ablation by pulmonary vein isolation is the usual approach employed for PeAF. This
      involves making lesions within the pulmonary veins to achieve electrical isolation.
      Electrical isolation cuts off abnormal electrical triggers originating from the pulmonary
      veins. However, treatment outcomes are less than optimal with a lot of variability in success
      rates for different techniques. Hence, the optimal treatment strategy for patients with PeAF
      is not clear.

      In this pilot study, investigators aim to study two different treatment modalities of
      catheter ablation: cold balloon (cryoballoon, Group 1) and hot tip (radiofrequency ablation,
      Group 2) used in (electrically) isolating the pulmonary veins. There will be 1:1
      randomisation to either of the two modalities. All participants will subsequently undergo a
      repeat procedure 2 months later to identify reconnections and to re-isolate the veins using
      the hot tip (radiofrequency ablation) guided by an ultra-high density mapping technology.
      During the repeat procedure, investigators will perform further electrophysiological studies
      including assessing arrhythmia inducibility and measuring the extent of isolated areas. For
      participants in Group 2, investigators will also make some lesions in the back wall of the
      heart (posterior wall isolation) and recheck arrhythmia inducibility.

      All participants will be given a handheld ECG recording (Omron) device. Participants will be
      shown how to use the device to make daily 30-second recordings and when they have symptoms,
      to be reviewed. Follow up will be at 3, 6 and 12 months.
    
  