
    
      Most individuals with opiate and alcohol-use disorders (OAUD) do not receive treatment.
      Primary care is an ideal setting in which to deliver OAUD treatment, yet evidence-based OAUD
      treatment is rarely provided.

      Barriers to delivery include insufficient organizational support and lack of provider role
      models and clinical support. The investigators propose to evaluate the effectiveness of two
      strategies for increasing use of evidence-based treatment for OAUD within primary care:
      integrated collaborative care (ICC) and education and resources (E&R). While both strategies
      provide primary care practices with the same clinical information, ICC addresses these
      barriers by including organizational and technical support for delivering evidence-based
      care. ICC is grounded in the chronic care model and includes a behavioral health provider
      working as part of the care team.

      Essential elements of ICC strategy include a decision support component to help providers
      with complex patients, and a restructuring of the delivery and clinical information systems
      to support the delivery of evidence-based care. Our approach to implementing ICC is based on
      the organizational transformation model and quality improvement. The investigators define the
      E&R strategy as providing printed educational materials and access to resources along with
      provider education. Both strategies are designed to increase the delivery of two
      evidence-based practices: motivational enhancement therapy and medication assisted therapy.

      The investigators propose a 5-year mixed methods study and will conduct a RCT, with
      randomization occurring at the level of the care team and patient. The investigators partner
      with 5 Venice Family Clinic (VFC) clinics, two hospitals in LA County, and COPE Health
      Solutions. VFC is a large federally qualified health center (FQHC) and the largest free
      clinic in the United States. Our approach includes document review, focus groups, interviews,
      and surveys for obtaining data on the adoption process and implementation outcomes; analysis
      of patient records and patient surveys on service system and patient outcomes; and analysis
      of provider financial records and patient records and surveys for estimating costs. The
      investigators will enroll 400 patients with an OAUD diagnosis and follow them at 3 and 12
      months. Our specific aims are: 1) To measure the process and extent of ICC and E&R
      implementation; 2) To test the effectiveness of ICC compared to an E&R strategy in promoting
      A. Implementation outcomes B. Service system outcomes and C. Patient outcomes; and 3) To
      estimate provider costs for each strategy. The investigators define implementation outcomes
      as measures of the acceptability, adoption, appropriateness, feasibility, and sustainability
      of evidence-based OAUD treatment. The investigators define service system outcomes as 1)
      process measures of treatment quality and 2) treatment co-morbidities. The investigators
      define patient outcomes as hospital readmissions, OAUD outcomes, patient functioning,
      negative consequences from substance use, and unmet need. The investigators define cost
      outcomes as start-up costs, operating costs and medical/psychiatric cost offsets.
    
  