
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To establish that the combination of pembrolizumab and traditional external beam
      multifractionated radiation therapy (RT) to the primary tumor or a single target metastatic
      site of patients with metastatic gastric, esophageal, and/or gastroesophageal junction (GEJ)
      cancers will lead to an increase in tumor infiltrating cytotoxic T-cells and circulating
      cytotoxic T cells and a reduction in immunosuppressive regulatory T cells (Tregs) and
      myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in metastatic sites.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish that the combination of pembrolizumab and RT is feasible in the patient
      population and evaluate toxicities per National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity
      Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (ver.) 4.03.

      II. To evaluate overall response rate (ORR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) 1.1 and immune related (ir)RECIST in this treatment population and correlate with
      tumor T-cell response.

      III. To evaluate progression-free (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in this treatment
      population.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure changes in whole genome serum micro ribonucleic acid (miRNA) signature before
      and after protocol therapy and correlate with tumor/immune/stromal cell miRNA expression
      profiling determined by deep sequencing.

      II. To measures changes in fecal and oral microbiomic diversity and correlative with ORR,
      PFS, and OS.

      III. To assess germline mutations in a panel of miRNA regulatory genes using the MiraDx assay
      as predictors of response and toxicity to pembrolizumab and RT.

      OUTLINE:

      INITIAL TREATMENT: Patients undergo palliative external beam RT daily. On day 1, patients
      undergo the first RT fraction and then receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30
      minutes. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for up to 35 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      SECOND PHASE: Patients who achieve a complete response, stop study treatment, and then
      experience radiographic disease progression may be eligible for the second phase at the
      discretion of the investigator if no cancer treatment was administered since the last dose of
      pembrolizumab and trial eligibility safety parameters are met. Patients receive pembrolizumab
      IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for up to 17 cycles in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 6 weeks for 1 year,
      and then every 9 and 12 weeks for up to 2 years.
    
  