
    
      Revlimid is designed to change the body's immune system. It may also interfere with the
      development of tiny blood vessels that help support tumor growth. It is possible that it may
      help reduce or prevent the growth of cancer cells.

      You will have a bone marrow aspiration performed before starting treatment (within 4 weeks)
      on this study and at about 12 weeks after starting treatment on this study. Your doctor may
      also decide to perform a bone marrow aspiration before 12 weeks to assess your response to
      treatment. To collect a bone marrow aspirate, an area of the hip or chest bone is numbed with
      anesthetic, and a small amount of bone marrow is withdrawn through a large needle.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take Revlimid once a day
      by mouth (with a full glass of water, at least 1 hour before or after a meal) for 21 days.

      You will then have 7 days off of the study drug, which is considered a rest period. This
      entire period is considered 1 cycle of therapy (28 days). The number of treatment cycles you
      may have will depend on the response of your disease to treatment on this study. You will
      have blood drawn (about 3 tablespoons) to test for blood counts and chemistries before each
      treatment cycle. At the end of 3 cycles, your disease will be evaluated for response to the
      study treatment.

      You will be required to return to M. D. Anderson once a month for the first 3 months on this
      study or as often as the study doctor thinks it is best.

      After the first 3 months on this study, you may have blood drawn (about 3 tablespoons) for
      blood counts and chemistries at your regular doctor's office. The results of your blood tests
      will then be sent to the research nurse. Your side effects will be reviewed by a doctor or
      nurse by telephone (in addition to being reviewed in your study diary) before the start of
      each cycle of treatment. This phone call will last about 10 minutes each time.

      You will be taken off this study if your disease gets worse or you experience any intolerable
      side effects. It is also possible that the study doctor may decide to take you off this study
      if your disease response is considered less than a complete response. You will have an
      end-of-study visit, if you are taken off this study for any reason. During the end-of-study
      visit, you will have blood drawn (about 3 tablespoons) for blood counts and chemistries. You
      will have an ECG. You may have a urine pregnancy test. You will also have a bone marrow
      aspiration performed.

      This is an investigational study. Revlimid® (lenalidomide) is indicated for the treatment of
      patients with transfusion-dependent anemia due to Low- or Intermediate-1-risk myelodysplastic
      syndromes associated with a deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality with or without additional
      cytogenetic abnormalities. Revlimid® is also approved in combination with dexamethasone for
      the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma that have received at least one prior
      therapy. In this case it will be considered investigational. Up to 30 patients will take part
      in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  