
    
      Objective

      This is a cross-sectional study to validate a new, simple, rapid and affordable point-of-use
      pathogen identification research tool (hence forth referred to as the "tool") of diarrheal
      diseases for potential use in resource limited settings in the future. The tool was developed
      under the terms of a National Institutes of Health (NIH) approved Clinical CRADA between NINR
      and GoDx, Inc. The sensitivity and specificity of the tool in identifying several common
      gastrointestinal (GI) pathogens in stool will be examined in participants with diarrhea. The
      proposed validation study will constitute the initial assessment of the tool in a healthcare
      environment. Once the detection validity and technical performance of the tool have been
      evaluated in this context, the tool will be further tested in low resource healthcare
      settings.

      Study population

      Study participants will be recruited from the Washington, DC, metropolitan area using
      standard NIH recruitment practices, as well as from among participants in two existing
      protocols (09-NR-0064, 12-NR-0195) which recruit and consent research participants with GI
      disorders and diseases. Lastly, participants enrolled on other NIH protocols will be
      recruited. Appropriate stool samples may also be sequestered from an exempt repository
      protocol (09-NR-N228). All ages, ethnicities and both sexes will be considered for inclusion
      in this study. The study population would reflect the demographics of the greater Washington
      DC metropolitan area. Externally recruited participants and participants recruited from
      existing protocols will be asked to supply stool samples. A total of 800 samples from
      participants with diarrhea will be included in this study.

      Design

      Stool samples will be collected from participants with diarrhea for which pathogen testing
      using the NIH standard of care, BioFire FilmArray GI Pathogen Panel (FDA approved PCR based
      pathogen diagnostic) by the Department of Laboratory Medicine (DLM) is indicated. Collected
      stool samples will be tested for pathogens causing GI disease, using the FilmArray GI panel
      by the DLM. Technicians in the NINR laboratories will test aliquots from the same stool
      samples using our tool. The tool has been designed for detection of the most common diarrhea
      causing pathogens. Of primary interest for this study are: Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli
      - EPEC, Clostridium difficile C. difficile, Enteroaggregative Escherichia coli - EAEC, and
      Campylobacter spp. Pathogens of secondary interests, but for which the study is not
      specifically powered, will also be included and are: Shigella sp., Shiga Toxin-Producing
      Escherichia coli - STEC, Salmonella spp., and Cryptosporidium spp. Participants will not
      receive results from the tool.

      Outcome measures

      The percent sensitivity (ability to make the correct positive identification), specificity
      (ability to make the correct negative identification) and 95% confidence intervals will be
      statistically determined by comparing the results yielded by the tool and the FilmArray GI
      panel. Controlled laboratory experiments suggest >90% specificity and sensitivity of the tool
      for the detection of the specified pathogens.
    
  