
    
      Wheelchair bound patients with MD or CP live a sedentary life, and probably because of this,
      many experience pain in lower back and glutes, obstipation, reduced quality of life, reduced
      activity of daily living and social withdrawal. Exercise is likely to reduce these symptoms.
      However, research in exercising patients confined to a wheelchair lacks 3 things: 1) Most
      research is done in patients that are wheelchair bound due to stroke, and these results are
      not necessarily transferable to patients with MD or CP. Patients with stroke differ from
      patients with MD and CP since they can potentially gain walking ability again, they have had
      walking ability up to the stroke, they are only hemiparetic and thus have normal function in
      the rest of the body, their muscles are atrophic but otherwise healthy and they have no
      contractures. 2) Most research in exercise in patients with MD or CP focuses on preventing
      patients from being wheelchair bound - only very little research is done in the most severely
      affected patients that are wheelchair bound, although many of their symptoms can potentially
      be ameliorated by exercise. 3) To date, research in exercise in wheelchair bound patients
      with MD or CP has primarily consisted of arm cycling. It has been shown to reduce BMI and
      improve cardiorespiratory status, endurance, muscle strength and activities of daily living,
      but not without complications. The upper limbs consist of small muscle groups that are easily
      fatigued and therefore proper cardiopulmonary fitness is difficult to obtain. The risk of
      upper limb overuse injuries is high, reducing patients function and activities of daily
      living. Presently, there is no feasible and acceptable way to exercise for this large patient
      group.

      The investigators have tested a cycle ergometer for the lower limbs that can be used while
      the patients sit in their own wheelchair. It has a motor, since most patients are not able to
      turn the pedals themselves, and a sensor that can measure how much patients contribute to
      cycling. They have tested 3 wheelchair bound patients. After training, they all experienced
      reduced pain in lower back and glutes, less obstipation and increased energy. Surprisingly,
      the heart rate increased during exercise by up to 65 beats even in patients that could not
      turn the pedals themselves, indicating cardiovascular fitness. To test this form of exercise
      in a larger group of patients that are wheelchair bound due to MD or CP will be of great
      interest.

      The aim of this project is thus:

        1. to test a cycle ergometer for lower limbs in patients who are wheelchair bound due to MD
           or CP to find a feasible and acceptable way to exercise in order to increase health and
           quality of life.

        2. to investigate if patients unable to move their legs will have effect of the training.
    
  