
    
      Stroke patients and healthy subjects were randomly divided into two different groups and
      tested in different positions. In study group 1, the exercise test consisted of two motor
      tasks carried out in two different starting positions: sitting and supine. During the first
      examination, the subject sat on the therapeutic table (without back support), feet resting on
      the floor (active stabilization of the trunk and shoulder). The upper limb was examined in
      adduction, with the elbow bent in the intermediate position between pronation and supination
      of the forearm. In the supine position, the upper limb was held beside the subject's body
      (adduction in the humeral joint, elbow flexion in the intermediate position; passive
      stabilization of the trunk and shoulder).

      In study group 2, the exercise test again consisted of two motor tasks carried out in two
      different starting positions: supine with the upper extremity positioned perpendicularly to
      the trunk (passive stabilization of the trunk, active stabilization of the shoulder), and
      supine with the upper limb held beside the subject's body (adduction in the humeral joint,
      elbow flexion in the intermediate position; passive stabilization of the trunk and shoulder).

      A manual electronic dynamometer (EH 101) was used for grip strength measurement (error of
      measurement, 0.5 kg/lb). A Hand Tutor device (composed of a safe and comfortable glove
      equipped with position and motion sensors, and the Medi Tutor(TM) software) was used to
      measure the range of passive and active movement (error of measurement, 5 - 10 mm), as well
      as the speed/frequency of movement (error of measurement, 0,5 cycle/sec.).

      First, the range of passive movement in the radial-carpal joint (flexion and extension) and
      fingers (global flexion and extension) was measured in each position using the Hand Tutor
      Device. Then the subject made active movements in the same order. Finally, the subject was
      asked to make moves as quickly and in as full a range as possible. The measurement of grip
      strength with a dynamometer was performed in each position after the range of motion and
      speed/frequency tests.
    
  