
    
      Comorbidities and complications including infection, organ system toxicity, graft-versus-host
      disease (GVHD) and disease recurrence are some of the biggest contributors to quality of life
      and mortality in children undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). Research has
      suggested that patients with sufficient vitamin D levels during transplant have improved
      outcomes, including lower incidences of infection and acute GVHD, as well as overall improved
      survival. Prior research has shown that chronically ill children are at risk for vitamin D
      deficiency, including those undergoing HSCT. Data has shown populations with as many as 70%
      of HSCT patients have insufficient levels of vitamin D at time of transplant. While several
      studies have attempted methods of vitamin D supplementation in this subset of patients, there
      has not been success with either standard or aggressive supplementation strategies.

      Single high-dose oral vitamin D therapy, known as stoss therapy, has been used in other
      chronically ill children where adequate levels of vitamin D are difficult to attain. Stoss
      therapy suggests a single high-dose followed by maintenance dosing would be adequate to
      replete and maintain vitamin D levels in chronically ill children. While it has been shown to
      be effective with no evidence of toxicity in patients with rickets and cystic fibrosis, its
      safety and efficacy has not been studied in the transplant setting. However, there is an
      urgent need to identify a modifiable factor may reduce the occurrence and/or severity of HSCT
      associated complications. The overall objective of this study is to determine the
      effectiveness of a single, high dose oral vitamin D (Stoss Therapy) followed by maintenance
      supplementation in children undergoing HSCT. This change will result in a new and innovative
      approach to maintaining adequate vitamin D levels during pediatric HSCT, with the long term
      goal of reducing morbidity and mortality.

      Our primary goal is to assess the safety and efficacy of a single, high dose of vitamin D
      followed by maintenance supplementation in children undergoing HSCT. Our secondary goal is to
      identify the effects of adequate vitamin D levels on early clinical outcomes such as cytokine
      levels, graft versus host disease, immune recovery, rejection, relapse, infection rates in
      pediatric HSCT patients.
    
  