
    
      This will be a single-center, randomized, double-blind trial to evaluate the efficacy of
      sitagliptin to prevent the development of new-onset diabetes after transplant (NODAT) in
      previously non-diabetic patients with post-operative hyperglycemia following living-donor or
      deceased-donor kidney transplant. In this trial, previously non-diabetic adult patients with
      hyperglycemia (random blood sugar >200mg/dL) in the first 72 hours following kidney
      transplant will be screened to determine eligibility based on inclusion/exclusion criteria.
      Patients that meet study entry criteria will be stratified based on HbA1c (<5.7 or 5.7-6.4%)
      and randomized in a 1:1 ratio to one of two treatment groups: sitagliptin versus placebo.
      Fifty patients (25 per group) will be enrolled. Dosing period will be 3 months at which time
      study drug will be discontinued and patients will be followed for an additional 3 month
      period.

      Study visits will occur at 0, 1, 3 and 6 months. A HbA1c and 2-hour oral glucose tolerance
      test (OGTT) will be obtained at the 3 and 6 month study visit.

      Screening period (Visit 1)

      All patients presenting for living-donor or deceased donor kidney transplant will have a
      medical history, medication history, vital signs, height, weight, body mass index, physical
      exam, random blood sugar (BS), HbA1c and EKG done as part of routine pre-transplant protocol
      at Barnes Jewish Hospital. Patients with hyperglycemia, defined as a random blood sugar ≥ 200
      mg/dL, in the first 72 hours after kidney transplant will be screened to determine
      eligibility for the study based on inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Randomization (Visit 2)

      Patients meeting study entry criteria and consenting to study participation will be
      stratified based on HbA1c (<5.7 or 5.7-6.4%) and block randomized in blocks of eight in a 1:1
      ratio to sitagliptin versus placebo. Sitagliptin dose will be 100mg/day, adjusted per
      creatinine clearance and tolerability. Patients will be instructed by a licensed diabetic
      educator on proper measurement and recording of fasting and post-prandial blood sugars.
      Subjects will be provided a log, standard glucometer and testing strips to maintain a blood
      sugar log post-discharge. Visit 2 will occur within 24 hours after Visit 1.

      Drug dosing period (Visits 3-4)

      Sitagliptin or placebo will be continued until 3 months post-transplant, at which time study
      medication will be discontinued and collected from the subject. At the 1 and 3 month visits,
      vital signs, height, weight, and BMI will be obtained. A physical exam will be performed.
      Blood sugar logs provided by the patient will be reviewed and adverse effects recorded. At
      the 3 month visit (Visit 4), a HbA1c, 2-hour OGTT, fasting C-peptide and insulin level will
      be obtained.

      Follow-up (Visit 5)

      At the 6 month final visit, 3 months following discontinuation of study medication, vital
      signs, height, weight, BMI, HbA1c, 2-hour OGTT, fasting C-peptide and insulin level will be
      obtained. A physical exam will be performed. Blood sugar logs provided by the patient will be
      reviewed and adverse effects recorded.
    
  