
    
      When patients that are possible participants in the study present for surgery, they will be
      offered the opportunity to participate in the trial as part of the informed consent process.
      Should they agree to participate, they will be randomized to receive either an interscalene +
      "sham" superficial cervical plexus block or an interscalene + superficial cervical plexus
      block. The randomization will have already been predetermined based off of envelopes that
      will have been created by a research assistant. Within the envelopes the proper paperwork
      needed to consent a participant along with a label that will be labeled either interscalene +
      sham superficial cervical plexus block or interscalene + superficial cervical plexus block.
      This will assign the randomization of each participant (this will be unknown to all study
      personnel until identified by the label). Their pain scores will be assessed pre-operatively
      as well as post-operatively .. If they are admitted to the hospital, the PI and/or
      Co-Investigators will assess their pain scores on a daily basis and follow-up with a phone
      call to assess their satisfaction with the block. Numerical pain scores (scale of 0-10) will
      be used to assess post-operative pain with 0 indicating no pain and 10 indicating severe
      pain. Post-operative pain will be assessed by compiling pain scores from 2 different sources:
      Numerical pain scores recorded by nursing staff (vitals section of EMR) and also pain scores
      ascertained by residents during rounds (progress notes). For each pain score, we will record
      the date and time it was obtained. If they are discharged the same day as surgery, they will
      receive a phone call within 48 hours to assess their pain scale and satisfaction. We will
      also assess nausea and vomiting, the amount and type of pain medicine they are taking, and
      assess if they could tell when their block wore off.
    
  