
    
      Childhood maltreatment for survivors creates a risk for the perpetuation of a cycle of
      violence in the form of sexual violence, intimate partner violence, and child maltreatment of
      the next generation of children. Consistent empirical evidence across studies confirms that
      abuse and neglect in childhood is associated with: dating violence, serious delinquent
      behaviors, engaging in risky sex and substance use, physical and sexual revictimization as
      adult women and maltreatment as parents. Adolescent girls in foster care with histories of
      childhood maltreatment are at increased risk of multiple forms of interpersonal violence, as
      adolescents and adults, due to the presence of a multitude of additional risk factors. Mental
      health problems associated with the trauma of childhood maltreatment include depression,
      PTSD, and behavioral disorders. These problems tend to be more elevated and prevalent in
      adolescent girls in foster care. Additionally, these girls often experience multiple
      behavioral, mental health, and drug and alcohol-related problems that are also linked to
      interpersonal violence, suggesting that youths in foster care have different and more urgent
      prevention needs than other adolescents. The magnitude of the relationship between childhood
      maltreatment, trauma-induced mental health problems and subsequent revictimization and
      perpetration is so substantial and the consequences so deleterious that researchers have
      emphasized the necessity of targeting early intervention and prevention resources toward
      children exposed to violence.

      There is a clear need for intervention and prevention efforts to be directed at female
      survivors of child maltreatment. We are targeting our intervention/prevention efforts at
      girls for several empirically important reasons. Prevalence studies consistently reveal that
      girls are more frequent victims of childhood sexual abuse, adult sexual assault and intimate
      partner violence. Childhood sexual abuse in particular is more strongly correlated with the
      development of serious mental health and substance abuse problems than other forms of
      maltreatment. Girls are more vulnerable to physical and sexual re-victimization in
      adolescence and adulthood and re-victimization increases risks of mental health and substance
      abuse problems, which further increases risks for re-victimization. Research has demonstrated
      that girls/women are more vulnerable to the development of PTSD than boys/men even when
      exposed to comparable levels and types of trauma, and PTSD has been shown to increase risks
      for re-victimization. A growing body of literature indicates that trauma responses are
      mediating factors in re-victimization. Consequently, if trauma symptoms (PTSD, depression,
      anxiety, cognitive distortions, and maladaptive coping strategies) can be ameliorated there
      is greater potential to prevent revictimization.

      Despite the strong empirical evidence that girls with histories of maltreatment are at
      greater risk than other adolescents of engaging in youth violence and interpersonal violence
      as adults, there are no reports of violence prevention programs tailored for female
      adolescents in foster care. The Task Force on Community Preventive Services of the Centers
      for Disease Control (CDC) has identified cognitive behavior therapy as an effective treatment
      to reduce psychological harm among youth exposed to traumatic events and to promote healthy
      relationships among youths who have experienced trauma. Trauma-focused cognitive-behavioral
      therapy has been adapted for children exposed to community or family violence utilizing a
      group format and delivered in community settings. The school-based version of the
      intervention is known as Cognitive-Behavioral Intervention for Trauma in School, or CBITS.
      The study adapts the CBITS program for use with adolescent girls assessed or served by
      Children's Division (GAIN) who have experienced previous maltreatment for delivery within
      community-based settings, and evaluates its impact in preventing re-victimization and
      perpetration of interpersonal violence.

      The specific aims of the study were to:

        1. Adapt the CBITS program for girls who have been assessed or served by the Children's
           Division (GAIN) that targets mental health problems as they relate to risks of
           revictimization and perpetration of interpersonal violence.

        2. Utilizing a randomized controlled design, implement the GAIN program with 125 adolescent
           girls who have been assessed or served by Children's Division compared with 125 girls
           who receive usual care.

        3. Conduct a process evaluation that will monitor treatment integrity through ratings of
           session content delivered, participants' attendance, program relevance and satisfaction,
           and tracking comparison and experimental group adolescents to reduce study attrition.

        4. Conduct an outcome evaluation to compare the effectiveness of the GAIN program on
           primary outcomes such as trauma-related mental health problems (i.e., PTSD, depression),
           aggression, and revictimization and on secondary outcomes such as self-efficacy to
           control anger and internalizing and externalizing behavior problems.

      Experimental Group Youths who were randomly assigned to the experimental group participate in
      an informational interview conducted by a group therapist who is a licensed clinical
      psychologist, social worker, or counselor with extensive experience in treating girls with
      history of maltreatment. A significant adult chosen by the youth who is a foster parent,
      congregate care worker, Children's Division worker, or relative accompanied the adolescent to
      the informational interview so that the youth was more comfortable. The purpose of this
      informational interview was to inform the youth about the purpose of the group, to secure the
      youth's commitment to the group, to facilitate an initial connection between the adolescent
      and the therapist, and to assure that the youth is appropriate for the group (based on the
      inclusionary and exclusionary criteria). Once eligibility was determined, the therapist
      administered consent and assent forms.

      The experimental condition consisted of the CBITS intervention adapted for adolescent girls
      who have been assessed or served by the Children's Division (GAIN). CBITS is an
      evidence-based, 10 session program that incorporates cognitive behavioral therapy skills in a
      group format to address symptoms of trauma, such as PTSD, anxiety, and depression related to
      exposure to violence. The adapted CBITS program included the following elements:
      psychoeducation related to common reactions to trauma, understanding the connection between
      feelings, thoughts, and behaviors, relaxation skills, cognitive therapy, trauma exposure, and
      social problem-solving. The program met once each week and lasted a total of 10 weeks. Each
      session was approximately 1.5 hours long. Each session had about 6-8 participants and was led
      by two group facilitators who had experience helping adolescents who had experienced trauma.
      Additionally, each participant attended two individual sessions with the group therapist to
      check in on her reaction to the group and to make a plan for her goals for the group. These
      individual sessions were an hour in length and occurred between weeks 2 and 6 of the group
      sessions. Following the completion of the GAIN intervention, therapists provided written
      recommendations to the legal custodians of experimental group participants. This report
      included recommendations for future care.

      Experimental participants participated in three structured interviews: a pretest interview, a
      posttest after the intervention (approximately 3 months later), and a follow-up interview 6
      months after baseline. The face-to-face pre, post, and follow-up interviews included an
      evaluation of the effectiveness of the GAIN program on primary and secondary outcomes. Mental
      health service utilization, medication use, and type and severity of child maltreatment were
      also assessed for potential control variables. Each interview lasted approximately one hour.
      Master's and doctoral level social work students conducted these face-to-face interviews.
      Prior to conducting interviews, interviewers participated in an intensive training to gain a
      working knowledge of the research project and learn to effectively discuss the risks and
      benefits of participation with the subjects.

      Usual Care Participants Usual care participants received any usual services that they would
      receive during the course of the study. So for example, they continued to receive case
      management services through Children's Division as well as other therapeutic services as
      deemed appropriate by their Children's Division case manager.

      Usual care participants also participated in the three evaluation interviews: a baseline
      interview, a posttest approximately 3 months later, and a follow-up interview 6 months after
      baseline. Each interview was conducted at the participant's residence or other convenient
      location and lasted approximately one hour. The interviews for the usual care group were
      similar to those administered to the experimental group participants. They included an
      assessment of the study's primary and secondary outcomes. Mental health service utilization,
      medication use, and type and severity of child maltreatment are also assessed for potential
      control variables.

      Qualitative Follow-up Interviews Participants who were enrolled in the project after May 20,
      2013 and who had not yet completed their participation in the study were invited to
      participate in a fourth 60-minute semi-structured qualitative interview. The purpose of the
      interview was to gain a deeper understanding of participants' intentions, attitudes and
      behaviors related to aggression as well as their experiences and perceptions of the
      intervention (experimental girls only), the study, and other mental health services that they
      have received. The qualitative interview was administered to participants (n=24) at the most
      convenient location for them, including their residence, Washington University, or at our
      collaborating agency (Children's Advocacy Services).

      Semi-structured qualitative interviews were also conducted with caregivers of GAIN
      participants (n=17), professional staff who referred and/or worked with GAIN participants
      (n=8), and therapists who led the study's intervention groups (n=5). The purpose of these
      interviews was to gather more information about their perceptions of the youths'
      participation in GAIN and in other services.

      Trained project staff who had experience in qualitative interviewing conducted the
      face-to-face interviews, which were recorded and transcribed without any identifying
      information. Audio files and transcripts were maintained on computer servers with all access
      being password protected.
    
  