
    
      Removal of the bladder and adjacent organs in patients with bladder cancer (radical
      cystectomy) often results in significant blood loss, and approximately 60% of patients
      require peri-operative blood transfusion. Reducing blood loss and the frequency of
      transfusion offers several benefits, including donor blood conservation, health care cost
      reduction, and avoidance of blood product exposure. Tranexamic acid is an amino acid lysine
      derivative with strong antifibrinolytic clotting properties that can be administered
      systemically. This medication has been used in a variety of operative procedures, notably in
      high risk cardiac surgery, to decrease peri-operative blood loss, and it is associated with
      an acceptable risk of adverse events. Systemic anti-hemorrhagics are infrequently used during
      radical cystectomy, and to the investigators knowledge their effects have not been evaluated
      in a clinical trial.

      Overall objective: To conduct a randomized controlled trial of systemic tranexamic acid
      compared to placebo in reducing the number of blood transfusions in patients undergoing
      radical cystectomy for bladder cancer.

      Design: A multi-center, randomized, double-blinded, placebo controlled trial.

      Study population: Consenting patients 18 years of age and older undergoing a radical
      cystectomy for bladder cancer, excluding those who: are unwilling to receive blood products
      due to personal reasons, are pregnant, have active angina, have a known allergy to tranexamic
      acid, or have a known personal history of deep venous thrombosis, atrial fibrillation,
      coronary stent, sub-arachnoid hemorrhage, pulmonary embolism, thrombotic stroke and / or
      acquired disturbance of colour vision. The study will recruit 354 patients from Dalhousie
      University, McGill University, Université de Montreal, Université Laval, University of
      Ottawa, University of Western Ontario and University of Alberta.

      Intervention:

      Tranexamic Acid arm: Tranexamic acid will be administered as an intravenous infusion of 10
      mg/kg within 10 minutes (loading dose) and before surgical incision, followed by 5 mg/kg/hour
      continuous maintenance infusion for the length of surgery (typically 4 to 8 hours). For
      example, an 80 kg patient would receive 800 mg prior to incision and a 400 mg/hour infusion
      for the duration of surgery. For a 6 hour procedure, the total dose administered would be
      3200 mg.

      Placebo arm: As there is no standard of care concerning administration of antifibrinolytic
      agents in cystectomy procedures, controls will follow the same dosing and schedule described
      above, but with 0.9% saline infusion.

      Outcomes: The primary research objective is whether the use of systemic tranexamic acid
      compared to placebo reduces the proportion of radical cystectomy patients requiring red blood
      cell transfusion up to 30 days post-operative (from a 50% transfusion rate with placebo to
      35% with tranexamic acid). Secondary questions are: Will use of systemic tranexamic acid
      compared to placebo result in reductions in: i) intraoperative blood loss, ii) amounts of
      transfused blood products, and iii) post-operative complications? The safety (thrombotic
      events) of tranexamic acid will also be evaluated.

      Importance of this study: If tranexamic acid reduces the number of blood transfusions, there
      will be an immediate impact to cystectomy patients, and surgeons may consider the routine use
      of systemic tranexamic acid during similar abdomino-pelvic procedures associated with
      significant blood loss.
    
  