
    
      Background: Postpartum depression follows approximately 10-15% of deliveries. Maternal
      functional disability, particularly in the relationship with the infant, a hallmark of PPD,
      causes impairment in the mother's ability to bond with her infant. Subsequently, this
      impairment leads to deleterious long-term consequences for infant cognitive, neurological,
      and social-emotional growth, and is associated with psychiatric disorders in later life.
      Recently, biological correlates of maternal deprivation and maternal depression on the
      infant's brain in both animal and human studies have been found . Therefore, the development
      of effective short-term treatment in such a highly prevalent phenomenon is of a high clinical
      priority. While pharmacological and psychological treatments are effective in treating PPD,
      these interventions have failed to show a significant improvement in mother-child interaction
      quality and infant development.

      The Oxytocin System: Oxytocin (OXT) is a nine amino acid neuro-peptide, found exclusively in
      mammals and is released during labor and lactation. The effects of OXT on the anterior
      cingulate, OFC and vmPFC, suggesting its effect on 'social brain' areas have been reported in
      the past , including modulation of maternal behaviors and paternal behaviors including
      positive affect, social gaze, touch, and vocal synchrony with the infant . Among the central
      influences of OXT on human social behavior are increased trust , empathy and eye contact .
      Brain imaging found that maternal attachment activates regions in the brain's reward systems
      that are rich with oxytocin and vasopressin receptors . Such findings led researchers to
      speculate that OXT may be involved in linking and maintaining the connection between social
      recognition systems and feelings of pleasure . According to this speculation, pair bonding is
      a form of conditioned reward learning, whereby OXT promotes the reward in social encounters,
      thus enhancing the motivation to engage in such interaction .

      Disruptions to the oxytocin system in depression have been repeatedly observed, and woman
      suffering from PPD have lower plasma OXT concentrations in comparison to the control group .
      Recent studies investigated the therapeutic potential of OXT in psychopathologies involving
      impaired social functioning such as autism spectrum disorders where OXT was found to
      facilitate social information processing and retention of social information, in social
      anxiety disorder , and schizophrenia where OXT administration resulted in a significant
      improvement in several social cognition measures and symptom reduction. Furthermore, a recent
      small treatment study of OXT in women suffering from PPD did not show a positive effect on
      mood; however, it did show improved mother-child interactions.

      Studies suggest a bio-behavioral feedback loop of OXT, parenting, and infant social
      competence. The mechanisms of cross-generation transmission in the OXT system have been
      observed in human parents and infants in the first months of the infant's life and showed
      that parent and child's OXT levels are highly correlated and higher parental OXT was
      associated with higher infant OXT. Studies in non-human primates have shown long-term
      consequences on the development of social competence and infant's ultimate parental skills.

      Rationale and Hypotheses of the Current Research: We speculate that mothers suffering from
      PPD exhibit high levels of depression and low levels of OXT, hence experiencing the
      interaction with their child as less rewarding, which in turn promote further depressive
      symptoms and interfere with child development.

      The aims of this study are:

        1. To assess the relationship between levels of oxytocin in mothers suffering from
           postpartum depression and their babies, before and after psychological dyadic treatment
           compered to supportive treatment.

        2. To study the added value of dyadic treatment over conventional supportive treatment for
           PPD that does not focus specifically on the mother's relationship with her baby.

        3. To show the effects of dyadic treatment for PPD mothers and their children on the
           child's emotional and behavioral development.

      Methods: Subjects: 50 Mothers will be interviewed and diagnosed as suffering from PPD
      according to DSM-IV-TR, will be enrolled within 2-8 months postpartum.

      Procedure:

      An informed consent will be obtained, inclusion and exclusion criteria will be examined,
      demographic information, psychiatric and medical history will be obtained, and MADRS, CGI-S,
      and GAD7 questionnaires will be performed.

      The baseline assessment will be conducted at the infant's home, at that time, a mother
      -infant interaction will be videotaped, and the YIPTA, BDI, EPDS, STAI, PSI, NMR, ERC, IOS,
      PBI, EQ and IRI questionnaires will be administered. Salivary OXT samples will be collected
      from the infants and salivary OXTsamples will be collected from the parent .

      Women with PPD will be invited for a mid-point clinical evaluation at the outpatient
      Psychiatric Department, Haemek Medical Center. The evaluation will include a psychiatric
      evaluation using MADRS, CGI-S, and GAD-7 questionnaires.

      the women in the PPD group will participate in 8 weeks of dyadic psychotherapy (DP) combining
      video feedback. The treatment will be conducted at the subject's home. Additional 25 PPD
      women will receive only supportive treatment at their home. The supportive treatment will
      include psychoeducation regarding the development of the infant. During the 8-week treatment,
      salivary OXT,Estradiol, Progesterone, SIGA and Vasopressin samples will be collected from the
      mother and infant at the beginning and the end of each session.

      Four weeks into DP, women with PPD will undergo another clinical evaluation at the outpatient
      Psychiatric Department, Haemek Medical Center.

      A final end-of-study clinical evaluation, for all women in the groups, will be conducted at
      the end of 12 weeks. Another assessment will be conducted at the infant's home, including
      mother -infant interaction. Mother-infant interaction will be filmed and assessed using the
      CIB Manual and the NOLDOS coding system. Salivary OXT, Estradiol, Progesterone, SIGA and
      Vasopressin samples will be collected from the mother and from the infant. PPD and control
      mothers. For PPD mothers, the evaluation will include a psychiatric evaluation (MADRS, CGI-S,
      and GAD-7 the MADRS) and the emotional conflict task at the outpatient Psychiatric
      Department, Haemek Medical Center.

      Study duration: The study is expected to proceed for approximately 2 years. First year:
      setting up study infrastructure, preparation of collaborations, beginning of patient
      recruitment and treatment. Second year: patient recruitment and treatment according to
      protocol and data analysis.
    
  