
    
      Upon meeting the eligibility requirements and enrolling on study, subjects will undergo
      apheresis to obtain the T cells for the generation of the CD19 CAR+ T cells. In patients with
      a prior history of allogeneic HCT, the T cells obtained are of donor origin. The T cells are
      isolated from the apheresis product, the CD4 and CD8 T cells are then selected and grown
      separately, transduced with a lentivirus to express the CD19 CAR as well as a truncated EGFR
      that has no signaling capacity (noted EGFRt) and expanded in culture over a three week
      period. During the process of cell generation, subjects will continue to be cared for by
      their primary oncologist and may undergo additional treatment directed at the leukemia during
      this time.

      After the CAR+ T cells have been generated, the subject undergoes a disease assessment and
      determination if lymphodepletion is necessary. A variety of lymphodepletion strategies are
      acceptable and determined on a case by case basis. At least 48 hours after the completion of
      lymphodepletion, the subject will receive and infusion of CAR+ T cells at an approximate 1:1
      ratio of CD4 to CD8 CAR+ T cells.

      Following treatment with the CAR+ T cells, subjects will be followed intensely for 2 months
      with serial blood testing and re-evaluation of disease status with bone marrow aspirates.
      After 2 months, the subjects clinical care will be resumed by their primary oncologist, and
      it is possible that they would receive additional chemotherapy or HCT.

      Some subjects will receive cetuximab for ablation of the genetically modified T cells.
      Criteria to receive cetuximab include acute toxicities that are life threatening, as well as
      an ongoing remission with continued B cell aplasia.

      Upon completion of the study, subjects will be followed bi-annually for 5 years, and then
      annually for 10 additional years with either a medical history, physical exam and blood tests
      or a phone call/questionnaire. This follow up will help to determine if the subject develops
      any long-term health problems related to the CAR+ T cells including a new cancer.
    
  