
    
      Whether dietary omega-3 (or n-3) polyunsaturated fatty acids are causally related to risk of
      cardiovascular diseases (CVD) is a major, unresolved question in preventive cardiology.
      Essential n-3 fatty acids are eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA; C20:5, n-3) and docosahexaenoic
      acid (DHA; C22:6, n-3) on one hand, and their parent compound alpha-linolenic acid (ALA;
      C18:3, n-3) on the other hand. The intake of n-3 fatty acids is below recommended levels in
      most Western populations. The Alpha Omega Trial is a randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled study of the effect of low-dose supplementation of ALA and EPA-DHA on CVD.
      A total of 4837 Dutch men and women aged 60-80 years who had a myocardial infarction in the
      past 10 years are randomly allocated to 2 g/d of ALA, 400 mg/d of EPA-DHA, 2 g/d ALA + 400
      mg/d EPA-DHA, or placebo, for 40 months. Increased intake of n-3 fatty acids is achieved
      through daily use of 20 g of margarine on bread. Margarines for all treatment groups are
      similar in taste and appearance. The primary outcome of the trial is 'major cardiovascular
      events', which comprises incident CVD and cardiac interventions (PCI and CABG) during
      follow-up. Secondary endpoints are incident CVD, fatal CVD, fatal CHD and all-causes
      mortality. Complete follow-up for vital status is achieved. Cause-specific mortality is coded
      by an independent Endpoint Adjudication Committee. Physical examination, blood sampling and
      data collection on diet and lifestyle are performed in all subjects at baseline, in 810
      randomly selected subjects after 20 months of intervention, and in 58% of the cohort at the
      end of follow-up. Cardiovascular health, serious adverse events, lifestyle, fish intake and
      margarine use are monitored in all subjects by yearly telephone interviews. Compliance is
      continuously monitored by registration of margarine tubs. An objective biomarker of
      compliance (i.e. plasma n-3 fatty acids) is obtained in randomly selected subjects at
      baseline and after 20 and 40 months of intervention. The Alpha Omega Trial could provide a
      sound scientific basis for dietary recommendations on intake of ALA and EPA-DHA, in order to
      reduce the burden of cardiovascular diseases.
    
  