
    
      Uncoordinated care and shortage of physicians limit the capacity of countries in Sub-Saharan
      Africa (SSA) to implement effective and sustainable control of hypertension in routine
      clinical practice. Of the various cardiovascular disease entities, none is more strongly
      linked to hypertension than stroke. Recent estimates indicate that death from stroke in
      low-income and middle-income countries (LMIC) account for roughly 4 out of 5 stroke-related
      deaths worldwide, and the disability adjusted life years lost in these countries is almost
      seven times those lost in high-income countries (HIC). Most of these LIMC are in SSA.
      Moreover, given the transition from primarily infectious conditions to chronic
      non-communicable diseases, the burden of stroke in SSA is likely to increase substantially
      over the next several decades. Fortunately, with proper control of hypertension, the
      incidence of and mortality from stroke can be greatly reduced, as has been recently witnessed
      in several HIC. Despite its immense burden of stroke, SSA has the lowest density of
      neurologists worldwide, a situation exacerbated by the migration of providers and researchers
      to industrialized countries. Thus, an urgent priority in SSA is to develop human capital in
      the region to investigate and enhance stroke outcomes by partnering with established
      researchers. The theoretically-based Phone-based Intervention under Nurse Guidance after
      Stroke (PINGS) intervention will comprise protocol-driven mHealth technology (remote home
      blood pressure monitoring and mobile phone texting) under the guidance of nurse navigators,
      among patients with hypertension who have experienced a recent stroke (within one month of
      symptom onset) in Kumasi, Ghana. In Phase 1, the investigators will conduct a 3-month
      feasibility randomized trial with 6-month follow-up among 60 stroke patients with
      uncontrolled hypertension, randomly assigned to standard care or PINGS. The investigators
      will assess key methodological parameters, consumer responses, and clinical outcomes
      including recruitment and retention rates, intervention use, patient/provider satisfaction,
      real time medication adherence rates, medication possession ratios, and post-discharge clinic
      blood pressure levels. In Phase 2, the investigators will triangulate data from Phase 1 to
      further refine and optimize PINGS and prepare for a full-scale future efficacy/ effectiveness
      randomized clinical trial. Throughout PINGS, researchers in the United States will mentor
      their co-investigators in Ghana and impart knowledge about developing mHealth research
      capacity. Successful completion of PINGS will lead to a cadre of investigators in Ghana
      knowledgeable about clinical research methodology, and experienced in the execution of
      innovative, contextualized research targeted at stroke.
    
  