
    
      Inguinal hernia repair is one of the common surgeries performed by general surgeon all over
      the world. Tension-free Lichtenstein repair is the most common technique used in open repair,
      while many surgeons perform laparoscopic hernia repair: total extraperitoneal repair (TEP)
      and transabdominal preperitoneal repair (TAPP). Laparoscopic surgery is considered to reduce
      postoperative pain, the incidence of wound complications and time to return to activities of
      daily living. Both techniques are based on the principle of tension free repair and rely on
      mesh placement in the preperitoneal space to exclude the inguinal defect and reinforce the
      abdominal wall; the recurrence rate following tension-free hernia repair is reported to be
      low and in the range of 1-4%.

      Chronic pain after an inguinal hernia repair is a well recognized complication, irrespective
      of technique. The incidence of chronic pain is estimated to be around 5-10%. Many factors
      contributed to the development of chronic pain, and one of the factors being the type of mesh
      fixation method. Common types of mesh fixation methods in laparoscopic hernia repair are
      traumatic fixation - the use of tacks (absorbable or non-absorbable) or atraumatic fixation,
      e.g. the use of fibrin glue; while some surgeons do not fix the mesh. No fixation is
      practiced by some surgeons in unilateral repair as some studies showed that there was no
      difference in recurrence rate and incidence of chronic pain between fixation or no fixation
      groups, yet in these studies hernia opening was small (<3cm) or not measured. It is generally
      agreed that fixation is indicated in large hernias (defect size >3cm), bilateral hernias and
      recurrent hernias in order to avoid early mesh dislocation and hernia recurrence.

      Study has shown that the use of tacks caused more early postoperative pain. Manufacturers try
      to develop self-gripping mesh with the aim to reduce chronic pain. ProgripTM (Covidien) is a
      lightweight, self-gripping mesh composed of monofilament polyester and polylactic acid (PLA)
      microgrips indicated for inguinal hernia repair. The resorbable microgrips provide immediate
      adherence to surrounding muscle and adipose tissue during hernia surgery, as a result no
      fixation method is required. Studies have shown that ProgripTM is associated with less pain
      in the early recovery period when used in open Lichtenstein repair, yet there are few studies
      of ProgripTM in laparoscopic hernia repair.

      In Hong Kong, TEP is the preferred approach for most surgeons who perform laparoscopic hernia
      surgery. In this trial, patients with inguinal hernia who is suitable for TEP are recruited.
      TEP will be performed in the usual manner. Surgeon will assess the size of hernia defect
      prior to mesh insertion. For patients with large hernia defect or bilateral inguinal hernia
      that required mesh fixation, they will be randomized in two groups: ProgripTM and
      non-ProgripTM group. For ProgripTM no addition fixation is necessary, while for non-ProgripTM
      fixation is indicated. As tacks are known to be associated with postoperative pain, fibrin
      glue is designated as the fixation method in non- ProgripTM group in this study.
    
  