
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the disease-free survival at 3 years of patients with resected stage III
           colorectal cancer treated with adjuvant fluorouracil and leucovorin calcium with or
           without irinotecan.

        -  Compare the disease-free and overall survival at 5 years of patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the safety profiles of these treatment regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality-adjusted survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Correlate the expression of putative prognostic markers (thymidylate synthase,
           telomerase, topoisomerase) with disease-free and overall survival of patients treated
           with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to participating center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      Arm I

        -  Patients receive irinotecan IV over 30-90 minutes, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours,
           and fluorouracil IV over 24 hours weekly for 6 weeks. Courses repeat every 7 weeks for
           up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  As an alternative schedule, patients may receive irinotecan IV over 30-90 minutes and
           day 1 and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours and fluorouracil IV over 22 hours on days 1
           and 2 every 2 weeks for 6 weeks. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for up to 4 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Arm II

        -  Patients receive leucovorin calcium and fluorouracil as in arm I. Quality of life may be
           assessed at baseline; prior to courses 2, 3, and 4; and at 1, 3, and 6 months.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 3 years and then every 6 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 1800 patients (900 per arm) will be accrued for this study
      within 24 months.
    
  