
    
      The purpose of this study is to test the hypothesis that sublingual fentanyl will improve
      exercise capacity and dyspnea control in severe COPD patients experiencing persistent
      breathlessness despite optimal management.

      To demonstrate the effectiveness of sublingual fentanyl, the investigators suggest a dose of
      12,5 mcg. The investigators base this decision on several considerations :

        -  Local practice and experience : the safety of a dose of 12,5 mcg of sublingual fentanyl
           has been show in the investigators local experience (see section 1.3 Clinical experience
           with fentanyl).

        -  Although there is not enough information to determine the exact equivalence between
           sublingual fentanyl and oral morphine, the conversion between intravenous fentanyl and
           oral morphine can be done. Based on the monograph of fentanyl citrate, 10 mcg of
           intravenous fentanyl citrate are equivalent to 10 mg of intravenous morphine, which are
           equivalent to 20 to 30 mg of oral morphine. Subsequently, 12,5 mcg of sublingual
           fentanyl may be equivalent to a oral morphine dose between 2,5 and 3,75 milligrams. This
           represent a smaller dose than the dose of 0,1 mg/kg oral morphine that was demonstrated
           to be safe in a recent study done by a group at McGill in a severe COPD population
           (Abdallah et al. Eur Respir J 2017; 50: 1701235).

        -  The study will only include patients who are already on morphine, because they represent
           the target population and have less risk of adverse events than an opioid-naive
           population.

        -  To ensure safety, participants will be actively monitored during the study. A doctor
           will be present at administration of the drug and the antidote, naloxone, will be
           readily available if needed. Participants will be monitored on-site for 30 minutes after
           completion of CPET and discharge only if no evidence of side effects. Participants will
           be informed to not drive for 24 hours following each period of treatment. A phone call
           follow-up will be done 24-48 hours after treatment visits.

      General Objective:

      The general objective is to demonstrate the role of sublingual fentanyl liquid to improve
      exertional shortness of breath in patients with severe to very severe COPD.

      Primary Objective :

      The primary objective is to evaluate in severe/very-severe COPD the effect of 12,5 mcg
      fentanyl sublingual liquid as compared with placebo, on i) post-dose difference in exertional
      breathlessness at isotime (Isotime definition : highest equivalent 2 min interval of exercise
      completed by a given participant) ii) Post-dose difference in exercise endurance time (EET)

      The study is a single centre randomized clinical trial, double-blinded, cross-over design,
      comparing fentanyl sublingual at a dose 12,5 mcg to placebo in severe/very-severe COPD
      already taking low dose of morphine because of refractory dyspnea.

      To detect a minimally clinically important (MCID) difference of 1 Borg unit (40) at iso-time
      between treatments, we assume an α of 0.05 and a within-subject standard deviation of 1 Borg
      unit: a total of 20 patients will provide >80% power; assuming an attrition rate of 20%, a
      total of 24 patients will be recruited for this study.

      All data will be de-nominalized in order to respect privacy. Data will be collected in an
      anonymous data sheet, protected by a password. Only investigators and statistician will have
      access to this data sheet.

      The principal analysis of the relative change in dyspnea intensity at iso-time (primary
      end-point) after treatment with morphine sulfate vs. placebo will be conducted using an
      unadjusted paired t-test. Secondary analyses to assess treatment responses on secondary
      end-points (e.g. arterialized capillary PCO2, EET, dyspnea unpleasantness, ventilation,
      breathing pattern, operating lung volumes, etc.) will be done using paired t-tests adjusted
      (Bonferroni) for multiple comparisons. Pearson correlations will be used to establish
      associations between intra-subject post-dose differences in iso-time dyspnea intensity
      ratings and relevant independent variables (e.g. arterialized capillary PCO2, ventilation,
      breathing pattern, MDP results, etc.) and various baseline patient characteristics (possible
      covariates). Stepwise multiple regression analysis will then be carried out with significant
      independent variables and relevant covariates.
    
  