
    
      In vitro studies have determined that the 50 % inhibitory concentrations (IC50) of Ro 64-0802
      against influenza neuraminidases ranged from 0.3 to 22 nmol/L (0.08 - 0.28 g/L or 0.08 -0.28
      ng/mL). IC50 values against influenza strains in cell culture were somewhat higher and more
      variable ranging from 0.6 to 155 nmol/L (0.17 - 32.8 g/L or 0.17 - 32.8 ng/mL). Tamiflu has
      also been shown to have in vitro and mouse challenge activity against the H5N1 virus. EC50
      values against H5N1 strain replication in Madin Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells ranged from
      7.5-12 M and neuraminidase activity from 7.0-15 nM (IC50 values).

      The current U.S. FDA approved recommendations for influenza A and B treatment using
      oseltamivir suggest a dose of 75mg taken orally twice daily for 5 days at the onset of
      symptoms or laboratory confirmation of infection. Prophylaxis against influenza A infection
      for those people exposed to or at high risk for exposure suggests a dose of 75 mg orally
      taken once daily for up to 6 weeks. No clinical trials in humans infected with or requiring
      prophylaxis for the H5N1 variant have been performed. Oseltamivir treatment in a human
      pediatric case of H5N1 influenza pneumonia has been published. Oseltamivir was given late in
      the course of illness and the child subsequently expired. Several people were given a
      prophylactic course of oseltamivir after avian influenza (H7N7, H7N3) outbreaks in the
      Netherlands and in British Columbia, which appeared to be effective in preventing additional
      human cases.

      Clinical trials using oseltamivir for influenza treatment have recently been reviewed. Two
      phase III placebo controlled, blinded studies were performed in adults, three in geriatric
      populations, and one in pediatric patients. In general, flu symptoms were decreased by one
      day or greater in those patients who received Tamiflu compared to placebo. Several
      prophylaxis studies using oseltamivir have been conducted in healthy unvaccinated adults and
      have also been recently reviewed. In several trials involving either prophylaxis after
      household exposure or after exposure in the community have demonstrated that the incidence of
      influenza was significantly reduced (range 70-90%) in those patients receiving Tamiflu, 75mg
      orally once daily for 42 days compared to placebo. Side effect profiles in the prophylaxis
      studies indicate that nausea and vomiting were more commonly found in the Tamiflu arm when
      compared to placebo. There was no difference in side effect incidence in younger compared to
      older adult (> 65 years) populations.
    
  