
    
      Background:

        -  A previous trial alemtuzumab (CAMPATH-1) in patients with chronic, acute and
           lymphomatous subtype HTLV-1 associated ATL showed appreciable initial activity but no
           clear long-term impact.

        -  Antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) with polymorphonuclear neutrophils
           (PMNs), monocytes and natural killer (NK) cells acting as the effector cells is
           alemtuzumab s primary in vivo mechanism of action for depleting malignant leukemic or
           lymphomatous cells.

        -  The immunologic effects of Interleukin-15 (IL-15), a stimulatory cytokine that promotes
           the differentiation and activation of NK cells, monocytes and long-term CD8+ memory
           Tcells, has been assessed in several phase I trials in cancer patients.

        -  Administration of recombinant human (rh) IL-15 as an intravenous bolus (IVB), continuous
           intravenous infusion (CIV) or subcutaneous injections (SC) into adult cancer patients
           has produced 5 to 50 fold expansion in the number of circulating NK cells at well
           tolerated doses in these patients.

        -  Preclinical murine lymphoid malignancy models have shown efficacy from the
           administration of IL-15 and monoclonal antibodies, with improved survival compared to
           controls.

      Objective:

      -To determine the safety, toxicity profile and the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of s.c.
      rhIL-15 in combination with standard three times per week IV alemtuzumab treatment.

      Eligibility:

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years old

        -  ECOG Performance Status less than or equal to 1

        -  Diagnosis of adult T-cell leukemia (HTLV-1 associated, chronic or acute), peripheral
           T-cell lymphoma (angioimmunoblastic, hepatosplenic, or not otherwise specified),
           cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (Stage III or IV, with leukemia involvement or erythrodemia),
           or T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia (T-PLL)

        -  Measurable or evaluable disease

        -  Adequate organ and bone marrow function as defined in the protocol.

      Design:

        -  This is a single institution nonrandomized Phase I dose escalation study evaluating
           increasing doses of SC rhIL-15 in combination with alemtuzumab using a standard 3 + 3
           dose escalation.

        -  Treatment will include s.c. rhIL015 daily (M-F) weeks 1 and 2 (dose levels 0.5- 2
           mcg/kg/dose), followed by IV alemtuzumab beginning in week 3 (escalating doses followed
           by standard dosing in weeks 4-6).

        -  Up to 30 patients will be enrolled in this study.
    
  