
    
      French clinical research in palliative care is confronted with a lack of tools allowing to
      estimate in a standardized way a patient related outcome. Scales used today are not
      specifically adapted to quality of life (QoL) at the end of life patient evaluation. So all
      the relative dimensions to this disease stage are not estimated. What establishes a brake in
      the improvement of a quality support.

      The dimensions of pain, psychological distress, fatigue, decrease of the autonomy are
      essential points estimated in "classic" questionnaires and frequently used at the palliative
      disease stage. However the end of life also recovers the domains of the spirituality,
      oneself's completion, relationship. These elements are essential to dread better QoL at end
      of life, but are not or do not little approach on the French questionnaires.

      The Missoula-Vitas Quality Of Life Index is a questionnaire developed by Byock, Merriman and
      Kinzbrunner and specifically designed for palliative situations [I. Byock, 1998]. This QoL
      tool provides an exhaustive assessment of important dimensions in this setting. The short
      version is composed of 15 items and asks patients to evaluate 5 dimensions: symptoms,
      function, interpersonal relationships, well-being and transcendence [I. Byock, 1998].

      Another tool, the QUAL-E, is longer with 25 items concerning 5 domains: life completion,
      relations with the health care system, preparation for end of life, symptom severity and
      affective social support [KE. Steinhauser, 2002]. However, these QoL tools have not been
      translated and adapted to French. Another concern is that the lack of specificity for cancer
      patients.

      The first step to improve evaluation of how French patients feel about this phase of their
      disease is to translate these specific end of life QoL tools. Assessing QoL at the end of
      life with dedicated tools could help to compare therapeutic strategies and could result in
      improvements in palliative care.
    
  