
    
      This study was designed as a randomized controlled trial of parallel group design conducted
      at one centre, between May 2016 and March 2017. The study was performed after approval was
      received from the institutional review board of the Aldent University, Tirana, Albania
      (2/2017).

      The investigation was conducted according to the principles embodied in the Helsinki
      Declaration of 1975 for biomedical research involving human subjects, as revised in 2013. All
      patients were informed about the nature of the treatment and their written consent was
      obtained. Data collection was designed to preserve patient anonymity.

      - Inclusion/exclusion criteria:

      Any partially edentulous patient, aged 18 years or older, able to sign an informed consent,
      in need of an implant-supported fixed restoration was considered eligible for this study. Any
      potential implant location based on individual patient requirements was considered eligible
      in the present trial. Patients were not admitted to the study if any of the following
      exclusion criteria was present: general medical contraindication to oral surgery (American
      Society of Anesthesiologist, ASA, class III or IV); irradiation in the head and neck area
      less than one year before implantation; psychiatric problems; alcohol or drug abuse; pregnant
      or nursing; untreated periodontitis; severe bruxism or clenching; uncontrolled diabetes; poor
      oral hygiene and motivation; and inability to complete the follow-up.

      Enrolled patients received preoperative photographs, periapical radiographs or panoramic
      x-rays for initial screening and evaluation. The prosthetic-driven planning workflow started
      by taking a cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) scan (Cranex 3Dx, Soredex, Tuusula, Finland)
      by using a wax bite to separate dental arches. Then, the patients received intraoral digital
      impression taken using the 3M True Definition Scanner (3M Italia, Pioltello, Milano). The
      digital data (STL, STereo Lithography interface format) was imported in a 3D design software
      (exocad DentalCAD, Exocad GmbH, Darmstadt, Germany) to realize a virtual wax-up according to
      the functional and esthetic requirements. Then, the STL and DICOM (Digital Imaging and
      COmmunications in Medicine) data were imported in a 3D software planning program (3Diagnosys
      ver. 5.0, 3DIEMME srl, Cantù, Italy). Then, the reprocessed surface extrapolated from the
      DICOM data (by using a Hounsfield scale filter) and the surface generated by the master cast
      scanning process, or by the intraoral scanning process, were merged with the best-fitting
      repositioning tools of the software (3Diagnosys ver. 5.0, 3DIEMME srl). At this point,
      prosthetic-driven implants/abutments size and location were planned taking into account the
      bone quality and quantity, soft tissue thickness, anatomical landmarks, as well as, type,
      volume and shape of the final restoration. After careful functional and esthetic evaluation
      and final verification, the prosthetic-driven plan was approved. At this point, patients were
      randomly assigned to receive conventional stereolithographic surgical template with (control
      group) or without (test group) metallic sleeves. Stereolithographic surgical templates were
      designed and fabricated by an independent certified center not previously involved in the
      study (New Ancorvis srl, Bargellino, Italy). In the test group, conventional templates with
      close-sleeve-design were produced to place implants between premolars. In case of implants to
      be place in molar area, template with open sites were produced to solve intermaxillary space
      limits.

      - Surgical protocol:

      One hour before implant placement, all patients underwent professional oral hygiene,
      prophylactic antiseptic with 0.2% chlorhexidine (Curasept, Curaden Healthcare, Saronno,
      Italy) for one minute, and prophylactic antibiotic therapy (2 g of amoxicillin or clindamycin
      600 mg if allergic to penicillin). The fit of the surgical templates were accurately tried in
      the patient mouth to achieve a stable fit (Fit Checker, GC - Tokyo, Japan). All patients were
      treated under local anesthesia using articaine with adrenaline 1:100000 administered 20
      minute before surgery. The surgical templates were stabilized on the residual teeth and fixed
      with two to three preplanned anchor pins.Hopeless teeth were extracted at the end of the
      intervention in order to improve the stability of the surgical template and to provide more
      reference point for measurements of the implant accuracy. Nevertheless, in case of immediate
      postextractive implants, residual teeth were extracted as atraumatically as possible
      immediately before surgery. In the test group, planned implants (Osstem TSIII, Osstem, Seoul,
      South Korea) were placed flapless using dedicate drills (OneGuide Kit, Osstem) in combination
      with a sleeveless surgical guide. In this case the drills were used directly thought the
      sleeve-designed template without metallic tubs and with not the need of drill reductions. In
      the control group, planned implants (Osstem TSIII, Osstem, Seoul, South Korea) were placed
      flapless using dedicate drills (OsstemGuide Kit[Taper], Osstem) in combination with reduction
      tools, within the surgical templates containing metallic sleeves. If the keratinized gingiva
      and the amount of bone were adequate, the implants were placed flapless. Otherwise, a flap
      was elevated and then the wound was closed with single-stitch sutures using 4.0 resorbable
      suture material (Vicryl, Ethicon J&J International, Sint-Stevens-Woluwe, Belgium). Implant
      site were prepared based on the bone density evaluated by the surgeon at the first drill. All
      the implant were inserted according to a one-stage protocol, with an insertion torque ranging
      from 35 to 45 Ncm. In case of poor bone density, the implant site was underprepared.
      Immediately after implant placement, patients of both groups receive a digital impression (3M
      True Definition Scanner, 3M Italia, Pioltello, Milano) taken at implant level using a
      dedicate abutments (Scan body type AQ, New Ancorvis srl), to check the position of the placed
      implants.

      Following implant placement, all patients received oral and written recommendations about
      medication, oral hygiene maintenance and diet. Implants were loaded after 8 to 12 weeks of
      healing. Then, patients were followed twice a year for hygiene maintenance and occlusal
      control.

        -  Outcome measurements:

             -  Implant failure: an implant was considered to be a failure if it was lost for
                mobility, implant fracture and/or any infection dictating implant removal. The
                stability of each individual implant was measured manually with a torque of 20 Ncm
                at delivery of the final restoration and later, with the prosthesis removed, if
                needed (infection, extensive peri-apical bone loss, mucosal inflammation).

             -  Template-related complications: early surgical complications involved the surgical
                template comprised limited access in posterior areas, buccal bony dehiscence (due
                to a mismatching of the surgical template) evaluated sounding the implant site with
                a periodontal probe (PCPUNC156, Hu-Friedy Italy, Milan, Italy) before implant
                placement, insertion of different implant than planned, and fracture of surgical
                template. All the complications were recorded during follow-up by the same
                clinician (Marco Tallarico), who performed all the surgical procedures.

             -  Accuracy: Three deviation parameters (horizontal, vertical, and angular) were
                defined and calculated between the planned and placed implant positions. The
                post-operative STL file, derived from the intraoral scan, was geometrically aligned
                with the files exported from the planning, by automated image registration using
                maximization of mutual information (Dental SCAN, ver.6, Open Technologies srl,
                Brescia, Italy). The horizontal (lateral), vertical (depth) and angular deviation
                between virtual and placed implants were calculated along the long axis of each
                implants. An expert blinded mechanical engineer (FC) performed all the
                measurements.

        -  Randomization:

      One computer-generated restricted randomization list was created. Only one of the
      investigators, not involved in the selection and treatment of the patients, was aware of the
      random sequence and could have access to the randomization lists stored in a
      password-protected portable computer. The random codes were enclosed in sequentially
      numbered, identical, opaque, sealed envelopes. Envelopes were opened sequentially after the
      prosthetic-driven plan was approved.

      - Statistical analysis:

      Patient data were collected in a Numbers spreadsheet (Version 3.6.1 for Mac OS X 10.11.4). A
      bio-statistician with expertise in dentistry analyzed the data using SPSS software for Mac OS
      X (version 22.0; SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA) for statistical analysis. Descriptive analysis
      was performed for numeric parameters using mean±standard deviation and median with confidence
      interval (95% CI). Implant failure and template-related complications between the two groups
      were compared using Fisher's exact probability test. The mean differences of the overall
      deviation in the clinical outcomes compared to the virtual plan, were compared between groups
      using a mixed-model repeated-measures analysis of variance (ANOVA). In the sleeve-less group,
      accuracy of open versus closed holes were also evaluated. All statistical comparisons were
      conducted with a P value set at 0.05.
    
  