
    
      Injuries are the cause of 5.8 million deaths annually which accounts for almost 10% of global
      mortality. Among adults aged 15-59 years the proportion of injuries as cause of death is even
      higher, ranging from 22% to 29% [1].

      Specialized trauma centers all over the world provide initial trauma care and diagnostic
      work-up of trauma patients. This work-up is standardized and frequently based on the Advanced
      Trauma Life Support (ATLS) guidelines which include a fast and priority-based physical
      examination as well as screening radiographs supplemented with selective Computed Tomography
      scanning (CT). ATLS guidelines advise to routinely perform X-rays of thorax and pelvis and
      Focused Assessment with Sonography for Trauma (FAST) in trauma patients. Whether or not to
      perform CT scanning following conventional imaging is defined less clearly in the ATLS
      guidelines and depends upon national guidelines and local protocols.

      In recent years CT scanning has become faster, more detailed and more available in the acute
      trauma care setting. CT shows high accuracy for a wide range of injuries which is reflected
      by a low missed diagnosis rate. Hence, the conventional radiological work-up according to the
      ATLS may not be the optimal choice of primary diagnostics anymore. Furthermore, severely
      injured patients frequently require secondary CT scanning of many parts of the body after
      conventional imaging. Modern multidetector CT scanners (MDCT) can perform imaging of the
      head, cervical spine, chest, abdomen and pelvis in a single examination ('total body' CT
      scanning). The past few years this 'total body' imaging concept gained popularity as a
      possible alternative to the conventional imaging strategy. With the use of immediate 'total
      body' CT (TBCT) scanning in trauma patients, rapid and detailed information of organ and
      tissue injury becomes available and a well-founded plan for further therapy can be made.

      In the past, CT scanners were located in the radiology department, frequently even on another
      floor than the emergency department (ED) were the trauma patient is admitted. The past
      assumption that TBCT in severely injured trauma patients is too time consuming may no longer
      be held, since an increasing number of trauma centers have a CT scanner available at the ED
      or even in the trauma room itself. Several studies evaluated time intervals associated with
      TBCT usage in severely injured patients. Although these studies are incomparable with respect
      to design, CT scanners used, diagnostic work-up protocols and trauma populations, the main
      conclusion is clear. TBCT scanning in trauma patients is not as time consuming as was once
      expected and may even be time saving compared to conventional imaging protocols supplemented
      with selective CT.

      More and more trauma centers encourage and are implementing immediate TBCT scanning in the
      diagnostic phase of primary trauma care. Since the burden of TBCT in terms of costs and
      radiation dose is at least controversial, the advantage of performing immediate TBCT should
      be proven in high quality studies resulting in high level evidence in order to make its
      implementation justifiable.

      In order to assess the value of immediate TBCT scanning in severely injured trauma patients,
      the Academic Medical Center (AMC) in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, has initiated an
      international multicenter randomized clinical trial. Severely injured patients, who are
      thought to benefit the most from a 'total body' imaging concept, will be included.
    
  