
    
      Our study hypothesis is that TAP block performed with 0.2% ropivacaine is not inferior to
      that using 0.4% ropivacaine.

      The primary outcome measure in this study was 24 h morphine consumption. Secondary outcome
      measures included time to first request for morphine, VAS scores, and side effects associated
      with morphine consumption which include nausea, vomiting, sedation, pruritus, as well as
      patient satisfaction.

      Our study hypothesis is that TAP block performed with 0.2% ropivacaine 40ml is not inferior
      to that using 0.4% ropivacaine 40ml, in terms of analgesia in the first 24h.

      Primary Objectives Morphine consumption in the first 24h should not differ between the 2
      groups by more than 10mg.

      Secondary Objectives Secondary objectives are to show that morphine side effects are similar
      in the two groups if a lower ropivacaine provides similar pain relief as higher
      concentration. Patient satisfaction is also recorded.

      54 patients undergoing hysterectomy will be recruited from SGH.

      Criteria for Recruitment and Recruitment Process Patients will be shortlisted from the
      surgical list the week prior to surgery. Patients seen in the pre anaesthetic assessment
      clinic will also be invited to take part in the study. A simple history and physical
      assessment will determine eligibility. Patients fitting the inclusion criteria will be
      approached for the study with the emphasis that participation is voluntary and refusal to
      participate will not affect subsequent conduct of anaesthesia or care. Patient's wishes will
      be respected should she request not to participate

      STUDY DESIGN Double blind randomise control trial. Study design is non-inferiority trial
      testing 0.2% ropivacaine vs 0.4% ropivacaine. Expected 1 year to complete recruitment of 54
      patients. All patients are expected to participate in the study for a period of 24h and will
      be followup during their convalescence in the hospital. There will be no change in scheduling
      of operation or additional visits for the purpose of the study.

      Ultrasound images of the block may be stored in the thumb drive. However, the images will not
      be linked to patient identifiers. It will be stored in password protected thumb drive and
      kept in the department under lock and key.

      It may be used for illustration if the research is published in a scientific journal.

      Randomisation and Blinding Patients will be randomised into of the 2 groups - 0.2% or 0.4%
      ropivacaine group. The allocation sequence will be generated by a random number table, and
      group allocation will be concealed in sealed, opaque envelopes, which will not be opened
      until just prior to block performance.

      The anaesthesiologist performing the block and anaesthesia will not be blinded. However, the
      patient, surgeon and researcher collecting subsequent patient data will be blinded.

      Randomisation code will be broken after the final analysis of the study results. As both
      study groups involve the use of ropivacaine at concentration below the maximum recommended
      dose, the likelihood of needing to break the randomisation code is low. However, should that
      become necessary, the study PI can break the code.

      Study Visits and Procedures Study visit 1: recruitment during pre-anaesthesia visit a day
      before surgery Procedure: Bilateral TAP block after surgery, before reversal of anaesthesia.
      Followup for 24h, which includes 1 study visit to elicit pain scores and side effects of
      opioids.

      Screening Visits and Procedures History and physical examination are required to evaluate
      recruitment criteria. Patients will be invited to participate in the study after meeting
      inclusion criteria.

      Study Visits and Procedures

      1 visit in the post operative period.

      Final Study Visit:

      Patient will be seen once after operation in the first post operative day to assess for VAS
      scores, and side effects associated with morphine consumption which include nausea, vomiting,
      sedation, pruritus, as well as patient satisfaction.

      Post Study Follow up and Procedures Patient will be seen once after operation in the first
      post operative day to assess for VAS scores, and side effects associated with morphine
      consumption which include nausea, vomiting, sedation, pruritus, as well as patient
      satisfaction.
    
  