
    
      The main hypothesis for this study is that metabolomics and proteomics methods can identify
      biomarkers that are sensitive to altitude exposure and recombinant human erythropoietin
      treatment, respectively. Secondarily, the hypothesis is that the identified biomarkers can
      distinguish between altitude exposure and abuse of rHuEPO.

      We will include 20 Danish men and 20 Danish women aged 18-35 years. The inclusion criteria
      are a maximum oxygen uptake rate (VO2max) > 48 ml / kg / min for men and > 43 ml / kg / min
      for women. All trial participants must have > 2 years of history in regular exercise
      including running (> 2 times a week; > 30 min per session) and capable of performing a 5 km
      run in 22 min for men and 25 min for women at sea level on a level surface in dry conditions
      and a temperature between 10 and 20 degrees C. Furthermore, the participants must not have
      experienced running related injuries within the past two years.

      The experimental protocol consists of two experimental periods, both of which must be
      performed by all participants. Both periods contain a baseline period of four weeks followed
      by four weeks training camp and four weeks follow up. The training camp in one period of
      experiments is performed at sea level while the training camp in the other period is
      performed at 2320 m above sea level. Each period is separated by a minimum of two months to
      ensure that the participants have returned to baseline values. During the two intervention
      periods, the participants will be transported by air and car to the destination of the
      respective training camp. It is expected that the participants train for 1-2 hours a day on
      average and that the time spent for the measurements described is ~ 5-7 hours a week.

      To investigate whether the described methods can identify sensitive biomarkers for the
      physiological response due to rHuEPO treatment, the participants will be treated with rHuEPO.

      The distribution of participants allows the following:

        -  28 participants receive rHuEPO at sea level, thereby identifying biomarkers sensitive
           for use of rHuEPO

        -  28 participants receive placebo under altitude exposure, whereby biomarkers sensitive to
           altitude exposure can be identified

        -  12 participants receive placebo at sea level, whereby random fluctuations of the
           identified biomarkers can be determined.

        -  12 participants receive rHuEPO under altitude exposure, whereby the identified rhuEPO
           biomarkers and altitude exposure can be tested for whether they can be used to separate
           individuals receiving rHuEPO under altitude exposure from individuals receiving placebo
           under altitude exposure.

        -  8 participants receive placebo at sea level and altitude exposure, whereby natural and
           random individual fluctuations can be determined over a longer period (> 6 months).
           Since random individual fluctuations can be determined at n = 1, n = 8 will be
           sufficient to determine this.
    
  