
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the time to treatment failure in patients with previously untreated, low-risk,
           aggressive, B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with 2 different schedules of
           immunochemotherapy comprising rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride,
           vincristine, and prednisone with vs without radiotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the time to progression in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the overall and disease-free/relapse-free survival of patients treated with
           these regimens.

        -  Compare the complete response rate in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the tumor control in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the safety of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the pharmacoeconomics of these regimens.

        -  Compare patient adherence to these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to study center, serum lactic dehydrogenase level (≤ upper limit of normal [ULN] vs
      > ULN), disease stage (I or II vs III or IV), ECOG performance status (0-1 vs 2-3), bulky
      disease, and extranodal involvement. Patients with initial bulky disease and/or qualifying
      extranodal involvement are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms. Patients with non-bulky
      disease are randomized to treatment arms I or III.

      All patients will be given the option of receiving a 1-week course of pretreatment therapy
      comprising vincristine IV once on day -6 and oral prednisone once daily on days -6 to 0.

        -  Arm I (R-CHOP-21): Patients receive R-CHOP immunochemotherapy comprising rituximab IV,
           cyclophosphamide IV over 15 minutes, doxorubicin IV, and vincristine IV on day 1 and
           oral prednisone once daily on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6
           courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II (R-CHOP-21 and radiotherapy): Patients receive R-CHOP as in arm I. Treatment
           repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 2-6 weeks after the last course of R-CHOP, patients who
           achieve a complete remission (CR) undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for approximately
           5½ weeks.

        -  Arm III (R-CHOP-14): Patients receive R-CHOP as in arm I. Patients also receive
           filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously once daily on days 4-13 or until blood counts recover.
           Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm IV (R-CHOP-14 and radiotherapy): Patients receive R-CHOP as in arm I. Patients also
           receive G-CSF an in arm III. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 6 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 2-6 weeks after the
           last course of R-CHOP, patients who achieve CR undergo radiotherapy as in arm II.

      Patients in all arms undergo restaging of their disease after courses 3 and 6 of R-CHOP.
      Patients with stable disease after 6 courses or disease progression after courses 3 or 6
      proceed to salvage chemotherapy off study. Patients achieving a partial remission or an
      unconfirmed CR after 6 courses undergo additional restaging 4 weeks later. Patients with
      disease progression proceed to salvage chemotherapy off study. Patients who achieve CR after
      6 courses of R-CHOP or have a confirmed CR after the additional restaging undergo
      radiotherapy according to randomization (as above).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,072 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  