
    
      Patients with high spinal cord injury (SCI) usually have paralysed intercostal muscles and
      rely on diaphragm function alone for respiration. They have low tidal volumes and inadequate
      cough. These patients are vulnerable to respiratory complications in the immediate
      post-injury phase and remain at life-long risk of chest problems. Usual treatments include
      intensive physiotherapy and intermittent positive pressure ventilation to augment the
      patient's tidal volume and to help clear excess secretions.

      Tidal volumes can also be increased by electrical stimulation of the surface of abdominal
      muscles during expiration. During stimulation the patient expires below functional residual
      capacity (the amount of air left after normal expiration). The natural elasticity of the
      chest wall then causes a recoil increase in the size of the next inspired breath. Functional
      electrical stimulation (FES) of the abdominal muscles is theoretically an attractive
      technique to augment respiration. It is non-invasive, it mimics natural physiological
      processes and tetraplegic patients cannot sense abdominal discomfort. There are potential
      applications in acute SCI patients to prevent the need for artificial ventilation and to aid
      ventilator weaning. The technique could also be used in chronically injured patients to
      augment ventilation.

      Clinical staff at the Queen Elizabeth National Spinal Injuries Unit have collaborated
      extensively with engineering and bioengineering teams from Glasgow University and the
      University of Strathclyde in the use of FES in SCI. FES is already being used successfully in
      the Unit for paraplegic cycling and upper limb exercise in tetraplegia. We have performed
      abdominal FES on one SCI subject with complete diaphragm paralysis and produced a tidal
      volume of one hundred millilitres (McLean and Hunt, unpublished observation).

      Before starting a large scale project it is important to confirm whether we can reliably
      reproduce at least some of the findings of Stanic et al. It would be very interesting if we
      could show any change in gas exchange as well as simply increasing tidal volume. Engineering
      issues include optimisation and programming of the FES stimulus. We propose a pilot study in
      QENSIU to establish whether the technique is of practical benefit to spinal cord injured
      patients.
    
  