
    
      Malaria due to infection with P. vivax is currently estimated at up to 390 million episodes
      per year worldwide, with substantial morbidity caused by the recurrent nature of its
      infection, associated anaemia and adverse effects on pregnancy, and ability to cause severe
      disease and death. The majority of malaria cases from all Plasmodium species in Malaysia are
      from the Eastern state of Sabah, where despite around a 36-fold reduction in incidence since
      the implementation of malaria eradication programs in 1961, minimum estimates based on
      unpublished microscopy data from Sabah State public health records still detailed 8685
      malaria cases in 2009-2011. While P. vivax accounts for between 30-50% of these figures
      currently, studies have demonstrated as overall transmission rates in countries previously
      endemic for malaria decline the proportion of cases attributable to P. vivax increases. Mixed
      P. falciparum / P. vivax infections are also likely to be underestimated in areas of
      co-endemicity, with high rates of recurrence of P. vivax shown in studies following treatment
      for apparent P. falciparum mono-infection or mixed Plasmodium spp. infections.

      Malaysian Ministry of Health guidelines currently recommends chloroquine and primaquine as
      first line treatment for the erythrocytic and hypnozoite life stages of uncomplicated P.
      vivax malaria respectively. While resistance to chloroquine has previously been documented in
      Sabah and also Peninsular Malaysia, the unstable transmission dynamics and recent reduction
      in P. vivax incidence due to public health measures mean the current risk of
      chloroquine-resistant P.vivax transmission is likely to be low. Despite this, due to
      documented increasing resistance in surrounding countries including Indonesia, Thailand,
      Vietnam, and PNG, transient populations of migrant workers, and recent concerns of the
      failing efficacy of hypnozoite eradication by primaquine, the need for ongoing therapeutic
      efficacy monitoring is recommended.

      There is also growing support for artemisinin-based combination therapy (ACT) as a unified
      first line treatment choice in areas co-endemic for P. falciparum and P. vivax, as adopted by
      a small number of countries including PNG, Solomon Islands, Vanuatu and Papua, Indonesia, due
      to the regional increase of chloroquine-resistant P. vivax, and ongoing concerns over the
      microscopic misdiagnosis of Plasmodium species. This is also particularly relevant for P.
      knowlesi malaria, as it is frequently misidentified on microscopy as P. falciparum and P.
      malariae due to morphological similarities in the early trophozoite, and late trophozoite and
      schizont life stages respectively, with studies showing up to 80% of P. malariae and 7-12% of
      P. falciparum in this region are actually P. knowlesi when definitively evaluated with PCR.
      Misdiagnosis has concerning treatment implications, as although P. knowlesi has been shown to
      respond well to ACT and chloroquine, unlike P. malariae, knowlesi malaria has a rapid 24-hour
      replication rate and can cause hyperparasitaemia, severe complications and fatal outcomes,
      while the inadvertent use of chloroquine for widely chloroquine-resistant P. falciparum may
      also have fatal consequences.

      Previous reluctance to use ACTs in presumed chloroquine-sensitive P.vivax areas were centered
      on concerns over efficacy and cost. The advent of generically produced ACTs is improving
      cost-related issues, while a recent Cochrane review of clinical trials looking at the use of
      ACT versus chloroquine for uncomplicated vivax malaria showed that ACTs are equivalent to
      chloroquine in preventing recurrent parasitaemia in the first 28 days (RR 1, 95% CI 0.30 to
      3.39), and those with long half lives such as mefloquine or piperaquine are superior over a
      6-8 week follow up, with fewer recurrent episodes after day 28 (RR 0.47, 95% CI 0.29 to
      0.76). This post treatment prophylaxis benefit of longer acting agents extends to the
      reduction in gametocyte carriage, delay in relapse or re-infection and decreased risk of
      anaemia development, all of which contribute to decreased transmissibility and health care
      cost.
    
  