
    
      Purpose:

      Prior investigators have created methods to perform laparoscopic surgeries using smaller
      instruments and ports in an attempt to improve cosmesis and postoperative pain. However,
      These methods may be limited by the requirement for smaller instruments with decreased
      functionality or by the loss of instrument triangulation. We have previously published a
      study regarding the use of a new surgical paradigm (percutaneous externally assembled
      laparoscopy, or PEAL) in porcine and cadaveric models in order to allow laparoscopic surgery
      to take place with improved cosmesis and decreased pain while still allowing the use of
      larger instruments and maintaining instrument triangulation. We now seek to study the use of
      these instruments in the human patients undergoing laparoscopic urologic surgery.

      The procedures include:

      Hundred subjects will be recruited for the study with an expected attrition rate of 10%.
      Sample size has been minimized, but is necessary for statistical power and conclusions.
      Subjects will be male and female 18 years or older, of all ethnicities, denominations or
      other social/economical variations. All participants will speak English fluently in order for
      consent to be performed properly. Baseline pain score will be calculated through a
      questionnaire in at the urology clinic

      This will be a single-arm prospective internally-controlled study. Patients will undergo
      percutaneous externally-assembled laparoscopic urologic surgery where one or more 3 mm
      instruments are added or substituted for conventional 5 or 10 mm trocars. Multiple outcome
      measures (endpoints) will be measured including time to first opioid use, total inpatient
      opioid dosage, patient ranking of painfulness of each port site, duration of ileus, time to
      ambulation, length of hospital stay, presence of any intraoperative or postoperative
      complications, operating time, estimated blood loss, and other routine parameters collected
      in a prospective surgical study.
    
  