
    
      Frailty is a state of loss of functional reserve resulting in an increased vulnerability to a
      stressor event. From a pathophysiological point of view, it is an accelerated decrease in
      physiological reserve related to ageing.

      Currently, evaluation of the outcome after cardiac surgery is commonly based on scores not
      taking into account the concept of frailty (Society of Thoracic Surgeons (STS) and Eurosore
      II) Recent studies have shown an independent association between post cardiac surgery
      mortality and pre-operative frailty. Beyond cardiac surgery, frailty has been shown to be
      associated with higher mortality and morbidity among intensive care unit (ICU) patients.
      Frailty is commonly assessed for patients older than 75 years of age but the prevalence in
      younger patients admitted to the hospital is significant. There is therefore need to evaluate
      all patients for frailty in the preoperative period.

      Since the Edmonton Frail Scale (EFS) allows easy screening of all frailty domains, we
      hypothesized that it could be a reliable and feasible score to assess preoperative frailty
      and to predict postoperative morbidity and mortality.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate preoperative frailty in all adult patients
      undergoing cardiac and vascular surgery.

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  to evaluate the association between frailty and postoperative mortality.

        -  to evaluate the association between frailty and postoperative functional decline
           (nursing home admission or care dependency)

        -  to evaluate impact of each frailty domain on the post-operative outcomes (mortality and
           functional decline)

        -  to evaluate how to integrate frailty with the others preoperative clinical parameters to
           better predict postoperative outcome

      Measurement:

      Assessment of frailty will be performed using EFS. Other clinical conditions related to
      frailty will be collected: Body Mass Idex (BMI), tobacco use, alcohol consumption,
      preoperative albumin and pre-albumin level. STS and Eurosore II will be systematically
      calculated.

      A one-year follow-up will assess the following parameters:

        -  all-cause mortality

        -  functional decline with admission to a nursing home or care dependency. Care dependency
           will be defined by a Katz index more than 0 [19].

      Follow-up will be realized by a phone call to the patient, his relatives or his general
      practitioner.

      Based on a prevalence of frailty of 11%, we have determined that the enrollment of a minimum
      of 2080 patients would provide a power of 80% at a significance level of 5% to detect a
      difference of 5% mortality at one year between frail and non-frail patients.
    
  