
    
      20 participants with phenylketonuria (PKU) will introduce PKU sphere into their diet. PKU
      sphere is a food for special medical purposes (as defined by Regulation (EU) No 609/2013 on
      food for specific groups), used for the dietary management of phenylketonuria from 3 years of
      age.

      The study begins with a Baseline clinic visit. Informed consent is taken by the investigator
      before the participant completes a PKU specific quality of life questionnaire, and a GI
      specific questionnaire. The participant takes a dried blood spot in order for the
      investigator to check their technique is correct.

      Build-up and Stabilisation Period. This will last between 2 and 16 weeks, depending on how
      long the participant takes to reach their maximum recommended intake of PKU sphere.
      Participants will take a dried blood spot twice per week in order for their health care
      professional to monitor their phenylalanine and tyrosine levels. After three consecutive
      dried blood spot results within the target range, the participant's HCP can advise to swap
      one portion of amino acid-based protein substitute for PKU sphere. This method of building up
      the amount of PKU sphere to be taken is informed directly by Vitaflo's 'Practical Guide to
      PKU sphere'. The amount of PKU sphere taken each day is recorded by the participant in their
      study diary.

      Once the maximum recommended amount of PKU sphere is being taken by the participant, or after
      16 weeks, the participant moves into the four-week Evaluation Period. Participants then take
      a dried blood spot once per week, but continue to record their intake of PKU sphere each day.
      At the end of each Evaluation Period week, participants record any gastrointestinal symptoms
      experienced over the preceding seven days. At the end of Evaluation Period weeks two and
      four, participants will also record their thoughts on PKU sphere's palatability. This
      includes a Likert scale rating of the product's appearance, taste, aftertaste, smell,
      texture, packaging and ease of use.

      At the end of the Evaluation Period, participants return to the clinic for the End of Study
      visit. The PKU and GI specific questionnaires completed at Baseline are repeated and the
      Investigator discusses the suitability of the participant to continue to take PKU sphere as
      part of their regular therapeutic diet. Following the visit, the Investigator rates the
      utility of the Practical Guide to PKU sphere. A Follow-up Phone Call will relay the results
      of any outstanding dried blood spot results to participants following their End of Study
      Visit.
    
  