
    
      Safety of healthcare professionals working in high-risk environments is of upmost importance.
      Personal protective equipment (PPE) may affect the performance of individuals and teams by
      altering their senses, manual skills and ability to communicate. Current guidelines (WHO, UK,
      ECDC) offer flexibility in terms of which specific PPE components can safely be used. Yet, in
      some organisations, healthcare workers become used to using PPE well above the recommended
      standards (termed further in text as super-safe setup, SSS). Impact of this PPE policy on
      team performance and in turn to patient safety is unknown. The investigators hypothesise that
      SSS, as compared to WHO PPE standard, would negatively impact team performance and patient
      outcomes in a simulated crisis scenario.

      Methods Design: prospective, open, randomised, controlled, parallel group trial, fully
      compliant with CONSORT guidelines with extension for simulation studies.

      Study subjects: doctors and nurses routinely working in intensive care, written prospective
      informed consent Setting: High-fidelity simulation centre, Third Faculty of Medicine, Charles
      University in Prague

      PPE tested

        -  WHO group (CONTROL): uses polycarbonate safety spectacles, fluid-resistant (Type IIR)
           surgical mask and disposable surgical gown. One pair of gloves. No head or foot cover.

        -  SSS group: Uses surgical cap, FFP3 respirator covered by surgical mask, face shield,
           whole-body suit (Tyvec), 3 pairs of gloves typed to suit sleeves and disposable foot
           cover

      Study procedures: Teams consisting of one doctor and two nurses will be recruited. The
      purpose of the study will be explained to them as a part of consent procedure, but details of
      evaluation and scenarios will remain undisclosed. All team members will obtain standardized
      educational materials focused on the solution of airway management and non-shockable rhythm
      of sudden circulatory arrest in a critically ill patient.

        -  Introduction to simulation centre and baseline team performance measurement: On the
           study day the teams will undergo a standardised introduction to simulation centre and
           perform a mock scenario without PPE apart from gloves and simple surgical masks. The
           same parameters will be measured for mock scenario as for the test scenario.

        -  Test scenario: This will be a COVID-19 patient on mechanical ventilator who suddenly
           loses airways and develops profound hypoxia progressing to cardiac arrest. Team will be
           wearing PPE according to their study group allocation at the beginning of the scenario.

      Outcomes:

      • Primary outcome: Non-technical team performance measured as TEAM score and adjusted to
      baseline team performance

      • Secondary outcomes: Quality of CPR and work according to guidelines

      • Exploratory qualitative objective: physiological functions of team members and
      self-reported confidence defined on visual analogue scale

      Outcome assessment methods: Performance indices will be observed by two independent, trained
      assessors. Both assessors will have access to video recordings of scenarios and software
      recordings. The final score will be an arithmetic mean of the scores of two observers.
      Inter-rater variability will be calculated and reported.

      Sample size calculation and statistics: According to [ref] the TEAM performance score was
      3.3±0.7 (mean±standard deviation). Therefore, n=22 (i.e. 11 teams per group) gives 80%
      probability of detecting at p<0.05 (two sided) 25% difference of TEAM scores between groups.
      Primary outcome will be calculated by two sided Student t-test. Time-to-event outcomes will
      be compared using Kaplan-Meier curves and Wilcoxon test.

      Dissemination plan and implementation: Data will be published in a peer-reviewed journal. The
      results have the potential to influence hospital hygiene policies as well as choices made by
      individual healthcare professionals.
    
  