
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the addition of metformin to standard adjuvant or neoadjuvant chemotherapy
      plus extended metformin (metformin hydrochloride) beyond standard chemotherapy increases
      progression free survival when compared to 6 cycles of standard chemotherapy alone in
      non-diabetic subjects with stage III (with any gross residual disease) or stage IV ovarian,
      primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube carcinoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the addition of metformin to standard chemotherapy plus extended
      metformin beyond standard chemotherapy increases the time to biochemical progression when
      compared to chemotherapy alone.

      II. To compare biochemical (cancer antigen [CA]-125) response rates in the two arms.

      III. To describe and compare toxicities in the two arms. IV. To compare overall survival in
      both arms.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To elucidate metformin's molecular mechanism of action in ovarian, fallopian tube or
      primary peritoneal cancer by: determining whether metformin's anti-cancer effects are
      mediated by systemic metabolic changes, a direct effect on tumor cells, or both, and testing
      the metabolic and proteomic alterations induced in biospecimens from non-diabetic patients
      prospectively treated with standard chemotherapy in conjunction with metformin compared to
      placebo.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive a standard chemotherapy regimen at the discretion of the treating physician.
      Regimens include either paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 2-3 hours and carboplatin IV over
      30-60 minutes on day 1; docetaxel IV over 1 hour on and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on
      day 1; or paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15, and carboplatin IV over 30-60
      minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive metformin hydrochloride orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and standard
      chemotherapy regimen as above for 6 courses. Treatment for metformin hydrochloride continues
      for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO BID and standard chemotherapy regimen as above for 6
      courses. Treatment for placebo continues for up to 2 years in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 2 years.
    
  