
    
      Diabetes Mellitus (DM) is an important health condition of the population and its prevalence
      continues to grow due to population aging, economic development and urbanization. Exercise is
      an important factor of prevention and metabolic control, thus reducing the risk of
      cardiovascular disease and improving the functionality of the patient with diabetes. The
      vibrating platform is a new biophysical modality of exercise. The individual exercises on a
      plate that oscillates up and down movements at a specific frequency and amplitude, and the
      exercises are performed static and / or dynamic. The present study aims to evaluate the
      immediate effect of whole body vibration on skin temperature, circulation, peripheral
      sensitivity and plantar pressure in adults and older adults with and without type 2 diabetes.
      controlled, randomized and blind, which will follow the guidelines set forth in the
      Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT). It will be held at the Laboratory of
      Kinesiotherapy and Manual Therapeutic Resources (LACIRTEM) of the Department of Physical
      Therapy of the Federal University of Pernambuco (UFPE), in 2019. Patients will be recruited
      meeting the eligibility criteria and randomly assigned to 6 groups: whole body vibration in
      diabetics (G1), the sham vibration group in diabetics (G2) and diabetic control group (G3),
      the whole body vibration group in non-diabetics (G4), the vibration group " sham "in
      non-diabetics (G5) and non-diabetic control group (G6), establishing a single treatment
      session for G1, G2, G4 and G5. The control group of diabetics and non-diabetics will be
      evaluated, will receive pamphlets and guidelines on diabetes, will answer the research
      questionnaires and will be reassessed. This study will be submitted to the UFPE Human
      Research Ethics Committee and collection will only begin after its approval. All individuals
      must have read and signed the Informed Consent Form, authorizing their participation. The
      study is in line with National Health Council Resolution 466/12 and the Declaration of
      Helsinki. For statistical analysis of the results will be assigned a significance level of
      95%, performed using the statistical software SPSS version 23.0. Whole body vibration is
      expected to show more significant improvements than sham and control groups in the outcomes
      studied.
    
  