
    
      This is cohort study of participants with symptoms of faecal incontinence. The study will
      take place across two hospital trusts, Ashford and St Peter's NHS Foundation Trust (ASPH) and
      University Hospital London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (UCLH). These trusts have been
      selected as both provide specialist pelvic floor services and have the facilities required to
      meet the needs of the study and follow up required by the participants. The use of two sites
      aims to increase the yield and diversity of participants.

      Referrals to each trust are triaged by the overseeing consultant. Potential participants for
      the study will be identified. At ASPH suitable referrals will be tracked to a dedicated
      pelvic floor clinic run by a trial representative with medical training. Participants who
      meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be offered a patient information sheet and given
      an appointment in a dedicated anorectal physiology session (ARP). At UCLH suitable referrals
      will be contacted via telephone by the PI, should they wish to enrol they will receive a PIS
      and given an appointment in a dedicated ARP session. Participants will only be assessed and
      followed up in their recruiting trust.

      All participants will complete an incontinence questionnaire and a quality of life
      questionnaire. Each participant will attend a designated ARP session. At ASPH this will
      comprise of the current gold standard, Anal Ultrasound (AUS) and High resolution manometry
      (HRAM) and additional assessment with MAPLe using a standardised protocol. At UCLH
      participants will undergo AUS in the radiology department, and HRAM and MAPLe in the GI
      Physiology unit. Through undertaking all three tests participants will act at their own
      controls. The results will be made available to their overseeing consultant and discussed at
      their local MDT. Participant participation will conclude following ARP assessment unless
      treatment is deemed necessary by their local MDT. These participants will be followed up at 6
      months with interval MAPLe assessment and incontinence and quality of life questionnaire.

      The results will undergo statistical analysis to determine non-inferiority of MAPLe in
      assessing FI. For analysis participants will be allocated to the following groups:
      fistula/chronic perianal conditions, obstetric injury <12 months, obstetric injury >12months,
      neurogenic. Each group will be analysed using symptoms profile and MAPLe results to identify
      correlation. Comparison of MAPle results pre and post treatment will determine if targeted
      treatment has been achieved.

      An expert panel of pelvic floor specialists will be formed to determine the additional
      benefit of MAPLe in a clinical context. The panel will consist of 3-6 specialists within the
      field. To reduce bias, each specialist will be provided with literature on the background of
      MAPLe and how to analyse the results. The panellists will receive up to date guideline on the
      management of FI. The panel will be provided with cases and ARP results to answer the
      following questions:

      Question 1: What is the additional benefit of MAPLe?

        -  Panellists will be provided with clinical history HRAM and AUS results

           ▪ What is the diagnosis and how will you manage this patient?

        -  MAPLe results provided

             -  Has the management changed?

             -  How beneficial on scale 1-10 has the addition been? Question 2 : HRAM and AUS vs
                MAPLe and AUS

        -  Panellists will be provided with a series of paired histories set one with HRAM and AUS
           results, set two with MAPLe and AUS results

             -  What is the diagnosis and treatment?

             -  How confident do you feel in your diagnosis and treatment for set two? Question 3:
                MAPLe alone

        -  Panellists will be provided with history and MAPLe results

        -  What is the diagnosis and treatment?

        -  Do you feel enough information is provided by the MAPLe to allow for a management plan?

      The outcomes of the expert panel will undergo statistical analysis. determine if there is a
      perceived benefit.
    
  