
    
      Orthognathic surgery is a commonly performed surgery to correct facial functional and
      esthetic deformities. At the Atlantic Centre of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery in Halifax,
      Nova Scotia, over 300 of these surgeries are carried out yearly. Orthognathic surgery is
      comprised of procedures performed in both the maxilla and mandible which include Lefort 1,
      bilateral sagittal split and functional (BSSO) and functional genioplasty. Common sequelae
      after orthognathic surgery include post-operative pain and swelling.

      Swelling occurs almost universally to some degree after orthognathic surgery. Steroid therapy
      has long been advocated for the reduction of post-operative swelling in oro-facial surgeries,
      as there is good evidence to support its use for this purpose. In 1978, Habal showed that one
      gram of methylprednisolone administered in a controlled dog model reduced post-operative
      swelling. He later carried this over to his practice of cosmetic facial surgeries. His
      studies have laid the much of the ground work for the use of steroid therapy in head and neck
      surgeries today.

      Other studied benefits of steroid use in facial surgery include decreased post-operative
      pain, trismus, nausea and vomiting as well as decreased length of hospital stays.
      Complications of steroid use include compromised healing or infection, sleep disturbances,
      hyperglycemia, avascular necrosis of bone, steroid-related acne and adverse psychiatric
      effects.

      The use of perioperative steroids as a means of swelling control is the current standard of
      care in the practice of orthognathic surgery. Despite this fact, there is little consensus on
      the ideal steroid regimen (i.e. type and dosing) to use for surgery. As such, the use of
      steroids in Oral and Maxillofacial surgical practices are based primarily on surgeon's
      preference and familiarity with a particular steroid regimen. This is likely due to the weak
      evidence in published literature in favor of a steroid regimen to mitigate post-operative
      swelling.

      Most literature in favor of particular steroid regimens involves crude or arbitrary
      measurements of swelling. In 1978, Habal showed that one gram of methylprednisolone
      administered in a controlled dog model reduced post-operative swelling. This observation was
      made by a trained observer against a control group who received no steroid. Other studies
      have had trained observers look at post-operative photographs of patients who had undergone
      orthognathic surgery to stratify which had "more" or "less" swelling. Another study attempted
      to quantify the degree of post-operative swelling by measuring the distance between the
      earlobes under the chin. These authors acknowledged that this could be altered by the facial
      movements produced during orthognathic surgery and that better means of measurement of facial
      swelling should be employed in future research.

      The current standard of care at the Oral and Maxillofacial Department at the CDHA is the use
      of one gram of methylprednisolone administered intravenously prior to orthognathic surgery.
      This is largely based on the work of Habal. The administration of one gram of
      methylprednisolone can be concerning for the anesthesiologist since this is an unusually
      large dose of steroid in comparison to use in other surgical specialties. As with most
      medications, the chances of steroid-related complications increase with increasing doses of
      steroids.

      The researchers are proposing a prospective, double-blind randomized control trial to
      determine if a smaller dose of methylprednisolone (125mg) can be used safely and effectively
      instead of one gram of methylprednisolone, which is the current standard of care in our
      department. One hundred and twenty-five milligrams of methylprednisolone is a readily
      available dose of steroids and has been shown in several studies to be effective in the
      reduction of swelling after oral surgeries and other swelling-related conditions. In their
      systematic literature review of corticosteroid administration in oral and orthognathic
      surgery, Dan et al. concluded that a preoperative dose of methylprednisolone >85mg results in
      a significant decrease in post-operative oedema. The researchers hypothesize that there will
      be little difference between groups with regards to primary study outcome measure of
      post-operative swelling.
    
  