
    
      Firefighters and emergency medical technicians (EMTs)/ paramedics respond to more than 50
      million emergency calls in the U.S. every year. The daily operations and experiences that are
      expected and accepted as part of their job expose them to various traumatic events. The
      nature, frequency, and intensity of duty-related traumatic exposures place these first
      responders (FRs) at significant risk for mental health (MH) problems, such as post-traumatic
      stress disorder (PTSD) and suicide. However, due to the stigma of mental illness and the
      culture of self-reliance and strength that surrounds FRs, few are willing to seek help. There
      will be a two-stage exploratory, qualitative study that will use a statewide
      community-engagement approach to conceptualize a MH service model that would motivate FRs to
      be more engaged in services. In Stage 1, qualitative interviews with firefighters and EMTs/
      paramedics will be conducted across Arkansas. In Stage 2, product development process
      grounded in these findings to conceptualize a MH service model feasible for implementation in
      real world settings. (Protocol for Stage 2 will be submitted for IRB approval at a later
      time.) Stage 1, Specific Aim: Identify FRs' preferences and priorities regarding MH service
      and delivery methods, including the feasibility, acceptability, and value of each method. To
      address this aim, we will use opt-in methods to recruit a diverse group of firefighters and
      EMTs/paramedics from across Arkansas to participate in qualitative interviews, defined as
      focus groups and individual interviews. After all qualitative interviews have been analyzed,
      a series of product development activities in Stage 2. Through this work, the scientific
      foundation to develop a comprehensive, MH service model that will motivate engagement in
      services by diverse FRs. This study's findings will guide a multi-stage, research agenda that
      will include development and pilot testing of the MH service model, ultimately, promoting
      engagement in MH services may decrease suicide rates and improve the overall MH outcomes
      among this at-risk population.
    
  