
    
      Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a common adult leukemia characterized by the extensive
      accumulation of monoclonal, relatively mature CD5+CD23+ B lymphocytes in lymphoid organs,
      bone marrow, and peripheral blood. CLL cells accumulate because of defective apoptosis, which
      extends survival. CLL is a heterogeneous disease. Chemoimmunotherapy is the standard
      front-line approach for patients younger than 65 years with CLL, with the combination of
      fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab used most commonly. Some CLL patients do not
      respond well to routine chemoimmunotherapy. Despite recent advances in the treatment of CLL
      by use of modern chemoimmunotherapy, the disease remains incurable for most patients with the
      exception of those who have the option of an allogeneic transplantation. However, treatments
      with chemoimmunotherapy are associated with significant toxicities and sustained
      immunosuppression, and the rates of myelosuppression and infection are high. Such
      complications are more frequent and more severe in patients older than 65 years because of
      reduced marrow reserve, and presence of comorbidities. Because CLL is a disease of the
      elderly, identifying effective therapies with better toxicity profiles is thus a high
      priority, and targeted therapies may allow attainment of this goal.

      CLL tumor cells are highly dependent on the microenvironment where cytokines (eg, CD40L,
      BAFF, IL-4, IL-6), and contact (eg, stromal cells) promote cell activation and proliferation,
      and also resistance to spontaneous and drug-mediated apoptosis. Many of these
      microenvironment-activated pathways merge with TSPs exported by XPO1. XPO1 is therefore a
      highly attractive molecular target to explore in CLL, because it impacts multiple antitumor
      and growth suppressive signaling pathways that are dysregulated in this disease.

      The investigators therefore hypothesized that a selective XPO1 inhibitor would show efficacy
      with an acceptable therapeutic index in CLL and other diseases. Indeed, XPO1 inhibition in
      normal cells (ie, possessing an intact genome) leads to transient cell cycle arrest without
      cytotoxicity, followed by fast recovery after the drug is removed. To date, efforts to
      clinically pharmacologically inhibit XPO1 have been unsuccessful because of off-target
      effects. A selective XPO1 antagonist may allow targeting of the TSPs axes in tumor cells.
    
  