
    
      Since the 1990s, combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) has markedly reduced HIV-related
      opportunistic infections and mortality, and increased the life expectancy of people living
      with HIV. While AIDS-defining malignancies have declined non-AIDS defining malignancies
      continue at higher rates in HIV-infected persons than in the general population. Amongst
      these are cancers associated with HPV which is responsible for 90% of SCC of the anal canal.
      The incidence of anal SCC is increasing in the cART era, and as such, there is an urgent need
      to find effective ways of preventing anal SCC in those living with HIV. This includes
      screening for anal cancer precursors and ablative treatment of these lesions.

      Though it is infrequent at a rate of 1 per 100 000, anal SCC is on the rise in the general
      population. It occurs at significantly higher rates in HIV-positive MSM with an estimated
      rate of 60 to 160 per 100 000. Rates of anal cancer among HIV infected MSM are comparable to
      rates of cervical cancer in women prior to the adoption of routine screening for cervical
      dysplasia. Anal cancer shares many similarities with cervical cancer.

      Of the >170 HPV types, most anal cancers (and cervical cancers) are caused by two high-risk
      HPV types: 16 and 18 that are responsible for 66% and 5% of anal cancers, respectively. HPV
      lesions caused by low-risk types include genital warts, of which 90% are caused by HPV types
      6 and 11. Prevention strategies for anal cancers have emerged that are analogous to
      strategies used in cervical cancer screening, in that the aim is to identify precursor
      lesions which can then be removed before progression to cancer. Screening and detection rely
      on a combination of anal cytology (Pap smear), anal HPV detection and high-resolution
      anoscopy (HRA). Despite the clear evidence indicating the benefit of screening and treatment
      procedures in cervical cancer screening, no rigorous studies have assessed such strategies in
      anal cancer prevention in men or women.

      Anal SCC is very similar histologically to cervical cancer, and precancerous lesions of the
      anus (AIN) and cervix (cervical intraepithelial neoplasia [CIN]) are graded similarly
      (normal, low-grade [AIN- or CIN-1], high-grade [AIN- or CIN-2 or 3], SCC). Rates of
      progression of high-grade dysplasia in HIV-infected MSM is around 15%, over mean follow-up
      periods of 2 and 5 years. In HIV-uninfected persons, anal cancer detection at an earlier
      stage improves survival. Thus, early cancer detection in HIV-infected patients may also be
      beneficial.

      Using HRA, the anal mucosa is visualized under magnification through a plastic anoscope after
      the application of acetic acid and Lugol's iodine. Abnormal-appearing areas are biopsied and
      if histologic AIN 2/3 is detected treatment is generally, but not always, offered. For anal
      dysplasia, treatment with surgery, infrared coagulation (IRC) electrocautery (EC) and topical
      therapies (e.g. trichloroacetic acid, or TCA) has been evaluated in case series. Similarly,
      given the high recurrence rate of CIN in women with HIV of about 65% after arguably more
      radical therapy, long-term, controlled trials of ablative therapies are still needed in
      HIV-infected MSM with high-grade AIN. There is some preliminary evidence that HPV
      immunization may reduce the likelihood of recurrent high-grade anal lesions in MSM after
      ablative therapy. These findings need further confirmation.

      In 2004, the investigators initiated the Toronto Research for Anal Cancer Evaluation (TRACE)
      study to evaluate the performance characteristics of anal cytology and anal HPV testing for
      the detection of anal cancer precursors in 401 HIV-infected MSM. Overall, the information
      gleaned from this large cohort demonstrated that the burden of HPV disease was high in
      HIV-positive MSM, but that anal Pap smears are too insensitive a tool to rely on for
      diagnosis. Due to the poor test performance of anal cytology as a single, primary screening
      test, its use has not resulted in widespread uptake for screening. Exploration of the
      potential benefit and utility of other screening tests such as HPV-DNA testing, perhaps in
      conjunction with anal cytology, is needed.

      Even though a number of centres in the United States, Canada, Europe and the United Kingdom
      have reported studies on anal cancer screening tests, anal cancer screening has not been
      implemented in an organized fashion in high-risk populations in any of these jurisdictions.
      In considering organized anal cancer screening for MSM, it would be logical to extrapolate
      from algorithms used in organized cervical cancer screening programs (e.g. screen using
      cytology and proceed to more aggressive intervention [i.e. HRA] if high grade squamous
      intraepithelial lesion (HSIL) is present) and apply them to anal cancer screening.

      The currently proposed study aims to address several of these key knowledge gaps with the
      following two primary objectives: (1) to systematically compare ablative therapy versus
      intensive observation alone in outcomes relating to high-grade anal dysplasia; and (2) to
      better define evidence-based criteria for anal cancer screening using both anal cytology and
      HPV testing through the validation of an algorithm.

      Overall aims of the study include:

        -  Aim #1: To assess knowledge of, the attitudes regarding HPV, anal cancer, HPV
           vaccination, and anal cancer screening to determine the acceptability of vaccination and
           screening among HIV-positive MSM.

        -  Aim #2: To evaluate the acceptance rate of HIV-positive MSM to an invitation for anal
           cancer screening which includes an educational brochure in the invitational package.

        -  Aim #3: To optimize decision making about which HIV-positive MSM should be sent for high
           resolution endoscopy (HRA).

        -  Aim #4: To compare the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of ablative therapies for anal
           dysplasia versus observation alone in a cohort of HIV-positive MSM with high-grade anal
           dysplasia.

        -  Aim #5: To further elucidate the role played by anal HPV infection as a mucosal immune
           determinant of HIV transmission and susceptibility in MSM.
    
  