
    
      The aim of our study is to investigate the effect of tDCS applied at the anodic left
      dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC)of patients with resistant depression compared to
      patients treated with conventional therapy. The tDCS is used in add-on drug treatment with
      antidepressants of reference in resistant depression.

      This is a randomized 2-arm parallel, double blind study comparing 2 groups of 12 patients:
      patients treated with sham tDCS and whose medication reference is stabilized for a month vs.
      patients treated by active tDCS 10 sessions over five days and whose medication reference is
      stabilized for a month. The 24 patients with resistant depression will be selected in the
      psychiatric department of the University Hospital of Besançon. After giving informed consent,
      patients will be evaluated by a psychiatrist using the Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating
      Scale (MADRS), the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS), State-Trait Anxiety Inventory
      (STAI) and Beck Depression Inventory (BDI). The complete assessment takes 40 minutes.

      After locating the left DLPFC, treatment with active tDCS with a current of 2 mA or sham will
      be directed by 20-minute session. A psychometric assessment will be conducted again at the
      end of treatment week and one month, three months and finally six months after stopping
      treatment. Scales of comfort and acceptability will also be proposed to the patient to
      determine whether any gene is caused by this treatment.

      This study will include two parallel arms:

        -  a group named G1 and treated by medication with escitalopram (Seroplex®) stabilized for
           at least 1 month and 10 sessions of tDCS anode active at 2 sessions per day (1 morning
           and 1 afternoon) for 5 days with an electric current 2 mA;

        -  a group named G2 and treated by medication with escitalopram (Seroplex®) stabilized for
           at least 1 month and sham tDCS.

      These two groups are matched for age (+/- 5 years) and gender. The population of this study
      will be comprised of patients over age 18 with unipolar depressive episode resistant episode
      characterized by the failure of two antidepressant treatments for depressive episode and
      treated by medication with escitalopram (Seroplex®) (20 mg/day), since at least 1 month. The
      delay of one month is a minimum to observe a non-response. Moreover, in term of ethical point
      of view, it's difficult to wait 6 to 8 weeks to observe the non-response to treatment.

      These people will be recruited on a voluntary basis, after notification and consent in the
      research center, the Psychiatry Clinical Department of the University Hospital of Besançon.
      This study was conducted over a period of 15 months.
    
  