
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Abiraterone acetate is designed to block male hormones in the body that may cause prostate
      cancer to grow.

      Prednisone is commonly given in combination with other drugs to patients with prostate
      cancer. In this study, it is being used in combination with abiraterone acetate in order to
      help prevent side effects that abiraterone acetate may cause.

      Sunitinib malate is designed to block pathways that control important events such as the
      growth of blood vessels that are essential for the growth of cancer.

      Dasatinib is designed to change the function of genes. By changing the function of these
      genes, it may prevent cancer from growing and spreading.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take 4 tablets of
      abiraterone acetate by mouth every day. The tablets should be taken all at once, at least 1
      hour before a meal or 2 hours after a meal. You will also take 1 tablet of prednisone by
      mouth 2 times each day. You will take both of these drugs throughout the entire study.

      If the disease gets worse while you are taking abiraterone acetate and prednisone, you will
      be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups.

        -  If you are assigned to Group 1, you will start taking sunitinib malate. You will take 3
           capsules by mouth 1 time each day, while continuing to take abiraterone acetate and
           prednisone.

        -  If you are assigned to Group 2, you will start taking dasatinib. You will take 2 tablets
           by mouth 1 time each day, while continuing to take abiraterone acetate and prednisone.
           Dasatinib tablets should be swallowed whole, with or without a meal. If you accidentally
           miss taking a dose of dasatinib, it may be taken within 12 hours later. If you vomit
           within 30 minutes of taking the tablets, that dose may be repeated. If you miss a dose
           due to side effects, the dose should not be replaced.

      If the disease gets worse after you have been assigned to a group, and you are still eligible
      to continue taking the study drugs, you will "crossover" to the other group. If you were in
      Group 1, you would stop taking sunitinib malate and begin taking dasatinib. If you were in
      Group 2, you would stop taking dasatinib and begin taking sunitinib malate. No matter which
      group you crossover to, you will continue taking abiraterone acetate and prednisone.

      Study Visits:

      At each study visit, you will be asked about any other drugs you may be receiving and about
      any side effects you may be having.

      Every 2 weeks during the first 12 weeks of taking abiraterone acetate and prednisone and
      during the first 3 cycles (9-12 weeks) of each new treatment combination, blood (about 1-2
      tablespoons) will be collected to test your liver function.

      Every 4 weeks, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight.

        -  Blood (about 1-2 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests. Part of
           this blood will be used to measure your PSA and your levels of a specific marker of
           prostate cancer.

        -  You will be asked questions about how you are feeling and about any side effects you may
           have had since your last visit.

        -  You will be asked about any other drugs you may be taking.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

      If the disease gets worse (or you change treatments) at any point in the study, the following
      tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Blood (about 1-2 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  You will have a bone marrow aspiration and biopsy or a tumor tissue biopsy to collect
           tumor tissue from places to which the tumor has spread to check the status of the
           disease.

        -  You will have an ECG and an echocardiogram or a MUGA scan.

        -  You will have a chest x-ray, CT scans of your abdomen and pelvis, and a bone scan to
           check the status of your disease.

      If your doctor thinks it is necessary:

      °You will have a chest x-ray, CT scans of your abdomen and pelvis, and a bone scan to check
      the status of your disease.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest. You will be taken off study if the disease gets worse after crossover, if you
      experience intolerable side effects, or if the doctor thinks that it is in your best
      interest.

      End of Treatment Visit:

      After you stop receiving the study drugs for any reason, the following tests and procedures
      will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight.

        -  Blood (about 1-2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check your PSA
           level, your level of a specific marker of prostate cancer, and to check for a protein
           related to cancer.

        -  You will be asked questions about how you are feeling and about any side effects you may
           have had since your last visit.

        -  You will be asked about any other drugs you may be taking.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will have a bone marrow aspiration and biopsy or a tumor tissue biopsy to collect
           tumor tissue from places to which the tumor has spread to check the status of the
           disease.

      Post-Treatment (Safety) Follow-Up Visit:

      About 30 days after your last dose of study drugs, the following tests and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including a measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Blood (about 1-2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have experienced since your last visit.

        -  You will be asked about any other drugs you may be taking.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      A member of the study staff will check up on you about every 6 months after your
      Post-Treatment (Safety) Follow-Up Visit. This will consist of a phone call, an e-mail, or a
      review of your medical and/or other records. If you are contacted by phone, the call will
      only last a few minutes.

      After your End-of-Treatment visit, the study staff will contact you by phone, e-mail, or you
      will come in for a clinic visit. You will be asked about how you are feeling and any side
      effects you may have had. Each follow-up will take about 5 minutes. Follow-up will take place
      every 3 months for the first 2 years, every 6 months for the third year, and 1 time a year
      after that. The last follow-up will be about 5 years after the last patient is enrolled.
    
  