
    
      Dr. Gregory Feld, M.D. is conducting a research study to find out more about the effects of
      using the Amigo™ Robotic System for ablation of the cavo-tricuspid isthmus (flutter isthmus)
      on catheter stability (stabilization of the catheter during the procedure in order to prevent
      movement and dislodgement) using a combination of contact force (a measurement of the force
      applied by the catheter tip against the tissue during the ablation procedure), location, and
      duration measurements during ablation of the atrial flutter circuit. Published studies have
      indicated that robotic catheter manipulation is safe, may reduce patient and physician x-ray
      exposure, and ablation procedure time. Measuring contact force has also been shown to improve
      both short-term and long-term procedure success. However, research on ablation of the CTI
      specifically, is limited. This is a randomized study comparing robotic catheter manipulation
      using the Amigo Robotic System to manual catheter manipulation for ablation of the CTI on
      measures including catheter stability, contact force, procedure time, and fluoroscopy (X-ray)
      time.

      The ablation procedure is standard of care, however, if patients chose to enroll in the study
      they will be randomized to one of two groups: either manual or robotic catheter manipulation.
      Throughout the procedure, research personnel will collect information from the procedure
      including measurements of contact force, catheter stability, procedure duration, and
      fluoroscopy (X-ray) time. If, in addition to ablation of the cavo-tricuspid isthmus for
      atrial flutter, a patient is scheduled to undergo ablation of the left atrium for atrial
      fibrillation or left atrial flutter, this will be performed subsequently in a standard
      manner, and will not be considered part of the research. Ablation of the CTI generally takes
      45-60 minutes regardless of the technique used for manipulation of the catheters.

      The patient's participation in the study will only last one day, the length of study
      procedure. There is no follow up associated with this study. All subjects will received
      standard of care treatment following their ablation.
    
  