
    
      The vitamin K antagonists exercise their anticoagulant effect by preventing the vitamin K
      dependant gamma-carboxylation of coagulation II, VII, IX and X factors which forms the final
      step of their activation.

      They inhibit the vitamin K epoxide reductase VKORC1 enzyme, which is responsible of the
      vitamin K epoxide recycling in vitamin K hydroquinone (its reduced form). The carboxylation
      also can be inhibited by the Matrix Gla protein (MGP), inhibitor factor of vascular
      calcifications.

      Warfarin (the most used VKA at the word level) is employed on animal for produce vascular
      calcifications by inhibiting the MGP activation.

      Epidemiologic data indicate that warfarin could increase the calcifications of cardiac valves
      and coronary arteries. However, these studies were not interested in abdominal aorta's
      calcifications which are considered like an important marker of cardiovascular risk and did
      not concern the fluindione which is the most used VKA in France. Even if a class effect seems
      logical, the investigators can't dismiss the local effects, different to warfarin. In these
      studies, the calcifications assessment were rarely quantitative and the MGP levels were not
      measured. The vascular calcifications constitute a potential adverse effect of VKA which
      could limit their benefit in certain populations.

      In this work there is an assumption that the aortic calcifications levels are upper in
      patients receiving VKA than in patients who are not receiving VKA and the aortic
      calcifications increase is owed to the non-activation of MGP.

      The main objective is to assess if the taking of VKA is associated with the aortic
      calcifications development in patients receiving VKA.

      Investigators will compare 2 populations: one group treated by VKA treatment for at least 6
      months and one focus group which have never been treated by VKA treatment.
    
  