
    
      Obesity is a major predisposing factor for future Type 2 diabetes because it is often
      associated with insulin resistance and impaired glucose tolerance. Insulin resistance has
      been suggested as the common link for other aspects of the cardiac dysmetabolic syndrome that
      includes hypertension, dyslipidemia, obesity, and macrovascular arterial disease. There are
      racial disparities in the prevalence of both obesity and Type 2 diabetes: Compared with
      non-Hispanic Caucasians, African American women have almost twice the prevalence of
      overweight, obesity, and Type 2 diabetes.

      Because data from predominantly Caucasian populations suggest that the quantity of truncal
      (sometimes called upper body) adipose tissue, which includes the adipose tissue surrounding
      the abdominal viscera, is far more important for risk stratification than that found in the
      limbs or buttocks, which contain subcutaneous adipose tissue, it has been presumed that
      attempts at treatment of obesity should concentrate on reducing visceral fat. However,
      despite their greater risks for the complications of obesity, African Americans have less
      visceral abdominal adipose tissue than Caucasians matched for body weight. Further, recent
      metabolic studies suggest that upper body subcutaneous adipose tissue may play a significant
      role, particularly for African Americans, in the comorbid metabolic conditions associated
      with obesity.

      With the advent of the large volume liposuction technique, selective removal of substantial
      quantities of subcutaneous adipose tissue has become possible. It is unknown whether the
      complications of obesity can be ameliorated by removal of subcutaneous adipose tissue, but
      one preliminary study suggests that fasting hyperinsulinism can be improved by this approach.

      We propose to conduct a pilot study of 10 patients (five Caucasians and five
      African-Americans) who plan to undergo liposuction. We will investigate how large volume
      liposuction affects the metabolic complications of obesity in overweight patients who have
      hyperinsulinemia, impaired glucose tolerance, or type 2 diabetes. We will investigate the
      effects of liposuction on various indices of the cardiac dysmetabolic syndrome by performing
      studies of insulin sensitivity and lipid metabolism at four time points: before large volume
      liposuction, 1 month after liposuction, 4 months after liposuction, and 1 year after
      liposuction. At each visit we will study body composition, blood pressure, cardiac function,
      dietary habits, insulin insensitivity, free fatty acids, and lipid profiles.
    
  