
    
      In Chile, sexually transmitted infections (STI)s, including HIV / AIDS, are the main causes
      of morbidity in adolescents and young adults. The surveillance bulletin of the Institute of
      Public Health revealed an increase in cases of gonorrhea, over 200% in the last five years.
      HIV cases increased between 34% and 47% in this period as well.

      Unsafe sexual behaviors are among the most important risk factors for these diseases; it has
      been shown that educational / behavioral interventions can achieve success in behavioral
      changes, especially in young people. Some studies have evaluated the effectiveness of
      behavioral interventions to prevent sexual risk behavior of HIV and STIs with encouraging
      results.

      On the other hand, information and communication technologies (ICT) have been used in the
      prevention of STIs, HIV / AIDS. These include computer interventions through meta-universes,
      chat rooms, text messaging and social media. There is a considerable increase in the use of
      meta-universes or three-dimensional virtual worlds for educational purposes since 2006. No
      studies have yet been found that demonstrate the effectiveness of educational interventions
      carried out in meta-universes for the prevention of STIs in Chile.

      This study aims to demonstrate the effectiveness of a psychoeducational intervention through
      the use of meta-universes, on self-efficacy in the use of condoms and safe sexual behavior,
      in university students.

      An open randomized, controlled trial will be conducted. Dependent variables will be measured
      before the intervention and 15 days after the end of the intervention in the experimental
      group, in both groups.

      Students from first year to fourth year of different careers (except Nursing), currently in
      the Universidad Autonoma de Chile will be included after their informed consent.

      The psychoeducational intervention consists of three sessions in which techniques based on
      three of the four sources of self-efficacy described are applied. The first session is called
      "Knowledge about STI"; the second session is entitled "Use of the male condom" and the third
      session is called "Talking about sexuality issues". In the first session screens will be
      created with interactive information in which the participants wearing 3D glasses will select
      information on different types of STIs; modeled situations will be presented in which
      students will perform and at the same time develop self-efficacy in terms of knowledge about
      STIs. In the second session four metaverses will be created, the first represents a modeled
      situation in which the participant selects an avatar, then selects a scenario between four
      risk situations where he meets a possible sexual partner. The student must select riddles
      that lead to responsible sexual behavior, selecting the best way to use the condom and
      different barrier methods, proposing its use and rejecting any risky behavior. In the third
      session, four meta-universes will be created through 3D technology, each participant selects
      an avatar and a different role is assigned to each one so that they generate sexuality
      communication skills among them without knowing each one's identity.

      The intervention will be carried out every 24 hours with four participants in four computers
      and 3D lenses available in the computer labs of the University.

      The dependent variables will be: 1) the self-efficacy in the use of male condom, measured
      with the Scale Condom self-efficacy scale of Brafford and Beck and 2) safe sexual behavior
      measured with Safe Sex Behavior Questionnaire scale of Dilorio, Lehr, Adame and Carlone. Both
      scales were culturally adapted to Chile.
    
  