
    
      Resection of the distal pancreas is often done due to a localized tumor in the body or tail
      of the pancreas. During later years the mortality after pancreatic resections have been
      reduced but there still is a substantial risk of severe complications mainly due to leakage
      from the pancreatic division line which could lead to suffering, longer hospital stay, higher
      costs and sometimes death. Leakage from a tail resection is probably more common than thought
      of before. Frequencies of above 30% and even up to 60% have been reported.

      The use of somatostatin to reduce the production of pancreatic juice or comparison between
      stapled division, suturing of the remaining part of the cut pancreas or covering it with glue
      or available surrounding tissue have not showed significant superiority for any of these
      methods except for a positive trend regarding the stapling technique. Staple line
      reinforcement with resorbable mesh has in some studies showed a both negative and positive
      effect on pancreatic fistula frequency. These studies have been small and non-randomized. A
      larger randomized single blinded study by Hamilton et al on the other hand showed a
      significant positive effect on pancreatic fistula frequency after distal pancreatic resection
      using an absorbable reinforcement device put on the stapler, when only regarding type B and C
      fistulas as defined by the ISGPF (International Study Group on Pancreatic Fistula) pancreatic
      leak grading system.

      Although all these endeavors the problem of pancreatic fistulas remain and therefore all
      these operations are concluded with the deposit of one or more drains to the area of the cut
      pancreas.

      There is therefore of importance to continue the work of reducing complications in high risk
      pancreatic surgery using scientific procedures of high quality as in blinded randomized
      controlled trials (RCT). The use of reinforced stapling techniques has been used in lung
      surgery and bariatric surgery to reduce air leakage and strengthen anastomoses. The material
      used is processed submucosa from the small bowel of the pig, produced by COOK© Medical to fit
      endoscopic staplers from Ethicon© or Covidien©.

      After the promising result from Hamilton et al we plan to study if the reinforcement made by
      COOK© could reduce the frequency of pancreatic fistula after stapled distal pancreatic
      surgery in a single blinded RCT.
    
  