
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To conduct a safety lead-in phase that identifies the safe recommended phase II dose for
      combination tazemetostat and pembrolizumab (MK-3475).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in combination with
      tazemetostat.

      II. To evaluate the objective disease response rate of combination tazemetostat and
      pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma that is cisplatin
      resistant (Arm A) or cisplatin ineligible (Arm B).

      III. To evaluate the progression free survival to combination tazemetostat and pembrolizumab
      (MK-3475) inhibitor in patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma that is cisplatin
      resistant (Arm A) or cisplatin ineligible (Arm B).

      IV. To evaluate immune-related response using tumor response by immune-related Response
      Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (irRECIST) in combination tazemetostat and pembrolizumab
      (MK-3475) inhibitor in patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma that is cisplatin
      resistant (Arm A) or cisplatin ineligible (Arm B) based on irRECIST criteria.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if EZH2 and H3K27me3 chromatin methylation determines disease response to
      EZH2 and PD1 inhibition in metastatic urothelial carcinoma by analyzing baseline tissue
      samples.

      II. To determine if mutations in genes associated with histone methylation determine disease
      response to EZH2 and PD1 inhibition in metastatic urothelial carcinoma by analyzing baseline
      tissue samples.

      III. To identify the immune response (T cell phenotypes), T-cell clonality with comparison to
      T-cell infiltrating lymphocytes and neoantigen profile of responsive and resistant urothelial
      carcinoma treated with combination anti-PD1 and EZH2i by analyzing blood and tissue samples
      throughout the study.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive tazemetostat orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21 and pembrolizumab
      intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 2 years in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year.
    
  