
    
      Design & Procedures

      All patients will undergo allogeneic stem cell transplantation (HCT) according to the
      program's standards. No specific conditioning regimen is mandated. The stem cell source must
      have been peripheral blood stem cells. Prophylaxis against acute GVHD must be with standard
      agents (sirolimus and/or tacrolimus and/or methotrexate and/or cyclosporine). Participation
      in a trial evaluating novel agents for therapy of acute GVHD is allowed, as long as the
      experimental agent was discontinued > 14 days prior to trial entry.

      Therapy: Patients will receive 100mg daily, 150mg daily or 100 mg bid beginning 90 days after
      allogeneic transplantation and continue for up to 1 year from day of transplant OR beginning
      at time of steroid-refractory cGVHD. Dosage will be determined using the modified continual
      reassessment method.

      Patient evaluations: Patients will be evaluated for cGVHD and other toxicity at a minimum on
      day 1(baseline), day 3, day 11, day 25, day 39, day 60, day 88, day 116, day 144, day 186,
      day 228, and day 275 from initiation of protocol therapy. While the assessment for safety is
      determined based on the evaluation at day 60, patients may stay on therapy for up to 1 year
      after transplantation (study treatment day 275). In addition, patients will be observed for
      one year after stopping study treatment with evaluation for toxicity and cGVHD during clinic
      visits at 6 and 12 months after completion of study therapy. If at any time within the first
      year after transplantation, a study subject is determined to have evidence of moderate or
      severe stage cGVHD according to NIH consensus criteria for global severity, the subject will
      be removed from this clinical trial and appropriate therapy for cGVHD will be administered
      per the treating physician's discretion. The study subject may continue to receive
      Fostamatinib as per the guidelines of this clinical trial in the event that mild stage cGVHD
      is diagnosed. If cGVHD develops during the observation period, a second course of
      Fostamatinib at 100% tolerated study dose may be given during the observation period.

      Immunosuppressive and other medications should be tapered according to the treating
      physicians' discretion with careful attention to the clinical trial or treatment plan to
      which the participating subject is already enrolled.

      Laboratory samples will be obtained according to the study schedule. The following tests are
      to be collected and analyzed for the study: complete blood counts, serum chemistry, liver
      function tests (LFTs), chimerism analysis if indicated, and immunology/correlative science
      studies.

      This study will be open to members of all demographic groups who meet the eligibility
      criteria. Approximately 18 subjects will be recruited at Duke.

      A total of eighteen patients will receive fostamatinib beginning at day 90 after allogeneic
      transplantation. The safety assessment is determined at day 60. Patients with
      steroid-refractory cGVHD are also eligible for this phase I study. Three dose levels are
      considered: 100 mg qd, 150 mg qd, 100 mg bid, and the target dose-limiting toxicity (DLT)
      probability is 0.33. The Bayesian model averaging continual reassessment method (BMA-CRM)
      will be used for this trial.[15]

      The investigators will study targeted molecular mechanisms underpinning aberrant B-cell
      signaling in cGVHD. Corollary studies will determine whether B and T cell subsets and/or
      soluble B-cell activation factors are altered after Syk inhibition. The objective is to
      implement preemptive targeted therapies that decrease excessive immune activation in
      patients.
    
  