
    
      Intervention:

      Verbal and written guidelines will be given for the patient to ingest the daily volume of
      water calculated by the weight (30 ml / kg / day) for 14 days. Patients will receive an
      acrylic glass with a mark in 200 ml and will be instructed to take the number of glasses a
      day corresponding to the calculated volume (30 ml / kg). Patients will also receive a leaflet
      indicating how many glasses of water they will need to take. They will also be instructed to
      mark with an "X" the number of glasses of water that they actually drank daily during the
      fourteen days of intervention.

      Measurements tools (applied on the first and second visits)

        -  Laboratory tests: serum and urinary osmolality, sodium, urea and serum creatinine. To
           evaluate the effect of hydration on the glycemic control of diabetic patients, the
           measurement of fasting glycaemia and glycated hemoglobin (enzymatic method and HCLP)
           will also be performed. These dosages will be performed at the HCPA Clinical Pathology
           Laboratory.

        -  Non-invasive test: electrical bioimpedance (BIA) InBody 370® will be used to evaluate
           the amount of free water, since it is simple, low cost and easy to perform in the
           outpatient clinics of elderly patients.

        -  Nutritional assessment: the MAN questionnaire (Mini nutritional assessment) will be
           applied to patients selected for the study at the first and second visits. Since a valid
           questionnaire to evaluate only water intake was not found, the MAN questionnaire was
           chosen because it contains questions related to water intake and because it is easy and
           quick to apply.

        -  MiniMental: The MiniMental cognitive function test will be applied on the first visit
           and after the observation period (second visit). The questionnaire is valid for the
           screening of cognitive disorders and it is a simple and quick method to evaluate the
           mental abilities of the patients under study.

        -  Food record: these are sheets with space designated for filling with food and liquids
           and quantities consumed throughout the day. Patients are advised to make a four-day food
           diary out of the 14 days.

      Renal function will be assessed by estimation formulas (as recommended by NKF and KDIGO) that
      use serum creatinine (CKD-EPI, MDRD and BIS2) and formulas that use cystatin C (CKD- EPI-cys
      and BIS 1).

      The assessment of GFR by 51Cr-EDTA will be performed in a subgroup of 15 patients from each
      arm of the study in a parallel manner before and after the intervention using the 51Cr-EDTA
      intravenous single injection technique at a dose of 150μCi with blood samples taken at 2, 3
      and 4 hours later. Samples will be centrifuged and 2 ml of plasma will be pipetted in
      duplicate for gamma counter counting. An exponential equation evaluates the plasma decay of
      51 Cr-EDTA, providing the value of GFR .

      Serum creatinine will be determined by the calibrated Jaffe method (Roche), traceable to
      isotopic dilution mass spectrometry (ID-MS), with kinetic reading to minimize interference by
      bilirubin. The dosage of cystatin C will be performed by the immunoturbidimetry method
      (Roche). The coefficients of intra and interassay variation are 2.2% and 5.3%, respectively.
    
  