
    
      Survival of pancreatic cancer patients remains poor, and treatment with erlotinib remains one
      of the few agents that have demonstrated increased survival. Alternative dosing schedules for
      erlotinib should be explored since chronic low dose therapy fails to achieve therapeutically
      effective concentrations for many patients and leads to increased skin toxicity and may
      induce acquired resistance without significantly impacting the tumor. Therefore, higher doses
      given for shorter periods of exposure, similar to the dosing of most chemotherapeutic agents,
      may achieve more effective therapeutic doses of than chronic low dose therapy and may
      minimize skin toxicity observed with erlotinib.

      No phase I studies have been done with the combination of high dose pulse erlotinib therapy
      with gemcitabine. We propose a phase I dose escalation study of three day oral dosing of
      erlotinib with standard dose (1000 mg/m2) gemcitabine. The starting dose of erlotinib is 750
      mg, approximately 50% of the the dose found to be safe in previous combination studies with
      carboplatin and paclitaxel and with pemetrexed [Riely et al. 2009, Davies et al. 2009]. Since
      acquired resistance can occur rapidly and 5 to 7 days of treatment is not better than 3 days
      of treatment, we will focus on a 3 day high-dose pulse treatment given every 14 days. This
      will provide 11 days between erlotinib dosing for the recovery of normal tissues. Levels of
      serum erlotinib will also be monitored due to considerable interpatient variability in the
      metabolism of erlotinib.

      The hypotheses of this study are:

        -  High-dose pulse therapy with erlotinib can be safely administered with standard dose
           gemcitabine.

        -  High-dose pulse therapy with erlotinib will permit recovery of the epidermis between
           treatments resulting in reduced skin toxicity compared to chronic daily dosing.

        -  Disease control with high-dose pulse therapy may be superior to that with chronic low
           dose therapy.
    
  