
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the effect of neuroleptic dose escalation, benzodiazepine rotation, combination
      therapy, and neuroleptic withdrawal on the change in the Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale
      (RASS) score over 24 hours in patients admitted to an acute palliative care unit (APCU) who
      do not respond to low-dose haloperidol.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the effects of neuroleptic dose escalation, benzodiazepine rotation,
      combination therapy, and neuroleptic withdrawal on (1) rescue medication use; (2) the
      proportion of patients in the target RASS range (defined as RASS between -2 and 0) as well as
      the proportion of patients achieving treatment response (defined as RASS reduction of >= 1.5
      points); (3) perceived comfort as assessed by caregivers and bedside nurses; (4)
      delirium-related distress in caregivers and nurses (Delirium Experience Questionnaire); (5)
      achievement of the proxy comfort goal; (6) symptom expression (Edmonton Symptom Assessment
      Scale [ESAS]); (7) delirium severity (Memorial Delirium Assessment Scale [MDAS]); (8) adverse
      effects; and (9) quality of end-of-life care.

      II. To identify novel predictive markers of response to haloperidol and lorazepam.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients receive haloperidol intravenously (IV) over 3-15 minutes every 4 hours and
      then every hour as needed and placebo IV every 4 hours and then every hour as needed until
      discharge from palliative care unit.

      GROUP II: Patients receive lorazepam IV over 3-15 minutes every 4 hours and then every hour
      as needed and placebo IV every 4 hours and then every hour as needed until discharge from
      palliative care unit.

      GROUP III: Patients receive haloperidol IV over 3-15 minutes every 4 hours and then every
      hour as needed and lorazepam IV over 3-15 minutes every 4 hours and then every hour as needed
      until discharge from palliative care unit.

      GROUP IV: Patients receive two different placebos IV every 4 hours. Patients then receive
      placebo IV and lorazepam IV over 3-15 minutes every hour as needed until discharge from
      palliative care unit.
    
  