
    
      A Prospective, matched-control, Randomized (assignment of study drug by chance), open-label,
      flexible-dose, study in participants with recent-onset schizophrenia or schizophreniform
      disorder to compare disease progression and disease modification following treatment with PP
      long-acting injection (once-monthly followed by 3-month injections) or OAP (Any of the
      following 7 OAPs are permitted: aripiprazole, haloperidol, olanzapine, paliperidone ER,
      perphenazine, quetiapine, and risperidone). The study consists of 3 parts. Part-1 (Oral
      Run-In Phase), Part-2 (Disease Progression) and Part-3 (Extended Disease Progression and
      Disease Modification) with unique endpoints. Screening period will be up to 4 Weeks. Duration
      of Parts will be as: 2 months for Part-1, 9 months for Part-2 and Part-3. All participants
      will initially receive oral paliperidone ER or oral risperidone in Part-1. After
      paliperidone/risperidone treatment in Part-1, participants will be randomized into 1:2 ratio
      to receive PP or OAP in Part-2. Participants who complete Part-2 will enter into Part-3
      wherein OAP group participants of Part-2 will be re-randomized into 1:1 ratio to OAP-OAP
      group and OAP-PP group, and PP group will continue without further randomization. Treatment
      failures will be evaluated in Part-2 and Part-3 of the study. Also changes in cognition,
      functioning, brain intracortical myelin (ICM) volume will be evaluated in the study.
      Participants' safety will be monitored throughout. Healthy controls (comparable in age, sex,
      race, and highest parental education to the treated participants) were recruited at each of
      the 3 MRI centers as controls for the MRI machine calibration for the duration of the study.
      These healthy controls were to undergo MRI assessments, but were not otherwise involved with
      the study and did not receive study medication. No safety or efficacy data were collected for
      these healthy controls.
    
  