
    
      The Genetic Disorders of Mucociliary Clearance Consortium (GDMCC) is comprised of 6
      geographically-dispersed clinical research sites designed to study chronic disorders of the
      conducting airways associated with bronchiectasis. The first Clinical Center protocol
      (06-I-0217) focused on airway diseases with a known genetic etiology: primary ciliary
      dyskinesia (PCD), variant cystic fibrosis (vCF), and pseudohypoaldosteronism (PHA). This
      second GDMCC protocol will study adult patients with non-CF, idiopathic bronchiectasis, whose
      genetic etiologies are not known. Patients will receive the same level of rigorous testing
      that has allowed proper diagnosis of patients with PCD, vCF, and PHA.

      Idiopathic bronchiectasis is reportedly more common in females with certain asthenic
      morphotypes and associated with environmental organisms, such as nontuberculous mycobacterium
      (NTM). Gender predilection due to referral bias is unclear. Other susceptibility factors
      predisposing to bronchiectasis or acquisition of NTM are also unclear.

      The study will attempt to broaden the understanding of this disease by comparing
      gender-associated factors and NTM status. A relatively equal number of both females/males and
      NTM/non-NTM infected subjects will be accrued. Patients will be stratified by gender and by
      the presence/absence of respiratory infection with NTM. Approximately 300 people may be
      screened to find 260 eligible subjects since a small number (e.g., 40 patients) may be
      diagnosed with PCD, vCF, or other known etiology as an explanation for the bronchiectasis.

      This single-visit protocol will use a systematic approach to characterize the clinical,
      morphological, radiological, and microbiological phenotypes of idiopathic bronchiectasis.
      Physical features, radiographic patterns, and associated lower airway microbial flora will be
      assessed. There is no natural history of disease course follow-up component to this protocol.
      The standard evaluation includes a quantitative assessment of body morphometrics, functional
      assessments of pulmonary physiology, nasal nitric oxide measurement with subsequent detailed
      assessment of ciliary structure and motility in selected patients, quantitative
      immunoglobulins levels to screen for humoral immune defects, and selected genetic analysis of
      candidate alleles, such as CFTR and A1AT.

      Genotype/phenotype correlations will be researched and possibly defined. Careful evaluation
      and characterization of these phenotypes will guide the genetic characterization of
      idiopathic bronchiectasis, and likely lead to an improved diagnostic approach. Identification
      of disease causing genes may provide new therapeutic targets.
    
  