
    
      Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration (FTLD), a group of clinically heterogeneous
      neurodegenerative diseases characterized by progressive deterioration of the frontal and
      temporal cortices as well as basal ganglia and brainstem structures, is a common cause of
      neurodegenerative dementia in people who are less than 60 years old at onset. It is uniformly
      fatal. FTLD is a rare disease, with an estimated prevalence of approximately 5-22 per
      100,000. There are no approved treatments, however several investigational agents are in
      human trials and a variety of novel agents are poised to enter human development. Experience
      from other neurodegenerative diseases suggests that potential disease modifying treatments
      are most likely to be efficacious if initiated before the onset of symptoms.

      Approximately 25% of FTLD cases are familial (f-FTLD) and due to autosomal dominant mutations
      in one of three genes: C9orf72, progranulin (GRN) or microtubule associated protein tau
      (MAPT). Many of the new therapies entering the clinic directly target one of these genetic
      causes and raise the possibility that the clinical features of FTLD could be delayed or
      prevented in these individuals if an efficacious therapy was initiated prior to the onset of
      symptoms. The major barrier to determining efficacy of novel therapeutic agents for f-FTLD in
      such prevention trials is the lack of an endpoint that can indicate therapeutic efficacy
      prior to the onset of symptoms. Our preliminary data strongly suggest that plasma
      neurofilament light chain (NfL) could serve as such a biomarker.

      This non-interventional study is in preparation for pivotal clinical trials. Up to 335
      participants will provide blood remotely via visits from traveling mobile research nurses
      four times a year for three years (4355 samples total) to enable the observation of
      peripheral NfL levels longitudinally during disease onset and progression, with the ultimate
      goal of qualifying plasma NfL as an endpoint for f-FTLD prevention trials. The NSP study is
      an ancillary study to ALLFTD, and biomarker data collected in the NSP will be correlated with
      ALLFTD clinical data. More information on the NSP study may be found at
      https://www.allftd.org/nsp.
    
  