
    
      Design:

      Randomized-controlled blinded trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of sublingual
      immunotherapy for food allergy sufferers. The study will report any adverse events caused by
      the administration of food allergy drops. Food allergy can manifest itself in many forms
      including general fatigue, abdominal pain, GERD, nausea, and other symptoms.

      End Points:

      Comparison between groups 1 and 2 about patient-reported adverse, as well as beneficial,
      events while on food allergy immunotherapy at 3, 6, 9, 12 months after maintenance dose is
      achieved (SLIT questionnaire). These comparisons relate to both safety and efficacy issues.

      Methodology:

      Trial subjects will be identified by their presenting complaints due to ingestion of certain
      symptomatic foods. Clinical assessment of potential food allergy participants for SLIT will
      occur according to usual testing standards. All participants will have diagnostic tests
      (usually RAST analysis and or food challenge techniques) to confirm specific food allergies.
      Subjects who meet the inclusion criteria will be asked to participate in the study through
      informed consent. Once consent has been obtained, the subject will be randomly assigned to
      either the control or the intervention group.

      Group 1 (control group) will receive sublingual immunotherapy (escalation followed by
      maintenance) with vials containing glycerin.

      Group 2 (intervention group) will receive sublingual immunotherapy (escalation followed by
      maintenance) with vials containing glycerin and the previously diagnosed food allergens.

      After the offending foods are diagnosed, the subject will be instructed to avoid these foods
      until they have been on the 9-week escalation doses and the maintenance immunotherapy dose
      for six months. After this eight-month combined period of escalation and maintenance, the
      participants will be allowed to reintroduce the known offending foods. In addition,
      participants will be asked to respond to questionnaires at pre-defined intervals in regards
      to any adverse symptoms they may have experienced while on maintenance SLIT. These
      questionnaires will allow us to determine if food drops contribute to adverse events, as well
      as how effective the drops are at suppressing immune response to previously allergic foods.

      Procedures:

      At the initial clinic visit, potential subjects will be asked to elaborate on specific food
      allergy symptoms in order to obtain a better understanding of the food allergies involved.
      Also, diagnostic tests will be performed based on signs and symptoms and these can include:

        1. Clinical History

        2. Radioallergosorbent Test (RAST)

        3. Oral Food Challenge Participants in the intervention group will receive SLIT with
           glycerin and individualized food allergens. Subjects in the control group will receive
           SLIT with glycerin only.

      The expected length for an individual's participation is sixteen to eighteen months. This
      period includes the time between the initial clinic visit and diagnostic work-up, the
      achievement of SLIT maintenance dose, and the 3,6,9,12 month post-maintenance dose safety
      questionnaires.

      Stopping rules apply to the intervention and placebo groups in the case of an adverse event.
    
  