
    
      As the population ages and the number of prevalent strokes increases recurrent stroke is
      becoming an increasingly important health care burden. National and local data strongly
      suggest that this burden falls disproportionately on minority populations, notably Blacks and
      Hispanics. This study seeks to determine the factors that contribute to that disparity and
      design and implement a novel intervention tailored to alleviate the factors identified.
      Specifically it will focus on causes of under-use of stroke preventive measures demonstrated
      in randomized clinical trials to be efficacious, but not appropriately utilized in urban,
      minority populations.

      In the first phase of the study, charts of acute stroke patients in 4 large urban hospitals
      that serve the 3 racial/ethnic groups under study (Blacks, Hispanics and non-Hispanic whites)
      will be reviewed to determine the magnitude of under-use of these measures. Simultaneously, a
      panel of local expert physicians will finalize the proposed criteria for appropriate
      attention to risk factor assessment and modification. In the second phase of the proposed
      work, we will conduct a randomized trial intervention strategy that will include a control
      arm, and a patient educational arm where participants will be enrolled in a Chronic Disease
      Self Management Program. The program is designed to teach patients tools for managing their
      chronic illness which will empower them to improve their overall health. The program will be
      specifically tailored for patients living with asymptomatic chronic illnesses and will
      emphasize communication with health care providers. The educational intervention will be
      accompanied by a two-phased chart abstraction to measure clinical markers pre and post
      intervention. In the final phase of the study, the results of the trial will be analyzed and
      the results disseminated
    
  