
    
      Background -Endoscopic drainage is the first choice for bile drainage in patients with
      malignant distal biliary obstruction. Metal stents are mainly used for malignant biliary
      obstruction if the surgical treatment is not considered. Metal stents have proven superior in
      many clinical aspects over plastic stents. Nonetheless, the maintenance period of the
      metallic stent patency has been reported to be around 8 months, and it is often necessary to
      undergo further procedure due to dysfunction of stents. Recently, it has been reported that
      the duration of the metallic stent patency in patients with aspirin is prolonged. Since the
      previous study was a retrospective study, this study will be prospectively conducted as a
      randomized controlled study with aspirin treated patients who received metal stents in
      patients over 20 years who were confirmed malignant distal biliary obstruction. The incidence
      of stent dysfunction in both groups for 6 months after the procedure will be compared. Stent
      dysfunction is defined as any case which further procedure is required due to jaundice or
      cholangitis after stent insertion.

      Study aim

      -The aim of this study is to determine whether administration of aspirin can help maintain
      the patency of metallic stents for distal malignant common bile duct obstruction.

      Data analysis

        -  Blinding will remain in place until the statistician codes the statistical analyses of
           the primary and secondary outcomes. The statistical analyses will be done using the full
           analysis set according to the intention-to-treat principle, meaning all the randomized
           patients will be analyzed in their allocated groups regardless of any protocol
           violations or early treatment discontinuations. The outcomes through a per-protocol
           analysis set that will consider only the subjects who followed the protocol effectively
           will be analyzed.

        -  The rate of stent dysfunction will be compared using Pearson's chi-squared test with
           Fisher's exact test and calculated the odds ratio of the event. The secondary outcomes
           (i.e., the duration of stent patency, the rate of reintervention, and the adverse events
           related to aspirin administration) will be analyzed using Pearson's chi-squared test
           with Fisher's exact test, Student's t-test, and Kaplan-Meier curves stratified by drug
           and the hazard ratios between two groups using the Cox proportional hazards. The further
           affecting factors for stent dysfunction will be assessed by univariable and
           multivariable logistic regression analysis.

        -  In the initial plan, it was decided not to perform interim analysis, but it was
           confirmed that more adverse events occurred than expected in the process of conducting
           the study. Therefore, the interim analysis was performed with the data up to May 2020,
           and determine whether to continue the study by measuring the benefits and losses
           obtained from aspirin.
    
  