
    
      SUMMARY: DO-REAL is an observational cohort study assessing the large-scale roll-out of the
      antiretroviral drug dolutegravir (DTG) in Lesotho.

      BACKGROUND: DTG is a second-generation integrase strand transfer inhibitor with low
      side-effects and superior treatment outcomes for people living with HIV-1 when compared to
      other antiretroviral drugs currently in use in low-income countries. Though some cases have
      been described, HIV-1 resistance to DTG is rare in clinical settings when DTG is used as part
      of a combination therapy. The use of DTG in first-line antiretroviral therapy (ART) regimens
      was recommended by the World Health Organisation in 2018 and was adopted by the Ministry of
      Health in Lesotho in 2019. DTG now forms part of the recommended first-line therapy for many
      ART-naïve patients in Lesotho. In addition, many patients on a non-DTG-based first-line ART
      regimen will be transitioned to a DTG-based regimen.

      OBJECTIVES: Despite the positive health outcomes observed in patients receiving DTG-based ART
      in high-income countries and in clinical trial settings, there is little data on virologic
      outcomes of patients on DTG during large-scale implementation in low- and lower middle-income
      countries. Concerns remain regarding the risk that some patients transitioning to a DTG-based
      regimen will be placed on a functional monotherapy. Furthermore, there are concerns as to
      psychological side-effects and observed weight gain. This observational study aims to assess
      the virologic outcomes (viral suppression rates as well as potential drug resistance) as well
      as side-effects of people living with HIV-1 and transitioning to a DTG-based ART regimen in
      Lesotho.

      DO-REAL has two major objectives:

        -  To assess virologic outcomes after the programmatic shift to DTG-based regimens.

        -  To assess psychological and somatic wellbeing in patients before and after the
           programmatic shift to DTG-based regimens.

      METHODS: DO-REAL is a cohort study enrolling people living with HIV who are initiating or are
      eligible (according to national guidelines and the local implementation thereof) to initiate
      a DTG-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) regimen. The study will take place at three
      hospitals in two districts (Butha-Buthe, Mokhotlong) in Lesotho, and aims to enrol over 2000
      participants. Viral loads will be measured on the day of initiating a DTG-based regimen (or
      on the day this was offered), as well as four, 12 and 24 months thereafter. In a post-hoc
      analysis, samples will be tested for drug resistance in samples where the viral load permits
      (approx. ≥100 c/mL). A subset of participants will complete screenings for depression,
      general health, and HIV-related symptoms.
    
  