
    
      Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease worldwide. The
      composition of the diet, especially quality of dietary fat, contributes to the susceptibility
      to hepatic lipid accumulation. Saturated fatty acids (SFA), but not polyunsaturated fatty
      acids (PUFA) increases intrahepatic triglycerides with and without concomitant weight gain.
      Therefore, the modification of dietary fat quality is the key dietary approach for the
      prevention of NAFLD.

      PNPLA3 rs738409 (I148M) variant is associated with hepatic liver accumulation and chronic
      liver diseases including NAFLD. It has been shown that obesity augments genetic risk but
      studies investigating the interaction of PNPLA3 rs738409 risk variant and diet are scarce.
      Therefore, the aim is to investigate the effect of dietary fat quality modification (high
      unsaturated fat vs. high SFA) on liver fat and lipid and glucose metabolism in participants
      with different variants (CC or GG) of the PNPLA3 gene.

      The investigators will conduct the randomized controlled 12-week dietary intervention trial
      in participants with different homozygous PNPLA3 variants (CC or GG). The primary outcome of
      the intervention is in the amount of liver fat measured by nuclear magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI). Altogether 140 homozygous participants (PNPLA3 rs738409 CC and GG) will be recruited
      from the Metabolic Syndrome in Men (METSIM) study. The inclusion criteria include BMI < 35
      kg/m2 and age < 75 years. The main exclusion criteria include diabetes, acute illness, or
      current evidence of acute or chronic inflammatory or infective diseases.

      Dietary guidance in the intervention group is based on the Nordic and Finnish nutrition
      recommendations with an emphasis on the quality of dietary fat. The aims for the intake of
      fatty acids will be SFA < 10 % of energy intake (E%) and mono- and polyunsaturated fatty
      acids (UFA) >2/3 of the total fat intake.

      The diet of the control group corresponds to the average nutrient intake in the Nordic
      countries, i.e. the intake of SFA about 15 E% and the proportion of UFA about 50 % of total
      fat intake.
    
  