
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess whether 3'-deoxy-3'-[18F] fluorothymidine (FLT) and fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG)
           PET scans can be used to identify patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the
           oropharynx, larynx, or hypopharynx who have a biochemical response after 2 weeks of
           induction therapy with cetuximab.

        -  To assess whether FLT and FDG PET imaging-based response after 20-30 Gy of radiotherapy
           is predictive of disease control at 6 months after completion of therapy.

      Secondary

        -  To assess whether FLT and FDG PET imaging-based response after cetuximab therapy and/or
           20-30 Gy of radiotherapy is predictive of pathologic complete response in these
           patients.

        -  To assess whether FLT and FDG PET imaging-based response after cetuximab therapy and/or
           20-30 Gy of radiotherapy is predictive of disease-free survival at 2 years in these
           patients.

        -  To correlate suppression of FLT uptake after cetuximab therapy with thymidine kinase 1
           activity and/or expression, proliferation, microvessel density, apoptosis, and signaling
           pathway analyses.

        -  To correlate suppression of FDG uptake after cetuximab therapy with expression of
           hexokinases, glucose transporter proliferation, microvessel density, apoptosis, and
           signaling pathway analyses.

        -  To test and refine the ability of a novel commercial software package to quantify
           treatment-induced structural and functional/molecular volumetric and sub-volumetric
           change.

        -  To develop a working method for expressing change and predicting outcome.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive cetuximab IV on days 1 and 8 of course 1. Beginning in course 2 and
      all subsequent courses, patients receive cetuximab IV and cisplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1
      and undergo radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week for 7 weeks. Treatment repeats every 7 days
      for a total of 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo 3'-deoxy-3'-[18F] fluorothymidine and fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG) PET scans
      at baseline, after the second dose of cetuximab, after 20-30 Gy of radiotherapy, and then at
      6 weeks and 6 months after completion of radiotherapy.

      Patients undergo tumor tissue biopsies at baseline and after the first dose of cetuximab for
      correlative laboratory studies. Samples are analyzed for proliferation (Ki-67 labeling
      index), microvessel density (CD-31 staining), apoptosis (TUNEL assay and caspase-3 by IHC)
      signaling pathway (expression of EGFR, AKT, and MAPK by IHC), molecules affecting FDG uptake
      (expression of GLUT1, GLUT3, and hexokinase by IHC), and thymidine kinase 1 activity or
      expression.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for up to 5 years.
    
  