
    
      The study will have a randomized, non-blinded, crossover design. This study will explicitly
      compare the effects of different forms of fat (liquid and solid) on glucose, insulin and
      lipid response on 20 healthy male participants between the age of 21-40 years. In addition,
      this study aims to test the lipidemic effects of the use of vegetable oil as a substitute in
      the application for making chocolate confectionery.

      All potential participants will be asked to attend four testing sessions and a screening
      session in total. During the first screening session, participants will receive an informed
      consent form and given ample time to go through it and rectify any queries they have. If they
      decide to take part in the study, they will be asked to sign the informed consent form. They
      will then be asked to complete a screening questionnaire, baseline measurements including
      anthropometric measurements, blood pressure, and fasting blood glucose will be collected from
      each participant in order to determine their eligibility. During the test sessions,
      participants' glycaemic, insulinaemic and lipaemic responses to the test meals will be
      measured. The test duration for each session will be 6.5 hours. Participants will be
      instructed to avoid strenuous physical activity for at least 3 days and avoid caffeine and
      alcohol consumption for at least 1 day prior to visiting the CNRC for their study trials.
      Participants will be provided with a standardized dinner meal (consisting of rice/noodles,
      vegetables, meat, drink/pudding) and to refrain from alcohol and exercise the day before
      their testing sessions.

      Screening questionnaire: The screening questionnaire will include contact information,
      demographic and general health details. This information will be used to determine whether
      the participant is eligible for the study, as well as to check for any possible confounders
      that may influence the study outcomes.

      Anthropometric measurements: Body weight and body composition will be measured using
      bioelectrical impedance analysis. Height will be measured using a stadiometer in order to
      calculate participants' BMI. Blood pressure will also be measured. All measurements will be
      taken in duplicate during the screening session. Waist circumference will be measured at the
      minimum circumference between the iliac crest and the rib cage. Hip circumference will be
      measured at the maximum protuberance of the buttocks. Biceps and triceps skinfold
      measurements will also be taken. Blood pressure will be measured using an Omron blood
      pressure monitor (Model HEM-907) at baseline. Participants will be seated for five minutes
      before blood pressure is measured. Measurements will be taken in duplicate and the averaged
      results will be recorded.

      Blood collection: Participants will be asked to attend the testing sessions after an
      overnight fast of ten hours. At the beginning of the testing session, a cannula will be
      inserted into participants' arms. One fasting blood sample will be collected by venous
      cannulation. 3 milliliters (ml) of venous blood will be collected into Vacutainers® (Belton
      Dickinson Diagnostics) containing disodium EDTA for the analyses of plasma triglyceride,
      glucose and insulin concentrations. Participants will then consume treatment meal within 15
      minutes. Blood samples will be taken at baseline, 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 150, 180, 210,
      240, 270, 300, 330 and 360 minutes. The amount of blood that will be collected at every time
      point will be approximately 3ml. A maximum of 15 blood samples will be collected by
      cannulation. A total of 180ml of blood will be taken for the study. Glycaemic, insulinaemic,
      and lipaemic responses will be determined using the method described by Wolever and Jenkins.
      The area under the curve will be determined as the area of those increments above baseline
      only.

      Test session: Participants will be provided a standard dinner meal to be consumed at home at
      7pm the night before the test session. Afterwhich, they will be asked to not eat and drink
      anything except water after 10:30 pm. They will also be instructed to arrive at the CNRC the
      following morning after an overnight fast of 10-12 hours. After 10 minutes upon arrival, an
      indwelling catheter will be inserted into a vein in your forearm and will be kept patent
      (free of clots) for the remainder of the test session. We will then take a blood sample from
      the cannula to measure baseline values. After obtaining the baseline blood samples,
      participants will be given the test meal to consume within 15 minutes. Following the test
      meal, we will take further blood samples (from the cannula) for the next 15, 30, 45, 60, 90,
      120, 150, 180, 210, 240, 270, 300, 330, 360 minutes. The cannula will be removed after the
      last time-point of blood sample collection (360 minutes) and they are free to leave CNRC.
      During the entire testing period the participants will be instructed to remain rested and in
      the laboratory. There will be no incidental findings as analysed samples are basic
      metabolites and therefore, reporting is not applicable.
    
  