
    
      The study included consecutive adult patients who underwent craniotomy and admitted into
      intensive care unit (ICU) between January 2017 and December 2018. Patients with congenital
      renal abnormalities or with stages 4 and 5 chronic kidney disease (CKD) were excluded. Serum
      creatinine levels were measured before operation, daily after operation until discharged from
      ICU ward . AKI was depicted according to changes in early postoperative serum creatinine
      levels and its severity was determined based on the Acute Kidney Injury Network (AKIN)
      classification. Univariate and multivariate statistical analyses were conducted to determine
      risk factors for developing AKI.

      Preoperative, intraoperative and postoperative variables known to be or could potentially be
      associated with AKI or other adverse outcomes were collected. Preoperation variables include
      age, gender, weight, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperuricemia, proteinuria,
      preoperative serum Cr and estimated estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), left
      ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI), emergency surgery and
      intravenous contrast. eGFR was calculated with MDRD4 equation. Proteinuria was defined as
      protein > 15 mg/dl in spot urine specimens. Hyperuricemia was defined as a serum uric acid >
      6.6 in women and > 7.0 mg/dl in men. Patients were considered to have diabetes if they were
      diagnosed with type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus before or were taking insulin or oral
      hypoglycemic agents at the time of cardiac surgery. Hypertension was defined as SBP > 140 mm
      Hg and/or DBP > 90 mm Hg; or had hypertension history and were taking antihypertensive drugs.
      LVEF was assessed preoperatively by echocardiography. Charlson Comorbidity Index was used to
      measure comorbid disease status by calculating the comorbidity score.

      Intra-operative variables include surgery type, duration of operation, blood transfusion,
      urine output,the highest and lowest mean blood pressures, use of radiocontrast agents and
      dehydrants.

      Postoperation variables include hypotension, central venous pressure (CVP), oliguria,
      re-exploration, mechanical ventilation, use of angiotensin-converting enzyme
      inhibitor/angiotensin receptor blocker (ACEI/ARB), radiocontrast agents, dehydrants and RRT.
      Hypotension was defined as SBP < 90 mm Hg postoperative but before the diagnosis of AKI.

      Patients were followed until discharge and all-cause in-hospital mortality was recorded. The
      length of stay in the ICU and hospital was also recorded. The mortality rates of the patients
      with or without AKI were compared.

      Continuous variables were expressed as mean (SD) and analyzed by unpaired Student's t test.
      Nonparametric variables were expressed as median and 25-75% percentiles and analyzed by the
      Mann-Whitney test. Categorical variables were expressed as absolute (n) and relative (%)
      frequency and were analyzed by chi-square test, as appropriate. A multivariate logistic
      regression model incorporating all factors associated with AKI in univariate analysis as well
      as those factors showing a univariate p value < 0.05 was performed to identify associated
      risk factors with AKI, while Cox Proportional Hazards model was used to identify associated
      factors with in-hospital mortality and hazard ratios. Risk data are presented as odds or
      hazard ratios with 95% CIs. p < 0.05 was considered statistically significant for all
      comparisons. SPSS version 19.0 for windows software was used for the statistical analysis.
    
  