
    
      . Most children with NS are treated initially with oral corticosteroids, and they can be
      clinically classified based on their ability to achieve remission (i.e., complete
      normalization of proteinuria). Approximately 85 % of children under the age of 6 years are
      steroid-sensitive, whereas the remainder have steroid-resistant disease. Older children are
      more likely to have steroid-resistant NS. Children with steroid-resistant disease may have an
      underlying genetic cause for NS, and providers should consider genetic testing in this
      population, depending on the age of the child . While inherited causes of NS are often
      resistant to all therapies, there are reports of complete or partial remission in some
      children .

      For those children who respond to steroids, the majority will have one or more relapses and
      half will have frequently relapsing (≥4 relapses/year) or steroid-dependent (two consecutive
      relapses during steroid therapy or within 14 days of stopping steroids). NS Children with
      frequently relapsing NS and steroid-dependent NS may have significant side effects from
      cumulative corticosteroid therapy so treatment with other agents is often required .

      Cyclosporine and tacrolimus are calcineurin inhibitors that are commonly used as
      immunosuppressive agents in solid organ transplantation. CNIs are recommended as first-line
      therapy for children with steroid-resistant NS and as steroid-sparing agents for children
      with frequently relapsing or steroid-dependent NS .Calcineurin inhibitors (CNIs) inhibit
      T-cell activation and may be exerting their effect in nephrotic syndrome through this
      mechanism.

      Alternately, cyclosporine has been shown to directly target the podocyte and stabilize the
      actin cytoskeleton responsible for maintaining cell shape(5) .. Although the majority of
      studies in nephrotic syndrome have been performed with cyclosporine, tacrolimus appears to be
      equally efficacious.

      Cyclosporin A therapy is well recognised regarding its steroid sparing effect in steroid
      dependant patients and is responsible for maintaining remission in more than 75% of patients
      with Steroid dependent nephrotic syndrome even after discontinuation of steroids Furthermore,
      it has been shown to be effective in inducing remission in steroid resistant nephrotic
      syndrome. However ,Cyclosporin A is associated with a plethora of side effects such as
      hypertension, nephrotoxicity hypertrichosis, gum hyperplasia, gastrointestinal disturbances
      and tremor.
    
  