
    
      6.1 Visit 1 Consent Visit: Possible study participants will meet with study coordinator to
      review consent form. After enrollment into the study, a 6-minute walk will be performed
      (minimum required distance: 450 meters). Diet instructions will be given by a dietician about
      a no added salt diet, 120 mEq Na/day, which will be maintained throughout the study period.
      Comprehensive metabolic panel (including albumin, bilirubin, calcium, bicarbonate, chloride,
      creatinine, glucose, alkaline phosphatase, potassium, total protein, sodium, AST, ALT and
      BUN)and complete blood count with differential will be obtained. Brief physical exam will be
      performed by a qualified Study Team Member. Visit 2 will be scheduled at least one week out
      from consent visit to accommodate diet compliance, unless participant is already compliant
      with salt intake parameter. Instructions for completing a 24-hour urine collection, and
      container for Study Visit 2, will be given.

      Subjects who are taking angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) will be switched over
      to an equivalent dose of Valsartan or Losartan, which will be maintained for 3 days beyond
      the end of the study period. This is due to the FDA recommendation that patients on ACEI
      should have a 36 hour washout period before administering ARNI due to the increased risk of
      angioedema.

      6.2 Visit 2 Participants will start a twenty-four hour urine collection one day prior to the
      active study day for assessment of baseline sodium excretion, creatinine clearance and urine
      protein analysis.

      Subjects will be admitted to the Clinical Research Translational Unit (CRTU). On the active
      study day, subjects will withhold their usual dose of medications and will be placed in the
      supine position for 1 hour. During the first 15 minutes, two standard intravenous (IV)
      catheters will be placed (one in each arm). One catheter will be used for infusion and the
      other (in the contralateral arm) for blood sampling. A bladder ultrasound will be completed
      after the participant's first void after admitting to assess for urine retention. Subjects
      will be asked to drink 10ml/Kg of water to insure sufficient urinary flow. A priming dose
      (calculated according to body size) of Iothalamate, to measure glomerular filtration rate
      (GFR), is infused, followed by a constant rate IV sustaining dose (calculated according to
      estimated kidney function) of Iothalamate. The subjects will be asked to empty their bladder
      spontaneously every thirty minutes (if subjects are unable to void every thirty minutes, a
      urinary catheter will be used upon consent). Throughout the study, at the end of each
      30-minute clearance period, subjects will be asked to drink an amount of water equivalent to
      the sum of the blood losses and the urinary flow.

      After an equilibration period of 45 minutes, a 30-minute baseline renal clearance will be
      carried out. Urinary samples for determination of volume, urinary sodium excretion (UNaV),
      cGMP, and Iothalamate will be obtained at the end of the clearance period. Venous blood
      samples for Iothalamate, sodium, ANP, BNP, cGMP, soluble neprilysin, renin, angiotensin II
      and aldosterone will be obtained at the middle of the clearance period. Blood pressure will
      be measured at 20-minute intervals by using an automatic blood pressure cuff, and heart rate
      will be continuously monitored by electrocardiography. Echocardiography will be performed
      during these baseline clearances to determine left atrial (LA) and LV volumes and systolic
      and diastolic function.

      After the baseline clearance, the subjects will be randomized to receive either a) oral
      placebo or b) Oral ARNI (LCZ 696/Entresto 97/103 mg). Previous studies have demonstrated that
      the maximum effect for LCZ 696 is about 1.5 hours after oral administration. Hence, one and
      one-half hours after the administration of the oral medication, the acute saline load will be
      administered (normal saline 0.9% 0.25 ml/kg/min for 1 hour). Two 30-minute clearances (as
      outlined above) will be repeated with the subjects in a supine position during the saline
      infusion. As above, blood samples are collected midway during each clearance and urine
      samples are obtained every 30 minutes. Echocardiography will be repeated immediately after
      the end of the saline infusion, after which subjects will be allowed to eat a meal and be
      dismissed.

      The subjects will return after at least 1 week of washout for the second crossover study.
      Container for 24-hour urine collection for Study Visit 3 will be given.

      6.3 Visit 3 Visit 3 will take place the same as described in Visit 2, receiving one of the 2
      medication administrations not received on Visit 2: (a) oral placebo or b) Oral ARNI (LCZ
      696/Entresto 97/103 mg)).

      At the end of Visit 3, study participation is complete.
    
  