
    
      This will be both a prospective, randomized, unblinded clinical study of hospitalized
      patients with acute LRTI admitted in one of four institutions in Louisville, KY (rapid
      empiric treatment with oseltamivir study[RETOS]) and a prospective observation study to
      describe influenza LRTI (Flu LRTI study). All hospitalized patients with acute LRTI will be
      invited to participate in one of the arms of study. If the admitting clinician does not order
      oseltamivir or zanamivir at the time of hospital admission, the patient is eligible for
      randomization into Group A (standard clinical care, including empiric antibiotics and
      anti-influenza drugs at the clinician discretion) or Group B (oseltamivir administered to the
      patient within 24 hours of admission, ideally within 8-12 hours of admission, plus empiric
      antibiotics).

      Patients will be enrolled from one of four hospitals, the University of Louisville Hospital,
      Veterans Affairs Medical Center of Louisville, Norton Hospital of Louisville, and Jewish
      Hospital of Louisville. Eligible patients will be identified primarily in the Emergency
      Departments of all four hospitals and evaluated for inclusion/exclusion criteria after
      hospital admission orders are written. Patients will be enrolled only during the influenza
      season. For this study, the influenza season is defined as December 1st until May 1st, unless
      surveillance data suggests that influenza viruses are circulating earlier or have stopped
      circulating.

      For all three study groups, diagnosis of influenza will be based on nucleic acid
      amplification through polymerase chain reaction (PCR). At the time of enrollment into the
      study, a nasopharyngeal swab will be obtained for PCR. The University of Louisville
      Infectious Diseases Reference Laboratory has extensive experience using molecular techniques
      for the diagnosis of respiratory pathogens and will test batched specimens at monthly
      intervals. In addition, we will collect the results from tests done for routine care and
      bacterial or virus isolates identified during routine care for further characterization.

      The management of patients in Group A and Group B will be different only in regard to early
      empiric anti-influenza therapy. All other aspects of the management of these patients will be
      in compliance with national guideline recommendations from IDSA/ATS (2). Patients in Group A
      may have antiviral therapy started later in hospitalization or not treated at all. The study
      will not interfere with Group A patient care.

      A 1:1 randomization ratio within the two study arms is planned for EOS. A pre-defined
      randomization chart will be designed in order to have the randomization process
      Internet-based. The randomization table will be accessible by the project manager as a back
      up in the event that any problem occurs with the Internet or the computerized system.

      We will attempt to begin oseltamivir within 8 - 12 hours after hospital admission, and no
      later than 24 hours. The study nurse will facilitate receipt of early oseltamivir treatment
      for the consented patient in collaboration with the hospital pharmacies. The time of
      oseltamivir administration will be recorded for all enrolled patients.
    
  