
    
      ACTUAL KNOWLEDGE ABOUT DIAGNOSTIC STRATEGIES Actual strategy for rapid and accurate
      diagnostic relies heavily (almost solely) on RT-PCR based tests. The French Scientific Board
      advising the national government in the management of this epidemic has brought back on
      September, 3rd the three-axis policy : " Test - Track - Isolate " as the central response to
      the COVID-19 progression. This strategy is also the response promoted by WHO since March. If
      properly applied, this approach allows high-performance in identifying positive cases and
      spotting transmission chains, thus allowing to specifically isolate and quarantine infectious
      patients. The expected outcome is a halting epidemic allowing economic recovery and
      protection of populations.

      Rise in French laboratory capacities regarding their ability to perform the required tests
      has been achieved since the early days of COVID-19. Since August, 10th we have reached the
      pace of 100.000 daily tests nationwide and peaked above 300.000 tests per day as of October,
      26th (Santé Publique France).

      However, the need to lockdown the entire French population for a second time is the
      demonstration of the limits of this strategy. Issues can be summarized in a few key points:

        -  The hassle of performing as many tests as needed over the whole national territory has
           proven difficult and does not allow control of local epidemic bursts

        -  Repetitive sampling for asymptomatic patients to confirm viral clearance and lack of
           viral shedding raises strong questions regarding its feasibility

        -  The need for high quality sampling for RT-PCR tests accurately reaching nasopharyngeal
           cavity requires trained staff whose availability is limited. Swab collection remains an
           important bottleneck nationwide.

        -  Important consumption of PPE (personal protective equipment) for sampling staff adds an
           unnecessary tension in supply chains In the light of these issues, there is an urgent
           need to transition from RT-PCR tests to novel diagnostic techniques capable of
           addressing the above-mentioned key problems. Rapid Antigenic Tests are being evaluated
           and used already in some facilities and in very controlled settings. However, these
           tests do have important limitations and their relatively low sensibility in real-life
           setting (around 60% of positive agreement with RT-PCR for best-performing tests) is an
           issue that need to be quickly addressed to avoid jeopardizing efforts made to widespread
           tests and keep public confidence. Moreover, Rapid Antigenic Tests deliver results in 15
           to 30 minutes' time, much faster than traditional RT-PCR, but still inadequate for
           massive population test in crowded places and public gathering (airports, shows and
           sporting events).

      ABOUT MEDICAL DEVICE INVOLVED

      Vincent BOUCHIAT is a team leader, former research senior and principal investigator from
      French science agency CNRS in the field of material science and physics, and he established
      in 2019 a start-up (Grapheal) in Grenoble to upcycle his fundamental work on the unique
      properties of graphene, allowing the synthesis of electronic polymers with bio-compatibility
      and biological detection capacities. This work is patent-protected in cooperation with local
      university (UGA) which grants sustainability in the development of such technology.

      Since March 2020, Grapheal has been working on a single-use specific biosensor called
      'TestNPass digital Covid Ag test strip' thus allowing the rapid detection of SARS-CoV-2. This
      biosensor uses the electronic detection of the biochemical matching between specific
      antibodies directed against the virus. The docking of the virus by stabilized antibodies
      leads to a change in conductance within the sensor electronic circuit, similar to Seo and
      colleague's work. This variation in electric conductance is measured by an ultraportable and
      autonomous circuit that can be paired with either a computer or a smartphone in order to be
      further analyzed.

      Proof of concept of the device has been realized by in vitro experiments putting together
      commercial samples containing recombinant structural proteins of the SARS-CoV-2 virus with
      the detection electrodes of the disposable antigenic test strip after dilution in a saline
      solution (PBS). Tested samples with Nucleocapsid and Spike proteins were able to trigger a
      change in conductance, thus allowing detection of the viral surrogate. Protein concentrations
      have been adjusted to match in vivo concentrations and an important work has been performed
      to ensure signal processing is robust, reliable and repeatability of the measure.

      Encryption of the result within the on-board processing circuits of the device allow the
      development of a device fully compliant with personal data protection and grating GDPR
      compliance from the start.

      FEASIBILITY AND PAST EXPERIENCE OF INVOLVED TEAMS:

      The team from Grapheal is hosted within the BioPolis incubator facility which presence close
      to Grenoble Teaching Hospital (CHUGA) allows for narrow collaborations. This start-up
      highlight the performances of bio sensing technologies based on graphene polymers. Grapheal
      team has 7 members, all of them holding PhDs in biological sciences or physics. The team is
      led by Vincent BOUCHIAT, who is a former principal investigator from French national agency
      for scientific research (CNRS). The team has been granted with prizes and rewards among which
      the i-lab 2020 contest held by the French Ministry of Scientific Research and Higher
      Education for innovating technologies.

      For this project, the team has joined its forces with specialists of IVD and medical devices
      as well as knowledgeable support from regulation specialists. Ultimately the team has been
      requesting the help from the virology team from Grenoble University Hospital (CHUGA) in order
      to set up the present proof-of-concept study, the first of its kind to be performed in human
      samples.

      The virology team from Grenoble University hospital (CHUGA) is a pioneer in the development
      of molecular based assays for viral diagnostic. Some of the now classical PCR and RT-PCR
      widely used for routine diagnostic in France have been set up within our team and laboratory.
      These techniques and PCR kits now branded by BioMérieux company have been developed by
      collaborators from our lab, thus granting us with a wide experience in diagnostic technique
      and molecular based technologies.

      The diagnostic of SARS-CoV-2 infection is performed within our laboratory since the early
      days of the pandemic. We have been dealing with the very first infected patients from France
      as early as February, 8th 2020. The diagnostic of these patients has greatly improved since
      then and SAR-CoV-2 detection is now performed as a regular daily test at an unprecedented
      rate. Along with the development of cutting edge techniques including pseudo-virus
      neutralization assays, our team now holds a highly skilled expertise regarding to COVID-19
      questions.

      Both microbiological and clinical teams from CHUGA have been producing research projects and
      data about COVID-19 pandemic. More than 10 clinical studies have been set-up and half of
      these protocols now enroll patients on a daily basis. One of those has closed after inclusion
      of more than 200 subjects. Moreover, cooperation has been developed to reach more than 50
      shared research projects with collaborators in France. Among those, the nation-wide projects
      DISCoVery and French-COVID have been main protocols where we matched expected targets.

      Altogether, these past experiences are key for future success in the present study.

      RESEARCH HYPOTHESIS

      The present study has a main target of demonstrating the feasibility of the Grapheal
      TestNPass device to accurately distinguish SARS-CoV-2 infections in a tested population. If
      conclusive, the evaluated test could help detect and therefore limit the spread of the virus
      upon national territory.

      The root hypothesis is as following: the bond between the antibody directed against viral
      proteins and the virus itself is enough to generate within a graphene base semi-conductor a
      change in conductance that is measurable and repeatable. This electric current can therefore
      be used as a surrogate of viral infection, viral shedding and viral infectiousness. Obtained
      result being an electric impulse, it will be easily transferred to a device for digital
      display.

      Simultaneously, the present study will bring to light some of the following elements:

        -  Crucial information about ergonomic of the device for future development and improving.
           This study being the first use outside of Grapheal's team, the feedbacks from users will
           be of great help to support future development of the device.

        -  Preliminary data on analytical performances. Will the main goal of the present study is
           to demonstrate the feasibility of COVID-19 diagnosis with the device, key performance
           date such as sensitivity, specificity, positive agreement and negative agreement will be
           estimated. This will serve as a strong basis for both future studies and approval from
           regulatory agencies
    
  