
    
      Specific Aims

      Aim 1: To determine the feasibility of implementing an ambulator-assisted exercise
      intervention in elderly patients on an inpatient medicine service.

      The investigators will work closely with the physical therapy team to develop a graded
      ambulation protocol that can be implemented multiple times daily per enrolled patient by a
      PCNA. Investigators will work closely with the medicine units to recruit eligible patients
      and assess protocol implementation including recruitment, patient cooperation, and
      scheduling.

      Aim 2: To determine the effects of an ambulator-assisted exercise intervention on discharge
      disposition, length of stay and cost.

      The investigators will measure the proportion of patients in the intervention and usual care
      group who are discharged to home vs. acute rehabilitation facilities. Length of stay and cost
      will be obtained from hospital billing records.

      Research Strategy

      The investigators propose the development of a feasible program to assist in improving the
      physical capacity of elderly inpatients. Such improvements may translate to cost savings in
      the form of decreased length of stay, improved discharge disposition, and fewer
      hospital-related complications, but establishing that is not the purpose of this study. The
      investigators propose that the most feasible and cost-effective implementation of such a
      program will utilize a patient care nursing assistant (PCNA) dedicated to carrying out a
      graded ambulation protocol in eligible patients multiple times daily. A simple and
      standardized protocol for ambulation will reduce the need for the expertise of a dedicated
      physical therapist. Additionally, utilizing an existing mechanism for assessing baseline
      functional capacity, the 6-Clicks score, will eliminate the time and personnel requirements
      for evaluation of patient eligibility. This score has been validated as a mechanism to assess
      patient mobility limitations in an acute care setting and is currently used on all patients
      seen by physical therapy on the inpatient medicine services.

      This pilot study will enable the investigators to identify which patients would tolerate the
      intervention and what degree of participation would be meaningful to improve the outcomes
      measured. The study will begin by enrolling patients with 6-Clicks scores of 16-20, as these
      patients will experience the greatest benefit from an ambulation protocol. At present, such
      patients do not receive any PT intervention and ambulation by nurses occurs only sporadically
      as time allows. Additionally, the pilot will help to bring clarity to the direct impact of
      aggressive mobilization of medical inpatients on important outcomes that are directly tied to
      healthcare cost. Results of this work will inform feasibility and power calculations for a
      larger randomized trial. Results of that trial could directly impact the approach to the
      medical inpatient in terms of prioritizing and resourcing mobilization strategies.

      Preliminary findings from this pilot study demonstrating the feasibility of a dedicated
      ambulator-assisted physical activity protocol and its potential impact on hospital outcomes
      will provide the justification for external funding of a larger randomized clinical trial.
      Lessons learned from the pilot study will allow us to optimize the ambulation protocol and
      target population for a larger study. Such a study would investigate the effect of the
      ambulator-assisted physical activity protocol on patient mobility associated health care
      costs. This work could shift the current paradigm that aggressive mobilization is reserved
      for post-acute care settings and could serve as a model for improving the value of care
      provided to elderly patients in acute care facilities.
    
  