
    
      Pakistan is one of the countries with the highest rates of child death in the world. It ranks
      4th in child mortality, with 60% deaths due to vaccine-preventable diseases (VPDs). The
      immunization coverage in Pakistan is estimated to be 59%, which is still well below the
      desired level, leading to continued polio transmission, large measles outbreaks, and
      thousands of deaths from vaccine-preventable illnesses. In addition, Pakistan is a major
      polio epidemic country and among 3 countries in the world requiring proof of polio
      vaccination for international travel. Pakistan demographic and health survey in 2017-2018
      suggests 88% percent of children had received BCG vaccine due at birth, 86% and 95% had
      received the first dose of pentavalent and polio vaccine respectively due at the 6th week.
      Furthermore, 75% and 86% of children had received the third dose of the pentavalent and polio
      vaccines, respectively, due at 14th week and measles vaccination was 73%, which is due at 9
      months. However, these rates are at 1 year of age and much higher than vaccination coverage
      rate at scheduled time and among conflict hits and displaced populations. Improved RI
      coverage is recommended as the priority public health strategy to reduce VPDs and eradicate
      polio in Pakistan and worldwide.

      According to immunization coverage surveys, 1 in 5 children are unimmunized. A major reason
      for poor childhood vaccine coverage is low immunization uptake, when parents are unable to
      complete the entire series of vaccines in accordance with the scheduled timelines. Some of
      the reasons include: (1) the family is not in favor of getting their child immunized, (2) low
      trust in vaccines provided through Expanded Programme on Immunization (EPI) and government
      health care providers, and (3) caregivers have forgotten their child's next vaccination due
      date or child's EPI card is misplaced. These barriers may be modified with additional support
      through education and behavior change strategies. In addition, with more pressing issues of
      food and shelter, preventive health often takes the back seat, and parents and caregivers
      forget or ignore the subsequent doses of vaccines for their children. There is an immense
      need to encourage parents' care seeking and collaboration with the health care providers to
      improve initial vaccine uptake and the completion of all doses according to the schedule. New
      innovative and cost-effective techniques are necessary for practical solutions to improve
      vaccination uptake and coverage.

      Mobile phones offer a new medium to provide education and advocate families or caregivers to
      enable behavior change so as to improve immunization uptake. Mobile phone use has also
      increased in countries with low RI coverage and a high risk of VPDs. Good examples are
      Nigeria and Pakistan, where there were around 170 and 140 million mobile phone subscribers,
      respectively, in 2014. There are limited data from LMICs set up on the role of SMS-based
      interventions for improvement of RI coverage, and conventional 1-way reminder SMS text
      messages were used by most of the studies as the intervention. Overall, very few studies
      compared reminders, educational, and interactive SMS messages related to childhood
      vaccination uptake. Although some of the studies have shown some behavior change for
      improvement in vaccination coverage, more rigorous application of health behavior change
      model needs to be applied to understand the impact of reminder, educational, and interactive
      messages on behavior change related to improvement in RI coverage. However, data from
      developing countries regarding the role of automated calls in improving vaccine coverage are
      limited.

      The vision of the investigators is to build capacity in technology-driven healthcare
      innovation in LMCIs. The programme will be initiated by a feasibility and proof-of-concept
      (POC) study to tackle the lack of awareness around immunization, which is a major health
      issue in developing countries. Mobile apps and social media have been shown to be effective
      in various programmes worldwide, but there is limited data from LMICs on the use of digital
      technologies in improving routine immunization (RI) coverage.
    
  