
    
      Twenty-eight percent of Americans over the age of 65 die in a nursing home. Research has
      found that the quality of care at the end of life in these facilities is less than adequate.
      While some residents improve their care with the use of the Hospice Medicare benefit,
      considerable barriers remain for the majority of nursing home residents who do not enroll in
      hospice but have a serious illness. This project focuses on improving palliative care for
      geriatric nursing home residents who are not receiving hospice care. Two systematic reviews
      of end-of-life care in nursing homes found challenges in symptom burden, including unmanaged
      pain, inadequate discussions regarding goals of care and advance directives, poor
      communication, unmet family expectations, and inadequate staff education.

      Residents' values, beliefs, and goals are often unknown by nursing home staff. Dementia,
      illness, or poor communication may prevent residents from articulating their wishes regarding
      care. In many cases, family members can act as mediators between the resident and staff as
      plans of care are developed and decisions are made. Despite the desire to remain involved in
      care of the nursing home resident, many family members are unable to be physically present in
      the nursing home and experience loss of control, dis-empowerment, and guilt. As frailty
      increases and goals of care become increasingly palliative, the frustrations and burdens for
      families can worsen. Family members, especially those living at a distance, want to be
      involved in the care of their resident, and their involvement in decision-making can improve
      outcomes for residents with serious illnesses.

      This project facilitates SDM (shared decision making) among family members, residents with
      serious illnesses (not enrolled in hospice), and the nursing home care team. Based on a
      family-identified need, this proposal facilitates SDM among family members, residents with
      serious illnesses (not enrolled in hospice), and the nursing home care team.
    
  