
    
      Fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) and Chronic widespread pain (CWP) are two syndromes within a
      broader class known as functional somatic syndromes. Chronic widespread pain (CWP) is defined
      according to the American College of Rheumatology (ACR), as pain both above and below the
      waist involving both sides of the body and lasting for at least 3 months. Fibromyalgia
      syndrome (FMS), a subset of CWP, is a multisystem disease characterized by sleep disturbance,
      fatigue, headache, morning stiffness, paresthesias, and anxiety.

      While there is debate as to specific etiology and pathogenesis, fibromyalgia is generally
      believed to be the result of a perturbation of central pain processing, specifically the
      neuroendocrine system. Fibromyalgia patients have been shown to have lower levels of
      metabolites from three neurotransmitters (serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine) in their
      cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) compared to healthy controls. The low rate of turnover of these
      neurotransmitters supports the hypothesis of a metabolic defect in fibromyalgia and suggests
      that the defect occurs at a neuroregulatory level. Results of a study that examined the
      effect of a permanent reduction in the noradrenergic innervation of the spinal cord suggested
      that the antinociceptive effects of norepinephrine are closely linked to opioidergic and
      tachykinergic neurotransmission.

      Droxidopa [also, known as L-threo-3,4-dihydroxyphenylserine, L-threo-DOPS, or L-DOPS] is the
      International non-proprietary name (INN) for a synthetic amino acid precursor of
      norepinephrine (NE), which was originally developed by Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals Co., Limited,
      Japan. It has been approved for use in Japan since 1989. Droxidopa has been shown to improve
      symptoms of orthostatic hypotension that result from a variety of conditions including Shy
      Drager syndrome (Multiple System Atrophy), Pure Autonomic Failure, and Parkinson's disease.
      There are four stereoisomers of DOPS; however, only the L-threo-enantiomer (droxidopa) is
      biologically active. Data from clinical studies and post-marketing surveillance programs
      conducted in Japan show that the most commonly reported adverse drug reactions with droxidopa
      are increased blood pressure, nausea, and headache. In clinical studies to date, data
      suggests that droxidopa is well-tolerated and effective as a norepinephrine precursor.

      Pre-clinical and clinical studies suggest that droxidopa has an analgesic effect in patients
      with chronic pain. An increase in central nervous system (CNS) levels of norepinephrine has
      been shown to correlate with an analgesic effect. Based on the pre-clinical and clinical
      findings to date, it is hypothesized that droxidopa can provide pain reduction in
      fibromyalgia patients through increasing the CNS levels of norepinephrine.

      Carbidopa is a DOPA decarboxylase (DDC) inhibitor. At therapeutic doses carbidopa does not
      cross the blood-brain barrier and therefore should not inhibit CNS metabolism of droxidopa to
      NE. Decreasing the activity of DDC in the periphery enables droxidopa metabolism to be
      focused in the CNS. This CNS focus should increase CNS response while also limiting the
      increase in blood pressure associated with peripheral droxidopa metabolism. In addition, as
      DDC is an enzyme required for the conversion of droxidopa into its active metabolite
      norepinephrine, inhibition of peripheral DDC, utilizing Carbidopa, should result in a
      reduction of any side effects resulting from the peripheral production of NE, whilst allowing
      for increased central levels, and hence, increased centrally mediated benefits.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the efficacy of droxidopa and
      droxidopa/carbidopa in the treatment of pain associated with fibromyalgia. Secondary
      objectives include: evaluation of the effect of droxidopa and combinations of
      droxidopa/carbidopa on signs and symptoms of fibromyalgia, evaluation of the effect of
      droxidopa and combinations of droxidopa/carbidopa on the overall quality of life of
      fibromyalgia patients, evaluation of the dose-response relationship for droxidopa between
      different doses of droxidopa, carbidopa and combinations of droxidopa/carbidopa in
      fibromyalgia patients, evaluation of the clinical benefit of treatment with different doses
      of droxidopa, carbidopa and combinations of droxidopa/carbidopa in fibromyalgia patients,
      estimation of the optimal dose for relief of fibromyalgia pain using response surface
      methodology, and evaluation of the safety of droxidopa and droxidopa/carbidopa treatments.
    
  