
    
      Background: Adults in intensive care units (ICU), especially elderly patients often suffer
      from a lack of sleep or frequent sleep disruptions due to physical, emotional stress such as
      pain, inflammation, and anxiety. Delirium, acute cognitive dysfunction, which result from
      sleep deprivation often leads to prolonged ICU stay and increase medical costs.
      Pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions have been tried to improve the duration
      and quality of sleep and to maintain diurnal cycle.

      Purpose: The aim of this study is to assess the efficacy of patient-driven interactive music
      intervention on sleep promotion in critically ill elderly adults. Delirium and urine/blood
      melatonin level will be assessed, too. In this study, randomized controlled trial for 50
      elderly ICU patients who aged over 65 years in each group will be proceeded.

      Primary outcome: Richards-Campbell Sleep Questionnaire

      Secondary outcome: Confusion Assessment Method - ICU, blood/urine melatonin level, ICU stay,
      Hospital stay, and mechanical ventilation duration / Delirium, acute cognitive dysfunction,
      which result from sleep deprivation often leads to prolonged ICU stay and increase medical
      costs. Elderly patients in ICU often suffer from a lack of sleep or frequent sleep
      disruptions due to physical, emotional stress such as pain, inflammation, and anxiety.
      Pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions have been tried to improve the duration
      and quality of sleep and to maintain diurnal cycle. If interactive music therapy could
      improve quality of sleep and reduce incidence and severity of delirium in this patient
      population, it will be a good way to reduce medical costs without significant complications.

      Expectation: There have been many trials to reduce delirium incidence and recover sleep
      patterns in ICU patients. If we could find interactive music therapy improve quality of sleep
      and reduce incidence and severity of delirium in this patient population, it will be a good
      way to reduce medical costs without significant complications. In addition, rhythm in music
      can be a appropriate support for respiration and motor function in elderly ICU patients.
    
  