
    
      After IRB approval from Indiana University Hospital and with written and verbal informed
      consent from each patient, 300 ASA I, II and III outpatients scheduled for elective
      Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) under general anesthesia will be
      enrolled in this randomized-controlled study. The participants and the study personnel
      performing post-op assessments will be blinded. Anesthesia providers cannot be blinded during
      this study since anesthesia providers will be required to draw up the study drugs as well as
      managing the wait time between rocuronium and succinylcholine. Patients are assigned to one
      of three groups (n = 100 each group). Each participant will undergo a standard IV induction
      of anesthesia (Lidocaine 1mg/kg, propofol 1-2 mg/kg titrated to effect, and succinylcholine
      (administered as indicated by study group assignment). Study group details are as follows:
      Group 1 (Control) to receive no rocuronium pretreatment and 1 mg/kg of succinylcholine.
      Groups 2 and 3 to receive 0.05 mg/kg up to 5 mg of rocuronium; patients ranged from 50-120
      kg. In Group 2, succinylcholine administration will occur at 1.0 mg/kg at t = 1 minute after
      pretreatment with rocuronium. In Group 3, succinylcholine will be administered (1.0 mg/kg) at
      t = 2 minutes after pretreatment. The Succinylcholine-induced fasciculations will be noted on
      study assessment data sheet as either present or absent. . Myalgia assessment is to occur
      post-succinylcholine administration at t =3 hours and t = 24 hours and will be rated as
      described below.

      Myalgia assessment:

      Participants will by queried at the above time points about muscle pain and scored based on
      their answers as follows.

      0 - no pain /no muscle stiffness

        1. - mild muscle pain and/or stiffness at 1 or more sites that does not limit daily
           activity

        2. - Moderate muscle pain and/or stiffness at 1 or more sites that does not limit daily
           activity

        3. - Moderate generalized muscle pain and/or stiffness limiting daily activity

        4. - Severe muscle pain and/or stiffness at 1 or more sites limiting movement and
           preventing daily activity
    
  