
    
      Medical team members (Paramedics, EMT) of Schutz und Rettung Zurich, Zurich Switzerland were
      asked to participate in this study. If they were not familiar with one of the three devices
      written informed consent was obtained and the participant included in this study. This
      exclusion criteria was necessary to prevent a bias by already knowing where to find the
      information of interest.

      The pediatric emergency rulers investigated were the electronic Pediatric Emergency Ruler
      (ePER) and the Broselow Tape (BT)

      All participants were instructed for the use of the two pediatric emergency rulers and were
      given time to practice with each device using one training manikin (Sim-Baby)

      After they felt comfortable using the devices the participants were randomly assigned to use
      each device only once with one of two different manikins:

      Resusci Baby, Laerdal/Dräger Medical Switzerland AG, Liebefeld, Switzerland Ambu® Junior,
      Ambu® GmbH, Bad Nauheim, Germany

      Each manikin was only used once for the same participant. This guaranteed that the
      participants were blinded for the manikins.

      The low-fidelity pediatric emergency scenario simulated was a cardiac arrest and the
      participants were asked to identify the following information from the pediatric emergency
      rulers:

      Estimated body weight Joule suggested for defibrillation Recommended epinephrine dose
      Suggested endotracheal tube size

      Participants stood aside from the manikin with a pediatric emergency ruler in their hand.
      After they stated they were ready, the facilitator started a countdown from three and gave
      the command to start. This setting was identical for all two pediatric emergency rulers and
      all two manikins. The time until each parameter was identified and the value of the parameter
      were recorded.

      Primary outcome was the time needed to identify the four above defined parameters. Secondary
      outcome was the correctness of the identified parameters and the percentage deviation from
      the correct value.
    
  