
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Obesity and smoking are major risk factors for a variety of health-related disorders, such as
      heart disease, stroke, certain forms of cancer, and diabetes. Recently, it has been reported
      that up to 65 percent of adults in the United States are overweight or obese. The increasing
      epidemic of obesity has led to many initiatives to treat obesity and to a number of recent
      initiatives to prevent weight gain. Similarly, the prevalence of smoking has not declined in
      the past few years, despite the availability of several clinically and cost-effective smoking
      cessation programs. One unwanted effect of smoking cessation is weight gain, which, in turn,
      may exacerbate weight-related health issues. Behavioral programs, and to a lesser degree
      pharmacological programs, designed to reduce post-cessation weight gain have been successful.
      However, given that this weight gain is typically cosmetic, it has been determined that such
      programs should be targeted to those at a higher medical risk as a result of the weight gain
      (e.g., individuals with hypertension). To our knowledge, no study has evaluated a smoking
      cessation program, followed by a lifestyle modification program, to prevent weight gain among
      those placed at medical risk by the post-cessation weight gain, including individuals with
      hypertension. Some studies find an increased prevalence of hypertension following smoking
      cessation. It is believed that this is largely (but not solely) due to weight gain following
      cessation. However, any weight gain in individuals with hypertension places them at risk.
      Body weight is the single best predictor of adult blood pressure, and blood pressure responds
      to very small changes in overall body weight.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This study will recruit 660 smokers with hypertension or elevated blood pressure. Given that
      African Americans are at high risk for both post-cessation weight gain and hypertension, the
      majority of participants recruited will be African American. Participants will be randomly
      assigned to either of the following: (a) a validated smoking cessation program followed by a
      validated weight control program (TONE), which consists of changes in dietary intake and
      physical activity; or (b) the same smoking cessation program followed by a general health
      education (contact-time control) program. A follow-up evaluation will occur 1 year following
      the end of treatment.
    
  