
    
      Study Hypothesis: We hypothesize that non-adherence to lenalidomide in MM patients is
      associated with decreased overall response rates and shorter time to progression (TTP).

      Study Objectives:

      Primary Objective: To evaluate the association between non-adherence to lenalidomide in MM
      patients and the overall response rate at 6 months.

      Secondary Objectives: 1) To evaluate the prevalence of non-adherence to lenalidomide in MM
      patients, and independent risk factors thereof. 2) To validate the utility of questionnaires
      assessing adherence in identifying MM patients at risk for lenalidomide non-adherence.3) To
      assess the association between non-adherence to lenalidomide and long-term response, measured
      as time to progression (TTP) at 18 months.

      Background: Lenalidomide-based regimens are a key component of the armamentarium for initial
      treatment in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients. Real-life data shows CR rates that
      are comparable to or slightly higher 1than those seen in prospective clinical trials. This
      variable response is a result of differences in clinical settings and patient and disease
      characteristics, but in theory, also may be due to variable adherence to lenalidomide. The
      development of oral anticancer therapies, such as lenalidomide, represents a significant step
      forward in oncology care by providing patients with convenient treatment of proven clinical
      efficacy, but also presents healthcare professionals with the challenge of monitoring and
      maintaining patients' adherence to this therapy.

      Non-adherence may be defined, for example, as non-perfect adherence (i.e. less than 100%),
      another cutoff with proven clinical significance, or simply as a numerical value representing
      the percentage of medication taken, relative to that recommended. This definition, together
      with the method used to measure adherence, can greatly influence reported rates of
      non-adherence in any given clinical setting. Taking all these limitations into account,
      reported rates of non-adherence to oral anti-cancer regimens across empirical studies average
      approximately 25% 2,3.Accordingly, using pharmacy refill data, a recent retrospective study
      demonstrated that 33% of newly diagnosed MM patients were non-adherent to lenalidomide
      treatment (defined as adherence < 80%)4. This is the only study, assessing adherence to
      lenalidomide in MM patients, which we are aware of.

      Using electronic monitoring (EM), Marin et al prospectively demonstrated that poor adherence
      to the tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), imatinib, in CML, adversely impacts molecular and
      cytogenetic response 5,6.This landmark study provided proof of concept that non-adherence to
      oral anti-cancer in hematological malignancies may be associated with poor responses and
      decreased survival. Our study group is currently analyzing data from our prospective
      interventional study aimed at improving adherence to TKIs in CML (NCT01768689).

      In light of this evidence, in an era that has witnessed the advent of effective oral agents
      for MM, understanding the prevalence, characteristics and clinical implications of
      non-adherence to these agents is key to providing high-quality care for these patients.
      Nevertheless, research regarding adherence to oral agents in MM (e.g. thalidomide,
      lenalidomide, pomalidomide) is still in its infancy, and there are no data indicating whether
      a similar association between adherence and treatment response exists in this field.
      Moreover, there is a paucity of data regarding the prevalence of non-adherence and risk
      factors thereof, in the above context.

      Study design:

      Prospective multi-center observational (non-interventional) cohort study.Patients will be
      managed routinely according to the local protocol at each center for the treatment of
      multiple myeloma. Study period: From initiation of lenalidomide therapy for a period of 18
      months. Setting and location: Institute of hematology, Sheba medical center and Hematology
      Institute at the Davidoff cancer center, Rabin medical center, Israel.

      Inclusion criteria: Patients diagnosed with active MM starting induction treatment with the
      lenalidomide with or without dexamethasone, as any line of therapy.

      Key exclusion criteria: Treatment with any additional anti-myeloma drugs, during study
      period.

      Patient characteristics and confounders: Patient characteristics (demographics,
      comorbidities); Disease-related characteristics (duration, myeloma stage and risk, details
      regarding previous therapy and response, functional status, quality of life); Other drugs
      (Number of drugs, pills and potential interactions with lenalidomide). We will use an
      adaptation of the questionnaire from the "BRIGHT" study (which assesses barriers to
      immunosuppressive medication adherence in heart transplant recipients) to assess barriers to
      adherence in this patient cohort.

      Measurement of adherence: Adherence to lenalidomide treatment will be measured continuously
      throughout the study period, by several means: 1) Electronic monitoring (EM) will be used
      throughout the first 5 months of the study period. This is considered the gold standard for
      measuring adherence, reflecting adherence more objectively than questionnaires and
      pill-counting. The microelectronic monitoring system (MEMS), a specific type of EM, consists
      of an electronic device ï¬tted in the cap of a normal-looking medication bottle that
      automatically records each time the bottle is opened. Adherence measured with this device was
      associated with treatment response in the landmark study in CML by Marin et al. 2) Pill
      counting for first five months. 3) Questionnaires: The physician visual analogue scale
      (physician VAS) and an adaptation of the "Basel assessment of adherence with the
      Immunosuppressive Regimen Scale" (BAASIS), will be assessed at predefined time points
      throughout the 18 months of the study period.

      Outcome Measures: Primary outcome measure: Response to treatment (Overall response) 4 weeks
      after finishing five months of electronic adherence monitoring (i.e. at 6 months).

      Analysis: Primary analysis: Incidence of the primary outcome measure in patients with
      electronically measured adherence of above 90% versus those below 90%, as measured for 5
      consecutive months after study initiation.

      Secondary analysis: 1) Analyze the association of each of the baseline characteristics /
      confounders and adherence-barriers questionnaire to electronically-measured adherence and
      look for independent risk factors for non-adherence. This will be stratified to line of
      treatment. 2) Validation of study questionnaires compared to electronically measured
      adherence.

      3) A long-term analysis which will look at an association between TTP at 18 months and both
      initial adherence measure electronically (first 5 months) and long term overall adherence
      measured by BAASIS questionnaire (18months).

      Sample size:

      In a prior study7, the ORR (i.e. PR and better) was 68% in the Rd arm, after 4 cycles. A
      prior study in CML showed a profound effect of adherence above 90% on optimal treatment
      response (RR=11) 5. As no data exists regarding the effect of adherence on outcome in our
      study population we utilized a RR which was conservative (<2), relative to the data from CML.
      We assumed an 80% ORR at 6 months in the adherent group and 45% ORR at 6 months in the
      non-adherent group (defined by a cutoff of 90% adherence). Prior data8 suggested the
      adherent/non-adherent ratio in patients receiving lenalidomide induction for myeloma is 7:3,
      and we assumed a similar ratio of 2:1.

      Based on the above data, we calculated that 43 patients in the adherent arm and 22 patients
      in the non-adherent arm will have a power of 0.8 (with a type I error of 0.05) to reject the
      null hypothesis that there is no difference in ORR between these groups.

      Therefore the required sample size is 67.
    
  