
    
      This treatment regimen builds on the "Linker" regimen/UCSF Protocol 8707 ALL regimen backbone
      with the goal of improved efficacy and acceptable toxicity by substituting pegylated
      asparaginase for native L-asparaginase, the addition of rituximab for pre-B-cell ALL, and the
      addition of dasatinib for Philadelphia chromosome/BCR-ABL positive ALL, and the addition of
      cyclophosphamide for younger adults. In addition, the study regimen aims to reduce CNS
      relapse through the use of intrathecal liposomal cytarabine in place of intrathecal
      methotrexate for CNS relapse prophylaxis and

      The regimen uses 3 modules of therapy with non-cross-resistant chemotherapy agents. Rituximab
      is added for a total of 8 doses for patients with pre-B-cell ALL. Dasatinib is added for
      patients with Ph+ ALL.

      Course 1A (Induction): Daunorubicin, vincristine, PEG-asparaginase, and prednisone for all
      patients with the addition of cyclophosphamide for patients 18-39 years of age. Treatment is
      intensified for patients with disease present on a day 14 bone marrow biopsies during
      Induction Course 1A. In addition to standard analyses, minimal residual disease will be
      assessed on day 14 and remission bone marrow aspirates and correlated with outcomes.

      Course 1B: High-dose methotrexate, oral 6-mercaptopurine, and PEG-asparaginase.

      Course 1C: High-dose cytarabine and etoposide.

      The 3 courses then repeat (2A (Intensification), 2B, 2C) followed by a final "B" cycle (3B)
      of high-dose methotrexate, 6-mercaptopurine, and PEG-asparaginase.

      After completion of Course 3B, patients proceed to maintenance chemotherapy with monthly
      methotrexate, vincristine, 6-mercaptopurine, and prednisone cycles for 24 months with a
      single dose PEG-asparaginase given in month 1 of Maintenance.

      CNS prophylaxis: Intrathecal liposomal cytarabine replaces intrathecal methotrexate CNS
      prophylaxis and is given every 2 weeks during the "A" Induction and Intensification courses
      then every 3 months during Maintenance for a total of 8 doses. Given the presence of CNS
      penetrating chemotherapy in the "B" and "C" cycles, intrathecal liposomal cytarabine is not
      given due to risk of excessive CNS toxicity.

      There is a randomization to hydrocortisone or placebo premedication prior to
      PEG-asparaginase.
    
  