
    
      PICS describes 'new or worsening impairments in physical, cognitive or mental health status
      arising after critical illness and persisting beyond acute care hospitalization'. Different
      critical care professional and scientific societies have identified long-term functional
      outcomes after critical illness as an important target for research and clinical
      improvements, and there is general agreement that research on PICS should be a priority for
      the critical care community.

      Post-ICU subjects may experience physical problems, such as muscles weakness and wasting,
      caused by prolonged bed rest and immobility during the ICU stay and by critical illness
      polyneuropathy and myopathy developing during the acute illness; organ dysfunction; chronic
      pain; mental health problems including depression, anxiety or post-traumatic stress disorder
      (PTSD); and neurocognitive impairments which are predominantly represented by memory
      dysfunction and executive function impairment. The impact of these problems on the subject's
      health status is huge, which reduced quality of life, and impaired functional status, and
      daily functioning.

      Many survivors incur substantial healthcare costs, lose employment, and find their social
      networks wholly changed. The costs to subjects and families are high: ICU survivorship is
      associated with decreased return to work, and the loss of earnings plagues both patients and
      caregivers.

      Prior studies in which researchers have examined outcomes among ICU survivors have been
      mainly restricted their assessments to specific patient populations and have used only
      limited outcome measures or the follow-up period was relatively short-term. Moreover, few
      studies have explored the association between acute care events and long-term sequelae as
      well as the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms.

      The researchers appertaining to the present study implemented a follow-up clinic to describe
      the frequency of physical, cognitive, and mental impairments and their evolution over time in
      subjects surviving critical illness. The researchers also aim at understanding the
      pathogenetic mechanisms underlying these impairments and their association with acute care
      events.
    
  