
    
      Patients with Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI)have abnormal findings including hemorrhagic
      cortical contusions or petechial or foci of altered signal that represents white matter
      injury. MRI, CT or SPECT scans showing changes consistent with Traumatic Brain Injury
      (TBI)and or medical history of Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI)as evidenced by medical records
      will be screened for treatment with Hyperbaric. Each patient will undergo 5 times-a-week
      Hyperbaric treatments to 1.5 atmospheres absolute(ATA).

      Each patient will have a SPECT scan, cognitive assessment, and physician evaluation prior to
      first treatment and after 40, 80, and 120 treatments to document progress of the treatment
      (Harch et al, 2012). Cognitive assessment will include the Trail Making Test Parts A and B.
      Patient will be seen by physician to assess level of disability at each interval; the United
      States Department of Veteran Affairs' Evaluation of Cognitive Impairment and Subjective
      Symptoms (VAECI) (2012) tool will be utilized during the physician's evaluation as an
      objective measure of the patient's level of disability.

      Hyperbaric treatments may be adjusted for patient comfort. If the SPECT scan, cognitive
      assessment and physician evaluation show improvement after 40 treatments, another 40
      Hyperbaric(HBO)treatments will be administered. Treatments will be discontinued after a 40
      session interval if the SPECT scan, cognitive assessment and physician evaluation show no
      improvement. The patient will also have a SPECT scan and cognitive assessment follow up 3
      months after final Hyperbaric(HBO) treatment.The time points for evaluation of cognitive
      status and single-photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) scan will be at at
      40,80,120 Hyperbaric(HBO)treatments. Treatment will occur 5 times per week for approximately
      24 weeks with another follow up 3 months post treatment. This will provide all data points
      for outcome measure.
    
  