
    
      Child maltreatment (CM) constitutes a serious public health problem in the United States and
      is known to compromise children's developing self-regulation skills and amplify risk for
      substance use and other regulatory disorders. Parent-Child Interaction Therapy (PCIT), an
      intensive, 20-session parenting intervention, has been shown to improve the quality of CM
      parenting, improve positive parenting and child behavior, and produce declines in CM
      recidivism (Chaffin et al., 2004) though the mechanisms underlying its effects are little
      understood. This project addresses gaps in the CM intervention literature in that it (a) uses
      an experimental intervention design to test a theoretical model of change underlying PCIT's
      effects, (b) includes a battery of neurobehavioral measures of self-regulation, and (c) uses
      observational measures of parenting in an RCT of an evidence-based intervention for
      strengthening parent self-regulation, reducing CM, and supporting improvements in child
      regulation and behavior. Study aims are to:

      Aim 1: Test the main effects of PCIT on CM-specific outcomes, including reductions in harsh,
      aversive parenting and CM recidivism and promotion of children's behavioral adjustment. It is
      hypothesized that intervention families will show significantly greater behavior improvements
      (i.e., decreased negative parenting, increased positive parenting, and decreased child
      internalizing/externalizing problems) at posttest and lower CM recidivism at 6-month
      follow-up, compared to families receiving services as usual (SAU).

      Specific Aim 2: Determine the impact of PCIT on indices of CM parents' self-regulation.
      First, the investigators will test the hypothesis that PCIT exerts direct effects on
      improving CM parents' capacities for self-regulation in the context of parenting. Second, the
      investigators will investigate how measures of self-regulation in parents mediate PCIT
      intervention effects on reductions in CM and improvements in parenting. Third, the
      investigators will explore whether parents' preintervention self-regulation levels moderate
      intervention effects on outcomes. The moderating roles of CM subtype (i.e., physical abuse
      vs. neglect), severity, and other key sociocontextual factors on the outcomes of interest
      also will be considered.

      Specific Aim 3: Investigate the impact of PCIT on neurobehavioral indices of CM children's
      self-regulation. CM exerts detrimental effects on children's developing capacities to
      regulate attention, emotion, physiology, and behavior. Deficits in these domains confer
      heightened risk for psychopathology, early-onset conduct problems, and later substance abuse.
      The investigators hypothesize that PCIT, though directed primarily toward parenting, will
      effect improvements in neurobiological indicators of CM children's self-regulation at
      post-treatment, relative to the control group. Next, the investigators will test the extent
      to which child outcomes are mediated through intervention effects on parenting. It is
      hypothesized that child regulatory deficits and behavior problems will be attenuated by
      PCIT-based reductions in aversive parenting that result from the intervention.
    
  