
    
      Breastfed babies have fewer childhood infections than formula-fed babies, and women who
      breastfeed have a reduced risk of cardiovascular disease and increased rates of postpartum
      weight loss. Thus, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) recommends
      six months of exclusive breastfeeding after birth. Nationally, 75% of women initiate
      breastfeeding, but only 59% of Black women, 53% of teenagers, and 66% of women in the Special
      Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children breastfeed. Unpublished
      internal data suggest that, while the breastfeeding initiation rate for women receiving
      prenatal care at Barnes-Jewish Hospital's Medicaid clinic is higher than the national average
      (89%), by postpartum day #2, only 34% exclusively breastfeed. Reasons for this precipitous
      decline in breastfeeding are not fully understood but include misconceptions about
      breastfeeding benefits and poor social support.

      This study would be the first-ever randomized controlled trial describing the impact that a
      smart phone application (app) has on breastfeeding rates and thus postpartum weight loss
      among low-income women. In this study's first phase, a previously well-validated
      questionnaire was used to identify barriers that low-income urban women perceived as
      preventing breastfeeding initiation or continuation. In the second phase, these data-as well
      as input from neonatologists, certified lactation consultants, and focus groups of low-income
      pregnant women-were used to create a smart phone application (app) to promote breastfeeding
      called Breastfeeding Friend (BFF). The investigators chose an app to provide breastfeeding
      support for two reasons. First, nearly two-thirds of American adults, and 90% of those under
      the age of 29, have smart phones. Second, more than two-thirds of Americans with smart phones
      use them to obtain health information via new media (blogs, websites, and apps). Among
      low-income women, physician-designed new media have improved intrauterine device uptake rates
      and decreased rates of postpartum smoking. BFF will serve as a virtual lactation consultant,
      increasing breastfeeding knowledge while providing interactive assistance and access to
      in-person resources. By providing women with more breastfeeding support, this app could
      increase postpartum weight loss by decreasing a significant health disparity.
    
  