
    
      -  The study treatment is divided into periods called cycles. Each cycle is 28 days long.
           Participants will be given the study drugs intravenously on day 1 and day 15 of each
           cycle.

        -  Gemcitabine will be given first, over a period of 30 minutes. Then oxaliplatin over a
           period of 2 hours. Finally, bevacizumab will be given over a period of 30 to 90 minutes.
           Participants will continue study treatment as long as their tumor is not growing and
           they are not experiencing unacceptable side effects. If the tumor goes away completely,
           the participant will have 2 more cycle of study treatment.

        -  Blood will be drawn for routine testing every week during study treatment to check for
           side effects. Before day 1 and 15 of each cycle the following tests and procedures will
           be performed: a medical history; complete physical exam; vital signs; blood tests; and
           urine tests. Before day 1 of every other cycle, the following additional procedures will
           be performed: A CT scan, x-ray or ultrasound of your abdomen and pelvis; an x-ray of the
           chest (if required by the study doctor); blood tests; and urine samples.

        -  If the participant's tumor goes away, they will be asked to return to the clinic for
           follow-up visits every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years. At each
           follow-up visit the following tests and procedures will be performed: medical history;
           complete physical examination; CT scan, x-ray or ultrasound of the abdomen and pelvis;
           x-ray of the chest; and other tests if the doctor feels they are needed.

        -  There is an optional sub-study that six subjects will be asked to take a part in that
           will give the study doctors important information about the way the body uses and breaks
           down the study drugs. This sub-study will involve special surgical procedures and scans
           that will be done during cycle 1 of the study treatment.
    
  