
    
      The obesity represents a major problem of public health, not only in terms of inferred
      morbi-mortality but also in terms of economic responsibility. More than 50 % of the women old
      enough to procreate and 25 % of the women pregnant in Europe are in overweights or obese
      women. This rate does not stop increasing with prevalence which doubled in 30 years. The
      overweight or the maternal obesity expose the mother and the child to a greater risk of
      morbi-mortality. The nutritional stress to which is exposed the foetus during the pregnancy
      can even have long-term effects with a risk increased by overweight or obesity at the
      grown-up age, so participating in the cycle of the obesity (" Developmental Origins of
      Behaviour, Health, and Disease " (DOBHaD) concept).

      The morbid obesity (IMC > 40 kg / m2) concern 1 to 3 % of the pregnant women. The gastric
      bypass surgery is envisaged in case of morbid obesity when the other treatments failed, with
      better results on the loss of weight and on the comorbidity associated with the obesity, in
      comparison with not surgical interventions. Near half of the patients who resort to the
      gastric bypass surgery are women old enough to procreate. Recent studies however moderated
      the beneficial effects of such an intervention with in particular a greater risk of
      intra-uterine delay of growth and possible nutritional deficiencies on the descent. The
      neonatal evaluation was limited to the clinical evaluation, and no biological evaluation of
      the vitamin and nutritional deficiencies on the growth of the foetus and the placenta was
      brought reported.

      The placenta regulates the contribution in nutriments and oxygen and participle in the foetal
      homéostasie. The reactive placentary adaptations to an environment of surnutrition or the
      undernutrition can pull modifications of setting-up, development, functions of the placenta
      with genic modifications and épigénétiques. All these modifications intervene in a "critical
      window" in terms of development and participate in the phenomena of foetal programming.

      Our working hypothesis is that the nutritional stress in utero associated with the maternal
      obesity and/or with the by-pass has a medium and long-term short-term, metabolic and
      neurodevelopmental nutritional impact on the descent.
    
  