
    
      National Diabetes Program 2010-2020 is a strategic document of Slovenia aimed at reducing the
      incidence of type 2 diabetes, preventing type 2 diabetes in people at highreducing the
      incidence of type 2 diabetes, preventing type 2 diabetes in people at high risk, early
      diagnosis of diabetes and reducing complications and diabetes mortality. Diabetes is one of
      the most common reasons why the inhabitants of Slovenia visit a doctor, while extending life
      expectancy and aging of the population will additionally increase these needs. In order to
      evaluate the activities that are already being implemented and to guide further activities in
      Slovenia, a high-quality analysis is needed to evaluate the prevalence of diabetes in people
      with specific characteristics, the estimation of the proportion of patients who are treating
      diabetes without drugs and the estimate of the proportion of those patients whose diabetes is
      not yet detected.

      The prevalence of diabetes in certain population subgroups, in particular in relation to age,
      gender, socioeconomic status and geographical area of residence, is important for assessing
      the current burden of the disease and for predicting the needs in the future. These analyses
      can lead to adaptation of measures in the health system and, depending on the needs
      identified, also outside health system. A more accurate estimate of the proportion of
      patients who are treating diabetes without drugs will enable a more accurate calculation of
      the number of patients with diabetes in Slovenia. This will also improve the accuracy of
      calculating the burden of the disease today and in the future. Above all, in order to be
      accurate in predicting the burden in the future, a reliable estimate of the proportion of
      patients who already have diabetes but who are not already aware of it and their
      characteristics are important. Such an analysis is also a key feedback on the effectiveness
      of existing prevention and early detection programs for diabetes and a basis for adjusting
      measures in this area.

      The aims of the research project are therefore to determine the prevalence of diabetes in
      subgroups of the population with certain characteristics (age, gender, socioeconomic status,
      geographical area of residence), to estimate the proportion of those patients with diabetes
      treated without drugs, to estimate the proportion of the patients in which diabetes is not
      yet diagnosed, and to develop a proposal and recommendations for the development,
      implementation and evaluation of programs for the prevention and early diagnosis of diabetes.

      An analysis of the prevalence of diabetes in population subgroups and an estimate of the
      proportion of those patients who have non-drug treated diabetes will be drawn upon the data
      from the National Health and Health System Survey 2019, run by National Institute of Public
      Health. Methodologically it is a cross-sectional survey using a survey questionnaire based on
      the European Health Interview Survey.

      A sample of 16,000 inhabitants was invited to participate. The database contains sets of
      questions about health status, health markers and health care, and contains all the
      information that the research project covers. Secondary analyses of the collected data will
      also allow evaluation of some other characteristics of the population, such as, for example,
      lifestyle characteristics, body weight, score by FINDRISC for the assessment of the risk of
      diabetes, and considering that the survey is conducted for the third time, some of the trends
      that are important for the analysis of future needs and proper planning of the activity in
      the future can also be developed. In order to prepare a methodologically relevant assessment
      of the proportion of patients with diabetes in Slovenia in whom diabetes is not yet
      diagnosed, a cross-sectional survey will be carried out using a Health Examination Survey
      approach. All those interviewees from the National Health and Health System Survey 2019 who
      are not aware to have diabetes will be invited to the health examination survey. An oral
      glucose tolerance test Will be performed (once or twice, based on the results). In this way,
      diabetes can be diagnoses in those individuals who already have diabetes, but have not yet
      been aware of it. Secondary analyses of the data and the measurement of HbA1c from the sample
      of blood taken at the same collection will also give the opportunity to assess for example,
      the prevalence of impaired fasting glucose, impaired glucose tolerance, their combinations,
      and obtain more data on the clinical meaning of oral glucose tolerance test versus HbA1c in
      diagnosing diabetes in Slovenian context. It is estimated that approximately 1500-2000 people
      will perform the health examination survey part. The research protocol was approved by the
      Republic Medical Ethics Committee. The survey will be conducted in accordance with all
      ethical standards that relates to the volunteers in such studies, including providing
      feedback, what is the importance of the results for in such studies, including providing
      feedback, what is the importance of the results for them personally, and will give them the
      instructions for the use of healthcare system, if appropriate. Data and their identity will
      also be protected.

      In 2007 and 2014, the constellation of questions in national health and health system surveys
      already gave an estimate of the prevalence of diabetes in specific population subgroups. The
      study will, in addition to the cross-sectional descriptions, also provide a more robust
      description of the trends. On the basis of these results, an assessment of the management of
      the incidence of diabetes in individual population groups in the past can be made, as well as
      recommendations for the development and implementation of appropriate activities in the
      future, such as the further upgrading of health promotion centres, upgrading health care
      activities carried out by family medicine, and in the preparation of targeted measures in
      individual population groups, including through the involvement of partners outside health
      care, and with approaches to reducing inequalities and other activities of the implementation
      of National Diabetes Plan 2020- 2030.

      The assessment of the proportion of people with undiagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus and
      their characteristics will be made for the first time in Slovenia. People with unrecognized
      chronic illnesses, including type 2 diabetes, represent those individuals with the greatest
      burden of the disease, both in health and, for example, in financial and psychosocial
      aspects. Undertaking approaches to reducing the proportion of people with an unrecognized
      chronic disease is therefore one of the greatest health and society challenges in the next
      decade, as it is an indispensable measure to ensure the sustainability of the health system
      and to ensure the well-being of society.

      The final task of this research project is the development of a report that will include a
      proposal and recommendations for the development, implementation and evaluation of programs
      for the prevention and early diagnosis of diabetes, which will represent the so-called
      evidence-informed policy making, risk, early diagnosis of diabetes and reducing complications
      and diabetes mortality.
    
  