
    
      This is a Phase 2, single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled,
      parallel-group, 2-arm study in patients with mild to moderate PD. There will be three phases
      to the study. An initial 12-week screening phase was performed to determine eligibility.
      After informed consents, early-stage PD patients with Hoehn-Yahr stage 1 will be enrolled and
      participants will be asked to stop previously used anti-parkinsonism medications for at least
      one month to see the baseline disease severity. At the start of the study, participants will
      receive a comprehensive parkinsonism symptoms evaluation using Movement Disorder
      Society-Unified Parkinson's disease rating scale (MDS-UPDRS), global cognitive test using
      MMSE, and will be arranged for 18F-DOPA PET scan to evaluate the dopaminergic reserve in the
      striatum. Participants will also be asked to fasting for at least 8 hours to check the
      baseline laboratory test, including liver/renal functions, lipid profiles and serum CK level.
      Subjects will then be randomized to a 48-week double-blind treatment period of oral
      lovastatin 80mg/day or placeboSubjects in both groups will attend a further 5 clinic visits
      after 4, 12, 24, 36, and 48 weeks, where they are asked about their neurological symptoms and
      are evaluated by MDS-UPDRS. During the follow-up period, the dose of anti-parkinsonism could
      be added if both the patients and doctors thought the clinical condition deteriorated.
      Changes in PD medication as measured by levodopa-equivalent dose (LED) will be recorded at
      each visit. At final visit, patients will be arranged to receive the follow up 18F-DOPA PET
      scan to evaluate the dopaminergic reservation in the striatum and received MDS-UPDRS and MMSE
      evaluation. The secondary endpoints measured include MDS-UPDRS total scores, Part I and Part
      II sub-scores, the timing and dose of added anti-parkinsonism medication during the treatment
      period, the changes of 18F-DOPA PET uptake and MMSE scores, and global impression scale (GCI)
      of patients and investigators at the end of the study.

      After informed consent form is completed, each patient will participate in the study for up
      to 48 weeks (a Screening Period of ≤12 weeks, followed by a Baseline Visit, 48 weeks of
      double-blind treatment, and a 4-week post-dose Safety Follow-up Visit) The post-dose Safety
      Follow-up Visit is for patients early terminating or not willing to participate in the
      open-label extension study):

        -  Screening Period: 16 weeks

        -  Treatment Period: 48 weeks

        -  Safety Follow-Up Period: 4 weeks After completion of the Treatment Period in this
           double-blind, placebo-controlled study, patients will be offered the option to enroll in
           an open-label extension study until 5 years. The end of the study is defined as the date
           of the last visit of the last patient in the study.
    
  