
    
      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Adult patients (>18 years)

        -  Confirmed COVID-19 infection by real-time PCR from a respiratory or other body sample
           within 48 hours of testing.

        -  Mild to moderate infection or asymptomatic patients with comorbidities: Symptomatic
           patients with fever >37.9ºC or cough or dyspnea or chest pain, not fulfilling severity
           exclusion criteria. We will include patients regardless of time since symptom onset. In
           addition, we will include asymptomatic patients with comorbidities including cardiac,
           pulmonary, diabetes, chronic renal failure or liver disease (definitions in Appendix 1)
           hospitalized for observation.

        -  Informed consent from patient or legal representative

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Severe infection, defined as need for invasive or non-invasive ventilator support, ECMO
           or shock requiring vasopressor support.

        -  Unable to take oral medication

        -  Known allergy to HCQ or chloroquine

        -  Prolonged QT, defined as QTc ≥450 milliseconds for men and as QTc ≥470 for women

        -  Severely reduced LV function (Ejection fraction<30%)

        -  Retinopathy

        -  Pregnancy or breast feeding

        -  Concomitant treatment with azithromycin, flecainide, amiodarone, digoxin, procainamide,
           propafenone, thioridazine, pimozide.

        -  Chronic chloroquine/ HCQ treatment (within 1 month)

        -  Need for hemodialysis

        -  Participating in another RCT for treatment of COVID-19 Patients who meet eligibility
           criteria will be randomized in a 1:1 ration. Randomization will be done using a
           computer-generated list of random numbers allocated centrally through a web site,
           stratified by hospital. The random sequence will include random permuted blocks of 4 The
           intervention group will receive oral hydroxychloroquine. In the first day 400 mg twice
           daily, followed by 200mg twice daily on days 2-10 (continued after discharge if
           discharged before day 10).

      The control group will not receive hydroxychloroquine. Physicians will be allowed to provide
      other medications at their discretion. For patients in the control group who develop severe
      disease (as defined), the physician will be allowed to use HCQ.

      Criteria for discontinuing study drug include development of any of the following:

        -  Serious adverse event related to the drug (QT prolongation, anaphylaxis reaction)

        -  Participant request Primary outcome: Number of patients developing severe infection (as
           defined above at the section of exclusion criteria) or death within 28 days.

      Secondary outcomes:

        -  Number of patients with severe disease as defined above

        -  All-cause mortality within 30 days

        -  Time to symptom resolution defined as days until normalization of fever (37.9ºC),
           respiratory rate, and oxygen saturation, and alleviation of cough, sustained for at
           least 72 hours.

        -  Duration (days) of mechanical ventilation

        -  Clinical status at day 5 as assessed by National Early Warning Score 2

        -  Virological failure, defined as positive PCR from respiratory or other body sample at
           day 5.

        -  Development of acute myocarditis defined as symptoms of heart failure, chest pain or
           arrhythmia, in the presence of elevated serum Troponin or reduced ejection fraction by
           echocardiography, and no evidence of acute coronary syndrome.

        -  Antibacterial consumption, measured as days of therapy (DOT)

        -  Number of adverse events - prolonged QT, arrhythmias, nausea, vomiting (severe)

        -  Time to hospital discharge.

        -  Discharge to LTCF, rehabilitation (for patients admitted from home) The trial will test
           for chloroquine's superiority (1-sided alpha) assuming a primary outcome incidence of
           10% in the control group and a reduction of 30% in the intervention group. With a
           1-sided 5% alpha a fixed sample of 558 patients per group will provide 80% power to
           reject the null hypothesis of no difference between study groups (PS power and sample
           size). However, the trial will use an adaptive approach to determine the final sample
           size. Interim analyses for the primary outcome will be conducted by statisticians with
           expertise in adaptive design.

      Patients will be follow-up daily in-hospital. Vital and respiratory signs and symptoms will
      be captured daily. Electrocardiogram will be performed on day 3 for all patients, with
      follow-up as required. Adverse effects will be monitored daily and documented, including
      gastrointestinal symptoms, skin rash or other skin manifestations. If antibiotic treatment
      will be needed, we will refrain from using azithromycin.

      Laboratory tests, including complete blood count, electrolytes, creatinine levels, CPK and
      liver enzymes (including LDH) will be obtained at recruitment if unavailable from the last 24
      hours. Blood count, electrolytes and creatinine levels will be repeated on days 5+/-2. Other
      tests will be performed as clinically indicated. Chest x-ray or other chest imaging will be
      performed at recruitment if not performed previously and repeated as necessary according to
      clinical judgment. PCR from respiratory or body samples will be obtained on day 5 (or
      discharge if prior to day 5) and otherwise as clinically indicated. Blood samples for
      serology will be taken at recruitment and at day 14 (or at discharge if before day 14).
      Samples will be frozen and batch analyzed at the end of the study.

      Patients will not be contacted after discharge, assuming no change in status after discharge
      (carry-forward assumption). Survival at day 30 will be ascertained using the health ministry
      records.

      The data will be entered anonymously into a central case report form (CRF) designed in
      RedCap. We will document the follow-up, patients' medical treatment, including antiviral,
      antimicrobial and supportive care and all adverse events.

      Trial follow-up and monitoring will be performed by The Rambam-Technion ID research using a
      risk-based monitoring approach with adaptive on-site monitoring.

      Trial flow and recruitment follow-up: Recruitment reports will be collected monthly,
      detailing the number of eligible patients, excluded patients, reason for exclusion and number
      of included patients, in a structured table. The recruitment status vs. expected recruitment
      rate will be reported monthly, overall and per site.

      Remote monitoring will be performed continuously throughout the trial to check for data
      completion and quality. Critical variables will be defined, based on data needed for baseline
      description of the study cohort, information regarding the intervention and outcome data.
      Feedback will be provided to local study coordinators via email or telephone. Data will be
      completed or corrected in real time with the support of the monitoring center. Risk
      thresholds will be defined for onsite monitoring.

      Onsite monitoring will be performed periodically and as required following the remote
      monitoring thresholds. The regular onsite monitoring visits will include:

        -  Inspection of the informed consent forms with dates corresponding to recruitment

        -  Inclusion criteria confirmed vs. patients' charts

        -  Confirmation of primary outcome data in source documents The trial will be followed by
           an independent data and safety monitoring board and a steering committee. No interim
           analyses are planned. All serious adverse events will be reported to the independent
           monitoring board. Interim analyses and serious adverse events will be reported to the
           local ethics committees, as per local good practice guidelines.

      The primary analysis will include all randomized patients by intention to treat. A
      per-protocol analysis will include patients who received the allocated intervention for at
      least 5 calendar days.

      Patients' baseline characteristics will be reported as mean with standard deviation, or
      median with interquartile based on variable distributions. The relative risk for the primary
      outcome will be computed with 95% confidence intervals. Time dependent variables will be
      analyzed using Kaplan Meyer curves. The trial will not be powered for subgroup analyses.

      The study will be approved by the local ethics committees in participating hospitals.
      Informed consent will be required for participation from the patients or their legal
      guardians.

      Owing to severe isolation precautions, a modification to the informed consent process is
      required. The investigators will present the study drug and related information to the
      subjects through a phone call. Subjects who agree to participate will sign an informed
      consent form which will be documented via a video chat. The informed consent process and form
      will be reviewed by the IRB in order to ensure that the informed consent process is
      understandable.

      This study is not funded.
    
  