
    
      Background:

        -  Active Surveillance (AS) is a standard approach in the treatment of low and intermediate
           risk prostate cancer which employs a strategy of monitoring the clinical progression of
           prostate cancer.

        -  AS utilizes prostate biopsies, prostate specific antigen (PSA), and digital rectal
           examinations (DRE) as tools to determine clinical progression in prostate cance

        -  This protocol aims to assess an additional tool, multiparametric magnetic resonance
           imaging (mpMRI) to actively visualize and monitor disease within the prostate in
           addition to standard instruments used to determine clinical progression of disease.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine the role of mpMRI in the selection and management of participants for AS by
           correlating imaging findings with pathological progression as determined on serial
           biopsies.

        -  To determine the optimal interval of MR imaging in monitoring AS participants for
           evidence of progression by correlating sequential MRIs with biopsies with the goal to
           reduce unnecessary imaging.

        -  To evaluate the relationship between mpMRI, prostate biopsy pathology results, and
           progression in AS participants to determine if prostate biopsies may be safely avoided
           based on the accuracy of imaging (sensitivity and specificity).

      Eligibility:

        -  Men, 18 years and older with biopsy confirmed prostate cancer

        -  Gleason Score which less than or equal to 3+4=7

        -  Initial diagnosis of prostate cancer within 2 years of study entry

        -  Capable of being consented to the protocol

      Design:

        -  Single arm, prospective, cohort study to correlate mpMRI with prostate biopsy pathology.

        -  We plan to accrue 508 participants over the entire study period, assuming about a 10%
           dropout to allow adequate statistical review.

        -  Participants will be monitored for clinical progression of their prostate cancer with
           PSA, DRE, mpMRI, and prostate biopsy (systematic and MRI lesion targeted) as follows:

             -  Initial prostate cancer antigen (PSA) screening with an additional PSA screen every
                12 months

             -  Initial DRE screening with additional DRE to be performed every year that either
                prostate MRI or biopsy is performed

             -  Initial mpMRI and prior to each biopsy (i.e., mandated at least every two years
                until year five, and then every three years thereafter)

             -  Initial systematic 12-Core prostate biopsy and MRI guided fusion (MRI-US fusion)
                prostate biopsy of all suspicious lesions (i.e., targeted biopsy). Future biopsies,
                including 12-core systematic and targeted biopsy (to be performed in the same
                session) will then be mandated every two years until year five at which time
                biopsies will be performed every three years thereafter unless contraindicated.

             -  mpMRI and biopsies may be performed earlier if clinically indicated and will revert
                back to previous mpMRI/biopsy schedule after.

             -  Biopsy pathology results will be used as the standard for diagnosis of clinical
                progression.
    
  