
    
      Cystic echincoccosis (CE), caused by infection with the dog tapeworm, is a major worldwide
      healthcare problem with increasing prevalence in the developed world. Approximately 75% of CE
      involves the liver, with treatments incurring significant cost and patient morbidity.

      The key to CE treatment is correct identification of active infection but differentiation
      from sterile disease is highly problematic. Current treatment guidelines base activity
      assessment on morphological assessment with ultrasound (US), serology and light-microscopy of
      samples obtained at aspiration/surgery when available. Serology however can take many years
      to become negative even following successful treatment and US evaluation is subjective.
      Assessment of disease 'activity' is therefore a major challenge, particularly once patients
      are undergoing treatment. The lack of accurate tools to assess treatment response has
      undermined the development of management guidelines, particularly concerning the optimum
      length of chemotherapy treatment and indications for surgical/image-guided intervention.

      Quantitative MR methods present a potential solution to this challenge. Magnetic Resonance
      Spectroscopy (MRS) has shown promising ex vivo results in detecting the biochemical
      "signature" of active infection in cyst fluid, but has yet to be applied clinically.
      Alternative approaches including T1 mapping, susceptibility mapping and Diffusion Weighted
      Imaging/Intra-voxel Incoherent Motion are also potentially useful, but have little supportive
      data to date.

      Non-invasive biomarkers of CE activity are therefore essential to defining specific treatment
      endpoints, particularly in the context of chemotherapy. Multiple quantitative MR methods
      could be used to develop composite biomarkers for disease activity. Identifying a new
      quantitative radiological 'fingerprint' for each stage of the natural life-cycle of hepatic
      CE will enable improved diagnosis and therapeutic triage.

      To date, in vivo liver quantitative MRI has not yet been applied to this cohort of patients,
      thus representing a novel application of this technology to address an important clinical
      question.

      With this pilot study, the investigators aim to demonstrate the potential of quantitative MRI
      methods in the assessment of active/inactive hepatic CE.
    
  