
    
      Background: Primary Sjögren's syndrome (pSS) is a chronic inflammatory and
      lymphoproliferative disease with autoimmune features. pSS is characterised by a progressive
      lymphocytic infiltration of the exocrine glands, notably the lacrimal and salivary glands.
      The main clinical features are a progressive dryness of the eyes, mouth, vagina and skin.
      Furthermore, various extraglandular manifestations may develop of which restricting fatigue
      is the most common. Patients may be restricted in their activities and their participation in
      society, resulting in a reduced health-related quality of life and an impaired socioeconomic
      status. The latter results in lower employment rates and more disability as compared to the
      general population. The estimated prevalence of pSS in the general population is between
      0.5-2%, which makes pSS, after rheumatoid arthritis (RA), the most common systemic autoimmune
      disease. Most of the traditional anti-rheumatic drugs used in RA and systemic lupus
      erythematosus have been tried in pSS with limited results. Currently, biological agents have
      been introduced in various systemic autoimmune diseases. These biological agents enhance or
      replace conventional immunosuppressive therapy. In contrast to RA and systemic lupus
      erythematosus (SLE), no biological agent has yet been approved for the treatment of pSS.
      Abatacept is a fully human soluble co-stimulation modulator that selectively targets the
      CD80/CD86:CD28 co-stimulatory signal required for full T-cell activation, and T cell
      dependent activation of B-cells. We have recently shown in a phase II open label study that
      Abatacept treatment of pSS patients has promising efficacy results, as reflected by a
      significant decrease in disease activity indices such as the EULAR Sjögrens Syndrome Disease
      Activity Index and Patient Reported Index (ESSDAI and ESSPRI) (Meiners et al., 2014).
      Importantly, we also have shown that Abatacept is safe and side effects are very limited in
      pSS patients. For these reasons a larger and randomized clinical trial with Abatacept is
      warranted.

      Objective: Primary: to evaluate efficacy of weekly subcutaneous (SC) administration of
      Abatacept vs placebo on disease activity assessed with ESSDAI at in patients with pSS.
      Secondary: to assess efficacy of Abatacept on clinical, functional, laboratory, subjective,
      and histological parameters over 48 weeks in patients with pSS. To evaluate the safety of
      abatacept, by monitoring serious adverse events (SAE), adverse events (AE) related SAE and
      AE, treatment discontinuation related to SAE and AE, and lab abnormalities over 48 weeks in
      patients with pSS. Exploratory: to assess efficacy on laboratory parameters over 48 weeks in
      patients with pSS.

      Study design: The first stage is a 24-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase
      III study to assess the efficacy and safety of Abatacept (weekly SC administration of 125 mg
      Abatacept or placebo) in patients with pSS. The primary endpoint (ESSDAI) will be evaluated
      at 24 weeks. The second stage is composed of a 24-week open-label period in which both
      Abatacept and placebo treated patients will receive Abatacept for 24 weeks. The total study
      duration will be 48 weeks where after the study will be opened.

      Study population: 88 adult pSS patients

      Intervention: Weekly subcutaneous administration of 125 mg Abatacept up to 48 weeks.

      Main endpoints: The primary endpoint is the difference in ESSDAI score between the Abatacept
      and the placebo group at 24 weeks. Secondary endpoints are clinical, functional, laboratory,
      subjective, and histological parameters and the prevalence of adverse events, treatment
      discontinuation and laboratory abnormalities.
    
  