
    
      This study is a randomized trial to establish the effectiveness of same-day ART initiation
      for patients who present for HIV testing with early HIV clinical disease (World Health
      Organization [WHO] stage 1 or 2) who qualify for ART by immunologic criteria (CD4 cell count
      ≤500 cells/mm3) with rapid CD4 cell testing at the GHESKIO Center in Port-au-Prince, Haiti.
      All patients in the intervention group received rapid HIV antibody testing, CD4 cell testing,
      clinically relevant testing for opportunistic infections, WHO staging, comprehensive
      counseling and social support, and ART initiation on the day of presentation. The standard
      group received the same services as the same-day ART group (including CD4 cell testing)
      except that instead of same-day ART, they received the standard GHESKIO protocol of three
      sequential visits for ART readiness counseling and testing for opportunistic infections prior
      to ART initiation. For the same-day ART group, these activities took place on the day of ART
      initiation and during the subsequent two weeks. Three specific aims are proposed. The first
      aim is to compare the proportion of patients in the standard and same-day ART groups that are
      alive and in-care with an undetectable HIV viral load at 12 months after HIV testing. The
      second aim is to compare six-month ART adherence between the two groups using pharmacy refill
      records. The third aim is to compare the cost and cost-effectiveness of standard and same-day
      ART, where cost is measured by the mean treatment cost and effectiveness is measured by being
      alive and in care with an undetectable viral load at 12 months after HIV testing.

      In a sub-study funded by MAC AIDS Foundation (enrollment started June 2015), patients with
      WHO stage 1 or 2 disease and CD4 count >500 cells/mm3 were included. They are being
      randomized to receive ART vs. standard pre-ART care. Participants are being enrolled in the
      study on the same day they receive CD4 count results, which is within 7 days of the date of
      HIV testing. All patients will receive additional tests as clinically indicated. All
      participants will receive prophylactic treatment with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and
      isoniazid, and a daily multivitamin, as is standard of care at GHESKIO. Participants who are
      randomized to the standard pre-ART group will receive standard GHESKIO pre-ART care, which
      includes a monthly visit with a physician for 3 months, and then every other month physician
      visits. They will have a CD4 count annually, and start ART when they meet WHO criteria.
      Participants who are randomized to the same-day ART group will receive counseling and start
      ART on the day of study enrollment. They will have follow-up visits with the physician on
      Days 3, 10, 17, and 24, and with the social worker on Days 3, 10, and 17. They will have also
      have physician visits at weeks 8 and 12. Participants who are clinically stable,
      asymptomatic, and adherent at week 12 will then qualify for expedited care at future visits,
      which includes dispensing of ART directly by nurses in the clinic every four weeks, to reduce
      waiting time for patients. Participants who are symptomatic or non-adherent will be referred
      to a physician for evaluation.
    
  