
    
      Carotid artery stenosis is an important cause of stroke. Carotid artery stenting (CAS)
      provides non-inferior clinical outcome comparing to carotid endarterectomy (CEA). However,
      revascularization for carotid artery occlusion (CAO) remained controversial, owing to failed
      extracranial-to-intracranial (EC-IC) artery bypass trials, anatomical hindrance for CEA, and
      technical limitation for CAS. In the past 10 years, the investigators devoted in endovascular
      therapy for CAO and published innovative and pilot study results regarding feasibility of CAS
      for CAO, neurocognitive function (NCF) improvement after successful CAS for CAO, and
      predictors for CAS success in CAO, all in high-ranking journals. Moreover, successful CAS for
      CAO would lead to lower mortality and stroke rate during long-term follow-up, according to
      the preliminary analysis from the investigators. However, there is no prospective randomized
      control trial (RCT) regarding CAS in CAO patients, and in fact, most of the CAS trials
      excluded CAO.

      The investigators, with the largest volume and experience in CAO recanalization in the world,
      felt obliged and responsible to propose the following RCT to evaluate endovascular
      revascularization for chronic CAO.

      The study composed of two parts. The first part composed of prospective clinical registry for
      CAO. The second part compose of a prospective superiority trial, rater blinded, with 1:1
      randomization to evaluate the clinical efficacy of interventional therapy for CAO. Eligible
      candidates for CAO revealed by CT, ultrasonography, angiography, or magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI), with abnormal brain perfusion demonstrated by CT perfusion study (CTP) or MRI,
      will be enrolled in to study. If the participants agreed for randomization, participants will
      be randomized into 2 groups: the optimal medical therapy (OMT) group and the endovascular
      revascularization plus optimal medical therapy (ER+OMT) group. The primary end-point of the
      trial is the NCF improvement at 3 months and thereafter up to 12 months. The secondary
      endpoint includes: cumulative incidence of death and stroke within 30 days after the
      procedure; death or ipsilateral stroke between 31 days and 1 year; major stroke, ischemic
      stroke, or hemorrhagic stroke within 30 days after the procedure; major stroke, ischemic
      stroke, or hemorrhagic stroke between 31 days and 1 year; cognitive function measured by
      CANTAB; change of cerebral perfusion measured by CTP; target vessel revascularization rate;
      technique success rate; procedure success rate; and major procedure complication.
    
  