
    
      This study will help to inform best practices for providing psychosocial treatment within the
      context of office-based opioid treatment (OBOT) with buprenorphine. We will use a staged
      approach to develop and evaluate an adaptive approach to the provision of adjunctive
      psychosocial treatment that includes medication management by a buprenorphine provider and
      linkage to CRSs and CBT depending on the needs of the patient. The specific aims of the
      proposal are listed below.

      Aim 1: Work collaboratively with our multidisciplinary team to develop specific protocols for
      the CRS and CBT interventions and establish algorithms based on behavioral criteria to
      determine when each intervention should be implemented. As a part of this aim, we will also
      develop standard procedures for delivering each intervention and train interventionists
      [i.e., CRSs and Licensed Professional Counselors (LPCs)] to deliver them with fidelity.

      Aim 2: Conduct a two-group randomized study to evaluate the efficacy of the adaptive
      intervention relative to TAU. Outcomes to be examined will include urinalysis-confirmed
      opioid use, retention in buprenorphine- based OBOT, quality of life, and psychosocial
      functioning through one year post-study entry.

      Aim 3: Conduct a qualitative evaluation of the intervention and develop a strategic plan for
      its dissemination. We will conduct focus groups with clinic staff and relevant stakeholders
      to determine the utility and acceptability of the adaptive intervention. In addition, we will
      hold an expert roundtable to identify mechanisms for increasing sustainability and enhancing
      adoption by other office-based buprenorphine programs to inform the development of the
      strategic plan.

      Aim 4: Establish a training program in clinical research for minority students. Eight
      undergraduate students from a historically minority higher education institution will be
      selected to participate in 9-month internships during which they will receive comprehensive
      and pragmatic training in the full range of clinical research from study design to
      dissemination.
    
  