
    
      A multicentric study looked into 179 poor responders who underwent antagonist protocol in
      ICSI cycles

      Induction of ovulation cycle:

        1. Gonadotrophines is started on day 2with HMG(merional, IBSA) ,until the day of HCG
           administration(choriomon,IBSA10000IU)with starting dose 300IU to 450IU,with no
           pretreatment with OCPs or progestogens or estrogen.

        2. GNRH antagonist (cetrorelix 0,25mg s.c, cetrotide, serono laboratories, Aubonne
           Switzerland) is given using flexible protocol, it is given when at least one follicle
           reaches size 14 mm to prevent premature lutenization ,until the day of hCG
           administration

        3. Ovarian ultrasound scans were performed using a 5.0-9.0 MHZ multi frequency trans
           vaginal probe (mindrayDP-5) to assess the ovarian response till the mature follicles
           reach18-20mm when hCG administration 10000 IU is given to induce final oocytes
           maturation , serum E2 is done on day of HCG trigger.

        4. Trans vaginal ultrasound-guided oocyte retrieval is performed 34-36 hours after hCG
           injection.

        5. Ultrasound -guided fresh embryo transfer is performed on day 3 or 5 after fertilization.
           . Embryo transfer was performed under abdominal ultrasound guide for proper embryo
           placement to the mid-uterine cavity. 0ne to three grade 1 or 2 embryos were transferred
           on day 3 after oocyte retrieval. The quality of the embryos were graded as 1,2,3 (1
           being the best and 3 being the worst) based on the number of cells, degree of
           fragmentation and regularity. Embryo transfer was performed with a Wallace catheter
           (Smith Medical International Ltd, Hythe, Kent, UK). Progesterone support of luteal phase
           was commenced on the day of ovum pick up using prontogest 400 mg twice daily (IBSA,
           institut Biochemique,Switzerland).
    
  