
    
      Active Release Techniques® (ART®) is amongst the most widely utilized soft tissue techniques
      in the world. It is estimated that the 15,000 practitioners that have been certified in ART®,
      a list that includes medical doctors, chiropractors, physiotherapists, athletic therapists,
      and massage therapists, have collectively provided approximately 22 million treatments 41. In
      addition to a wealth of anecdotal information, there are numerous papers, albeit of differing
      scientific rigor, aimed at substantiating these claims. The principal investigator and
      co-investigator have authored a systematic review on all the available published research
      concerning ART® (currently seeking publication). The paucity of quality research in and of
      itself is the reason the authors have recently completed a systematic review on ART. The lack
      of quality studies begs the question for future research to determine its efficacy. Common
      issues in the existing research include: lack of sample size calculation
      14,20,28,34,48,50,54,55,59, lack of control group 6,14,20,28,50,53,54,55,59, lack of
      certified ART® providers 6,21,22,28,34,37,48,50,59,66 lack of identifiable manipulatable
      lesions14,20,21,28,48,50,59, poor inclusion/exclusion criteria 34,48,50, inappropriate
      outcome measures14,20,48,59, the use of asymptomatic study participants14,21,23,59,
      descriptive instead of inferential statistics 55,59, and using ART® for purposes other than
      which it was intended 20,21,22,48,50,59. This study being proposed will address all of these
      factors.

      Current evidence supports that the palpatory sensation of fascia softening or lengthening is
      not the result of actual elongation in the fascial sheet itself. This is because the
      requisite forces to lengthen these dense fasciae far exceed the capacity of what can be
      generated therapeutically according to Chaudry et al.7. As per Schleip, a more plausible
      mechanism is that via neurological feedback, muscles in series with the fascia being treated
      are relaxing, thereby producing the sensation of a myofascial release 56. These potential
      changes in tissue stiffness and elasticity have never been studied following a course of ART®
      treatments. Elastography has been used to measure changes in tissue stiffness following
      massage however, at present ART® has yet to be studied using this modality. The Principal
      Investigator is currently working on a joint proposal with Central Queensland University in
      Australia to produce the first study in this field.

      Sports chiropractors and athletes alike describe the benefit of Active Release Techniques®
      however, the current state of the literature is inconclusive, neither supporting nor refuting
      its effects. No studies to date have explored the relationship between the neuromuscular
      effects of ART® on the lower extremity in subacute myofascial pain with performance outcomes
      in 20-50 year-old adults. This study will contribute to the current literature on ART® and
      myofascial pain and performance in athletes, as well as the effect of ART® in symptomatic
      populations. This research adds to the body of research on one of the most widely used
      modalities in sports medicine and manual therapy. This study will further the work by Schleip
      by measuring lower limb neuromuscular function after ART® treatments. In addition, by using
      measures relating to motor control and pain, neuromuscular control becomes a construct of
      performance, where these findings can subsequently be applied to athletes and sports,
      particularly those involving running, jumping, and kicking. However, the results have
      implications for vocational endeavours as well and those experiencing lower limb discomfort.
      Riel et al found that the prevalence and incidence rates were 16.6 and 7.9 per 1000
      registered patients respectively in general practice, so lower limb myofascial injuries are
      prevalent in non-athletic populations as well 61.

      This pilot study will be, along with the author's publication of a systematic review of ART®,
      the cornerstone for proof of concept in obtaining funding for a large-scale clinical trial.
      The intent is to continue studying the efficacy of ART® across various conditions and
      athletic populations, while simultaneously beginning research on the mechanism by which ART®
      and all manual therapies affect their response.
    
  