
    
      Children with chronic illnesses are thriving well into adulthood due to ongoing medical
      advances. Many healthy and typically developing 18-year-olds should be able to manage a
      transition from pediatric to adult care, but this transition can be challenging for
      adolescents with chronic illness. A poor transition to adult care can result in medical,
      social and educational issues for patients, families and the medical team. At issue are
      questions of independence and self-management: are young adult patients prepared to travel to
      NIH alone? Are they prepared to speak with physicians about their disease process and
      medications? Are they ready to give informed consent for studies in which they have been
      participating?

      The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) at the National Institutes
      of Health (NIH) has several hundred adolescents enrolled in clinical trials, many of whom
      rely on NIH providers for specialized care. No formal program exists to assist these patients
      in the transition from pediatric to adult care. Pediatric inpatients are admitted to the
      adult inpatient unit when they turn 18 with little knowledge of the policy differences
      between the units.

      The investigators propose a retrospective exploratory descriptive study to (a) identify and
      describe experiences that young adults found to enable or hinder their transition and (b)
      explore these patients ideas for enhancing the transition process. A semi-structured
      questionnaire administered by phone or face to face to approximately 40 young adults with
      chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) will gather qualitative and quantitative information
      about the use of inpatient and outpatient services at the NIH Clinical Center prior to and
      since the subjects 18th birthdays. Data will be used to develop a program to help NIAID
      pediatric patients with CGD transition successfully to adult care.
    
  