
    
      The scope of this project is to identify if mixed reality (MR) can support simulating the
      complexities of differing community environments compared to traditional physical structure
      simulated environments. Concurrent with this, the aim is to establish if mixed reality can
      produce a safe learning and reflective environment for community staff to develop their
      skills. This could potentially improve patient outcome and support healthcare teams to
      deliver safe effective care. Simulation is a technique for practice and learning to replace
      and amplify real experiences with guided ones, and are often immersive in nature. Simulation
      is a safe, learning environment, that encourages participants to reflect on the situation.
      Mixed reality is the merging of real and virtual worlds to produce new environment and
      visualisation where physical and digital objects can co-exist and interact in real time.

      For sustainability of the health and social care sector, the long term aim is to facilitate
      people's healthcare needs in the community. Such increased community services will require
      staff with holistic skills to work as independent practitioners. Simulation in the acute
      setting is currently provided by the simulation team in the Trust's dedicated simulation
      suite, and through in-situ simulations within individual departments. The scenarios for these
      simulations can be created due to the repetitive and clinical nature of the environments
      required. Since becoming an integrated care organisation, the need to provide simulation
      based learning to all staff, including those who are out in community settings has arisen. In
      order to create a realistic learning environment for community based staff, there is a need
      to recreate an individual's home, accounting for all of the different environments the
      investigator's patients live in, such as a small residence with tight spaces, differing
      levels of cleanliness and the addition of pets, which is very difficult using traditional
      simulation methods. The need to develop an innovative way of delivering community based
      simulation is therefore important, to allow all staff access to valuable simulation based
      learning while providing a safe and supportive environment to practice both technical and
      non-technical skills.

      The investigator proposes to run two simulations per week resulting in undertaking a total of
      34 simulations. One of these will be using traditional methods of simulation, and the other
      will be using mixed reality. Using traditional methods, physical items will be used to
      recreate the community environment. It can be costly, time consuming and difficult to achieve
      the desired environment. Mixed reality provides the option of quickly immersing participants
      into different environments,allowing participants to experience all of the features. This
      makes it a very useful to method to compare to traditional methods of simulation, as the
      outcomes could be potentially be more realistic. The investigator will use questionnaires to
      get feedback from participants, both before, and after they have taken part in the
      simulation. This feedback will be used to determine if participants feel more confident and
      competent from traditional methods of simulation or mixed reality based simulation. It will
      also assess which environment they feel creates a more realistic environment to learn in.
      Qualitative data will be collected by those participants who choose to take part in a
      semi-structured interview. Alongside collecting data from participants the simulation
      technicians will also be asked via a face to face approach to attend a semi-structured
      interview regarding the feasibility and adaptable of both simulations. This is voluntary. As
      although participants feedback is important it is also essential that the technician feedback
      is included as they will be the ones that have to assist with running the simulations. The
      semi-structured interviews will be undertaken similar to participants semi-structured
      interviews, with written consent forms, recording of interview and confidentiality. However
      the questions will be different. They will be given a participant information sheet when they
      are approached. Evidence suggests that simulation based learning improves confidence;
      although there is limited research available that combines simulation based learning and
      mixed reality. As mixed reality could provide high fidelity simulations, it is an area which
      requires much needed research.
    
  