
    
      Patients will be randomized using a block randomization by a nurse, who is not otherwise
      involved in the study, into either 1) HAL training in addition to the conventional program or
      2) evidence based conventional gait training only. The block randomization will be designed
      so that an even number of patients with left and right sided hemiparesis will have been
      included in each group at the end of the study.

      Conventional training (including gait practice) will be performed according to current best
      practice (approximately 30-60 min per day, 5 days per week) and may include stepping, weight
      shifting, over ground walking as well as the use of a treadmill with/without body weight
      support (BWS).

      HAL training will be performed 4 days a week for 4 weeks (i.e. 16 sessions) with the
      single-leg version of HAL, primarily by use of the voluntary HAL-mode (CVC mode), on a
      treadmill with BWS. The therapist(s) educated in the HAL method will optimize the HAL
      settings for each individual during each session, in order to obtain a symmetrical gait
      pattern as close to normal gait as possible.

      Outcomes The primary outcome will be changes in the FAC-score during the intervention. FAC
      assesses activity in terms of independence in walking on a six-grade-ordinal-scale ranging
      from non-functional walking to independent walking outside. During the intervention
      assessments with the FAC will be performed weekly by the patients' physiotherapist
      responsible for conventional rehabilitation. This therapist will otherwise not be involved in
      the study.

      Secondary outcomes include aspects of body functions assessed by use of the NIH Stroke Scale,
      Albert's test, Fugl-Meyer Assessment(FMA-LE) and the Modified Ashworth Scale for the lower
      extremities.

      Activities and Participation will be assessed by use of Functional Ambulation Categories, 2
      minutes walk test in self-preferred speed, Berg Balance Scale, Barthel Index and EQ5D.

      Patients' perception of training will be assessed by a study specific questionnaire.

      Adverse events (such as irritated skin, pain, falls) will be documented continuously in the
      study protocol according to a specific study form.

      Assessments will be performed 1) before and 2) after the intervention with 3) a follow up at
      6 months.
    
  