
    
      The purpose of this study is to assess the risk of serious cardiac events associated with the
      use of domperidone in a cohort of patients with Parkinson's disease. More specifically, the
      study objective is to assess the risk of ventricular tachyarrhythmia and sudden cardiac death
      associated with the use of domperidone compared to no use in patients with Parkinson's
      disease. In addition, the investigators would also like to determine whether the risk of
      ventricular arrhythmia and sudden cardiac death increases with the dose of domperidone in
      patients with Parkinson's disease.

      The investigators will use a common-protocol approach to conduct retrospective cohort studies
      using health care data from eight jurisdictions (the Canadian provinces of Alberta, British
      Columbia, Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Ontario, Quebec, and Saskatchewan, as well as the United
      Kingdom (UK) Clinical Practice Research Datalink [CPRD]). The Canadian databases contain
      population-level data on physician billing, diagnoses and procedures from hospital discharge
      abstracts, vital statistics, and dispensations for prescription drugs. The CPRD is a clinical
      database that is representative of the UK population and contains the records for patients
      seen at over 680 general practitioner practices in the UK; these data will be linked to the
      Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) database, which contains in-hospital diagnosis and
      procedure data.

      Study Population

      In each jurisdiction, the investigators will assemble a study cohort that includes all
      patients with a new diagnosis of Parkinson's disease or a first-ever prescription of an
      antiparkinsonian drug between January 1, 1990 (or 1 year after site-specific data is
      available, whichever is later) and June 30, 2012. Patients will be followed from the date of
      study cohort entry until the occurrence of either study endpoint (defined below) or censoring
      due to death, departure from the database, loss of continuous health plan or drug plan
      enrolment, entry into a long-term care facility, or the end of the study period (or the last
      date of data availability at that site), whichever occurs first. Data from Alberta, Ontario,
      and Nova Scotia will be restricted to patients aged 66 years and older as prescription data
      are not available for younger patients.

      Case-control selection

      The cohort defined above will be analyzed using a nested case-control approach, where cases
      are defined as a first diagnosis of ventricular tachyarrhythmia (VT) or sudden cardiac death
      (SCD) any time after cohort entry. For each case, up to 30 controls will be randomly selected
      among the cohort members in the risk sets defined by the case, after matching on age, sex,
      date of cohort entry (±1 year), and duration of follow-up. Matching on duration of follow-up
      (i.e., our best estimate of duration of the disease) will serve as a proxy to control for the
      potential for confounding by progression and severity of Parkinson's disease.

      Exposure Assessment

      The clinically relevant exposure period considered for data analysis will be the year
      preceding the index date, and exposure to domperidone will be classified according to
      prescriptions dispensed during this time period. For all cases and their matched controls,
      the investigators will identify all prescriptions for domperidone from the computerized
      medical records during the year prior to the index date. Current exposure to domperidone will
      be defined as a prescription dispensed within 30 days before the index date (35 days for
      Saskatchewan). Recent use, past use, and no use will also be explored as mutually exclusive
      exposure categories. Recent use will be defined as a prescription dispensed between 31 and 90
      days before the index date, and past use as a prescription dispensed between 91 and 365 days
      before the index date. No use will be defined as no prescription of domperidone in the year
      preceding the index date and will be the reference category.

      Statistical analyses

      Conditional logistic regression will be used to estimate the odds ratios and corresponding
      95% confidence intervals (CIs) of the association between domperidone use and the risk of
      VT/SCD. In secondary analyses, VT/SCD will be analyzed according to duration of domperidone
      use (<=30 days, >30 days), and to the daily dose of domperidone (<=30 mg per day, >30 mg per
      day). In addition, several sensitivity analyses will be conducted, all defined a priori, to
      assess the robustness of the results. Finally, all site-specific estimates will be
      meta-analyzed using fixed and random effects models. The amount of between-site heterogeneity
      will be estimated using the I square statistic.
    
  