
    
      Title: Electrical Impedance Myography: Natural History Studies in Neuromuscular Disorders and
      Healthy Volunteers

      Study Description: This is a natural history study examining the utility of electrical
      impedance myography (EIM) device in the evaluation of neuromuscular disorders. This is a
      novel device so the initial step was to establish reproducibility of the data and expected
      normative values using the EIM device on healthy volunteers. In neuromuscular disorders, the
      EIM device will nr used to understand the results in

      different types of neuromuscular disorders. A subset of subjects with neuromuscular disorders
      are studied serially as preliminary evaluation of its utility as a biomarker in clinical
      studies. The protocol includes both adult and pediatric subjects.

      Objectives:

      Primary objective: For subjects with neuromuscular disease, we aim to understand if EIM has
      utility in differentiating neuromuscular disorders in adult and pediatric subjects. Also, to
      perform preliminary serial studies to understand the EIM device potential use as biomarker in
      clinical studies. For healthy volunteers, the primary objective is reproducibility of results
      and the range of normative

      values in adult and pediatric subjects. Secondary objectives: The three parameters, phase,
      reactance, resistance will be followed serially as measures of change in pediatric
      population. As exploratory outcome measures, we will explore correlations between EIM and
      ultrasound and other electrodiagnostic methods.

      Endpoints:

      Primary endpoint:

      For healthy volunteers, intra and interrater reliability will be evaluated to determine the
      utility of EIM as a reproducible biomarker. Normative values will be developed using a range
      of ages, mixed gender, and race to be used as a basis of comparison with subjects with
      neuromuscular disorders. For subjects with neuromuscular disorders, patterns of phase,
      resistance and reactance in different types

      of neuromuscular disorders will be evaluated and examined for patterns specific to type of
      neuromuscular disorder.

      Secondary endpoint:

      The three parameters, phase, reactance, resistance will be followed serially as measures of
      change. This will be in evaluated in small groups of neuromuscular disorders that are
      referred to this protocol. A cohort of pediatric healthy volunteers will be followed for two
      years for comparative data with pediatric subjects with neuromuscular disorders.

      Exploratory endpoint:

      The EIM phase, muscle ultrasound and possibly MUNIX will be compared in healthy volunteers.

      Study Population: 275

      (150) Patients with neuromuscular disease, over age 2

      (125) Healthy Volunteers; 90 adults age 18 and above; 35 children age 7 to 17.

      Description of Sites/Facilities Enrolling Participants:All studies will be performed in the
      NIH Clinical Center. The majority of the studies will occur in the EMG Lab. The EMG Lab is an
      AANEM-accredited EMG lab to perform diagnostic electrodiagnostic studies with experience in
      both pediatric and adult populations. At the convenience for the subject, the EIM study can
      be performed in other parts of the NIH Clinical Center.

      Study Duration: It is estimated that the duration of the study will be 10 years. With closure
      in 2023.

      Participant Duration: For the healthy volunteers, we will be evaluating EIM along with
      possible ultrasound and electrodiagnostic methods. A single session will be 3 hours or less.
      Repeat studies may be performed to establish reproducibility after the initial studies are
      completed. For subjects with neuromuscular disease, the studies will be conducted in a single
      outpatient session of 3 hours or less,

      unless a follow-up study is requested by the primary team. For children, the session will be
      2 hours or less.
    
  