
    
      A significant challenge for understanding social dysfunctions observed in mental illness is
      to link high-level theories of social behavior and cognition with the computations performed
      by brain circuits. Specifically, how does the brain translate social perception into social
      valuation, and how does such valuation influence social actions? We propose to leverage
      recent developments in economic theory and cognitive neuroscience to bridge this divide using
      a computational, model-based approach. In this proposal, we hypothesize that social behavior
      is underpinned by brain mechanisms that are influenced by the neurotransmitter dopamine, and
      that these mechanisms can be captured by computational models that integrate internal
      representations of social experience, and parameters relevant to dopamine tone, to inform
      social actions. Social valuation thus critically, and quantitatively, depends upon both
      internal social representations and the neurochemistry of the actor within the social
      environment. To assess this hypothesis, we pursue two approaches to evaluate dopamine tone:
      one in which we use an FDA-approved medication, tolcapone, to influence dopamine metabolism,
      and one in which we perform PET imaging to measure dopamine release and baseline dopamine
      receptor D2/D3 occupancy. We then apply a model of social valuation to subjects' behavior,
      and search for neural correlates of this valuation using functional MRI (fMRI). To this end,
      we bring together a group of experts in (1) the neuroeconomics and modeling of social and
      non-social decision-making, (2) cognitive neuroscience, (3) the pharmacology of
      frontostriatal circuits, and (4) neuroimaging. We thus seek to broaden our understanding of
      the computations and circuits underlying social behavior. Moreover, we believe that a
      model-based understanding of these behaviors and neural circuits may guide more robust
      predictions of the effects of pharmacological manipulations on social valuation, and provide
      quantitative tools to assess the effects of such manipulations in patient populations, with
      possible therapeutic implications.
    
  