
    
      The lesion of laryngeal nerves is one of the most severe complications, which could be
      observed during the thyroid and parathyroid surgery. The recent clinical review, relative the
      problem and based on 27 articles and 25000 patients involved, shows that the incidence of the
      temporary paralysis of the recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN) was 9,8%, and the permanent
      paralysis of the nerve was 2,3%. In the most cases the typical reasons of lesions of RLN are:
      section, clamping, electrothermic damage, stretching or entrapment of the nerve. The lesions
      of the RLN could lead to voice disturbance, breathing and swallow alterations. It is also one
      of the most frequent reasons for legal medicine disputes.

      The intraoperative nerve-monitoring (IONM) of the RLN and of the external branch of superior
      laryngeal nerve (EBSLN) has been suggested as an instrument to limit the risk of
      post-operative damaging. It was introduced in the 60's, and the method was accepted by
      surgical community with the great enthusiasm. This technique is based on employment of
      special electrode, which transmits electrical signal of low amperage and stimulates directly
      the RLN, evaluating the muscle response. The stimulation of the EBSLN is commonly identified
      by contractions of cricothyroid muscle. On the other hand, the stimulation of the RLN leads
      to the response of the relative vocal cord, which could be palpated or observed by means of
      electromyography (EMG).

      For implementation of the good IONM the collaboration between the surgeons and the
      anaesthesiologists is strongly required, e.g. the vocal cords are been monitored during the
      operation by means of laryngoscopy or a special endotracheal tube.

      The particular role for the anaesthesiologists during the operation is the way of using of
      muscle relaxants. In fact, long-action agents should be generally avoided to prevent the
      absence of adequate muscle response, during the IONM.
    
  