
    
      The study is a retrospective review of charts of children less than 12 months of age that
      were diagnosed with influenza and treated with oseltamivir. The chart review will focus on
      assessment of neurological and other adverse events that may have been related to the
      administration of oseltamivir. A control population will consist of children less than 12
      months treated with either rimantadine or amantadine. The administration of oseltamivir to
      children at high risk (i.e. immunocompromised hosts) less than 12 months old with influenza
      is frequently considered in medical practice despite the findings of neurotoxicity in a
      juvenile rat study. Since oseltamivir is the only active treatment against H5N1 influenza
      strains, it is imperative to understand the ramifications of its potential widespread use in
      very young infants in the event of an outbreak. This study is designed to gather documented
      evidence by which the circumstances of use and defined outcomes can be described. Patient
      selection will be made by review of hospital inpatient medical records, emergency room
      medical records and/or pharmacy records to identify patients less than 1 yr old dosed with
      oseltamivir suspension. Redacting the charts will be done in a manner that will obscure
      personal health information (individual identifiers) without obscuring the necessary clinical
      data. A separate research data collection form will be prepared on which critical information
      can be transcribed that would subsequently be available for analysis. Critical information to
      be captured at the time of initiating oseltamivir treatment includes: age, birth history,
      gender, underlying medical conditions, presenting influenza symptoms, if done, type of flu
      test and dose regime. Critical endpoints to be collected will include the frequency and
      severity of adverse events, particularly those relating to central nervous system
      complications.
    
  