
    
      The usual treatment for HCC is to perform a procedure to the tumor known as Transarterial
      Chemo-Embolization (TACE). TACE has been approved and used worldwide for over 10 years.

      Transarterial means that the treatment is delivered using a catheter inserted into the
      hepatic artery. Embolization is a treatment that blocks or slows down the blood supply to
      tissues. This procedure is performed to block the flow of blood to a tumor, so the cancer
      cells die because the oxygen supply is interrupted. When the material used to block the blood
      supply also delivers a chemotherapy drug to the tumor, it is called chemoembolization. The
      most commonly used material for chemoembolization are drug-eluting beads (DEBs) that are
      loaded with a chemotherapy drug (doxorubicin). These beads are not visible, during the
      procedure, on the imaging (scanner, ultrasonography or MRI) while injected into the tumor.
      The consequences of the blood flow interruption are visible on imaging (CT, MRI) in the weeks
      following treatment (tissue infarction/tumor necrosis).

      This study uses the LC Bead LUMI™ radiopaque beads (RO beads). The difference is that RO
      Beads are visible with X-Ray imaging (scanner, fluoroscopy). This is important because it
      means that the Interventional Radiologist is able to verify, during the procedure, where the
      beads have been delivered to the tumor. The Interventional Radiologist will identify the
      blood supply to the tumor, and then inject the LC Bead LUMI™ loaded with doxorubicin and a
      compatible contrast agent into the blood vessels that supply the liver tumor. These RO beads
      block the blood vessel, starve the tumor of nutrients and deliver a slow release of the
      doxorubicin.

      Many of the tests, investigations and procedures that will be requested as a part of the
      study may be the same as what is routinely done in the diagnosis and treatment of HCC. These
      tests will be used to determine if you are eligible to participate in this study and receive
      the LC Bead LUMI™ loaded with doxorubicin. Some of the study assessments are done to evaluate
      the safety and efficacy of the treatment procedure and others will be done for research
      purposes.

      During the study, the tests and evaluations will be scheduled with normally occurring
      appointments, when possible; to reduce the number of visits the patient needs to make to the
      study center. Study visits for tumor response evaluation occur at one month after the first
      treatment then every 3 months for 2 years then every 6 months.

      The information obtained during your visits will help your study doctor determine what
      choices you have for the next best course of action in treating your cancer. Options may
      include; repeat the study treatment, propose another alternative treatment or to continue the
      follow-up.
    
  