
    
      We will test the feasibility of dispatching an out of sight AED-drone system to real-life
      OHCA in parallel with standard EMS dispatch. The study period is 5 months between May to
      September 2020. The study area will be covered by three individual drone systems covering
      some 80,000 inhabitants within the controlled airspace of Säve airport in Göteborg Sweden.
      Each drone system will have a flight range of six km.

      The first month of the study period will be used as run-in period and the drone systems are
      dispatched for beyond visual line of sight (BVLOS) flights in a simulated fashion and
      optimized to decrease delays and to log pre-specified system variables, adherence to
      protocol, time delays, technological functionality, weather conditions, conflict in the
      airspace.

      During the following 4 months June-September 2020, drones will dispatched to real-life
      suspected OHCA during daytime 08:00-22:00.

      An EMS communication radio-unit is placed at the drone control center. In case of a suspected
      OHCA in the service area and will be alerted by the dispatch centre (SOS alarm) when a
      suspected OHCA is recognized during the 112-call.

        -  The dispatcher identifies a cardiac arrest in the service areas

        -  A pilot (from Everdrone) immediately initiates deployment protocol for the drone.

        -  Parallel communication is made with the air traffic control (ATC) centre in order to
           grant permit to deploy the drone with regards to the current weather and aviation
           situation.

        -  The drone then flies to the coordinates of the OHCA and delivers an AED at the scene
           using a winch system

        -  The AED may be attached to the patient by the bystander on scene

      Development of the technology is made by Everdrone AB Göteborg and SOS Alarm AB (national
      dispatch organisation) and parallel applications for certificates for the individual aircraft
      and permits for beyond visual line of sight flights (BVLOS-flights) was granted by the
      Swedish Transportation board on 27 April 2020.

      The drone system is operated only during daytime 08:00-22:00 when the Airport Air traffic
      control is open. Likewise deployment of the drone will not be made if there is a conflict in
      the airspace with manned aircrafts. Rainy weather or winds exceeding 8 m/s prohibits flights
      as well.

      Feasibility is evaluated and measured from the following aspects:

        1. Operational factors Weather: a) rain, b) wind c) other. Conflict in airspace: a) manned
           aircraft b) unmanned aircraft. Obstacles prohibiting flight or delivery: a) constructed
           b) natural Time from dispatch to to take- off (min:sec). Time from dispatch to arrival
           (min:sec). Proportions are measured out of cases with a) Take-off b) no take-off c)
           aborted missions (%)

        2. Human resources Adherence to protocol by: a) Dispatcher b) Drone pilot c) Air traffic
           leader. Proportions are measured out of cases with neglected protocol prohibiting
           mission completion, a) no alerts b) no take off c) aborted missions (%)

        3. Technological functionality Drone, winch, Network, AED, Hangar, navigational software,
           global positioning system precision, Dispatch centre system (CoordCOM -Dispatch centre
           automated alert).

      Proportions are measured out of cases where technological functionality prohibited mission
      completion a) no take-off b) aborted missions. (%)

      Adverse advents (AE) and serious adverse events (SAE) in relation to AED-drone mission /use
      will be logged continuously. An adverse event may be caused by drone crash or risc of injury
      or death due to conflict in airspace or technological impairment.

      An AE is considered serious if it:

        -  Results in death

        -  Is immediately life-threatening

        -  Requires hospitalisation or prolongation of existing hospitalization

        -  Results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity

      Events that are related to the patient in cardiac arrest and would be expected in patients
      undergoing attempted resuscitation should NOT be reported. These include:

        -  Death

        -  Hospitalisation

        -  Persistent or significant disability or incapacity

        -  Organ failure

      All events categorised as serious must be reported to the study administration within 24
      hours of becoming aware of the event.
    
  