
    
      Crohn's disease (CD) is a relapsing and remitting condition requiring lifelong monitoring.

      Stool sampling for disease monitoring in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is non-invasive,
      cost-effective and acceptable to patients. Faecal calprotectin (FC) and quantitative Faecal
      Immunochemical Testing (qFIT) are both stool-based tests.

      FC is a surrogate marker of neutrophil influx into the gut lumen. It accurately predicts
      mucosal healing (MH) at colonoscopy, and thus FC is already widely used in clinical practice
      in disease monitoring in CD patients.

      qFIT, testing stool for haemoglobin, has been used in the Scottish Bowel Cancer Screening
      Programme since November 2017. A 'negative' qFIT is also a useful 'rule-out' test for
      significant colorectal pathology (including colorectal cancer, high-risk adenomas and IBD) in
      primary care. qFIT has been shown to predict MH in both CD and ulcerative colitis (UC), and
      has been used to predict relapse in patients with UC but not CD. There is no UK study to date
      comparing the ability of qFIT and FC to predict flare in CD.

      qFIT is a cheaper, more stable test with a quicker turn-around time than FC. It is also less
      labour intensive for the lab.

      CRP is a cheap and easily available biomarker but is insensitive, non-specific and inferior
      to FC at predicting relapse in CD. CRP can also be elevated by infective complications or
      other concomitant inflammatory disease which makes its interpretation difficult. New data
      from our group has suggested that low serum zinc has higher predictive accuracy at
      determining risk of future flare than both FC and CRP; we are unsure if this is due to higher
      faecal losses in 'grumbling' CD patients.

      This observational, prospective cohort study will recruit patients with luminal (affecting
      small and/or large bowel) CD in clinical remission (i.e. asymptomatic). A stool sample will
      be used to check a qFIT and faecal zinc in addition to the routinely monitored FC. At the
      time of routine blood collection, an additional sample will be taken to check plasma zinc.
      CRP is already checked routinely.

      Patients will be followed up for one year, or until flare/relapse - this information will be
      accessed remotely through electronic patient records.

      The ability of qFIT, serum zinc and faecal zinc to predict relapse in CD will be compared to
      FC using area under the ROC curve (AUC).

      Primary study aim:

      To compare the ability of qFIT and FC at predicting relapse/flare in patients with quiescent
      (inactive) luminal (affecting the small and large bowel) CD.

      Relapse (or flare) is defined as the need for new or additional treatment for CD,
      hospitalisation for CD, or CD related surgery.

      Primary hypothesis:

      qFIT is not inferior to FC at predicting flare in quiescent (inactive) luminal (affecting the
      small and large bowel) CD.

      Secondary study aim:

      Compare the ability of serum/faecal zinc and CRP at predicting relapse in patients with
      quiescent (inactive) luminal (affecting the small and/or large bowel) CD.

      Secondary hypothesis:

      Serum/faecal zinc is superior to CRP at predicting relapse/flare in patients with quiescent
      (inactive) luminal (affecting the small and large bowel) CD.
    
  