
    
      Background:

      Stroke and transient ischemic attack (TIA) patients are often burdened by fatigue and reduced
      attention span subacutely. The frequency of post-stroke fatigue is estimated to occur in
      29-77% of all patients, with the highest burden often reported at 3 months post-stroke. The
      micro-sized structures that form the brain connection, i.e. White Matter (WM), the low blood
      flow, and the little collateral blood supply make the WM highly susceptible to ischemic
      injuries. In the case of stroke or TIA in WM, the surrounding microstructures of the are
      affected start losing vital nutrients, i.e. oxygen and glucose, which initiate a cascade of
      cellular dysfunction due to excitotoxicity. As a result, several microstructures deteriorate
      and degenerate, leading to neuronal damage and reduction of signal conduction. Diagnosis of
      stroke and TIA relies on clinical findings and imaging, where MRI has become the chosen
      imaging modality due to the sensitivity to detect brain lesions. However, at the later
      sub-acute phases of stroke and TIA, the standard clinical MRI sequences lack specificity to
      map microstructural degeneration/regeneration of the brain connections that project through
      or nearby the ischemic area. In recent years, new technologies for structural quantitative
      MRI have emerged that are sensitive to different microstructural features and their
      anisotropy organization i.e. demyelination and axonal sizes and densities. Using these new
      MRI methods has the potential to disentangle some of the pathological processes underlying
      minor stroke phases in a more quantitative way. Previously, a similar MRI study of future
      directions of clinical MRI technologies was applied to the Multiple Sclerosis disease (MS).
      The MS disease follows some of the systemic pathological degeneration effects as in minor
      stroke i.e. axonal degeneration and de-/remyelination. The preliminary results of that study
      strongly suggest e.g. that the newly introduced MRI modality improves diagnostic value by
      better correlation with clinical assessment. Furthermore, the combination of MRI modalities
      provides new insight into pathology only seen in histology.

      Objectives:

        1. To investigate whether new MRI methods can detect the impact of microstructure ischemic
           changes along brain connections e.g. neuronal degeneration.

        2. To test the hypothesis that a combination of unique structural MRI measures will
           synergistically provide patterns of altered brain structure that give rise to excessive
           fatigue in patients with minor stroke or TIA.

        3. To evaluate the capability of the new quantitative MRI methods to objectively assess the
           presence and severity of fatigue by pinpointing the relevant structural brain
           alterations that contribute to fatigue.

      Hypothesis:

      The central hypothesis of the study is that a combination of unique MRI measures will
      synergistically provide a stronger tool to describe the fatigue and cognitive deficits after
      stroke and TIA in order to predict the functional deficits in minor stroke and TIA. The
      assumption is that both Wallerian degeneration and demyelination are expected to affect the
      anisotropy of microstructural measures along the brain network, as they are inferred from
      diffusion processes on a micrometer length scale.

      Methods:

        -  Participants: 90 participants are expected to be enrolled in this study. The
           participants are divided by the case-control method to form in total a 3 class group: 30
           minor stroke patients, 30 TIA patients, and 30 healthy age- and sex-matched subjects for
           the control group.

        -  MRI sequences: Structural MRI (FLAIR, T1-W, T2*, and Magnetization Transfer),
           Quantitative MRI (Multiparametric mapping), and Diffusion-weighted imaging ( Diffusion
           Tensor Imaging, Tractography, Neurite Orientation Dispersion and Density Imaging (NODDI)
           model, and Microscopic Fractional Anisotropy).

        -  Neuropsychological measures: Fatigue score, estimated by Multidimensional Fatigue
           Inventory; Depression score, estimated by Major Depression Inventory; Fatigue Scale for
           Motor and Cognitive Functions; Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of
           Neuropsychological status; Wechsler Memory Scale-III; Verbal fluency tasks measuring
           semantic fluency; and Trail making test A and B.

      Experimental Design:

        -  Part 1. Clinical and Cognitive assessment The clinical and cognitive assessments will be
           carried out at the Department of Neurology at Bispebjerg Hospital. The evaluation of
           cognitive assessment will be done through a series of tasks and questionnaires, which
           determine if the patient is eligible for the study.

        -  Part 2. MRI session The second part will take place within 3 weeks after the clinical
           assessment of the patients and consist of only 1 scan session. Healthy controls subjects
           will be included only for this second part with the aim to generate a reference frame of
           the imaging results on how the normal brain appears. The scan session has a maximum
           duration of 90 minutes.

      Ethical Considerations:

      All patients are handled according to best clinical practice and in accordance with Danish
      and European guidelines. There is no known risk related to MRI in persons with no magnetic
      metal in the body (e.g. a pacemaker); this is excluded by using a specific questionnaire to
      screen subjects prior to MRI. The confined space and the noise of the MRI-scanner may cause
      anxiety in some; therefore, all subjects will be provided with earplugs, and they must not
      suffer from claustrophobia. The investigators are not responsible for failure to find
      existing pathology in the MRI scans. However, on occasion the investigator may notice an
      incidental finding on an MRI scan that seems abnormal, a radiologist will be consulted as to
      whether the finding merits further investigation, in which case the investigator will contact
      the participant and/or the primary care physician of the participant to inform the finding.
      The decision as to whether to proceed with further examination or treatment lies solely with
      the participant and, if applicable, with the physician of the participant.

      Economy:

      The project has received funding from the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and
      innovation program under the Marie Skłodowska-Curie grant agreement No. 765148, European
      Innovative Training Network (ITN) program entitled TRABIT - "Translational Brain Imaging
      Training Network".

      Importance or relevant to the study:

      If the hypotheses of the study are confirmed, MRI-based fatigue imaging will provide an
      important addition to the clinical assessment based on clinical scores of the subjective
      perception of fatigue. Such MRI-based methods would pave the way for quantitative measurement
      of disabling fatigue and thus foster the development and assessment of individualized
      therapies.
    
  