
    
      This study will be conducted in 2 sites in Taiwan. Upon confirmation of meeting all
      eligibility criteria, will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to 2000 mg or 3000 mg JBM-TC4 oral
      treatment group or to placebo control group.

      The treatment will start one week prior to radiotherapy and continue through the radiotherapy
      period for additional 11 weeks of JBM-TC4. The patients will take 3 treatment capsules twice
      a day, after breakfast and dinner. Screening visit will occur up to 14 days prior to
      randomization (Day 0), and informed consent form will be signed and patient eligibility
      criteria will be verified.Medical history information, chemistry/hematology evaluation, serum
      pregnancy will be conducted and documented. On Day 0, baseline assessment will be done and
      study drug will be dispensed. The patients will be instructed to start their study medication
      after breakfast on Day 1 and record the administration time in the study diary.
      Post-operative radiotherapy will begin for all patients after taking the treatment for 7
      days. On Days 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, 43, 50, 57, 64, 71, 78, 85 and 92, data including radiation
      dermatitis severity, redness and pain scale will be collected when patients return to the
      clinic for evaluation. On Days 29, 57, 85 and 92, quality of life questionnaire will be
      completed by patients and blood will be drawn for chemistry/hematology evaluation. The final
      study visit will occur one week after the last dose of study medication, which will be around
      Day 92. ECG will be evaluated on Day 8 and 92. A total of 120 women with breast cancer will
      be recruited into this study. Safety will be assessed through recording of adverse events,
      assessment of vital signs, and chemistry/hematology laboratory testing. During each clinic
      visit, investigator will take down the vital signs of the patients and ask if the patients
      has experienced any adverse events. All information will be recorded on the case report form.

      The primary efficacy endpoint in this study is to assess the effectiveness of JBM-TC4 for the
      prevention and treatment of acute radiation-induced dermatitis. The effectiveness will be
      determined by the recording of the radiation dermatitis severity scale for patients during
      each weekly study visit. Secondary efficacy endpoint include 1) Presence of moist
      desquamation and 2) redness at the radiation treated site at any visit. 3)The worst pain
      related to dermatitis between baseline and follow-up visit at the radiotherapy site. 4)
      Quality of life and 5) safety evaluation assessment. At the final visit, each investigator
      will be ask to rate their patients' responses to treatment.
    
  