
    
      Electric pulses may be used to transiently permeabilise cell membranes, enabling passage of
      otherwise non-permeating molecules. This dramatically enhances the cytotoxic effect of
      certain chemotherapeutic agents, and is termed electrochemotherapy. Electrochemotherapy is
      now standardly used in the treatment of cutaneous metastases of various cancers in over 100
      cancer centers around Europe.

      The intention of this trial is to investigate the possible use of electrochemotherapy in
      recurrent head and neck cancer as a palliative treatment. Surgery and radiotherapy, with the
      possible addition of chemotherapy, cures a large part of patients with head and neck cancer.
      However, in the event of recurrence curative options may be exhausted and the patient is
      referred for palliative chemotherapy.

      It is for this patient group, the investigators propose electrochemotherapy in a clinical
      trial.

      The electrochemotherapy is administered as a once-only treatment, with possible retreatment
      after eight weeks. Under general anesthesia, chemotherapy is administered intravenously,
      followed by application of electric pulses to the tumour area. Before treatment, the location
      and spread of the tumour is determined by imaging.

      The trial includes evaluation of response by MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) and PET/CT
      (Positron Emission Tomography - Computed Tomography) scans (base-line, 4 weeks, 8 weeks),
      tissue samples, as well as adverse events registration and questionnaires on quality of life.
      The planned study is a phase II clinical study, prospective, observational with up to 25
      patients.

      Treatments will be performed in collaboration between the Department of Oncology, Copenhagen
      University Hospital Herlev, which has extensive experience in electrochemotherapy, and the
      Department of Ear Nose and Throat Surgery at Copenhagen University Hospital Rigshospitalet,
      that has the surgical expertise and set-up needed.
    
  