
    
      Over the last few decades, MDCT(multidetector computed tomography), cardiac imaging, CT
      perfusion techniques, high-pitch CT, and dual-energy CT have been introduced to clinical
      practice, increasing the overall amount of radiation applied. There are two types of
      approaches in accordance with the "as low as reasonably achievable (ALARA)" principle in
      MDCT. One of them is related to new technology products and different imaging techniques such
      as dose modulation along the x-, y-, and z-axes (anatomical tube current modulation,
      ECG-controlled tube current modulation or dynamically adjustable pre-patient collimation of
      the X-ray beam in the z-axis direction, iterative reconstruction technique. The other
      strategy is individualized screening-dose protocols based on body size. However the
      radiologist is facing the challenge of providing diagnostic image quality at the lowest
      radiation dose.

      Body mass index (BMI) is not only the most widely used anthropometric tool for defining
      overweight and obesity, but it is also the most commonly reported body index for adjusting
      low dose in MDCT.Despite this popularity of BMI, it is becoming increasingly more clear that
      BMI is not a good surrogate for regional adiposity. Regional fat deposition, especially in
      the upper body region, is a better predictor of some obesity related complications than BMI.
      Accordingly, it has been reported that several anthropometric parameters of the chest might
      serve as a surrogate instead of BMI for individualized dose settings Neck circumference(NC)
      is a kind of somatometric parameter like wrist or hip circumference that reflects the upper
      body size. NC may be an important landmark in the determination of the low dose protocols for
      upper body CT examinations such as neck, chest and coronary CT. Although investigators have
      not encountered studies in the literature, this point will be evaluated in our study.The
      purpose of this study is to evaluate if NC is an appropriate and a novel parameter for
      adjusting and reduction of the effective chest CT radiation doses in comparison with BMI or
      not.
    
  