
    
      Background

      Perioperative Acute Hypersensitivity (PAH) is a systemic reaction that occurs rapidly
      following injection of a drug during anesthesia. Symptoms may include erythema, angioedema,
      bronchoconstriction, vasodilation, and increased capillary permeability leading to severe
      hypotension or even cardiac arrest. The rate of occurrence is estimated between 1/6,000 and
      1/20,000 anesthesia according to literature. Despite adequate management, mortality is
      estimated between 3 and 9%. The main substances responsible for these reactions are the
      neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) and beta-lactams, more rarely the gelatin-based filling
      solutions, contrast agents, antiseptics or other hypnotic or analgesic drugs. The main
      mechanism is an immune response of immediate systemic hypersensitivity or anaphylaxis.
      Anaphylactic reactions are classically described as IgE-dependent and triggered by the
      injection of allergen which by bridging specific IgE present on the surface of mast cells,
      induces a massive release of histamine responsible for the observed symptoms. The diagnosis
      of this mechanism (IgE endotype) requires the determination of associated circulating
      mediators (histamine and mast cell tryptase) as well as skin tests performed in an
      allergology consultation. However, our previous work on patients with NMBA-triggered PAH
      (NASA study, ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01637220) demonstrated that classical markers of IgE
      endotype are present in only 42% of patients. This finding has three consequences:

        -  a diagnostic inaccuracy with deleterious consequences for the patient,

        -  the existence of undocumented endotypes explaining the observed clinical manifestations,

        -  a lack of formal identification of the culprit drug, with uncertainty about the eviction
           recommendations leading to consequences for the safety of the patient.

      Hypothesis and aims The investigators hypothesize that symptoms associated with PAH are
      caused by several distinct endotypes involving different cellular effectors and molecular
      mediators. These endotypes may be related to the immune system but independent of IgE, or
      independent of the immune system.

      The main objective of this study is to characterize the different endotypes of PAH reactions
      by an exploratory clustering approach based on analysis of i) activation state of blood cells
      and ii) concentration of secreted mediators, all measured during PAH onset.

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  to assess links between the different endotypes identified and the clinical and
           biological parameters of the PAH reaction, in particular the severity and the
           responsible drug

        -  Constitute a biobank (serum, plasma, DNA) to be able to continue the exploration of the
           different endotypes

      Study design The investigators will include all patients >18 years old presenting, during a
      general anesthesia, symptoms compatible with a PAH severe enough to for the anesthetist to
      request biological exploration using the "anaphylaxis kit" (tryptase, histamine and specific
      IgE measurement). The anaphylaxis kit will be modified to contain additional tubes allowing
      to measure blood cell counts, blood cell activation (flow cytometry), proteic and lipidic
      mediators. Clinical data about the reaction will be collected by the local investigator via
      an electronic form.

      Upon recovery, patients will sign informed consent and will be planned for allergological
      evaluation 6-8 weeks after (standard care). During allergological evaluation, skin test
      against all drugs received will be performed and blood will be drawn to measure tryptase and
      specific IgE as per standard care. Additional tubes will allow to measure the same parameters
      as at inclusion, and additionally to recover DNA and peripheral mononucleated blood cells.

      Outcomes and analyses The main goal is to define sets of biological parameters corresponding
      to distinct endotypes. The data will be submitted to principal component analysis (PCA) to
      determine groups of patients with distinct profiles, and which parameters are the more
      relevant for each profile. Unsupervised hierarchical clustering will also be used to define
      groups of patients with distinct clinical and biological profiles.

      To assess the link between severity and clinical/biological data, logistic regression models
      will be used as well as severity-adjusted PCA.
    
  