
    
      The development of drug resistance in malaria parasites lead the Uganda Ministry of Health
      (MoH) to change the first-line anti-malarial treatment from the cheap
      Chloroquine/Sulfadoxine-Pyrimethamine combination to a more expensive
      Artemether-Lumefantrine. The MoH recommends treatment of all fever cases as malaria within 24
      hours of illness with first-line drug. Under this policy, patients who do not have malaria
      but present with febrile illness will receive Coartem® resulting in significant drug wastage.
      With the increased cost of first-line drugs, this wastage places a substantial and
      potentially remediable burden on the health budget. As such, there is a need to gauge whether
      more accurate malaria diagnosis through microscopy and/or rapid diagnostic tests, might
      improve the cost-effectiveness of the new treatment regimes.

      Specific objectives

        1. To assess the feasibility of rapid test and microscopy in diagnosis of malaria at health
           centre III.

        2. To compare the cost-effectiveness of treating malaria with Artemether- Lumefantrine
           based on microscopy, rapid test and presumptive diagnosis in different transmission
           intensities

        3. To assess whether introduction of malaria parasite-based diagnosis (rapid test or
           microscopy) at government Health Centre III improves the overall cost-effectiveness of
           outpatient management of febrile illness

      Sample size determination The sample size was determined using standard formula. Estimating
      the sensitivity of either test to be 90%, Zα =1.96 and after stratifying for age (<5 years
      and ≥5 years), the calculated sample is 272 per health centre. Therefore, the total number of
      patients for 6 health centres in two districts = 6 x 272 = 1632.

      Baseline: Baseline data was collected on the current malaria treatment practices; clinicians'
      view of malaria diagnosis; concerns towards the new treatment; and health centre staffing.
      Geographical locations of all visited government health centres was recorded using Germin
      etrex global positioning system (Germin International Inc., Olathe, USA). At six selected
      health centres, social and demographic data was collected from 613 patients.

      Implementation of intervention: The main intervention is comprised of three malaria
      diagnostic approaches: presumptive diagnosis, field microscopy and rapid test (Paracheck Pf®
      device - Orchid Biomedical Systems, Goa, India). Each of these approaches was randomly
      allocated to a health centre. The first-line drug used is Artemether/Lumefantrine
      (20mg/120mg) (Novartis, Switzerland).

      Consenting subjects are consecutively enrolled at the point when the attending clinician
      suspects that they have uncomplicated malaria. Where microscopy is the main diagnostic
      method, thick and thin blood smears are prepared per patient enrolled. Where rapid test is
      the main method, all patients are tested. One hundred patients per health centre are randomly
      selected to provide blood specimens for validation using expert microscopy and PCR as "gold
      standard." After enrolment, patients are systematically tracked until departure from the
      health centre. Patients are followed up on the seventh day of treatment to assess their
      clinical improvement. Those who fail to return on the scheduled date are traced from their
      homes on the eighth day.

      Follow-up activities include: documentation of drugs prescribed and or dispensed; clinically
      assess the patient's status in comparison to Day 0; perform further tests including PCR if
      the patient does not show improvement; pill counting of drugs remaining - if the patient has
      not completed the dose; documentation of reasons for not completing dose; and documentation
      if the patient bought the prescribed drugs that were out of stock on Day 0.

      Effectiveness is measured as the number of patients commencing treatment with
      Artemether/Lumefantrine. However, patients are followed up and effectiveness also measured on
      the 7th day of treatment indicated by their clinical improvement. The feasibility of the
      diagnostic methods is ongoing from the March 2010 to date.
    
  