
    
      Study Rationale: Hyperglycemia is common during acute ischemic stroke. It has been shown that
      persistent in-hospital hyperglycemia during the first 24 hours (h) after stroke is associated
      with worse outcomes than normoglycemia. However, the optimal strategy to control
      hyperglycemia during acute ischemic stroke has not been established.

      Aims: The object of this multicenter randomized controlled study is to determine the efficacy
      and safety of early initiation of subcutaneous once-daily insulin glargine, in comparison
      with regular insulin, based on a protocolized sliding scale regimen to achieve proper sugar
      control in acute stroke patients with hyperglycemia admitted to the intensive care unit
      (ICU).

      Design: This is a 3-year, randomized, multicenter trial. Approximate 120 hyperglycemic acute
      stroke patients will receive either (a) subcutaneous long acting basal insulin (insulin
      glargine) with added short acting regular insulin to correct hyperglycemic events or (b)
      short acting regular insulin pre-meal with added NPH at bed time if start eating, for 72 h,
      starting within 24 h of stroke symptom onset. The inclusion criteria are patients who
      admitted to stroke ICU within 24 hours of acute stroke onset and have repeated random blood
      glucose >200 mg/dL with a 2 hours interval. The exclusion criteria include patients with age
      <20 years, pregnancy, shock, severe infection, end stage renal disease requiring dialysis,
      type I DM or current steroid usage. Capillary blood glucose will be measured every 4-hours to
      adjust the next insulin dose. Glucometric parameters will also be analyzed by continuous
      blood glucose monitoring system. 10 ml blood and same amount of urine from 24 hours urine
      collection will be collected every day for further measurement of a variety of blood
      inflammatory markers and urine catecholamine levels.

      Study outcomes: The primary endpoint is the percentage of time in the range of 80-180 mg/dL
      during the sugar monitoring period. The secondary endpoints include: (1) good functional
      outcome at 3 months post stroke (modified Rankin Scale <2), (2) stroke in evolution, (3) 24
      hours blood glucose variability via continuous glucose monitoring, and (4) blood and urine
      biomarkers.

      In summary, this trial will provide important novel information about preferred management of
      acute ischemic stroke patients with hyperglycemia. It will determine the potential benefits
      and risks of application of long acting basal insulin during very early stage of acute
      stroke.
    
  