
    
      Background The mainstay of treatment in viral upper and lower respiratory tract disease is
      airway clearance. Viral respiratory tract infections account for a substantial amount of
      emergency department (ED) visits, financial and stress burden on caregivers. In addition,
      they also account for a large number of ED return visits. While airway clearance is
      considered a mainstay of treatment the pragmatic effectiveness of various devices remain
      unstudied in patients who are discharged from the ED.

      Hypothesis:

      There is no difference between the NoseFrida and the bulb suction at relieving objective
      signs of nasal obstruction or return ED visits.

      Study Objective:

        1. To compare the use of the NoseFrida device with a retrospective control (bulb suction)
           to determine if there is a decrease in the number of ED return visits.

        2. To provide evidence based recommendations on the pragmatic effectiveness of two commonly
           used suction devices.

        3. To provide a descriptive analysis on 72 hour return to ED rates and readmission rates.

      Methods:

      The study design is a prospective and retrospective observational study. We anticipate about
      500 patients to be enrolled in this study. Patients who present to Vanderbilt Childrens
      Emergency Department will be identified by key study personnel (KSP) based on inclusion and
      exclusion criteria. Families will then be approached for consent to participate. Caregiver
      will fill out a data collection form then be instructed on how to use the NoseFrida. Next,
      family with trial it on their child while in the ED. Caregivers will then fill out a 7 point
      Likert survey on both the bulb suction and NoseFrida device. The family will go home with
      this device and a set of replacement filters and instructed to suction their child as needed.
      The primary investigator (PI) will then complete a 72 hour chart review to determine the
      number of return to ED visits and readmission rates. The family will keep the suction device
      at the completion of the study. To compare ED returns with retrospective data, KSP will
      conduct a review of the business objects database using ICD9 codes specific for viral
      respiratory tract infections over the past 3 years to determine a control return ED visit
      rate. Data will be compared using a paired T-test. If data is not normally distributed we
      will use a Wilcoxon signed-rank test. We will also use a multivariable logistic model to
      examine associations adjusted for age and illness severity. Fridababy will provide supplies
      needed for the study, however the company will not have access to the raw data or PHI. Once
      the results are published in a scientific journal, then Fridababy will have access to the
      results.
    
  