
    
      -  Rationale

             1. In the care of inguinal hernias exists a considerable diversity of methods. Germany
                is expected to experience a significant shift of service delivery from inpatient to
                outpatient care within the next few years. As a result of this, the need for
                quality-controlled procedures in the ambulatory use has emerged.

             2. A first register phase for open inguinal hernia was designed in 2010 and is now
                almost finished. After the evaluation of approximately 6,000 patient records, the
                process is considered to be extremely successful.

             3. As a central result of this first register phase can already be stated that the
                integration of 3D meshes in a standardized process proved to be extremely effective
                in open inguinal hernia. In all of the examined relevant parameters, a quality of
                care well above the status quo could be exhibited.

             4. This data quality is unique to the hernia care not only in Germany. In Contrast,
                the results also achieved considerable international attention. Hence, the working
                group received the Fruchaud prize for presenting the results of the American Hernia
                Society 2013. (see Annex, www.americanherniasociety.org)

        -  Objective

           a. Since this approach has proven successful in the first register phase in every
           respect, it is now to be continued for another two years in order to develop the basis
           to establish this concept as widespread (outpatient) standard. The central question will
           be investigated of whether the outstanding results of register phase 1 will also occur
           in a wide and distributed application to more centers. If this can be proved, the
           conditions based on worldwide unique scientific data (methodology and follow-up rates,
           see below) are created to establish the standard surgical procedure with central
           integration of 3D meshes (UPP UHS) as gold standard against the Lichtenstein method in
           the outpatient sector.

        -  Design

             1. Prospective multicenter observational study of online-based (daily updated)
                recording of all relevant pre-, peri-and postoperative data, including patient- as
                well as physician-specific follow up.

             2. Analysis of the most relevant patient-specific endpoints recurrence, pain and
                quality of life with a 4, 12 and 52 weeks follow-up and the use of psychometrically
                validated Carolina Comfort Scale (anonymous and tamper-resistant).

             3. Significant expansion of the participating centers with a special comparison of the
                quality of results between newly added centers and centers, that have been proven
                already.

             4. Duration: 01/01/2014 - 12/31/2015 with an additional one-year follow-up to
                12/31/2016.
    
  