
    
      Background

      Plantar fasciitis is the classic and most common type of heel pain. Extrapolating the rate of
      2 million or 0.6% of the US American population being treated for plantar fasciitis every
      year to Switzerland, the corresponding number of patients would amount to 50'000 patients
      being treated for plantar fasciitis. Considering the costs for health care and the temporary
      disability not only for work, plantar fasciitis results in a substantial (and at least
      partially unnecessary) burden for the Swiss health care system and national economics.

      Nonoperative treatment is the mainstay of treating plantar fasciitis. In the literature,
      numerous operative and nonoperative treatment approaches for plantar fasciitis have been
      suggested. However, so far no treatment has proven to be superior to others, and there is
      national and international lack of consensus of how to treat plantar fasciitis best. Numerous
      prescriptions for unnecessary orthoses, expensive and painful shock waves, and complications
      following steroid injection could be obviated, when the safe BTX-A injection demonstrates
      good results.

      The investigators believe that the BTX-A injection in the gastrocnemius and the soleus
      muscles is currently the most promising non-operative approach, because it is considered to
      treat the disease at its origin (temporary weakening of the tight triceps surae muscle) as
      opposed to simply alleviate the symptoms (e.g. plantar cortisone and other injections, ESWT).

      The high number of level I and II studies suggests that there is need for clarification and
      evaluation of the efficacy of several non-operative and operative treatment approaches for
      the chronic plantar fasciitis. However, to date there is no evidence in the literature that
      compares the new, promising technique of BTX-A injection into the gastroc-soleus complex to a
      sham (saline) injection and to the gold standard steroid injection at the plantar fascia
      insertion site. With the intended study, this gap is going to be closed. Objective evaluation
      of the BTX-A efficacy includes the randomized allocation of patients to the BTX-A, the
      steroid, or the saline group, the blinded comparison to the sham (saline) injection, and
      finally the MRI assessment at the beginning and at the end of the followup. With the evidence
      resulting from this study, patients can be superiorly counseled in the future with regard to
      efficacy of nonoperative treatment of plantar fasciitis.

      Objective

      Plantar fasciitis is the classic and most common type of heel pain. Considering the costs for
      health care and the temporary disability not only for work, plantar fasciitis results in a
      substantial (and at least partially unnecessary) burden for the Swiss health care system and
      national economics. However, so far no treatment has proven to be superior to others, and
      there is national and international lack of consensus of how to treat plantar fasciitis best.

      Methods

      Patients are randomly allocated to three groups (1 - 3).

      - Patient group 1 - combination of physiotherapy, stretching exercises according to
      DiGiovanni et al and BTX-A injection into the gastroc-soleus complex: One hundred units (U)
      of toxin are applied to each muscle belly, and 1 application of 50 U is administered to the
      soleus, making a total of 250 U.

        -  Patient group 2 - physiotherapy, stretching exercises according to DiGiovanni combined
           with cortisone injection into the plantar fascia

        -  Patient group 3 - physiotherapy, stretching exercises according to DiGiovanni and saline
           injection into the gastroc-soleus complex (sham control group)
    
  