
    
      Down syndrome (DS) is the most prevalent genetic cause of intellectual disability and occurs
      in approximately 1 in every 700 births in the US. Individuals with DS are at increased risk
      for a number of health issues. Work capacity is an important predictor of declining health or
      physical function, and of mortality, and is commonly measured as peak oxygen consumption.
      Peak oxygen consumption is very low in individuals with DS, and cannot be explained by
      physical inactivity, lack of motivation, or lack of understanding of the test. To date, the
      nature of the limitations in work capacity in DS is unknown, and the proposed research aims
      to address this knowledge gap.

      Work capacity is determined by central and peripheral regulation of blood flow (i.e. cardiac
      output and maintaining arterial blood pressure vs. supplying exercising muscles with oxygen
      and nutrients). These factors are governed by the sympathetic and parasympathetic branches of
      the autonomic nervous system. Central regulation of blood flow is impaired in individuals
      with DS due to cardiovascular autonomic dysfunction, whereby parasympathetic activity is high
      and sympathetic control is reduced. This results in lower heart rate, less adequate blood
      pressure control and attenuated catecholamine levels during exercise. It is unknown to what
      extent this impaired central control impacts cardiac output, and subsequently work capacity,
      during exercise in individuals with DS.

      Peripheral blood flow regulation is even less studied in individuals with DS. Peripheral
      regulation involves sympathetically regulated vasoconstriction in non-active muscles and
      tissues, and local mechanisms regulating vasodilation in working muscles, which facilitates
      blood flow to working muscle in order to meet metabolic demand. Individuals with DS may
      partly experience reduced work capacity due to this inability to shunt blood to the working
      tissue effectively. Our pilot data supports this hypothesis in that individuals with DS are
      unable to vasoconstrict in response to lower body negative pressure, a known
      sympathoexcitatory maneuver that produces vasoconstriction in controls without disabilities.
      Importantly, the impact of their lack of sympathetically mediated vasoconstriction on
      exercise has not been studied, and neither have the local mechanisms regulating appropriate
      vasodilation in working muscles.

      The aim of this research proposal is therefore to determine the impact of limitations in
      central and peripheral regulation of blood flow on work capacity in individuals with DS. The
      aim is to examine the responses to exercise training to better understand the underlying
      mechanisms and the potential to improve health by using this knowledge in exercise
      interventions.

      Overall Aim: To investigate the responses in central and peripheral blood flow regulation and
      cardiac autonomic function to exercise training in individuals with DS Aim 1: To determine if
      exercise training improves peripheral or central regulation of blood flow in individuals with
      DS. The investigators hypothesize that improvements in work capacity in response to chronic
      exercise training are primarily due to improvements in peripheral blood flow regulation.

      Aim 2: To determine if exercise training improves the cardiovascular autonomic profile in
      individuals with DS The investigators hypothesize that exercise training will improve the
      response to clinical cardiovascular autonomic tests in individuals with DS.

      Aim 3: To determine if exercise training improves gait, balance and attitude towards exercise
      in individuals with Down syndrome compared to individuals with Down syndrome in a control
      group and to individuals without DS.

      Individuals with DS may experience a double disadvantage when they are exercising: they may
      not be able to increase cardiac output sufficiently and they may not be able to allocate
      adequate blood flow to the working muscles. By revealing the impact of autonomic regulation
      of blood flow in individuals with DS, the results of this project will identify critical
      aspects needed to improve clinical practice and design of exercise interventions that
      optimally improve health and functioning.

      General study design Intervention. The exercise intervention will last 12 weeks and will
      consist of a supervised combined aerobic and resistance training program with a frequency of
      3 days/week. Aerobic exercise will be part of all three sessions, with resistance exercise
      during two out of three sessions. Training sessions will be supervised by two instructors to
      ensure the safe use of the equipment and the correct form when performing each exercise. The
      first 3 weeks of the intervention will be familiarization with the exercises and the program.
      After a warm-up, the participant will perform 30 min of aerobic exercise at a heart rate of
      65% of the participant's maximum heart rate [43], which increases to 65-85% during weeks 4-12
      of the intervention. The resistance exercise part will include all major muscle groups, both
      upper and lower body, using multi- and single-joint exercises. The exercise load will be
      selected to ensure fatigue is reached at 12 repetitions (12-RM). Additionally, if the
      participants are able to complete 14 repetitions for 2 consecutive sessions using proper
      technique, the load will be increased by 10% of their 12-RM. The control condition consists
      of usual care with creative activities that do not involve exercise. Familiarization with the
      intervention will take place in the first three weeks of the intervention, in which the
      instructors will support the participants to become familiar with the exercises.

      Baseline measures Participants will be tested in a postprandial state (>3 h) on 2 separate
      days and will refrain from exercise 24 h before each test day. Participants will be also
      asked to refrain from drinking or eating caffeine and drinking alcohol on testing days.
      Participants who do not follow the requirements on study days will be asked to come back
      another day. During the first visit, height, weight and circumferences will be measured. Body
      composition will be determined with a dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan, to
      determine forearm composition and mass. Two-dimensional echocardiography (Hitachi Aloka Alpha
      7 system, Tokyo, Japan) will be used to measure aortic root diameter, cardiac output, and
      stroke volume and end systolic volume at rest. In addition, clinical autonomic function tests
      (heart rate variability at rest and recovery after exercise, deep breathing, Valsalva
      maneuver, isometric exercise, active and passive orthostasis) will be evaluated during the
      first study visit.

      Familiarization sessions. Parents/care givers are involved in order to provide a supportive
      environment for participants and to enhance the parent/caregiver understanding of the
      research. Prior to study initiation, photographs and video clips of the laboratory and study
      equipment will be provided to help the participants become comfortable with the laboratory
      environment and equipment, and the informed consent information is sent to the participants
      and their parents/care-givers for their review. Familiarization for the participants with
      Down syndrome will be divided in two parts: they will practice and become accustomed with the
      treadmill and the equipment for the graded maximal exercise test (first visit), and they will
      practice and become accustomed with the procedures for the hand grip exercise protocol and
      the lower body negative pressure chamber (LBNP) (second visit).

      Descriptions data collection visits (for both pre and post intervention):

      During the first data collections visit, after discussing the study and potential questions,
      participants (and/or parents/caregivers for the group with Down syndrome) will complete a
      health history questionnaire and physical activity questionnaire to confirm eligibility. For
      women of childbearing age, the first visit will include a urine pregnancy test using a test
      stick. Females will be studied during the first 3-5 days of menses or during the placebo
      phase if taking oral contraceptives, in order to control for hormonal variation. Eligible
      participants with Down syndrome and their parent/care-giver will then provide written
      informed consent, or give verbal assent (for individuals with Down syndrome), and the
      eligible control participants will provide informed consent themselves. For participants with
      Down syndrome, the first visit continues with baseline measures and familiarization with the
      graded maximal exercise test protocol. If necessary, additional familiarization sessions will
      be scheduled for people with Down syndrome. The second visit, the participant performs the
      graded maximal exercise test and familiarize the participant with the procedures for the
      third visit: the hand grip exercise protocol and the LBNP. Gait, balance and foot posture
      will also be measured. The third visit peripheral blood flow will be assessed during the hand
      grip exercise protocol without and with the LBNP. For control subjects, the first and second
      visit are combined. Their second visit is the same as the third visit for individuals with
      Down syndrome.
    
  