
    
      Professor Sylvie Legrain, in a 2005 HAS report, described that "Better prescribing in the
      elderly is thus a public health issue. "Indeed, although multi-medication in the elderly is
      often justified, it increases the risk of drug iatrogeny, reduces compliance and has a
      significant cost to society. In this report, it is specified that digestive tract drugs
      (including PPIs) represent the 3rd most prescribed class of drugs for people over 65 years of
      age (17% of patients use them regularly). PPIs are also mentioned in this report as overuse
      (overtreatment).

      The first study, conducted in 2017 at our centre (EGERIPP), sought to assess whether a
      rebound effect was observed in patients who stopped PPI therapy (if not indicated). In this
      study, 30 patients were included and no rebound effects were observed. Five patients resumed
      PPIs out of the 30 patients included (unexplored anemia - n=1, epigastric pain - n=1,
      gastroesophageal reflux disease - n=1, no justification found - n=2). For all patients,
      during reassessment on D14 and D21 (during hospitalization), patients did not report more
      symptoms after discontinuation. In this context, the investigators now wish to study whether
      the short-term tolerance is prolonged in the long term for the discontinuation of PPIs.

      This first study also allowed us to assess the prevalence of PPI use in the elderly, and the
      prevalence of patients on PPI for a recognized indication. During the study, 270 patients
      were screened and 76 patients had a PPI at admission (28%). Of these 76 patients, no
      indication recognized by the HAS was found in the medical file for 63 patients (83%).

      The discontinuation of PPI treatments in case of use outside the recommendations is usually
      carried out in the department where the study is being conducted. There is therefore no
      change in practices. On the other hand, it is good practice to discontinue a treatment that
      is prescribed outside the recommendations.

      Following the EGERIPP study, the systematic reassessment of PPI treatments has become a
      service practice, with discontinuation when no recognized indication is found and
      prescription of antacids on demand.
    
  