
    
      Prostate cancer (PC) represents the second most common cancer in men worldwide, managed with
      surgery or radiotherapy (RT) in case of localized disease.

      Advanced PC can metastasize and often presents as an oligometastatic state, defined as an
      intermediate state between localized and widespread diffused disease. Oligometastatic PC is
      characterized by the presence of a limited number of metastases, commonly 1 to 5 lesions.
      Recently, the ESTRO-EORTC collaboration characterized the oligometastatic disease and
      provided a classification into oligorecurrence, and oligoprogression, considering whether
      oligometastatic disease is diagnosed during a treatment-free interval or during active
      systemic therapy.

      Most common sites of metastases from PC are bones and lymph nodes. Different studies have
      been already published for oligometastatic PC patients. Singh et al. reported that a number
      of metastases limited to 5, developed during follow-up after curative treatment of primary
      tumor, is significantly associated to a better 5-year survival rate (73% vs 43% of patients
      with more than 5 metastases).

      In case of limited number of metastases, stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) seems to
      be effective but its role in the management of metastatic PC is still debated, due to the
      paucity of prospective and randomized trials.

      We reported the outcome of 92 oligometastatic PC patients treated with SBRT, reaching 1 and 3
      years control of treated lesions in 90.9% (95%CI 81.8 - 95.6) and 85.5% (95%CI 74.4 - 92.0),
      and a median overall survival of 91.6 months.

      Ost et al. conducted a randomized trial comparing surveillance versus metastases directed
      therapy in a sample of 62 hormone naïve metastatic PC patients. With a median follow-up time
      of 3 years, the median ADT-free survival was 13 months for surveillance group versus 21 for
      the treatment group. In terms of PFS, the median time until progression was 6 months for the
      surveillance group, as compared with 10 months for the MDT group (p = 0.03).

      Main benefits from SBRT in oligometastatic setting are potentially the increasing time of
      freedom from systemic therapy in naïve patients the delay of the intensification of systemic
      therapy in patients already under treatment. Moreover another relevant advantage from SBRT is
      the ability to modulate the tumor immune microenvironment as showed by preliminary studies.
      In particular, SBRT has been shown to induce immune responses in treated patients with
      potentially improved tumor control.

      RT is able to elicit a potent anti-tumour immune response, driven by the activation of T
      cells infiltrating the tumor and the increase of antigen-presenting cell cross-presentation,
      and on the other hand, also seems to enhance immunosuppression in cancer, mainly mediated by
      the recruitment and activation of anti-inflammatory and pro-tumorigenic myeloid cell subsets.
      The immune landscape of patients may interfere with the efficacy of radiation therapy and, on
      the other side, SBRT may modulate the immune response by driving immuno-tolerance.

      The impact of RT may vary depending on tumor type and time of delivery. In addition the
      immune modulation determined by RT may depend on the dose per fraction. On this regard
      ablative dose of fractionated radiations were shown to elicit an anti-tumorigenic response
      mediated by T cell activation in a model of breast cancer, that was not observed at
      conventional doses. So far, no relevant studies have been published regarding the role of
      SBRT in the immune modulation of metastatic PC patients. Neither the combination of SBRT and
      androgen deprivation has been explored prospectively in terms of immune response. This
      however is an area of interest, considering that preclinical studies showed that hormonal
      therapy seems to increase the numbers of circulating naive T cells shortly after beginning of
      ADT, and decrease numbers of circulating CD4+ Treg. At the same time infiltrating myeloid
      subsets have been reported to facilitate resistance to ADT in mouse models of PC.

      At the moment there is a lack of data in the setting of oligometastatic PC in particular
      regarding the interaction between ablative SBRT, ADT and patient's immune system response.

      The hypothesis underlying this project consists in the idea that the patient's immunological
      context, RT and ADT may interact in the context of metastatic PC. Indeed the immune landscape
      of patients may interfere with the efficacy of SBRT and on the other side RT may modulate the
      immune response by driving immunotolerance.

      Scope of the study will be to investigate the immune modulation after SBRT in:

        -  patients with diagnosis of oligorecurrence during a treatment-free interval

        -  patients with oligoprogression or oligopersistance during hormonal therapy
    
  