
    
      Neoadjuvant chemotherapy has significantly improved patient outcomes. The majority of
      patients with resectable esophageal malignancies are considered for neoadjuvant treatment.
      However, esophagectomy and chemotherapy have disadvantages. Morbidity and mortality
      associated with esophagus resection remain high. The most often reported complications are
      pulmonary (25~57%), which may cause increased intensive care unit utilization, prolonged
      length of hospital stay, increased mortality and medical expense.

      Also, neoadjuvant chemotherapy has a deleterious effect on patients' cardiopulmonary
      capacity, strength and muscle mass. Prehabilitation includes preoperative exercise training
      and nutrition management. The reporting outcome regarding whether it improves surgical
      outcomes is inconsistent. One of the reasons is that pulmonary complication tends to occur in
      patients with low cardiopulmonary fitness, but all studies included patients with all level
      of fitness. In the current investigation, only those with low cardiopulmonary fitness will be
      enrolled.

      Most of the chemotherapy interferes with cell division to inhibit tumor growth but is also
      harmful to mitochondria functionality. For example, Cisplatin and Paclitaxel, commonly used
      in esophageal cancer, alter mitochondria function, caused by disruption of respiratory chain
      function and increased production of reactive oxygen species. However, it remains unclear
      their negative effects on the oxidative phosphorylation capacity of mitochondria (OXPHOS).
      Furthermore, whether prehabilitation reverses this negative effect is scarcely explored.

      This is a three-year prospective randomized trial. Patients who suffer from locally-advanced
      esophageal cancer and will receive neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy and operation in Chang Gung
      Memorial Hospital at Linkou will be inquired to participate. A total of 160 patients will be
      recruited expectedly and randomized into prehabilitation or control group. The latter will
      undergo conventional therapy only, while the former will receive additional prehabilitation
      program. The prehabilitation program encompasses supervised and home-based aerobic,
      resistance training (large and inspiratory muscle) and nutrition management. The supervised
      exercise training will be performed right before or after the radiotherapy. Outcome variables
      are fitness-related testing (cardiopulmonary exercise testing, 6-minute walk distance,
      handgrip, and body composition, maximal inspiratory pressure and muscle oxidative capacity)
      [the 1st year], quality of life and surgical outcomes (length of stay in the hospital and
      intensive care unit, surgical complication, perioperative pulmonary complications and medical
      expense) [the 2nd year] and mitochondria functionality (OXPHOS, membrane potential, matrix
      oxidant burden) [the 3rd year]. Evaluation is performed 3 times at baseline, before surgery
      and 4 weeks after surgery.

      The investigators hypothesize that prehabilitation increases functional reserve to improve
      surgical outcomes [2nd year] in a subpopulation of patients with esophageal cancer who
      receive neoadjuvant chemo-radiotherapy plus having low cardiopulmonary fitness. It also
      reverses fitness decline during neoadjuvant chemotherapy [1st year], partly through
      amelioration of mitochondria functionality [3rd year]. The goal of the investigation is to
      provide an applicable prehabilitation model and establish its efficacy at clinical, tissue
      and cellular levels.
    
  