
    
      1. Burden:

           Globally, it is recognized that pre-conception and during pregnancy malnutrition among
           women is an underlying cause of maternal morbidity, mortality, and poor birth outcomes
           including low birth weight babies. In Bangladesh, the poor pre-conception and pregnancy
           nutritional status of women contributes to the prevailing high rates of low birth weight
           among newborns. Each year, approximately 860,000 or 28% of babies are born with low
           birth weight (<2500g) greatly increasing their risk of stunting and wasting, and
           diet-related non-communicable diseases in adult life.

        2. Knowledge gap:

           An ideal contact point for pregnant women for delivering nutrition services are
           antenatal care visits (ANC). However, the provision of maternal nutrition services
           through government systems is inadequate in terms of coverage and quality. Overall 29%
           of pregnant women in Bangladesh receive 4 ANC and 18% of women consume at least 100 IFA
           tablets. Moreover recent WHO context specific recommendation suggest countries with a
           high prevalence of nutritional deficiencies may choose to adopt multiple micronutrient
           supplementation (MMS) over iron folic acid (IFA). The health benefits of MMS cannot be
           harnessed without a properly functioning delivery platform. A multifaceted approach
           focusing on improving the quality of ANC, the supply system for these services,
           engagement with communities, in addition to the adoption of MMS may have large benefits
           to women and children in Bangladesh. UNICEF and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
           have partnered with several different organizations, including the GoB and icddr, b to
           build a comprehensive understanding of where gaps in ANC and nutritional care delivery
           currently exist, how to bridge these gaps, strengthen both the supply and service
           system, engage with a larger number of pregnant women, and finally encourage the
           adoption of the programme across Bangladesh.

        3. Relevance:

      The most recent State of Food Security and Nutrition in Bangladesh Report found that 66% of
      women did not consume adequately diversified diets, indicating micronutrient deficiencies. A
      growing body of evidence has found that multiple micronutrient supplementation (MMS) may
      result in better neonatal outcomes for undernourished pregnant women. MMS has been associated
      with reductions in the number of LBW and small for gestational age (SGA) births, as well as a
      reduction in the number of preterm births among mothers who were underweight in both
      meta-analysis and a randomized control trial in Bangladesh. Recently in Dhaka, Bangladesh
      national anaemia consultation workshop was held, which also recommended changing the
      formulation from IFA only to a multi-micronutrient supplement for pregnant women and to scale
      up providing children with MNPs.

      Objectives:

      The study will be conducted in two phases. The specific objectives are;

      Phase I:

        1. To conduct a comprehensive situation analysis to identify gaps in the existing maternal
           nutrition service delivery and coverage of maternal nutrition interventions

        2. To conduct a formative research to inform design of a demonstration programme improving
           maternal nutrition service delivery through public health ANC platforms

           Phase II:

        3. To implement a two parallel arm superiority community based cluster randomized
           controlled trial (cRCT) to assess whether implementation of the demonstration programme
           improves coverage and quality of nutrition service delivery through public health ANC
           platforms

      Methods:

      During phase I,a comprehensive situation analysis and a formative research will be conducted
      to inform the design of a demonstration programme improving maternal nutrition service
      delivery through public health ANC platforms. The study will employ a quantitative approach
      for comprehensive situation analysis involving health facility assessment, health care
      provider interviews, ANC observation, exit interviews of the women receiving ANC and
      household hold survey. The situation analysis will enable the investigators to identify the
      gaps of in terms of coverage and quality of maternal nutrition services through public health
      ANC platforms, knowledge, attitude and practices of the health care providers and pregnant
      women regarding maternal nutrition. A formative research will be conducted to inform the
      design of the demonstration programme. Demonstration programme will be designed based on the
      findings from the baseline situation analysis and formative research. During Phase II, a two
      parallel arm superiority community based cluster randomized control trial (cRCT) will be
      implemented to assess whether implementation of the demonstration programme improves coverage
      and quality of Nutrition services through public health ANC platforms. Unit of randomization
      will be unions. A total of 40 unions will be selected from two districts and paired based on
      principle component analysis (PCA) score. PCA will take into consideration coverage of ANC
      and IFA and socio-demographics characteristics (literacy rate, provision of pure drinking
      water, sanitation facilities). Later each of the pair will be randomized into either
      intervention or comparison arm. Cross sectional surveys will be conducted to assess coverage
      of key maternal health and nutrition indicators. Additionally a cohort of pregnant women from
      intervention and comparison facilities will be followed to measure the change in quality of
      nutrition service delivery and consumption of 100+ MMS tablets during pregnancy.
    
  