
    
      Heavy alcohol use is prevalent among young adults and results in significant physical and
      psychological burden. Despite wide implementation of alcohol risk reduction efforts on
      college campuses, rates of heavy alcohol consumption remain high, with 35% of students
      reporting consumption of 5+ drinks on the same occasion in the past 2 weeks. Thus, additional
      strategies are needed to reduce the burden of heavy alcohol use among college students. More
      than half of heavy-drinking college students report symptoms of insomnia. In turn, insomnia
      symptoms have been associated with increased risk of alcohol-related problems. The proposed
      project aims to reduce the burden of heavy alcohol use on college campuses by examining the
      efficacy of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia (CBT-I) in reducing alcohol use and
      related problems among heavy-drinking college students. Twenty seven young adults who
      indicate risk for problem drinking and meet DSM-5 criteria for Insomnia Disorder will
      participate in a 5-week pilot trial. Participants will complete five individual sessions of
      CBT-I. Outcomes will be assessed at the end of the active intervention period (6 weeks) and 1
      month post-intervention. Outcomes of interest include insomnia severity, total wake time,
      sleep quality, drinking quantity, and alcohol-related consequences. The proposed research
      aims to reduce the harms associated with heavy alcohol use among young adults by improving
      the availability of efficacious treatment. It will impact understanding of the benefits of
      CBT-I, and it is innovative because it evaluates improvement in insomnia as a mechanism for
      improvements in alcohol use disorder (AUD). This research is consistent with the National
      Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism's initiative to evaluate and promote interventions
      that prevent the progression of AUD in diverse populations. It will enhance the stature of
      the university by improving our ability to compete successfully for federal funding to
      conduct high-quality research.
    
  