
    
      TB and AIDS are also diseases that occur with a chronic inflammatory stimulus, with constant
      formation of excessive free radicals, leading to cellular and systemic oxidative stress. The
      effects of NAC in both populations are studied. A study demonstrated that HIV-positive
      individuals have low levels of glutathione in CD4+ T lymphocytes when compared to healthy
      controls, these levels being restored after in vivo supplementation with NAC, favoring the
      production of cytokines involved in Th1 response. They also observed that glutathione
      depletion in lymphocytes was correlated with increased levels of tumor necrosis factor and
      free radicals. Some authors suggested that the immune system's inability of HIV-positive
      individuals (or not) in containing Mycobaterium tuberculosis (Mtb) may be a consequence of
      low levels of glutathione in macrophages. The same occurred in a model of animals infected
      with Mtb, suggesting that oxidative stress was partly due to the poor antioxidant defense of
      the host. NAC supplementation decreases the bacterial load on the spleen and the severity of
      necrosis in the lung. The balance between oxidative and antioxidant substances plays a
      critical role in the induction of IL-12 production involved in the Th1 response and suggests
      that the use of NAC may be useful for better immune control of TB. Additional benefits of NAC
      in individuals with TB are related to the possible protective effect of hepatic to
      tuberculostatic drugs and to the direct antimicrobial effect demonstrated in vitro. Some
      authors suggest that the restoration of glutathione levels reversed the loss of innate
      immunity functions, pointing to a new mechanism of control of Mtb and a possible complement
      to antiretroviral treatment. This clinical trial will be undertaken in the Amazonas State
      (Western Brazilian Amazon), in Manaus, at Fundação de Medicina Tropical Dr. Heitor Vieira
      Dourado. It is a prospective, open-label, 2-arm, randomized clinical trial. Twenty-five
      patients will be enrolled in each treatment arm. A total number of 50 patients should be
      enrolled. Patients hospitalized in the ICU, in the wards or emergency room of the tertiary
      unit care will be invited to participate in this study. The assessment schedule will be done
      in days 1, 7, 14, 28, 42, 56, 120 and 180 (in addition, patient will be asked to come back to
      the health centre if symptoms occurs at any time). Sputum and blood collection and medical
      evaluation will be performed.
    
  