
    
      Rationale: A current problem in the context of a coverage decision for the use of mexiletine
      for NDM patients is the lack of a sufficient evidence base. An innovative trial design could
      facilitate in establishing such an evidence base in a small group of rather heterogeneous
      patients. As more than 7000 rare diseases in Europe and the USA suffer from a similar lack of
      treatment evidence, more experience with this innovative trial design would be very helpful.

      Study design: A double-blind, randomized and placebo-controlled combined N-of-1- trial using
      a Bayesian statistical approach.

      Study population: Non-dystrophic myotonia (NDM) patients, at least 18 years old, with a
      genetically confirmed diagnosis.

      Intervention: Each N-of-1 trial consists out of a minimum of one, and a maximum of 4
      treatment sets, each comprising a 4-week period of active treatment (Mexiletine) and a 4-week
      period of treatment with placebo, in random order, with one week for wash-out in between.
      Within each mexiletine period, treatment dosage of mexiletine will be built up from 200 mg 1
      time a day PO on the first day of the first week, to 200 mg 2 times a day on the second day
      of the first week, to the desired dosage of 200 mg 3 times a day PO on the third day of the
      first week and throughout the remaining days of the 4-week treatment period. A similar
      build-up scheme will be used within each placebo period.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary outcome measure for this study is a decrease in
      the most prominent clinical symptom: stiffness. Stiffness will be quantified by an
      Interactive Voice Response System (IVR) in which the patient will rate their mean daily IVR
      participant-assessed severity of stiffness on an ordinal scale (1-9). The secondary outcome
      measures will include changes in pain, weakness, and fatigue on IVR, Individual Neuromuscular
      Quality of Life (INQoL), the Short Form (36) Health Survey (SF-36) a patient-reported survey
      of patient health, blood plasma levels of mexiletine, clinical myotonia assessments,
      quantitative handgrip myotonia, biceps force test and needle-electromyography (EMG).

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: In the screening phase, electrocardiography (ECG) and EMG recordings, laboratory
      values and baseline blood plasma levels of mexiletine will be tested. Medical history and
      written consent will also be obtained in this phase. Patients will be asked to visit the
      department of Neurology between 4-16 visits (depending on number of treatment sets necessary
      to obtain enough evidence) during the study enrolment. Each visit will approximately cost 2
      hours; within each visit two questionnaires (INQoL, SF-36) need to be filled, blood plasma
      levels of mexiletine will be measured and clinical and electrophysiological myotonia tests
      need to be performed. Furthermore, an ECG and EMG will be recorded at the end of each
      treatment or placebo period. In addition, patients will have to call in to an interactive
      voice response system to report their mean daily IVR participant-assessed severity of
      stiffness once a week in every first and second week and daily in every third and fourth week
      of each treatment or placebo period.
    
  