
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To test whether eliminating transportation barriers for disadvantaged cancer patients can
      reduce the 6-month rate of unplanned emergency department (ED) visits.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To test whether eliminating transportation barriers for disadvantaged cancer patients for
      the duration of a palliative radiotherapy course will improve prescribed treatment completion
      rates and reduce treatment delays and overall time to treatment completion.

      II. To test whether eliminating transportation barriers for disadvantaged cancer patients for
      the duration of a palliative radiotherapy course will have an impact on physician choice for
      therapeutic modality, [3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy (3D CRT) versus
      intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) versus stereotactic body radiation therapy
      (SBRT)] and the fractionation schedules to minimize patient inconvenience.

      III. To test whether eliminating transportation barriers for disadvantaged cancer patients
      for the duration of a palliative radiotherapy course can reduce the short-term (6- months)
      rate of grade >= 3 radiation related adverse events as measured by the Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.

      IV. To test whether eliminating transportation barriers for disadvantaged cancer patients for
      the duration of a palliative radiotherapy course can improve the patient?s experience,
      functional outcome, and overall quality of life as measured by the European Organization for
      Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) quality of life questionnaire (QLQ)30.

      V. To test whether eliminating transportation barriers for disadvantaged cancer patients for
      the duration of a palliative radiotherapy course can reduce re-treatment rates, improve the
      progression free survival rates, and overall survival.

      VI. To determine if living within San Francisco County versus the surrounding counties
      (Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, San Mateo) within the San Francisco Bay Area has an impact on
      outcomes.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive Uber rides to and from scheduled radiotherapy appointments for up to 6
      months.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 3 years.
    
  