
    
      Created in 1998, PASS ( Permanence d'Accès aux Soins de Santé) departments are mostly
      intrahospital structures providing primary care to vulnerable patients.

      This facility allows medico-social care for people in precarious situations, for a return to
      the common health system. However, the individual difficulties to resort to care, complicated
      by a system of health sometimes excluding, and the dissociation of the activity of dispensing
      treatments from the action of the PASS can lead to breaks of treatments, can cause
      pathological complications, or cause re-hospitalization. More particularly, the methods of
      dispensing drugs and medical devices for outpatients in precarious situations are very
      heterogeneous depending on the institutions and the geographical distance of the PASS or the
      PUI: discharge with orientation towards the PUI and PASS; dispensing via the unitcare by a
      doctor or social worker; discharge without medication, without orientation and only with a
      prescription,... Actually, in some cases, it is highlighted the question of the renewal of
      treatments and the rupture of these and therefore the breakdown of care.

      The use of original and innovative practices, including pharmaceutical maintenance and
      multidisciplinary monitoring (social, medical and pharmaceutical) until the social rights are
      obtained, is therefore necessary to promote a reliable and effective system for the care of
      precarious patients, but also to reassure the patient in his care pathway.

      The main objective of the project will be to measure the impact of a multidisciplinary PASS
      facility, integrating pharmaceutical interviews, for outpatient, on the rate of unscheduled
      rehospitalization of patients in precarious situations.

      The impact of the implementation of such a facility will also be measured on other indicators
      of major interest in the care pathway of the precarious patient: average lengths of stay,
      emergency room, improved continuity of treatment, quality of life of the patient related to
      his health, medication compliance, effective accessibility to social rights, qualitative
      improvement in the use of care, medico-economic efficiency of the intervention compared to
      existing practice.

      Eligible patients will be randomized between a non-interventional group (standard management
      of patients according to hospital) or interventional group (setting up a PASS pharmaceutical
      interview on the day of discharge from hospital and multidisciplinary follow-up until social
      rights are obtained).

      The intervention will consist in the overall medico-social care of the patient in precarious
      situation by the Multidisciplinary PASS facility, at discharge, including a specialized
      pharmaceutical interview (PI) while dispensing the treatments; then monthly PI, concomitantly
      with medical consultations and social follow-up until the end of the study or opening of
      social rights.

      In the non-interventional group, the discharge of the precarious patient will be implemented
      according to the usual methods of each hospital: the unitcare will have the mission of
      refering the patient towards the medico-social PASS, and of ensure that the patient is in
      possession of the necessary documents for the dispensing of the treatments; but this one will
      not benefit from PI.
    
  