
    
      Unlike older adults with hip osteoarthritis, young adults with pain in the groin, lateral hip
      or buttock do not have general loss of ROM, but have a specific directional motion loss, such
      as hip flexion and internal rotation. Therefore, the most common manual therapy designed to
      gradually improve hip range of motions (ROM) for osteoarthritis, long axis distraction, may
      not be appropriate for treating young adults with hip pain. A manipulation technique,
      unrestrained femoral internal rotation (UFIR), was designed specifically for treating young
      adults' hip pain. Manipulation is a procedure that involves the use of a high- amplitude and
      low-velocity thrust at the mid or end range of a restricted joint for the purpose of
      improving range of motion (ROM) within the joint and the ability of the joint to tolerate
      loads.

      Although clinicians routinely use this hip manipulation technique for treating young adults'
      hip pain with satisfying success, no study yet has been conducted to examine the
      effectiveness of this hip manipulation technique. The investigators are interested in
      identifying which young adults with pain in the groin, lateral hip or buttock would benefit
      from this hip manipulation.

      Adverse effects of this manipulation have been reported to be none to mild. Mild soreness or
      muscle tenderness at the posterior greater trochanter region has been reported. In a
      preliminary study on the UFIR manipulation of 35 participants, 5 reported mild discomfort
      immediately after manipulation, but no participants reported adverse effects of a UFIR
      manipulation.

      Purpose of the Study:

      The purpose of the proposed study is to identify the characteristics of young adults with
      pain in the groin, lateral hip or buttock who will benefit from manipulation of the hip.

      Research question:

      What are the predictors for a positive outcome of hip manipulation on young adults with
      groin, lateral hip or buttock pain?

      Procedures:

      At the beginning of the study, all participants with groin/lateral hip/buttock pain will be
      informed of the risks, benefits and procedures of the study. Once the participants agree to
      participate, they will be asked to sign a written consent form approved by the TWU
      Institutional Review Board - Dallas. Once each participant signs the consent form, a number
      will be assigned to the participant and all forms to be used will be marked with this number.
      All data collection including the testing and treatment will be performed at the Texas
      Woman's University (TWU) - Dallas, Lab #8113, or in a private treatment room at the Physical
      Therapy & Injury Specialist clinic, Englewood, CO. Each participant will come twice with
      24-48 hours between visits.

      1st Visit: On the first visit, all participants will be asked to fill out an intake form and
      a medical questionnaire to further determine the eligibility of each participant. Next, one
      of the investigators will perform a neurological exam, including dural tests, femoral nerve
      tests, deep tendon reflexes, key muscle tests and Babinski/Hoffman to rule out lumbar or
      neurologic involvement. If a participant is found to have a positive neurological test, the
      participant will be excluded from the study.

      Outcome Measures and Special Questions:

      Once the participant is determined to be eligible for the study, each participant will be
      asked to complete the following 4 questionnaires:

        1. Numerical Pain Rating Scale (NPRS) with body charts

        2. Lower Extremity Functional Scale

        3. The Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS)

        4. Special questions for functional activities.

      The reliability and validity of the NPRS, LEFS and HAGOs have been shown to be reliable and
      valid. The special questions were used to describe the characteristics of the participants
      who are young adults with groin, lateral hip or buttock pain.

      Physical Examination

      A standard physical therapy examination specific to the hip will be performed by the
      investigator who will not perform the hip manipulation:

        1. Functional tests: 3 functional tests will be assessed: deep squat, hurdle and inline
           lunge.

        2. Palpation tests: 11 palpation tests will be examined. The surrounding bony landmark and
           soft tissue also will be palpated for tenderness and abnormality. To improve test
           accuracy, the investigators will video tape 2 palpation tests: single leg stand and
           single leg stance.

        3. Range of motion (ROM) measurements: 8 hip ROMs will be measured in supine and prone. A
           universal goniometer will be used to take all of hip ROMs. Two measurements will be
           taken for each motion, and the average of the two will be used for data analysis.

        4. Manual muscle strength tests: 8 hip manual muscle tests will be performed in sitting,
           supine, sidelying and prone positions:

             -  Sitting: flexion

             -  Supine: flexion, internal rotation and external rotation

             -  Sidelying: abduction

             -  Prone: extension, internal rotation and internal rotation

        5. Provocation tests of lumbar, sacroiliac and hip joints.

      Intervention:

      The other investigator, a licensed physical therapist and different from the one who
      performed physical examination as described above, will perform the intervention technique,
      hip manipulation UFIR. During the manipulation, the participant will be asked to lie on the
      unaffected side with the affected side up, their hip(s) flexed to approximately 30 degrees,
      and knees flexed to approximately 50-70 degrees. Pillows will be place between the
      participant's knees as needed for comfort. The investigator will stabilize the anterior
      inferior iliac spine (ASIS) and ilium with the fingers of one hand and place the thumb on the
      posterior aspect of the greater trochanter of the involved hip. The participant will be asked
      for verbal approval prior to receiving the manipulation. The manipulation will be performed
      with the investigator's non-stabilizing hand, by thrusting the greater trochanter anteriorly
      with an internal rotation moment.

      The manipulation will be performed on the involved side. If the participant or the
      investigator feels a cavitation or shift in the hip joint after the first manipulation, the
      intervention will be considered complete. If no cavitation/shift is heard or felt by the
      participant or the investigator after the first manipulation, the investigator will repeat
      the manipulation up to a maximum of three times. The manipulation will be performed by either
      of two physical therapists who have specialized in manual therapy, and have been certified
      after participating in an extensive clinical education and examination process.

      Post Intervention After the hip manipulation intervention, the investigator will advise the
      participant to continue any regular activity but to not perform new activities. In addition,
      the participant will be asked to fill out the NPRS with body charts (Appendix E) and the
      Global Rating of Change (GROC) Scale (Appendix M).16 The participant will reminded of the
      second visit day and appointment time within 24-48 hours.

      2nd Visit During the 2nd visit, the same investigator who has evaluated the participant on
      his/her 1st visit will perform the same physical exam as described on the first visit, with
      the same measurement or reporting details. Following this physical exam, the participant will
      be asked to fill out the NPRS with body charts, LEFS, HAGOS and GROC forms. There will be no
      further treatment for the purpose of the study.

      Data Analysis The participants will be dichotomized into two groups based on their response
      to the hip manipulation: successful or non-successful. Success will be defined as 2 points or
      greater change in the NPRS or 4 points or greater change in the GROC. These criteria will be
      used as reference standards to dichotomize the participants for all variables collected from
      patient's history, self-reported questionnaires and physical exam. Regression analysis will
      be used to examine significant predictors/characteristics for a successful outcome of hip
      manipulation on young adults with groin, lateral hip or buttock pain.
    
  