
    
      Goal and Objectives:

      The overall purpose of this project is to evaluate the effectiveness of massage therapy
      provided by registered massage therapists in managing pain among women in active labour.

      Specific Aims:

      Our specific aim is to randomly assign women admitted to hospital in active labour to receive
      a maximum of five hours massage by a regulated massage therapist or usual care in order to
      study the effect of massage therapy on pain relief, labour management and patient outcomes.

      Research Questions:

      We will compare among healthy, nulliparous women experiencing health pregnancies with access
      to massage therapy after admission to hospital in active labour vs. women receiving usual
      care:

        -  the severity and quality of pain from contractions

        -  among women carrying a fetus in the occiput posterior position, the severity of back
           pain

        -  length of first and second stage of labour

        -  need for use of entonox, sterile water injections, intravenous or intramuscular
           narcotics, and epidural analgesia

        -  stage of labour (cervical dilatation) among those women who receive epidural analgesia

        -  position of occiput at the onset of second stage

        -  mode of delivery: spontaneous vaginal, assisted (vacuum/forceps), and caesarean section

        -  time to first breastfeeding after delivery

      Hypotheses:

      We hypothesize that healthy women who receive massage therapy during active labour will:

        -  at a given cervical dilatation, experience less severe pain with contractions

        -  if carrying a fetus in the occiput posterior position, at a given cervical dilatation,
           will report less severe back pain

        -  experience a shorter first and second stage of labour

        -  be more likely to request entenox

        -  be more likely to request sterile water injections

        -  be more likely to request intravenous or intramuscular narcotics

        -  be less likely to request epidural analgesia

        -  if requesting epidural analgesia, to request it at a later stage (greater cervical
           dilatation) in labour

        -  The fetal occiput will be more likely to be anterior vs. posterior at the onset of
           second stage of labour

        -  be less likely to deliver by caesarean section

        -  undertake their first breastfeeding more quickly after delivery

      Design:

      We propose a randomized two-arm unblinded controlled trial. The treatment condition is
      massage therapy during the active phase of labour by a registered massage therapist. The
      control condition is usual care. The primary outcome is cervical dilatation at request for
      epidural analgesia.

      Study sample:

      Our study sample will be drawn from healthy nulliparous women experiencing healthy
      pregnancies presenting for intrapartum care at BC Women's Hospital.

      Study Setting:

      The study will take place at BC Women's Hospital in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. BC
      Women's is an academic teaching hospital. It provides primary care to women who are residents
      of the City of Vancouver, regional referral care to residents of the Lower Mainland or
      southwest corner of the province, and tertiary referral care for the entire province.
      Approximately 7500 take place at this hospital annually; about 7000 are to women who reside
      in Vancouver. All women for whom delivery is not imminent are triaged in a large assessment
      room adjacent to the delivery suite prior to being admitted for intrapartum care. Women in
      labour have one-to-one care in a private labour room. They may have whomever else they want
      in the room to support them.

      Recruitment:

      Women will be approached for participation in the study by a registered, experienced
      obstetrical nurse on admission to the assessment area of the hospital. At present, this
      service is provided by the Maternal/fetal Medicine Division of the Department of Obstetrics
      and Gynecology, for a fee.

      Randomization:

      Randomization will take place immediately after obtaining written consent. A statistical
      software package (SPSS - Statistical Program for the Social Sciences) will be utilized to
      randomly assign sequential numbers to one of the two treatment arms. Cards will be numbered
      sequentially and labelled with the treatment allocation. These cards will be placed in opaque
      envelopes in a box which will be kept in a locked cupboard to which the recruitment nurse
      holds the key. Envelopes will be opened in sequential order for each study participant after
      written informed consent has been obtained. A log book will be maintained by the recruitment
      nurse detailing the patients approached, their decision to participate or not, randomization
      number, and allocation.

      Protocol:

      Immediately after randomization, the recruitment nurse will contact the massage therapist on
      call by means of a cell phone. Massage therapists named in this application have agreed to be
      on call for the study for periods in total that cover 7 days per week. The massage therapist
      will leave immediately to come and provide massage therapy. The massage therapist will
      receive a brief report from the women's labour and delivery nurse as to what nature of the
      woman's labour to that point. She will then explain to the women what she would suggest for
      specific massage techniques and will begin as soon as the woman is ready. It should be noted
      that women may continue to use other non-invasive pain management modalities as they wish.
      This is a pragmatic trial in that massage therapy is seen as one additional choice that women
      will have access to in addition to the repertoire of choices that are routinely available.

      Study Outcomes:

      Our primary outcome is timing of epidural analgesia with respect to cervical dilatation. This
      outcome is chosen because 67% of nulliparous women at this institution have epidural
      analgesia and because of the association of epidural use with intrapartum interventions. In
      the current study we would like to be able to detect a mean decrease in cervical dilation at
      the time of request for epidural as small as 1 cm. In order to find a decrease of 1 cm in
      cervical dilation, which is a clinically important difference, we would need 42 study
      subjects per group with 80% power and a type I error set at p =.05, one sided. Since we
      learned from our previous study that 61% of women meeting study inclusion criteria receive an
      epidural prior to 10 cm dilatation, we know that we will have to recruit 70 women per study
      arm to have 42 people in each arm who receive an epidural.
    
  