
    
      Transurethral resection (TUR) of bladder tumor is one of commonest procedures in urology
      practice. It is the surgery of choice for staging and treating non-muscle invasive bladder
      cancer. Short lengths of hospital stay, simple and safe are the main advantages of the
      surgery. Conventional TUR is performed with monopolar diathermy, which commonly elicits
      obturator reflexes in lateral-located tumor. However, it is not without complication.
      Bleeding and bladder perforation with or without obturator reflex are the most significant
      complications after TUR of bladder tumor. The charring effect of monopolar is also a concern
      as the diagnosis of muscle invasion by tumor is determined by the integrity of tumor base
      biopsy. Mariappan et al. reported that as high as 33% of the specimen had no detrusor muscle
      present for assessment. The absent of muscle not only affect the staging procedure but also
      associated with higher cancer recurrence rate.

      Bipolar resection has been widely used in transurethral resection of prostate (TURP). As
      compared with the traditional monopolar technology, the electric current passes through the
      instrument sheath. The advantage of bipolar technology includes less obturator reflex, good
      hemostasis and early recovery. Study has showed that the cautery artifact is more severe on
      monopolar resection as compared with bipolar in prostate tissues. Due to the clean and
      precise cutting, there will be less charring on the specimen and thermal injury to peripheral
      tissues. Applying to bladder tumor resection, this will improve the staging accuracy with
      better determination of the depth of invasion. Furthermore, with the use of saline instead of
      glycine as irrigation fluid, risk of TUR syndrome is minimized. There is no randomized trial
      on the benefit of using bipolar instrument on TUR bladder cancer. In this study, investigator
      will investigate the role of bipolar technology in TUR bladder cancer as compared with
      traditional monopolar resection.
    
  