
    
      Burn patients suffer from several types of pain (due to stimulation of mechanoreceptors,
      nociceptors, and chemical stimulation) as well as other injuries. Multiple agents are used to
      control pain in this special group. Due to different pain mechanisms and the up-regulation of
      the mu receptors, numerous pain controlling modalities should be sought. Opioids are the
      mainstay in treating pain in such patients. Adjuvant non-opioid agents are less effective if
      used alone. These agents include non-steroidal, anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), α-2
      antagonists, local anesthetics and ketamine. Regional blocks can be used in the perioperative
      period if there are no contraindications, but catheters cannot be left in place for an
      extended period of time. Opioids have many side effects such as respiratory depression,
      nausea, vomiting, itching, urinary retention, and hyperalgesia. The latter is of concern in
      any patient on chronic opioids, including burn patients.

      Ketamine is a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist that has been
      successfully used in burn intensive care units (BICUs) to provide pain for dressing changes.
      It also has been in use in BICUs to supplement the analgesic effect of opioids. Ketamine
      exerts its clinical analgesic effect mainly by NMDA antagonism, but it also interacts with
      other receptors such as AMPA monoaminergic, nicotinic, muscarinic, and mu, delta, and kappa
      opioid receptors. It resembles local anesthetics in its interaction with sodium channels. Low
      dose ketamine infusion (LDKI) has been used as a postoperative analgesic in different
      patients group for various duration of time. Some studies have shown some benefit to using
      intraoperative low-dose ketamine in non-burn surgery in order to reduce post-operative opiate
      requirement. Little is known, from the literature, if an intraoperative low-dose ketamine
      infusion can be used as the main analgesic in burn patients in general, and in severely
      burned patients in specific.

      Previous studies have shown that ketamine potentiates the analgesic effects of low-dose
      fentanyl and, to a lesser degree, low-dose morphine by stimulation of phosphorylated
      extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2). It also increases the duration of
      opioid-induced analgesia, delays opioid induced tolerance, and plays a role in preventing
      opioid-induced hyperalgesia by delaying desensitization and by improving resensitization of
      ERK 1/2 signaling. From this pharmacologic standpoint, it is advantageous over other pain
      modalities in hemodynamically-compromised burn patients.

      Ketamine is being used extensively in burn ICUs but the low-dose infusion of ketamine did not
      capture as much attention in treating burn patients in the operating room (OR). Burn patients
      come to the OR numerous times for wound debridement, skin grafting or unrelated surgeries.
      The use of inhalation anesthetics poses the risk of hypotension in these hemodynamically
      fragile patients. Opioids are still the main agents in treating such patients in the OR and
      they are sometimes given in very high doses, due to the resistance and up-regulation of the
      mu opioid receptors mentioned above. These doses are often not very effective in controlling
      pain and can lead to hypotension if combined with potent inhalation agents.
    
  