
    
      This is an open label, multicenter study of an investigational formulation of HBP Lotion,
      0.05% in male and female subjects aged 12 to 16 years 11 months with stable plaque psoriasis.
      Approximately 25 subjects with stable plaque psoriasis on at least 10% of their BSA
      (excluding the face, scalp, groin, axillae and other intertriginous areas), who fulfill the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria will be enrolled at multiple study sites. All subjects will have
      a screening CST to assess their HPA axis response at Visit 1 (Screening Visit).

      Enrollment into the treatment phase of the study should be timed such that the screening CST
      will be performed a minimum of 20 days before Baseline Visit. At Visit 2 (Baseline), eligible
      subjects with normal adrenal function will be eligible to participate in the study.

      Subjects will apply HBP Lotion, 0.05% to all psoriasis plaques identified at Visit 2 twice
      daily (approximately every 12 hours) for the assigned treatment period or until the
      investigator verifies the subject's psoriasis has cleared. The study is designed to determine
      the adrenal suppression potential and pharmacokinetic properties of the test article after
      the subject applies a maximum of approximately 50 grams per week for up to a two week
      treatment period. All subjects will have a CST to reassess their HPA axis response at EOS (or
      earlier if the investigator verifies the subject's psoriasis has cleared). In this study, an
      abnormal Hypothalamujs Pituitary Adrenal axis response to 0.25 milligram dose of cosyntropin
      is defined as a post-CST serum total cortisol level of less than equal to18 μg/dL.

      Eligible subjects will have blood drawn at Screening for baseline drug concentration in
      plasma. On Day 8, all subjects, regardless of lesion clearance, will have blood drawn for
      assessment of trough drug concentration in plasma. At the Day 15 visit, subjects who have
      continued to treat lesions will have a final PK blood sample collected approximately 12 hours
      after their Day 14 evening application and just prior to the initiation of the CST.
    
  