
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) and the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) are major public health problems
      in southern Africa, and the incidence of TB in South Africa is among the highest in the
      world. TB is caused by the highly contagious bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The use of
      Isoniazid (INH) prophylaxis in adults has been associated with reduced risk of TB disease in
      high-risk populations. Delay in initiating INH prophylaxis in children has resulted in more
      cases of childhood TB infection. This study evaluated the effectiveness of INH prophylaxis in
      preventing TB infection in infants born to HIV-infected mothers in southern Africa.

      Infants were randomly assigned to receive either INH or placebo by mouth daily, beginning
      between the 91st and 120th day of life, and at least 90 days after Bacille Calmette-Guerin
      (BCG) vaccination. At sites in South Africa, HIV-infected infants received daily
      trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX) as Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PCP) prophylaxis
      until at least 1 year of age; HIV-uninfected infants received TMP/SMX until at least 6 months
      of age.

      The study was to follow participants for 192 weeks. Study visits occurred at study entry and
      every 12 weeks until week 192. A physical exam and blood collection occurred at each study
      visit. Infants were assessed for peripheral neuropathy every 12 weeks until week 96 and for
      TB at weeks 96, 144, and 192. The study also assessed medication adherence.

      As of November 12, 2008, follow-up was revised. All participants were permanently
      discontinued from study follow-up by February 28, 2009 and no later than May 31, 2009. Only
      clinical evaluations were performed for all participants. For HIV-infected participants, the
      study drug was stopped at the next scheduled visit. For HIV-uninfected subjects, the study
      drug was discontinued immediately.
    
  