
    
      Docetaxel is a drug designed to help stop cancer cells from growing and dividing. ZD1839 is
      also a drug designed to block cancer cells from growing and dividing.

      Before treatment starts, you will have a complete physical exam. Blood (2-3 tablespoons) and
      urine tests will be taken as part of the usual evaluation of liver, bone marrow, blood
      clotting ability, and kidney function. A chest x-ray and ECG (test to measure the electrical
      activity of the heart) will be done. You will have imaging studies such as a CT scan of the
      chest abdomen and pelvis and a bone scan to show the location of current tumors. If needed,
      an MRI scan of the brain will be done. This evaluation is considered standard. Women who are
      able to have children must have a negative blood pregnancy test. Patients who have a history
      of invasive tumors in their bladder, and who have not had a prior cystoscopy, must have a
      screening cystoscopy with an EUA (examination under anesthesia), to check the extent of
      disease in their bladder. An EUA of the bladder is a standard procedure for diagnosing and
      checking the status of bladder cancer.

      You will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to one of two treatment groups.
      Participants in one group will receive docetaxel alone. Participants in the other group will
      receive docetaxel plus ZD1839. There is an equal chance of being assigned to either group.
      Both you and the study doctor will know to which group you were assigned.

      Docetaxel will be given through a catheter (a plastic tube) placed in a large vein in the
      chest or arm. The medication will be given over about thirty minutes one day each week for 4
      weeks. This will be followed by a 2 week break. The 4 weeks of treatment and 2 weeks without
      treatment will be considered one course (6 weeks).

      Dexamethasone will be given to decrease the risk of having an allergic reaction to the
      docetaxel. In the first cycle, you will receive 3 doses of dexamethasone by mouth every 12
      hours starting the night before the docetaxel infusion. If you have no reaction, the
      dexamethasone will be decreased in Course 2 to one dose twice on the day of therapy. If there
      is no reaction in Course 2, the dexamethasone will be decreased further to 1 dose 1 hour
      before docetaxel treatment.

      ZD1839 is a medication taken by mouth every day without break. Participants in the docetaxel
      plus ZD1839 group will take one ZD1839 tablet once a day at about the same time. You can take
      ZD1839 with or without food. If you forget to take a dose, take the last missed dose as soon
      as you remember, as long as it is at least 12 hours before the next dose is due. If it is
      less than 12 hours until the next dose, do not take the dose you have missed.

      During treatment, you will have a weekly blood test (2-3 tablespoons) to measure bone marrow
      function. A physical exam and blood tests (2-3 tablespoons) will be repeated before each
      cycle of treatment. Imaging studies will be repeated at 9 months but may be performed sooner
      if you have symptoms that show your tumor may be getting worse. These scans are considered
      part of standard routine follow-up.

      You will be on study as long as the tumor is not growing at a certain rate and there are no
      severe side effects. Therapy will be stopped and you may be taken off study early if one or
      both of these things occur. After 6 months, patients can choose to continue therapy if they
      wish. At the end of 4 cycles, you will have the option to continue your assigned therapy as
      long as it is tolerated and there is no evidence that the disease is getting worse. There is
      no maximum amount of time that you can receive treatment on this study.

      After the study is complete, follow-up will be arranged at the discretion of your treating
      physician.

      This is an investigational study. The FDA has authorized ZD1839 for research use only. A
      total of 90 patients may take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  