
    
      Introduction: Postoperative ileus is a normal response to the surgical handling of bowel that
      causes transient impairment of bowel motility after abdominal surgery. It is characterized by
      distension, absence of bowel sounds, and lack of passage of flatus and stool. The duration of
      postoperative ileus is related to the degree of surgical manipulation and the location of
      surgery. Colonic surgery is associated with the longest duration of ileus. Morphine
      patient-controlled intravenous analgesia (PCIA) is commonly used to provide pain control
      after bowel surgery. The bowel wall contains opiate receptors that decrease bowel peristalsis
      in the presence of morphine. Thus, both surgery and PCIA slow return of normal bowel
      function.

      Lidocaine and ketamine are non-opioid analgesics that have been shown to be safe and
      efficacious in low doses when combined with morphine for post-operative pain control. Since
      the addition of lidocaine or ketamine to a morphine PCIA regimen results in lower total use
      of morphine, and since lidocaine or ketamine does not slow peristalsis, , it is reasonable to
      expect that low-dose lidocaine or ketamine plus PCIA morphine will result in faster return of
      bowel function than PCIA morphine alone.

      Intravenous lidocaine was first shown to relieve cancer pain in the 1950s. Since then,
      intravenous lidocaine has been shown also to relieve pain after a wide variety of surgeries.
      Ketamine is a non-opioid analgesic that has been shown to be safe and efficacious in very low
      doses when combined with morphine for post-operative pain control . A review of ketamine for
      postoperative pain control recently completed by Dr McKay has shown that ketamine is most
      efficacious when given after a painful surgical insult, and that preoperative bezodiazepines
      prevent ketamine-induced hallucinations (submitted for publication). Groudine, in patients
      undergoing radical retropubic prostatectomy, determined that intravenous lidocaine infusion
      intraoperatively decreased the duration of postoperative ileus, decreased the pain scores
      postoperatively, and resulted in a 50% reduction in morphine use, and a 20% reduction in
      hospitalization time. This was felt to be due to early ambulation, earlier times to passing
      gas and having a bowel movement, and faster advancement to a full diet and oral analgesics.
      Lidocaine plasma levels were well below toxic range.

      We propose a double-blind placebo-controlled study of patients undergoing elective or urgent
      colon surgery with an anastomotic procedure. All patients will receive normal PCA morphine in
      addition to study drugs or placebo. Research will be conducted at Saskatoon teaching
      hospitals. This procedure was chosen as it is associated with a longer duration of ileus
      compared to other abdominal surgeries and more likely to show a significant treatment effect.

      If previous data is applicable to colonic surgery then we can expect a decrease in
      postoperative analgesic requirements, earlier return of bowel function, earlier progression
      to full diet and earlier discharge dates.

      The dose of lidocaine we propose has been shown to be safe in thousands of patients for whom
      it was used to treat arrhythmias; that of ketamine in more than twenty studies of
      postoperative pain control.
    
  