
    
      As a result of combination antiretroviral therapy (ART), morbidity and mortality from
      acquired immunodeficiency syndrome has declined significantly in the past 15 years, at least
      in developed countries. Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infected individuals now
      live longer, but must undergo continuous therapy that has substantial consequences on quality
      of life.

      ART suppresses HIV-1 viremia below the limits of detection in current commercial assays (c.
      50 copies/mL plasma), but HIV viremia persists even after prolonged suppressive therapy. The
      origin of this residual viremia is yet not clear, but data suggest that production from long
      lived HIV infected cells may contribute to viremia.

      Antiretrovirals are extremely active against replicating cells, and can thus successfully
      stop viral replication, but have no effect on long-lived viral reservoirs of cells already
      infected with HIV-1 at the time antiretroviral therapy is initiated. As a result, new
      strategies are necessary to reduce or eradicate long-lived reservoirs.

      Interferon alpha is a natural cytokine with antiviral activity. Prior to the introduction of
      antiretroviral therapy, several studies demonstrated modest effect of interferon alpha in
      HIV-1 viremia in active cycles of infection in infected individuals. Interferon alpha was
      also effective in vitro in decreasing virus production from cells chronically infected with
      HIV-1. With the introduction of potent antiretroviral therapy, interferon was not developed
      as a direct anti-HIV drug. Interferon alpha is relatively effective in therapy of hepatitis C
      virus (HCV) infection, and has been used in HIV-1/HCV coinfected individuals. Kottilil and
      coworkers in the Laboratory of Immunoregulation National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
      Diseases (NIAID) have shown a decrease in HIV-1 ribonucleic acid (RNA) levels in HCV
      coinfected participants treated with pegylated interferon alpha and ribavirin. In stored
      samples from that study, we conducted a retrospective trial on samples from participants with
      HIV-1 RNA levels of <50 copies/mL, showing a further reduction in residual viremia using an
      ultrasensitive Single Copy Assay (SCA) developed in our laboratory. As such the effects of
      interferon on HIV viremia and cell associated HIV RNA are of growing interest.

      In this protocol we will conduct a prospective, non-randomized, single arm, pilot study to
      investigate the effect of pegylated interferon alpha 2b on HIV-1 RNA levels as an additional
      drug in participants undergoing suppressive antiretroviral therapy with viral RNA levels
      suppressed to less than 50 copies/mL plasma. As patients may have levels of HIV RNA that are
      lower than our limit of detection, we will also investigate levels of HIV nucleic acid
      species in cells as well. We will determine whether interferon alpha therapy will reduce
      residual viremia or cell associated HIV RNA in participants on suppressive ART, which will
      expand our understanding of persistent low-level viremia and the pathogenesis of HIV in
      infected individuals.
    
  