
    
      Knee Osteoarthritis has high incidence in the population over 60 years reaching a rate of 10%
      in several studies. However, not all arthritic knee joints are actively causing patient
      discomfort or pain. There is only a limited correlation between patient radio graphs and
      symptoms leading to high rates of false positive and false negative of knee OA. Consequently,
      patients may have bilateral knee arthritis when the more arthritic knee per x-ray is less
      symptomatic. On the other hand knee MRI and bone scan maybe oversensitive for diagnosis knee
      arthritis with a high rate of false positive.

      The purpose of this study is to examine the value of PET MRI as a tool for accurate diagnosis
      of active knee osteoarthritis.

      The hypothesis is that using PET MRI of both knees may correlate better than radio graphs or
      MRI by themselves to patient symptoms .

      The study will consist of 150 patients with bilateral or unilateral knee pain with one of the
      knees having more symptoms than the other. The study physicians who perform the PET MRI will
      be blinded to the patient symptoms and will record their findings and which knee is more
      symptomatic and along which pattern

      Enrollment:

        -  All patients that are sent for knee MRI

        -  Patients over the age of 50 years old

        -  All patients will sign an informed consent for the study prior to the PET MRI

        -  Unilateral or Bilateral knee pain

        -  All patients were ambulatory preoperative, using no more then a single cane

        -  All patients had prior Weight Bearing AP x-rays and Lateral radiography The patients
           will be fill in SF-36 and WOMAC and VAS scores along prior to their examination.

      All patients will have an orthopedic assessment of their symptoms prior to their PET MRI.

      Participants will carry out a PET-MR imaging. PET involves injecting FDG (glucose labeled
      isotope of fluorine) intravenously at a dose of 2.5 mci . After a wait of about 40 minutes
      will be performed PET MR lasting up to 40 minutes.

      All findings will be evaluated.
    
  