
    
      This study will be a pragmatic, prospective, single blind, randomized controlled trial.
      Stratified randomization will be performed to account for those patients that necessitate a
      subacromial corticosteroid injection prior to or during the physical therapy intervention.
      The diagnosis of primary glenohumeral osteoarthritis will be confirmed by the orthopedic
      surgeon involved in the study. All subjects will have radiographs at the time of initial
      evaluation (standard medical practice) and magnetic resonance imaging will only be required
      at the discretion of the orthopedic surgeon when this modality is necessary to rule out other
      shoulder pathologies of concern.

      This study will use a convenient sample of consecutive subjects who meet all inclusion
      criteria and present to the shoulder service physicians at UT Southwestern outpatient clinic
      with a primary compliant of shoulder pain and stiffness. If appropriate for the study, the
      subjects will be referred to physical therapy for additional assessment and care. If
      interested in participation, each potential subject will be educated regarding the purpose
      and logistics of the study and asked to enroll via informed consent.

      Approximately 25 of the 50 subjects will be seen in the clinic for 6 visits within a 4 week
      time frame. All subjects will return for follow-up or phone call at 4, 8, and 52 weeks for
      final data collection and outcomes assessment. The last follow-up assessment at one year will
      be via phone contact. For those attending physical therapy, the duration of the visits, 1-6,
      will last from 30-60 min. The final visit, visit 9, will take 15-30 minutes. The phone call
      on the tenth interaction will last 5-10 minutes.

      Session 1: Participant Enrollment - Obtainment of consent, HIPPA and health screen. Baseline
      dependent variable data will be collection and the subjects will be randomly allocated to one
      of the treatment groups. One group will receive usual medical advice including tips on
      posture, activity modifications, and symptom control. The other group will initiate the
      program of physical therapy outlined below. Subjects allocated to the physical therapy
      treatment arm will proceed to a standard physical therapy visit in which they will be
      instructed in the initial exercise training and educated on the use exercise log for
      assessment of compliance.

      Session 2-6 (within 4 weeks after session 1): All patients in the experimental group will
      receive standardized physical therapy intervention to treat shoulder osteoarthritis including
      manual therapy (no more than 2 units, <37 minutes) and standard flexibility and range of
      motion exercises. Patient's will also undergo an in clinic assessment of compliance of their
      exercise program and appropriate progression of the shoulder strengthening exercises will be
      provided. Patients in the control group will not participate in sessions 2-5.

      Independent Variable:

      Group 1 Intervention- manual physical therapy and strengthening exercises to the entire upper
      quarter, flexibility exercises, range of motion exercises, and usual medical advice.

      Manual Therapy: joint mobilization to anterior, posterior, and inferior capsule as indicated
      at discretion of treating physical therapist

      Shoulder Exercise Training:

        1. Adducted ER with towel roll in sitting or standing ("no-money" exercise with concurrent
           external rotation)

        2. Supine or standing boxer punch for serratus

        3. Short arc military press progressing to flexion or scaption as tolerated

        4. Subscapularis isolation via seated narrow grip internal rotation row

        5. Horizontal abduction in neutral (wide grip rows)

             -  Compliance to the home exercise program will be assessed using a daily log.

             -  All therapeutic exercises with include theraband resistance performed 2-3x20/daily

      Session 6 (4 weeks after Session 1): Post-Intervention Data Collection and finalization of
      the exercise training and self-mobilization protocol for the experimental group. The control
      group will return for a repeat of baseline testing.

      Session 7 (8 weeks after Session 1): Post-Intervention Data Collection - Re-assessment of
      dependent variables.

      Session 8 (one year after enrollment): Phone call to collect outcome assessment data

      Dependent Variables:

      Primary

        1. Numerical pain rating scale at baseline day 28, day 56, and day 365 during scapular
           plane shoulder elevation

        2. Functional Outcome Score: American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeon scale (ASES) questionnaire
           and Simple Shoulder Test (SST)

      Secondary

        1. Patient's Global Rating of Change (15 point ordinal scale ranging from -7 to +7)

        2. Patient self-reported global percentage of improvement (0-100%)

        3. Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia score

        4. Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index score

        5. Internal and External Rotation Range of Motion

        6. Scapular Elevation strength via manual muscle test
    
  