
    
      Introduction:

      Superior cluneal nerve (SCN) entrapment is the commonly omitted diagnosis in chronic low back
      pain. The superior cluneal nerve is the terminal branch of the lateral branches of the
      posterior rami of the L1-L3 spinal nerves, which passes through the osseous tunnel interposed
      between the thoracolumbar fascia and iliac crest. This nerve can be entrapped due to poor
      posture, trauma or stretching of the surrounding thoracolumbar fascia and osseous membrane.
      The cardinal symptom of the superior cluneal nerve entrapment is buttock pain. Sometimes the
      pain may radiate to the lower limb, which mimics sciatica, and makes the diagnosis difficult.
      Early diagnosis and treatment of SCN entrapment is crucial, which can facilitate the
      improvement of health related quality of life and decrement the socioeconomic loss due to
      disability.

      Material and methods:

      Participants: Adult patients (>20 year old) with low back/buttock pain > 4weeks or recurrent
      low back/buttock pain >2 times per year. The pain consists area of iliac crest.

      Control : healthy adult subjects (>20 year old) without low back

      Exclusion criteria: non-mechanical low back pain, referred low back pain (tumor, infection,
      inflammatory arthritis, Scheuermann disease,Paget disease, herpetic neuralgia), trauma, acute
      compression fracture, acute herniated disc, underwent nerve block within 3 months.

      Study design:

      (1) To scan the SCN and thoracolumbar fascia by high-resolution ultrasound in patients with
      LBP and normal subjects. The transcutaneous electrical stimulation will be used to confirm
      the location of SCN by asking the subject to depict the sensory distribution after
      stimulation; (2) to analyze the related factors of LBP with SCN entrapment, which may help in
      setting up the diagnostic criteria of SCN entrapment; (3) to analyze the therapeutic effect
      of perineural injection to SCN in SCN entrapment, and to find the factors that related
      responsiveness.

      Detail of the intervention

        1. High-resolution ultrasound evaluation of buttock region to recognize the superior
           cluneal nerve in patients with SCN entrapment and healthy control. The transcutaneous
           electrical stimulation will be assisted device for confirming the diagnosis by
           subjective response of patients.

        2. Collecting the LBP-related information, including physical examination results ((SLRT,
           Extension in one-leg standing, Gaeslen's test, Yeoman's test, compression test,
           distraction test, FABER test and ROM), lumbosacral and pelvic X-ray. Compare the related
           information with sonography(gray-scale/elastography) results and electrophysiological
           test results (Sensory nerve conduction study).

        3. Intervention: single arm experiment design. Ultrasound guided perineural injection with
           5% dextrose 4 c.c. + 1% xylocaine 1 c.c. to site where SCN being entrapment, to evaluate
           the clinical efficacy of perineural injection to SCN entrapment.

      Outcome measurement:

      Primary outcome :

        1. Modified version of the Oswestry Disability Questionnaire used in the AAOS lumbar
           cluster

        2. Short-Form-36 (SF-36)

        3. Visual analogue scale at baseline 4 weeks and 12 weeks after injection

      Secondary outcome:

        1. Sonography (gray-scale/elastography)

        2. Electrophysiological test (Sensory nerve conduction study) at baseline, 4 weeks and 12
           weeks after injection

      Statistical analysis:

      Continuous variables

        1. Student's t test: fit assumption of normal distribution

        2. Mann-Whitney test: does not fit the assumption of normal distribution Categorical
           variables (1) Chi-square test (2) Fisher exact test: sparse data

      Multivariate analysis:

        1. Linear regression

        2. Logistic regression
    
  