
    
      Justification of the research :

      The trisomy 21 is the most frequent cause of handicap of genetic origin with an incidence of
      1.3/1 000 births which increases with the maternal age. Several strategies of antenatal
      screening were developed. The High Authority of Health recently recommended to propose to the
      pregnant women a 1st trimester combined screening, realized between 11+0 and 13+6 weeks of
      amenorrhoea, associating measure of the NUCALE translucency and dosage in maternal serum :
      PAPP-A (Pregnancy Associated Plasma Protein A) and βhCG (free β human Chorionic 1st trimester
      Gonadotrophin). However, the sensibility of these screening tests is about 80 % for 5 % of
      positive false. The diagnosis of aneuploidy is then established on a population classified at
      high risk, by a foetal karyotype (requiring an invasive procedure : biopsy of trophoblast or
      amniocentesis). A positive screening increase maternal and medical anxiety. Furthermore, the
      inappropriate combination of the tests is at the origin of numerous useless invasive
      procedures (national rate of amniocentesis of 11 %), at risk of foetal losses (0,5 in 1 %).
      This inflation of invasive procedures leads to so many losses of not affected children as
      trisomic children and to a badly known maternal morbidity.

      Several studies showed that 10 % of the free DNA found from the first quarter of the
      pregnancy in the maternal plasma is of foetal origin and that this DNA is specific of the
      foetal nuclear DNA of the current pregnancy. This opened the way of a possible not invasive
      antenatal diagnosis of the foetal aneuploidy which collided during the last 10 years with the
      performances limited by the isolation and by the sequencing of the foetal DNA in the maternal
      plasma. A new technique of analysis by broadband sequencing of the DNA circulating in the
      maternal blood for the diagnosis of the most frequent aneuploid the trisomy 21 of which was
      brought back(reported). The High-output shotgun sequencing of all the DNA circulating in the
      maternal blood, then the reading and the identification of all the chromosome sequences
      allows to analyze the quantity of DNA resulting from the supernumerary chromosome, without
      necessity of differentiating maternal and foetal DNA. On the basis of very recent works 10,
      this excess of sequences resulting specifically from the chromosome 21 foetal supernumerary
      allows a discrimination completes between trisomy 21 and disomy 21. However, this study
      analyzed only 9 cases of trisomy 21 and the sampling of maternal blood were realized after
      the amniocentesis or the choriocenteses, what could artificially have increased the quantity
      of circulating foetal DNA.

      Objectives :

      Demonstrate that the High output shotgun sequencing of the foetal DNA in the maternal blood
      could allow a complete discrimination between the mothers of a trisomic fetus 21 or a
      DISOMIQUE fetus 21 from the first quarter of the pregnancy, and so to obtain a reliable
      alternative in invasive procedure.

      Method Two public centres of antenatal screening were established to answer specifically the
      recommendations of the High Authority of Health and have the capacity to make 20 000 acts of
      screenings a year. All the women presenting a high risk (> 1/250) of aneuploidy and the
      candidates to an invasive procedure, will see suggesting participating in the study. The
      included patients will have a maternal blood sample before the invasive test. This taking
      will be put in on hold in-80°C after centrifugation following the recommended protocol. At
      the end of inclusion, the technic of analysis of the circulating DNA will be realized then
      blind by the laboratory on all the diagnosed cases (by usual invasive examination, or at the
      conclusion of the pregnancy) of trisomy 21 and on control representative of all the spectre
      of the levels of risk. A study of reproducibility of the quantification of the DNA of the
      chromosome 21 will be realized.

      Number of subjects:

      we plan to include 75 cases of trisomy 21 and 150 control cases with normal karyotype, what
      allows to detect a 99,9 % sensibility and a 99,99 % specificity with a power of at least 95
      %.

      Duration of the study:

      these objectives are practicable in two years on the basis of the number of invasive takings
      realized in both center and an already realized study

      Ethical Aspects: research on data and biological collection. No individual medical decision
      will be taken according to the estimated test.

      Perspectives:

      this new technique, if it is generalizable, would allow to limit the number of procedures of
      invasive diagnosis (amniocentesis and choriocentesis) which contain a significant risk of
      grave maternal and fetal complications, while optimizing the capacities of this screening.
    
  