
    
      Photodynamic therapy (PDT) with methyl-aminolevulinate (MAL) is effective in the treatment of
      actinic keratosis (AK). Many strategies have been studied to improve the production of
      protoporphyrin IX (PpIX), to improve efficacy of PDT. Pre-treatment of the skin with
      fractional laser resurfacing is a novel alternative technique to improve the efficacy of PDT
      for AK. Our previous studies showed that ablative fractional laser-primed PDT (AFL-PDT)
      offered higher efficacy than conventional MAL-PDT in the treatment of many diseases, such as
      AK, actinic cheilitis, Bowen's disease and basal cell carcinoma.1-4 Iontophoresis can be
      another method to improve efficacy of PDT. Iontophoresis is a transdermal drug-delivery
      technique which uses a mild electric current to enhance the transport of ionic species across
      membranes. Iontophoresis has been widely used to enhance drug delivery. Mizutani K et al.5
      reported 5 AK patients successfully treated with direct-current pulsed iontophoresis-assisted
      5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA)-PDT. Boddé HE et al.6 studied iontophoretic transport of ALA
      quantitatively in vitro and demonstrated enhanced transport of ALA by iontophoresis.

      Until now, appropriate incubation time for AFL-PDT has not been elucidated. In our previous
      study, we investigated the efficacy of AFL-PDT with a short incubation time.7 Although
      AFL-PDT with a short incubation time (2 h) showed enhanced efficacy than conventional MAL-PDT
      with the standard incubation time, standard AFL-PDT with 3-h incubation time showed
      significantly higher efficacy than AFL-PDT with a short incubation time.

      The aim of our study was to evaluate efficacy of iontophoresis in AFL-PDT for AK treatment.
      Consequently, we compared efficacy, recurrence rate, cosmetic outcome and safety between
      iontophoresis-assisted AFL-PDT with 2-h incubation time and conventional AFL-PDT with 2-h and
      3-h incubation times.
    
  