
    
      Our long-term goal is to understand, from a mechanistic perspective, how ART appears to
      result in rapid, successful treatment of PTSD and related comorbidities. This knowledge will
      help to identify target populations for treatment, and objective approaches in which to
      evaluate patient outcome response beyond conventional reliance on self-report measures. Thus,
      specific aims of our proposal, which will make use of wireless equipment for
      Electrocardiographic (ECG) measurement of Heart Rate Variability (HRV), and
      Electroencephalographic (EEG) measurements of power spectral densities and sleep
      architecture, are as follows:

        1. To quantify and characterize changes in HRV, EEG power spectral densities, sleep
           architecture, and ANS balance within individual sessions of ART, as well as before and
           at the end of treatment with ART (up to 4 sessions).

        2. To examine whether the aforementioned ART-induced changes in HRV, EEG power spectral
           densities, sleep architecture, and ANS balance vary substantially in the setting of
           primary treatment for symptoms of post- traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression,
           acute stress disorder, complicated grief, and/or alcohol abuse.

        3. To assess the degree of concordance between ART-induced objective measurement of changes
           in HRV, EEG power spectral densities, sleep architecture, and ANS balance and
           self-report changes in symptoms of PTSD, depression, acute stress disorder, complicated
           grief, and/or alcohol abuse.

      The investigators will accomplish these objectives using a prospective, longitudinal,
      descriptive design to achieve robust results. Subjects (n=40) will be enrolled in the study
      based on symptomatology. All subjects will receive Accelerated Resolution Therapy (ART) on a
      weekly basis for up to 4 sessions. The dose of up to 4 sessions has been selected to insure
      what is believed to be an effective dose based on previous studies of ART for treatment of
      PTSD. The investigators will collect data pre, during, and post each ART session. The sample
      of 40 subjects will be drawn from referrals at private practices of designated licensed
      mental health clinicians certified in ART, referrals from stakeholders and academic and
      community partners (e.g. USF student veterans referred through the USF Office of Student
      Veterans), and referrals of immediate family members of an individual who received hospice
      care prior to death at Suncoast Hospice or Chapters Health System. All subjects will undergo
      an intake assessment by a licensed clinical psychologist to determine study eligibility at
      USF.

      The investigators expect to obtain support for our central hypothesis that ART modulates
      neurophysiological mechanisms through neurophysiological biomarkers of the autonomic
      (parasympathetic) nervous system and improved sleep architecture. Knowledge from a
      mechanistic perspective, on how ART appears to result in rapid, successful treatment of
      symptoms of PTSD and related conditions will help to identify target populations for
      treatment, and objective approaches in which to evaluate patient outcome response beyond
      conventional reliance on self-report measures.
    
  