
    
      Many couples experience sexual problems following breast cancer treatment, and difficulties
      with intimacy and sexuality tend to extend past the 1 year post-treatment point. Given that
      resources available for couples who experience sexual distress after breast cancer are
      virtually non-existent, there is a need to develop and empirically evaluate psychosexual
      interventions for breast cancer patients and their partners.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the feasibility, process, and outcomes of an online,
      couples-based intervention designed to address sexual problems encountered by many couples
      facing breast cancer. The intervention will take place in the form of six E-therapy sessions
      delivered via secure, encrypted videoconferencing software commonly used by health care
      providers practicing telemedicine. Each session will be supplemented by psychoeducational
      materials (i.e. reading and/or video) available through a privately accessed homepage for the
      study.

      Thirty couples will participate in the study, and will be be randomized to either the
      treatment condition or the wait-list control condition. Participants assigned to the
      wait-list will have the option of receiving the online program once they have completed their
      commitment to the study (approximately 5 months later). In addition to completing
      standardized questionnaires, couples will participate in pre- and post-treatment interviews,
      which will be analyzed thematically in order to improve the intervention and its delivery.

      The proposed project builds upon existing research pertaining to the sexual health
      implications of female cancer survivorship, and will fill a gap both in the literature and
      support available to breast cancer survivors experiencing sexual distress. Given that sexual
      distress is such a crucial concern for women with breast cancer, and that the majority of
      couples experiencing sexual difficulties may not receive adequate support in this regard, the
      goal of the proposed project will be the creation of an accessible, cost-effective,
      empirically validated tool that could help improve the quality of life of couples affected by
      breast cancer.
    
  