
    
      With 48 763 new cases in 2012, breast cancer represents the first female cancer in France.
      Although the incidence of this malignancy peaks after the age of 60 years, nearly 2500 of
      reproductive-age women are diagnosed with breast cancer every year. Recent advances in cancer
      therapy markedly improved the rates of cure for young adult suffering from cancers. Over the
      past decade, the mortality rates in breast cancer patients has decreased by more than 1.6%
      per year. The five year survival rate for women under 45 with breast cancer is now
      approaching 80%. As a consequence, a new population of young cancer survivors has emerged
      whose fertility is compromised after cancer therapy. Thus, the question of fertility
      preservation (FP) in young cancer patients has become a major issue in the care-personalized
      path. Indeed, information regarding the risks of infertility and FP counselling may
      contribute to improving the quality of life and the coping of patients with the burden of
      cancer treatment. Therefore, oncofertility counselling by a specialist is now recommended for
      all young cancer patients having to undergo treatment that may reduce the fertility
      potential.

      Gonadotoxicity is a well-known long-term side effect of cancer treatment in young patient
      having survived malignant diseases. Neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy usually combining
      alkylating agent and taxane, is often recommended for young women presenting with breast
      cancer. However, alkylating agents, such as cyclophosphamide have been shown to cause
      extensive dose-dependent loss of primordial follicles in cancer patients. Beside a
      enhancement of apoptosis, cyclophosphamide might induce a follicular loss through an
      activation of the primordial follicle recruitment: the "burnout" phenomenon.

      Moreover, the extent of ovarian damages depends not only on the nature and dose of
      chemotherapy but also on age and ovarian reserve before treatment. Women age at chemotherapy
      administration is one of the most predictive risk factor of follicular depletion after the
      end of treatment. Therefore, according to the extent of the follicular damages, the gonadal
      function may vary from moderate to severe diminished ovarian reserve (DOR) and possibly to
      the ultimate stage of premature ovarian insufficiency (POI).

      Currently, patients' age and the values of markers of the follicular ovarian status (serum
      anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) levels and ultrasonographic antral follicle count (AFC),
      measured before the initiation of gonadotoxic treatment, are considered the most accurate
      predictive factors of post chemotherapy ovarian function. However, they may have some
      limitations since important inter-individual variations in the ovarian reserve two years
      after completion of treatment are reported in patients displaying similar age, AMH as well as
      AFC. This observation suggests that, besides environmental and pathologic variables, genetic
      variations, inducing different ovarian sensitivity to chemotherapy, might be at play.

      Indeed, in healthy women, age at natural menopause varies from 40 to 55 years and is
      characterized by a strong familial concordance. Many studies of large genome-wide association
      (GWAS) found a link between the age and variants of some genes involved in DNA repair, DNA
      maintenance and folliculogenesis as initial follicular recruitment. Since these genes may
      have an influence on the ovarian reserve (together with the effects of gonadotoxic treatment
      regimens), investigators hypothesize that genetic polymorphisms known to be associated with
      age at menopause (BRSK1 (rs1 172822), ARHGEF7 (rs7333181), MCM8 (rs236114), PCSK1 (rs271924),
      IGF2R (rs9457827), TNF (rs909253), AMH (rs10407022) and AMHR2 (rs2002555) could be linked to
      the intensity of the follicular depletion after chemotherapy.

      The primary objective is to evaluate whether genetic polymorphisms, previously identified as
      being correlated with age at menopause onset in the healthy population, are associated with
      the intensity of the follicular decline following chemotherapy in young breast cancer
      survivors.

      The secondary objectives are to evaluate the association between genetic polymorphisms and
      other parameters related to female fertility, as menstrual cycle profile, pregnancy rate,
      serum anti-mullerian hormone (AMH) levels and ultrasonographic antral count (AFC) after
      chemotherapy such as the menstrual cycle profile and pregnancy rates.

      Eligible subjects followed in the different participating centers will be included in this
      study. Informed consent will be obtained from all participating individuals before blood
      sample collection and molecular studies. AMH measurement and AFC will be performed before the
      cancer treatment randomly during the menstrual cycle phase. In the same time, blood samples
      will be taken for the genotyping. All patients will receive adjuvant or neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy containing cyclophosphamide, epirubicin, 5-FU and docetaxel. Patients will be
      evaluated 12 and 24 months after the end of the treatment. A clinical (menstrual cyclicity)
      and hormonal (AMH, FSH) evaluation associated with ultrasound evaluation of AFC of enrolled
      patients will be performed. Thus, association between genetic polymorphism and the depth of
      ovarian decline (classified as: normal ovarian reserve, moderate DOR, severe DOR or POI)
      after healing will be evaluated.
    
  