
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the response rate in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer treated with
           celecoxib, leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the time of disease control to evaluate progression-free survival in patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the salvage surgery rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the duration of chemotherapy-free intervals in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the tolerability of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the quality of life of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive FOLFOX7 chemotherapy comprising oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours and leucovorin
      calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours beginning on day 1.
      Patients also receive oral celecoxib twice daily beginning on day 1. Treatment repeats every
      14 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients with stable or responding disease stop treatment. If disease progression occurs
      during the chemotherapy-free interval, patients receive an additional 6 courses.

      Patients with responding disease after receiving at least 6 courses of chemotherapy may
      undergo surgery. Beginning within 10 weeks after surgery, patients receive simplified LV5FU2
      chemotherapy comprising leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1, fluorouracil IV over 46
      hours beginning on day 1, and oral celecoxib twice daily beginning on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 14 days for at least 12 courses.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, during courses 4 and 6, and then every 2 months
      thereafter.

      Patients are followed at 1 month and then every 2 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 39 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  