
    
      Stress is a large part of daily modern life; however, it can cause a number of long-term
      problems for mental and physical health. Recent research has confirmed that there are
      definite mental and physical health benefits of maintaining significant positive social
      bonds. Many of these benefits appear to be associated with the ability to regulate stress
      that is caused by environmental challenges. Drawing on close relationships and expressing
      affection may help people to recover from stress more effectively. This study will evaluate
      the tend-and-befriend theory, which suggests that engaging in behaviors aimed at maintaining
      and strengthening significant social bonds can act as an adaptive response to acute stress.

      All participants in this study will undergo a series of standard laboratory stressors
      designed to elevate cortisol levels. Cortisol, also known as the "stress hormone," is
      activated and secreted within the body in response to stress. Current research suggests that
      displaying signs of affection toward a loved one can lower cortisol levels, causing the body
      to relax and recover from a stressful situation more quickly. After lab tests have been
      completed, participants will be randomly assigned to an experimental or control group.
      Participants assigned to the experimental group will spend 20 minutes writing an affectionate
      letter to a loved one. Participants assigned to the control group will spend 20 minutes
      writing about meaningless topics. Levels of cortisol will be measured using saliva samples
      from each participant during the writing session. Levels of oxytocin, a hormone known to
      transmit signals within the brain and often associated with bonding and building trusting
      relationships, will be measured from blood samples taken during the writing session as well.
      Participants will also provide a self-report of their current stress level at the end of the
      study. Participation in this study will last approximately 2 hours. By examining associations
      between the communication of affection and responses to acute stress, this study may
      eventually lead to the development of new and better treatment options for people with
      constant acute stress.
    
  