
    
      Low back pain disorders are reported in 19-21% of the North American population, with the
      majority of them associating pain and physical impairment. Patients with this illness have an
      increased utilization of medical services, higher incidence of lost work days and long-term
      disability, representing a significant burden to the healthcare system and the economy.

      Within the population of CLBP patients, two broad subgroups can easily be identified in the
      clinical setting: the patients who present with CLBP as their only pain symptom, and patients
      that present with CLBP and also associate widespread painful symptoms. The presence of
      widespread painful symptoms in the setting of low back pain has been recognized as a strong
      predictor of chronicity, apart from this, patients in this subgroup are more commonly middle
      aged females, report higher intensity of pain, more emotional problems and sleep disorders
      amongst others.

      A recent publication by Slate et al has described genetic differences in patients with
      Temporal Mandibular Disorder (TMD) that present with either localized or widespread painful
      symptoms. This study established a link between Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs)
      associated to the Serotonin Receptor and patients with localized TDM, and the presence of
      SNPs associated to the T cell receptor with patients with TMD and widespread symptoms. CLBP
      and TMD are two chronic pain conditions that are commonly present together. Given the
      connection between these two chronic pain disorders, it is highly likely that the genetic
      association findings from Slate et al could also be present in the CLPB population.

      The main purpose of this study is to determine if CLBP patients presenting with either
      localized or widespread painful symptoms respond differently to treatment with Duloxetine, a
      Serotonin and Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitor (SNRI), and if the effectiveness of treatment
      with this drug can determined by the presence or absence of SNPs associated with the
      Serotonin receptor.

      Another novel treatment alternative for patients with CLBP is Propranolol. This drug is a
      non-selective beta blocker that has also been shown to have analgesic effects on TMD. These
      effects though, are only present in patients carrying haplotypes associated with low activity
      of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT). The effect of beta blockers as analgesics has not yet
      been fully characterized, in animal models, catecholamine stimulation of beta 2 and beta 3
      adrenoreceptors has shown to produce hyperalgesia and allodynia, on the other hand, in the
      clinical setting, the beta 1 selective blocker Esmolol has also been shown to have an
      analgesic effect in postoperative acute pain management. The inclusion of Propranolol as one
      of the treatment arms of this study will help elucidate Propranolol's possible role in
      chronic pain management; the expectation being that a more prominent analgesic effect will be
      found in patients displaying low activity COMT haplotypes.

      Patients will be recruited from the Montreal General Hospital (MGH) Pain Centre and from the
      Quebec Pain Registry.

      This study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, three period crossover clinical
      study. Each treatment period will be of two weeks duration with a 1 week washout phase
      between treatment periods. Following a Latin square design, patients will be randomly
      assigned to one of six different treatment groups, starting their first treatment cycle with
      either Duloxetine, Propranolol or Placebo and rotating through the other treatments in the
      subsequent cycles. The trial has a duration of 56 days total, and involves 6 clinic visits
      per participant, one at the beginning and at the end of each treatment cycle.

      Randomization will be performed by a member of our research group that is not involved in the
      study using the online software (http//:www.randomization.com). The software's first
      generator will be used which randomizes each subject to a single treatment group by using the
      method of randomly permuted blocks. The randomization log will be provided to the pharmacy
      which will be in charge of dispensing the treatment.

      All clinicians and researchers involved in the study data collection and experimental
      procedures will remain blinded to study group allocation for the duration of the study.
      Blinding will be maintained until the end for statistical analysis.

      In case of serious adverse effects interfering with the patient safety, the blind responsible
      (pharmacy) will disclose the treatment to the MD of the MGH Pain Centre and that subject will
      be dropped out of the study.
    
  