
    
      There is a need to find a personalized approach to prescribing dual anti-platelet therapy
      after a stent is placed in a coronary artery. Stenting involves inserting and expanding a
      metal tube-shaped device in a heart artery where a blockage is limiting blood flow to the
      heart muscle. This device stays in the artery permanently and the body's tissues grow over it
      over time.

      Patients in the study will have Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) imaging done before stent
      placement and again 3 months later in a follow-up angiography. Patients with sufficient stent
      healing at 3 months will stop taking Plavix. Patients who have poor stent healing at 3 months
      will have to continue Plavix through 12 months. Patients will be called once a month during
      the first year to see how they are doing and if they are taking their prescribed medicines.

      Other diagnostic methods that are used when patients have suspected heart blockages include
      intravascular ultrasound (a device on a catheter that allows ultrasound imaging inside a
      vessel), fractional flow reserve (a measurement of blood flow to determine if a blockages is
      serious enough to need treatment), angiography (injection of dye into the arteries to look
      for narrowing or blockages). These methods are used to look at the severity of heart
      blockages once a patient already has signs and symptoms. They are not appropriate devices for
      seeing if a patient's previous stent has healed properly after a certain period of time.

      The long-term effectiveness of stenting procedures to treat symptomatic coronary artery
      disease is limited by the need to take dual anti-platelet therapy (DAPT) with aspirin and
      plavix to prevent complications related to clot formation within these devices due to
      incomplete healing of the stented segment. While anti-platelet pharmacologic therapy can
      minimize this risk, it is associated with an increased risk of serious bleeding events.
      Currently all patients receiving drug eluting stents (DES) are advised to take plavix for
      twelve months although a personalized approach for determining the appropriate duration of
      anti-platelet therapy on a patient by patient basis would reduce both thrombosis and
      bleeding, thereby improving the long-term safety of coronary revascularization procedures.
      Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a new high resolution imaging modality with the
      potential to discern stent strut healing at follow-up and thus allow for individual tailoring
      of anti-platelet regimens. Among the commercially available coated stents used in the U.S.,
      the zotarolimus eluting stents (ZES or Endeavor) has demonstrated superior endothelialization
      and long term safety data in both preclinical and clinical studies and it is very likely
      earlier discontinuation of anti-platelet therapy is safe. In this trial, patients undergoing
      ZES placement for symptomatic CAD will undergo 3 months follow-up OCT imaging to determine
      stent strut healing. Patients demonstrating complete healing will be withdrawn from plavix
      (with aspirin continued) while those with evidence of incomplete healing will be continued on
      DAPT for another 9 months. All patients will be followed clinically for another 9 months and
      intercurrent adverse events recorded. In the end, this research will establish OCT determined
      stent healing as a surrogate measure for determining optimal anti-platelet therapy following
      DES implantation.
    
  