
    
      This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose finding,
      parallel-group Phase IIa study in participants with moderate AD. The study population will be
      comprised of male and female participants between 55 and 85 years of age, inclusive, with a
      diagnosis of probable AD based on National Institute of Neurological and Communicative
      Disorders and Stroke-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association (NINCDS ADRDA)
      criteria. Participants must also meet Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders,
      5th edition (DSM-V) criteria for dementia and have an Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE)
      score ≥10 to <20. Participants or their legal representative, as well as the participant's
      caregiver, must be able to provide written informed consent.

      The study will consist of a screening visit (up to 4 weeks prior to first dose), a 26-week
      double blind treatment period, and an end-of-study (EOS) visit. In the event a participant
      discontinues treatment or the study prematurely, the participant will be asked to return for
      an early termination (ET) visit for safety assessments. These assessments are the same as
      those done at the EOS visit.

      Prior to randomization, eligibility of potential participants will be confirmed through an
      adjudication process in which screening data (eg, MMSE) obtained to evaluate AD status are
      reviewed by a central independent adjudicator. The adjudicator will review the scoring sheet
      completed by the Investigator prior to randomization and provide an independent assessment of
      the participant's eligibility and may request exclusion of a participant from entry into the
      study. A central independent reader will review magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed
      tomography (CT) scans or reports to confirm eligibility. Investigators must not randomize a
      participant prior to receipt of this independent confirmation of the participant's
      eligibility.

      Eligible participants will be randomized to treatment with either GV1001 0.56 mg, GV1001 1.12
      mg, or placebo (normal saline) in a 1:1:1 ratio. Study treatment (GV1001 0.56 mg, GV1001 1.12
      mg, or placebo) will be administered by subcutaneous (SC) injection every week for 4 weeks (4
      times) followed by SC administration every 2 weeks through Week 24 (10 times) for a total of
      14 SC administrations of study treatment.

      Efficacy evaluations will be performed at baseline, Week 12, and Week 26 using the
      Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive (ADAS
      cog), Clinician's Interview-Based Impression of Change (CIBIC)-Plus, Clinical Dementia Rating
      - Sum of Boxes (CDR-SB), Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study-Activities of Daily Living
      scale (ADCS-ADL), and Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) scales. The efficacy evaluations are
      to be done in the same order at each visit. To ensure the objectivity and accuracy of the
      study results, efficacy evaluations must be performed by adequately trained and experienced
      clinicians. The raters must be certified for this study to administer the Mini-Mental State
      Examination (MMSE), Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive (ADAS cog), Clinician's
      Interview-Based Impression of Change (CIBIC)-Plus, Clinical Dementia Rating - Sum of Boxes
      (CDR-SB), Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study-Activities of Daily Living scale (ADCS-ADL),
      and Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) scales. Training, certification, and materials for
      rating will be provided by a rater training group. To mitigate the risk of breaking the
      blind, the efficacy evaluator is not to be involved in the participant's treatment or have
      access to the record of reported Adverse Events (AEs).

      Safety will be assessed throughout the study by monitoring for AEs, laboratory evaluations,
      electrocardiogram (ECG) findings, vital sign measurements, and suicidal ideation and behavior
      (C-SSRS). Pharmacodynamics will be evaluated by collecting blood and cerebrospinal fluid
      (CSF) for analysis of biomarkers of AD. Blood samples will also be collected for
      pharmacokinetic (PK) and immunogenicity analysis, including determination of GV1001 plasma
      concentrations (sparse PK) and antibodies to GV1001.
    
  