
    
      This randomised controlled clinical trial was based on our previous clinical trial
      "Three-Dimensional Printing of Patient-Specific Titanium Plates in Jaw Surgery: A Pilot
      Study" (HKU/HA HKW IRB, No. UW 16-315; registered in ClinicalTrials.gov with a No. of
      NCT03057223; supported by HMRF Project no.: 05161626).

      Over the past few decades, autologous vascularized bone flaps have become the preferred
      choice for head and neck reconstruction. The anastomosed blood supply endows vascularized
      bone flaps with improved survival rate and inherent anti-infection performance. Along with
      the development of microvascular surgery, surgeons are seeking more accurate reconstruction
      to enhance better aesthetic and functional outcomes. However, a main disadvantage of
      autologous bone flaps is the mismatch in the shape of donor bone, which need to be cut and
      trimmed to fit the defects and better restore the natural appearance. Much efforts have been
      devoted to facilitate bone manipulations, and then the computer-assisted surgery (CAS)
      emerged in the 21st century as a viable option. In CAS, surgeons do virtual plans in
      computer, which then guide the precise harvest and arrangement of bone segments for repairing
      defects in the operating theatre. Bone segments can be fine-navigated to best restore the
      original skeleton. In previous researches, various devices have been developed to navigate
      bone segments according to virtual plans, including cutting templates, skull models, and
      surgical navigation system.

      However, the missing link between bone navigation and accurate reconstruction is the plate
      fixation procedure. In a conventional manner, bone segments are fixed using commercial
      off-the-shelf titanium plates, which should be manually bent and twisted to fit bone anatomy.
      The manual contouring process is often tedious and technique-demanding, and adversely affect
      the precise location of bone segments. What's worse, repeated bending can even lead to poor
      fatigue performance. The disadvantages of conventional surgical plates make it necessary to
      develop patient-specific surgical plates. Compared to conventional plates, patient-specific
      surgical plates are designed and manufactured in 3D structures aligned with individual bone
      contours. Instead of contouring plates based on anatomical structure of bones in conventional
      plates, patient-specific surgical plates navigate the folding and precise location of bone
      segments, and hopefully improve the accuracy of reconstruction. Meanwhile, since no plate
      bending is required, patient-specific surgical plates can be used to optimize bone
      reconstruction in a more efficient and standardized manner.

      In recent years, with the rapid development of additive manufacturing (3D printing), it is
      now feasible to manufacture patient-specific metal implants with topologically optimized
      structures. Many efforts have been made to develop porous bone scaffolds for regenerative
      medicine, which are endowed with customized porosity to achieve optimal biomechanical
      properties. However, although additively manufactured bone scaffolds demonstrate excellent
      performance in some complicated cases, they still cannot replace the dominant role of
      autologous vascularized bone flaps in head and neck reconstruction. Therefore, it is of
      crucial importance to explore the application of additive manufactured (3D printed)
      patient-specific surgical plates, albeit not much research has been done in this direction.

      In our previous study (HKU/HA HKW IRB, No. UW 16-315) supported by Health and Medical
      Research Fund (Project no.: 05161626), the investigators have successfully manufactured
      patient-specific titanium plates with high precision through selective laser melting (SLM)
      technology, which is a high-tech 3D printing technology that fully melts titanium powders
      into complete entities in the layer by layer manner. SLM enables the fabrication of
      patient-specific titanium surgical plates with tailored structures and outstanding
      biomechanical properties. Our results showed promising clinical outcomes in the application
      of 3D printed patient-specific titanium plates in head and neck reconstruction. Furthermore,
      the investigators did a retrospective study comparing the patients who had undergone jaw
      reconstructive surgery using 3D printed patient-specific surgical plates versus conventional
      titanium plates and the result showed superior accuracy of reconstruction outcomes in the
      study group with the use of 3D printed patient-specific surgical plates. However, there were
      significant limitations in our study. First, as a retrospective study, the innate flaw of
      study design was unavoidable, such as selection bias. Second, there was significantly
      difference in follow-up periods between the study group and control group. The imaging data
      used for accuracy analysis were obtained during different post-operative periods, which
      compromised the final outcomes. Finally, surgical efficiency endpoints, such as operation
      time, blood loss, and post-operative hospital stay, which could be significantly affected by
      multiple confounding factors, are difficult to control by retrospective study design. Hence,
      there is still lack of high-level evidence concerning the advantages of 3D printed
      patient-specific surgical plates in head and neck reconstruction. Whether 3D printed
      patient-specific surgical plates improve surgical accuracy and efficiency compared to
      conventional plates in computer assisted jaw reconstruction should be further investigated
      before large-scale clinical application.

      Therefore, the investigators aim to evaluate surgical accuracy and efficiency of
      computer-assisted jaw reconstruction using 3D-printed patient-specific titanium surgical
      plates versus conventional plates in a prospective randomised controlled clinical trial. Our
      study is expected to provide high-level evidence to push forward the popularity of using 3D
      medical printing new technology in the surgical field.

      Methods

      The methodology has already been set up and has been proved feasible in our earlier studies.
      The PI has been working on computer aided surgical simulation, virtual planning, and 3D
      printed surgical templates in the maxillofacial surgery for several years and has published a
      series of articles.

        1. Computer-assisted Surgery

           The CAS techniques used in head and neck reconstruction are well established in our unit
           and have been described previously. Briefly, CAS is composed of three main phases: the
           pre-operative phase of the virtual surgery and 3D printing of patient-specific devices,
           intra-operative phase involving precision-enhanced surgery to install the
           patient-specific devices, and post-operative phase involving the accuracy analysis. The
           patient-specific devices can include cutting guides, positioning guides, and the
           patient-specific titanium plates. In our trial, the study group will use cutting guides
           and patient-specific titanium plates, whereas the control group will use cutting guides,
           positioning guides, and conventional plates.

           In the pre-operative phase, the virtual surgery will be performed by surgeons using the
           ProPlan CMF 2.0 software (Materialise, Leuven, Belgium). The patient's CT data is
           initially segmented to rebuild 3D virtual models of the maxilla or mandible using
           ProPlan's interactive interface. Next, bone resection is performed in the 3D models for
           en bloc removal of any tumours. Meanwhile, bone grafts are harvested from fibula or
           iliac crest to repair defects and restore the normal appearance. Finally, the virtually
           reconstructed maxilla or mandible is used to design patient-specific devices to navigate
           the bone segments.

        2. Additive Manufacturing of Patient-specific Devices

           Compared to the conventional approach of designing patient-specific devices using
           engineering companies, we have adopt an in-house approach that allow the surgeons to
           design and manufacture the devices. All patient-specific devices are designed in 3-matic
           13.0 (Materialise). Cutting guides, which guide and adapt to bone surface for accurate
           bone resection, are generated by wrapping to the bone surface.

           For the study group, patient-specific surgical plates are designed by delineating the
           plate path on the bone surface, followed by the placement of screw holes. Surgical
           plates are generated by a built-in command in 3-matic. Next, the surgical plates are
           fabricated by SLM using grade 2 titanium powder. For the control group, positioning
           guides will be designed for the bone segment alignment and inset.

           Both cutting and positioning guides will be additively manufactured by Fused Deposition
           Manufacturing (FDM) using ULTEM 1010, or by Stereolithography using MED610 resin
           (Stratasys Ltd, Eden Prairie, MN, USA). Both ULTEM 1010 and MED610 are FDA cleared
           biocompatible materials usable in high-temperature autoclaving.

        3. Surgical Procedures

           In the present study, all patients in both groups will undergo CAS carried out by the
           same chief surgeon (PI). During the surgery, patient-specific cutting guides will enable
           precise jawbone resection and bone flap osteotomy.

           In the control group, the arrangement of bone segments will be manipulated according to
           the positioning guide. Bone segments will be stabilized using commercial titanium
           surgical plates (DePuy Synthes, United States), which are bent manually before fastening
           with screws. In the study group, patient-specific surgical plates will be designed and
           fabricated to custom-fit the bone contours of reconstructed maxilla or mandible. The
           screw holes embedded in cutting guides correspond to the 3D-printed patient-specific
           surgical plates, which will guide the position of surgical plates and bone segments,
           thereby facilitating folding, positioning, and fixation of bone segments in the real
           surgery. Standard peri-operative management will be similar in both groups.
           Post-operative follow-up will be conducted in a routine manner.

        4. Data collection procedures

      CT scan will be obtained at baseline (before surgery) and post-operatively (within 1 month
      after the surgery). The accuracy of reconstruction will be independently assessed by two
      assessors. Training will be provided using previous cases, and calibration between the two
      assessors will be done with the aim of achieving over 90% inter-assessor agreement in three
      consecutive training cases before starting the measurement of subject cases in this study.
      Other information such as reconstruction time, total operative time, intra-operative blood
      loss, length of post-operative hospital stay, and post-operative adverse events will be
      recorded.
    
  