
    
      DiOGenes is a randomised controlled dietary intervention study in obese/overweight families
      (adults and children) in 8 different European countries, testing the efficacy and safety of
      diets differing in Glycaemic Index (GI) and protein content.

      The 8 centres are divided into "shop centers" and "instruction centers", that provide
      different kind of dietary intervention and for a different length(see below):

      The 2 Shop Centers (Denmark & The Netherlands):

      Dietary periods and clinical examinations:

        1. Clinical examination 1 with anthropometry, blood etc.

        2. 8 week Low Calorie Diet (LCD) period (800-1000 kcal/day)(Adults only)

        3. Clinical examination 2 with anthropometry, blood etc.

        4. 6 months dietary intervention period 1 (SUPERMARKET period)(Family)

        5. Clinical examination 3 with anthropometry, blood etc.

        6. 6 months dietary intervention period 2 (DIETARY INSTRUCTION period)(Family).

        7. Clinical examination 4 with anthropometry, blood ect.

        8. 12 months free-living period with no dietary intervention. (Family)

        9. Follow up (only body weight registration)

      The 6 Instruction Centers (UK, Crete, Germany, Spain, Bulgaria, Czech Republic)

      Dietary periods and clinical examinations:

        1. Clinical examination 1 with anthropometry, blood etc.

        2. 8 week Low Calorie Diet (LCD) period (800-1000 kcal/day). (Adults only)

        3. Clinical examination 2 with anthropometry, blood etc.

        4. 6 months dietary intervention period (DIETARY INSTRUCTION period). (Family)

        5. Clinical examination 3 with anthropometry, blood etc.

        6. 6 months free-living period with no dietary intervention. (Family)

        7. Follow up (only body weight registration)

      Note that, during the first 6 month intervention all families from the shop centers are
      provided all foods free of charge "SUPERMARKET PERIOD", whereas in the "Instruction Centers",
      the families receive dietary instruction only "Instruction Only".
    
  