
    
      A sample calculation using a mean of 2.92 mm of the quantity of keratinized mucosa obtained
      after six months in the most recent study (McGUIRE; SCHEYER, 2014) using the same collagen
      matrix with a standard deviation of ± 0.88 mm, a difference of 0.4 mm being chosen as
      statistically significant. In addition, a 95% bilateral confidence interval and 80% power
      were used. A sample of 38 individuals per group was obtained. In addition, a 20% loss is
      expected during follow-up, a total of 46 individuals should be evaluated.

      Periapical radiographic examinations should be performed before the collection of data to
      confirm the absence of bone loss. The following clinical parameters should be evaluated in
      both test and control groups: visible plaque index, gingival bleeding index, gingival
      recession, keratinized mucosa width and thickness, probing depth, bleeding on probing and
      periodontal biotype for each teeth with a North Carolina periodontal probe. The periodontal
      biotype for each teeth should be rated as thin or thick, according to probe transparency
      during probing depth. For statistical purposes, percentages of faces with gingival recession
      should be calculated. These parameters should be evaluated at baseline and at one, three and
      six months, one and two years post-therapy.

      Clinical parameters should be collected by two operators, calibrated by the Kappa test for
      the keratinized mucosa width and thickness, periodontal biotype, probing depth and gingival
      recession.

      After the inclusion of the patients, anamnesis and initial examination were performed. The
      subjects should be divided randomly, using a simple draw, in the following two groups: test -
      (collagen matrix) and control - (connective tissue graft) placebo associated with basic
      periodontal therapy). The data should be analyzed using descriptive and inferential
      statistics, with parametric tests, through the software package Social Sciences (SPSS),
      version 17.0 (free version).
    
  