
    
      Congenital heart defects are abnormalities or problems with the structure of the heart that
      are present at birth. Examples of congenital heart defects include hypoplastic left heart
      syndrome, which is a condition that occurs when the left side of the heart does not develop
      completely, and tetralogy of Fallot, which is a condition that involves four specific types
      of structural defects within the heart. Many advances have been made in recent years in the
      field of pediatric heart surgery, and children who are born with congenital heart defects are
      now able to undergo heart surgery as infants to repair the defects. However, very little is
      known about the differences between how an infant's heart functions and how an adult's heart
      functions. Thus, most of the therapies that are used to treat children with heart defects
      were originally developed for adults and may not be the best option for infants and young
      children. The purpose of this study is to gain a better understanding of how the heart
      changes during a child's first year of life, from being a newborn less than 1 week old to
      being an infant 3 to 12 months old.

      During surgical repair of congenital heart defects, tissue from the ventricular structures of
      the heart is sometimes removed as part of the surgery. In this study, researchers will
      examine ventricular tissue removed during the surgical procedures of newborns with
      hypoplastic left heart syndrome and infants with tetralogy of Fallot. Study researchers will
      compare the newborn and infant tissue samples in terms of their differences in
      excitation-contraction coupling, also referred to as contraction response.
      Excitation-contraction coupling in the heart is the process wherein electrical activity of
      the heart is translated into contraction of the heart muscle, which then results in pumping
      of the blood out to the body. Study researchers will also examine how calcium, which is
      required for heart contraction, flows in and out of heart cells to determine whether the
      process differs among newborns and infants. Acquiring data on both excitation-contraction
      coupling and the role of calcium is important because increasing the strength of heart
      contractions is a key component of treatment options for children with congenital heart
      defects.

      This study has been granted a waiver of consent as de-identified tissue will be collected
      from waste samples. The number of participants represents the number of samples collected.
    
  