
    
      Respiratory insufficiency is frequently present in patients who are admitted to intensive
      care units and respiratory support is provided through respiratory device. Respiratory
      support can be given by intubating the patient or without intubating the patient.

      It is a procedure with intubation complications and stimulation of the sympathetic system as
      well as tongue, lip and tooth injuries. In recent years, non-invasive respiratory support can
      be given with the aid of a mask or nasal cannula without intubation, which has stable
      hemodynamics, no secretion, can cough, adhere to orders, no face, neck and head injuries
      (difficulty in mask application) and the use of this method is rapidly increasing in
      intensive care units.

      Non-invasive respiratory support can be provided by CPAP method. In this method, positive
      pressure blended oxygen can be given to the patient by using an oranasal mask. In the
      literature, the use of non-invasive CPAP has been reported to be the gold standard for
      respiratory failure, particularly in COPD and immunosuppressed patients. CPAP method is
      available as standard in mechanical ventilators used in intensive care. The major
      disadvantage of CPAP is the discomfort caused by the mask attached to the patient's face.

      In recent years, high-flow oxygen therapy (HFO) has been introduced, and in this mode,
      high-flow oxygen therapy is applied to the patient with high frequency nasal route and
      especially successful in COPD patients. In this method, patient comfort is higher since there
      is no mask attachment. The HFO device is not available in the intensive care unit and is
      planned to be purchased with the support of TUBAP.

      In our intensive care unit, patients are primarily given non-invasive respiratory support.
      Follow-up during this support is extremely important. Whether the non-invasive respiratory
      support is sufficient is determined by follow-up. Following non-invasive respiratory support,
      patients are followed up, respiratory frequency rises above 30-35 in the first hour,
      peripheral oxygen saturation <90% decrease, systolic blood pressure increase 20%, 180 mmHg
      rise below 90 mmHg In case of an increase in heart rate of 20 beats / min, heart rate of more
      than 140 beats per minute, tachypnea, intercostal withdrawal, agitation and distress, the
      patient is intubated and respiratory support is applied invasively. Peripheral oxygen
      saturation, non-invasive blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and respiratory rate
      are routinely used in our intensive care unit in the follow-up of patients. In the study, the
      patient papers will be followed and the respiratory support of the patients will be recorded
      and all follow-ups will be made from the patient follow-up chart. The aim of this study is to
      compare two different non-invasive breathing methods.
    
  