
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine whether 2 schedules of calcium gluconate and magnesium sulfate infusions
           (given before and after chemotherapy or just before chemotherapy) can prevent or
           ameliorate chronic, cumulative oxaliplatin-induced sensory neurotoxicity in patients
           with colon or rectal cancer receiving adjuvant FOLFOX chemotherapy comprising leucovorin
           calcium, fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin.

      Secondary

        -  To determine whether these 2 infusion schedules can increase the cumulative oxaliplatin
           doses that can be delivered without dose-limiting chronic neurotoxicity.

        -  To determine whether these 2 infusion schedules can ameliorate acute neuropathy
           associated with oxaliplatin.

        -  To determine whether these 2 infusion schedules cause adverse events.

        -  To investigate whether these 2 infusions schedules influence patient quality of life.

        -  To describe baseline and post-treatment neurological quantitative sensory testing
           abnormalities in the study participants.

      Tertiary

        -  To explore if polymorphisms in the GSTP1, GSTM1, ERCC2, and XRCC1 genes are associated
           with early onset of oxaliplatin-induced neurotoxicity.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age (< 65 years vs
      ≥ 65 years), gender, regimen (FOLFOX4 vs modified FOLFOX6 vs other), and stage of disease (II
      vs III vs IV). Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive calcium gluconate IV and magnesium sulfate IV over 30 minutes
           immediately before and after oxaliplatin administration (part of FOLFOX chemotherapy
           comprising leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin).

        -  Arm II: Patients receive placebo IV over 30 minutes immediately before and after
           oxaliplatin administration (part of FOLFOX chemotherapy).

        -  Arm III: Patients receive calcium gluconate and magnesium sulfate IV over 30 minutes
           immediately before and placebo IV over 30 minutes immediately after oxaliplatin
           administration (part of FOLFOX chemotherapy).

      In all arms, courses repeat every 14 days for 6 months in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood samples are collected before the second course of treatment for translational research.

      Patients complete questionnaires on side effects, quality of life, and chemotherapy-induced
      peripheral neuropathy periodically.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 12, and 18 months.
    
  