
    
      Background 1.1 Background of ESRD patients on maintenance HD with chronic HCV infection
      Taiwan has the leading prevalence and incidence of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) worldwide.
      Uremic patients on maintenance hemodialysis (HD) are at great risk for hepatitis C virus
      (HCV) infection. The prevalence and annual incidence of HCV infection in ESRD patients
      undergoing hemodialysis have been reported to be 10%-59% and 0.2%-6.2%, respectively.
      HCV-related morbidities and mortality remain the major disease burdens in the ESRD
      population. Uremic patients with HCV infection are associated with higher risk of morbidities
      and mortality. Anti-HCV therapy at individual patient level might prevent the liver-related
      morbidity/mortality, however, patients remain at high risk of HCV new- or re-infection if
      there are HCV patients untreated or failed treatment in the HD units. FORMOSA-LIKE is a study
      group of Hepatologists and Nephrologists from 15 HD centers at community, regional or
      tertiary hospitals (now 19) that caring > 1900 uremic patients under maintenance HD in
      Taiwan, established in 2012. The anti-HCV seropositivity rate was 17% among HD patients; HCV
      viremic rate was 74.6% among anti-HCV seropositivity HD subjects. To decrease the rate of new
      HCV infection between HD patients, all anti-HCV-seropositive uremic patients are requested to
      receive HD in an isolated "HCV-zone". Recently, the Taiwan Center for Disease Control
      recommends that anti-HCV-seropositive uremic patients could be moved from HCV-zone to
      clean-zone if they have PCR-undetectable HCV RNA for more than 24 weeks, whatever
      spontaneously or after antiviral therapy. The new policy raises the question that whether it
      is possible to create a "NoC-HD" environment where HCV-zone no longer exists due to all
      HCV-viremic patients are cured. The achievement of NoC-HD could provide not only obligation
      of transmitting HCV within HD centers, but also a much more cost-effective care of
      hemodialysis.

      1.2 Gap of anti-HCV therapy for HCV patients on maintenance HD There is a huge gap between
      the clinical efficacy and community effectiveness in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C in
      Taiwan, with treatment uptake rate < 20%. The treatment hurdle is more significant in uremic
      patients because many primary HD units outside medical centers have poor accessibility to HCV
      testing and treatment. Meanwhile, directly acting antivirals (DAAs) has just replaced
      interferon (IFN)-based therapy as standard of care in Taiwan since 2017. The majority of HD
      patients do not receive IFN-based therapy due to unsatisfactory efficacy and frequent and
      significant adverse events. The innovation of DAAs provide very high sustained virological
      response (SVR) rates of > 95% in general population and uremic patients with chronic HCV
      infection. Nevertheless, there remains big hurdle for uremic HCV patients to access DAA
      therapy because that only gastroenterologists specialists could prescribe reimbursed DAA
      regimens in Taiwan. Sofosbuvir/Velpatasvir (SOF/VEL) is a fixed-dose combination of HCV
      non-structural 5A (NS5A) inhibitor and NS5B inhibitor. SOF/VEL is the only all oral,
      pan-genotypic DAA not only for patients with compensated liver disease but also for patients
      in the decompensated status. A universal 12-week regimen of SOF/VEL provides a SVR12 rate of
      > 95 % in general population with different viral genotypes and special populations, and is
      the current standard of care by regional guidelines. SOF/VEL has been recently proved to be
      highly effective and well tolerated in uremic patients with HCV viremia; an SVR12 rate of 95%
      could be achieved in uremic patients receiving 12 weeks of SOF/VEL.

      1.3 Background of HCV elimination World Health Organization (WHO) sets a goal of HCV
      elimination worldwide by 2030. However, there remains many barriers to achieve the goal of
      HCV elimination, including the low rates of disease diagnosis/awareness, accessibility and
      treatment. The concept of micro-elimination of HCV by using pangenotypic DAA for HCV
      communities could provide evidence to obviate the treatment barriers to HCV elimination. In
      addition, the reported annual incidence of new HCV infection among uremic patients under
      maintenance hemodialysis in Taiwan was 1.36%. Therefore, treatment as prevention; increasing
      the treatment uptake at the population level would provide completely blockage of HCV
      spreading in highly endemic/contagious community. The target population of micro-elimination
      should possess three major characteristics: 1. high prevalence 2. highly contagious 3.
      closely contact environment. The current uremic population in Taiwan fulfills all the factors
      mentioned above.

      The current study will be executed in each participating hemodialysis centers by an outreach
      team of HCV treaters, treating all of the HCV-viremic uremia patients and HD staffs at the
      same time (group therapy) in each individual HD center (Erase-C campaign), to ensure the
      rates of diagnosis, accessibility, treatment and follow-up.

      Objectives:

      The purpose of the study is to demonstrate a model of care using outreach HCV treaters by
      implementing the concept of "group therapy" with one-size-fit-all pangenotypic DAA regimen,
      12 weeks of SOF/VEL, in each individual hemodialysis center (Erase-C campaign) to achieve HCV
      micro-elimination.

      Study schedule:

      One arm: sofosbuvir (SOF) 400 mg/Velpatasvir(VEL) 100 mg fixed-dosage combination once-daily
      for 12 weeks for all HCV genotype patients with and without hepatic decompensation HCV RNA
      and liver function tests, pregnancy test will be monitoring at baseline, during and after
      treatment
    
  