
    
      Results from this trial have the potential to change practice whatever the results: either
      lymphadenectomy will become recommended practice if a non-inferior outcome is obtained;
      otherwise the procedure can be safely abandoned.

      Secondary Objectives

        -  Disease-free, endometrial cancer-event free and endometrial cancer-specific survival

        -  Distribution of pelvic and extra-pelvic relapse

        -  Cost effectiveness

        -  Surgical adverse events

      There are also two sub-studies:

        1. Quality of life - all patients i. Describe the trajectory of key patient reported
           outcomes (PROs) from baseline up to 5 years post-surgery ii. Compare the specific PRO
           domains between the trial arms at several specific time points iii. Determine the
           proportion of women in each trial arm reporting long-term symptoms after treatment as
           measured by the symptom-specific subscales of the measures (gastrointestinal symptoms,
           urological symptoms, attitude to disease and treatment, vaginal symptoms, lymphoedema)
           iv. Determine the correlation between physician rating (CTCAE v4.03) and patient-report
           (corresponding PRO subscale) for various symptoms reported by both physicians and
           patients v. Assess the correlation between self-assessed lymphoedema (Self-report
           lower-extremity lymphoedema screening questionnaire) and the lymphoedema subscale of the
           Quality of Life Questionnaire-Endometrial Cancer Module (QLQ-EN24)

           We hypothesise that quality of life will be better in patients in the lymphadenectomy
           arm because a considerable proportion will be spared systemic adjuvant treatment, from
           which they may not benefit.

        2. Sentinel lymph node (SLN) - optional for Arm 1 patients

      The aim of this sub-study is to assess SLN status in comparison with the overall lymph node
      status after full lymph node dissection (LND), and so determine whether SLN is as accurate as
      systematic node dissection.

      i. We aim to determine the diagnostic performance of the SLN procedure compared to the gold
      standard of LND ii. To evaluate whether SLN status is a prognostic marker of survival iii. To
      model patient relapse and survival based on low volume micro-metastatic (LVM) and individual
      tumour cell (ITC) status
    
  