
    
      Probability Convenient sampling was done. Patients following eligibility criteria from
      Physiotherapy department of PSRD, Lahore, were considered. Sample size was calculated with
      Epi-tool calculator. 22 Participants were randomly allocated in two groups equally via
      convenient sampling method. Baseline assessment was done initially. Group A, 11 participants
      will receive Conventional physiotherapy treatment in addition to DAPRE technique by leg
      extension machine. In DAPRE technique, four sets of exercises were performed. The first two
      sets of exercise consisted of ten and then six repetitions, per- formed against one-half and
      three-fourths of the previously established working weight. Working weight is the amount of
      weight a patient uses during an individual session. The full working weight was used on the
      third set, and the patient performed as many repetitions as possible. After performing each
      of the third and fourth sets, patients rested for 1 min. 6 weeks (3 sessions per week)• Hot
      pack: 10 min• Stretching of calf and hamstring muscle: 10 min. Group B, 11 participants will
      receive Conventional physiotherapy treatment in addition to close kinetic chain exercises.
      Close kinetic chain exercises for extensor lag is seated leg press, double or single one
      third knee bend, step up and down exercise, wall slide with weight. Treatment time will be 30
      minutes and three session per week will be applied on alternate day for up to 6 weeks. Pre
      interventional readings will be taken at baseline & post interventional readings at 6th week.
      6 weeks (3 sessions per week) • Hot pack: 10 min • Stretching of calf and hamstring muscle:
      10 min. All participants were provided written informed consent prior to commencement of the
      procedures. They were free to quit the treatment at any stage of research. Data was analyzed
      by using SPSS version 23.
    
  