
    
      The study is as a cross-sectional, prospective, observational. After institutional review
      board approval and informed written consent, all patients aged ≥ 18 years undergoing spinal
      anesthesia in the Izmir Bozyaka Training and Research Hospital Operating Room will be
      included in the study. The specialist and assistant physician in charge of spinal anesthesia
      management of patients will undertake their own routine anesthesia management and the
      researcher will not be involved in any way. Patients who underwent combined spinal-epidural
      anesthesia and patients without consent were excluded. The primary aim of the study was to
      determine the rate of unsuccessful spinal anesthesia (total failure and partial failure) and
      to determine the factors that may be associated with these. Total failure was described as
      failure of localization of subarachnoid space with lumbar puncture; no motor and / or sensory
      block occurring within 10 minutes after the injection of local anesthetic into the
      subarachnoid space; repeated spinal anesthesia or general anesthesia. Partial failure was
      described as the need for anesthetic agents such as ketamine, propofol or opioid for the
      intraoperative pain relief, except for the use of midazolam and fentanyl in order to increase
      the patient's comfort.The secondary aim of the study was to determine the first attempt
      success and related factors. The first attempt success was described as identification or
      subarachnoid space at the first attempt.

      Parameters to be recorded during the study are: age, gender, weight, height, body mass index
      (BMI), American Society of Anesthesiologist (ASA) status, type of surgery, elective /
      emergency surgery, patient's body type, spinal anatomy, position of the patient and the
      practitioner during spinal intervention, the technique applied (median /paramedian), the
      level of puncture, the type of spinal needle, the direction of the spinal needle notch, the
      number of spinal puncture, the nature of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (clear/haemorrhagic),
      whether or not aspiration is performed, whether or not free CSF is controlled before or after
      drug injection, whether the practitioner is an expert or assistant, the assistant is
      seniority year, the type of local anesthetic, if the adjuvant drug is added to the local
      anesthetic, the dose of anesthetic, the loss of drug during injection of local anesthesia,
      position of the patient after injection, duration of surgery, testing of motor and sensory
      block, what is done in case of unsuccessful spinal anesthesia, examination of sacral
      dermatomes prior to second spinal anesthesia intervention will be recorded. Parameters will
      be recorded by Anesthesia Specialist, Anesthesia Assistant or Anesthesia Technician. At the
      end of the case, the registration form will be left at the designated place in the Anesthesia
      Clinic room.
    
  