
    
      A. Anticipated Impacts on Veterans' Healthcare: Determining the clinical validity of the VA's
      TBI Clinical Reminder Screen and Comprehensive TBI Evaluation is critical because valid
      screening and evaluation of mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) leads to accurate diagnosis
      and timely treatment. Accurate screening improves clinical efficiency and ensures that
      resources are provided to those who need them most. The project findings are expected to
      advance the science of screening and diagnosis by clarifying whether symptoms are consistent
      with post-concussion syndrome due to an mTBI event. Findings are also expected to inform the
      development of the next generation of VA screening instruments for mild TBI.

      B. Project Background/Rationale: Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a leading injury among
      military personnel serving in the Operation Enduring Freedom/ Operation Iraqi Freedom
      (OEF/OIF) combat theaters due largely to improvised explosive devices. While TBI severity
      ranges from mild to severe, mTBI is particularly difficult to identify, diagnose and treat.
      The VA modified a version of the Defense and Veterans Brain Injury Center (DVBIC) tool, which
      is used to screen returning OEF/OIF service members. The VA's modified screen, the TBI
      Clinical Reminder Screen, is used to screen a slightly different population. Therefore,
      results of the validity study for the DVBIC tool are not directly applicable. As a result,
      the General Accountability Office (GAO) recommended the VA expeditiously evaluate the
      clinical validity and reliability of its TBI screening tool.

      C. Primary Study Objectives are: (1) Develop the Diagnostic Assessment Battery for use as a
      proxy gold standard, and (2) Evaluate and compare the performance characteristics of the TBI
      Clinical Reminder Screen and the Comprehensive TBI Evaluation using the Diagnostic Assessment
      Battery. These objectives will be realized via: (a) An examination the performance
      characteristics (diagnostic validity) of the TBI Clinical Reminder Screen and the
      Comprehensive TBI Evaluation relative to the Diagnostic Assessment Battery to determine
      sensitivity and specificity, (b) Determining whether false positives and/or false negatives
      are related to Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and how the performance characteristics
      of the tests differ for PTSD, (c) Ascertaining the concordance among measures of functional
      impairment, the TBI Clinical Reminder Screen and the Comprehensive TBI Evaluation, (d)
      Establishing the concurrent validity between the diagnosis of presence or absence of
      post-concussion syndrome due to mTBI and measures of functional impairment, (e) Verifying the
      test/retest reliability for the TBI Clinical Reminder Screen and the Comprehensive TBI
      Evaluation and (f) Identifying whether clusters of symptoms or subjects reporting similar
      patterns of symptoms correspond with clinical sub-groups (e.g., mTBI with PTSD, PTSD alone).

      D. Project Methods: An online Delphi process and will be conducted with mTBI experts to
      inform the development of the Diagnostic Assessment Battery. A sample of 500 OEF/OIF veterans
      will be recruited over 12-months at three VA Polytrauma Network Sites. The OEF/OIF veterans
      will have symptoms consistent with either a mild TBI event (True Positive) or symptoms
      inconsistent with such an event (True Negative). All subjects will be assessed by research
      clinicians using the TBI Clinical Reminder Screen, the Comprehensive TBI Evaluation and the
      Diagnostic Assessment Battery. Analysis will determine the sensitivity and specificity as
      well as the test/retest reliability of the TBI Clinical Reminder and the Comprehensive TBI
      Evaluation. The performance characteristics for the Diagnostic Assessment Battery will be
      ascertained and used to further our understanding of how best to distinguish mTBI symptoms
      from related and/or comorbid conditions (e.g., PTSD, anxiety, and depression).
    
  