
    
      Breast cancer is the most common cancer in adult Egyptian females. The world's highest
      prevalence of hepatitis C virus is found in Egypt. Several investigators examined the
      epidemiological association of HCV with breast cancer. Published literature reports
      conflicting results regarding the HCV association with breast cancer incidence.
      Population-based studies from HCV-endemic area demonstrated increased breast cancer incidence
      in HCV-positive women younger than 50 years. On the other hand, population studies from
      HCV-low prevalence regions failed to detect an association of the virus with breast cancer.

      HCV seropositive patients constitute a large sector of oncology patients treated in Egyptian
      practice. HCV infection with or without clinically-significant liver disease impose several
      therapeutic, social and logistic problems. Recently, investigators from Mansoura University
      reported their findings among breast cancerpatients. According to these data, HCV-positive
      breast cancer patients had several markers of disease aggression such as large tumor size,
      high tumor grade and nodal infiltration. Moreover, HCV-NS4 (non-structural protein-4) blood
      levels positively correlated with the level of the known breast cancer marker CA15-3.

      In the current study, the investigators will investigate the incidence of HCV seropositivity
      in breast cancer patients and an age-matched control group. The study also examines the
      association of HCV status on the patients' baseline characteristics such as tumor stage and
      grade and with patients' treatment plan and treatment outcome.

      Specifically, the aims of the study are the following:

        1. To test if HCV seropositivity is associated with breast cancer diagnosis in Egyptian
           population.

        2. To test if HCV-positive patients harbour more aggressive breast tumors.

        3. To test if HCV-positivity affects management decision in breast cancer patients.

        4. To test if HCV-positive patients suffer more frequent adverse effects to breast cancer
           treatment.

        5. To compare disease-free survival of HCV seropositive breast cancer patients vs.
           seronegative patients.
    
  