
    
      Study Procedures:

      Randomization and Blinding:

      Women will be randomized to receive either Bupivacaine 0.25% or Normal Saline pudendal
      injections based on the label within a sealed envelope randomly selected on the day of their
      surgery. Fifty labels will be created with twenty-five labels each of "Bupivacaine 20ml" or
      "Normal Saline 20ml" written on them. These will be placed in blank, identical envelopes and
      sealed and shuffled prior to the start of the study. Upon selection, the sealed envelope will
      be given to the circulating nurse who will draw up the selected solution and label it
      "pudendal block". The circulating nurse will be directed to not disclose the contents of the
      envelope or syringe to the participant or to any other member of the team. They will then
      re-seal the envelope with tape, place a patient label on it and return it to the surgical
      team post procedure to be returned to a locked file cabinet within the surgical office at the
      end of the day, to be kept securely with medical records. Group allocation envelopes will be
      opened after the collection of all outcome data is complete to allow for data analysis. In
      order to avoid local anesthetic toxicity, any calculations for other anesthetic agents
      utilized for the surgical procedure or anesthetic will assume that 20 ml of 0.25% Bupivacaine
      was administered. In the event that an emergent adverse complication is identified which may
      be attributable to the administered agent, the treatment allocation can be unblinded if this
      is deemed clinically necessary by the investigator or other treating physician. In the event
      this is required, the patient will be withdrawn from the study and excluded from the final
      analysis, but such case(s) will be described in the final study results.

      The circulating nurse already draws up local anesthetic and normal saline as a routine part
      of this procedure for use in other ways, and so the investigators do not anticipate that
      their participation in this study will be a large burden of work. The investigators estimate
      that it will add no more than 2 minutes to their preparation time for the surgery.

      Pudendal Block administration:

      The Pudendal block will be administered by the Surgeon or Surgical Fellow after the
      administration of anesthetic and preparation for surgery but before the first surgical
      incision. It will be administered with standard transvaginal technique.

      Standardization of the Anesthesia, Pre-op and postoperative pain management:

      Pre-operative, postoperative and intra-operative care will be standardized according to
      guidelines that meet criteria for current standard of care as outlined in the appendix. These
      pages will be printed on the chart to identify the patient as a participant in the study and
      also to remind the surgical and anesthetic team of the guidelines of the study.

      Standardization of postoperative pain management after discharge:

      All patients will receive the same instructions for management of postoperative pain. They
      will receive instructions to use acetaminophen (Tylenol) regularly as well as Ibuprofen
      (Advil) regularly as long as they have no contraindications or allergies to these
      medications. They will be given a standardized prescription for tramadol to use in addition
      to these medications for management of breakthrough pain.

      Study and Follow up Visits:

      The patient will have no additional visits attributed to their participation in this study.
      Instead they will receive electronic (email or text) surveys and telephone reminders over a
      period of 2 weeks after their operation. The first survey will take less than 1 minute to
      complete, the second will take less than 5 minutes to complete, and the final survey less
      than 10 minutes to complete.
    
  