
    
      Up to 50 million people in the U.S. suffer from some form of chronic pain, and 60% of these
      Americans are under 65 and have limited mobility because of knee or hip Osteoarthritis (OA).
      Pharmaceuticals currently dominate the treatment options due to widespread insurance coverage
      and convenience. However, there are a myriad of public health problems associated with
      analgesic use, including costs, untoward side effects, and addiction potential with opioid
      analgesics.

      Ultrasound therapy for pain and healing has been approved by the U.S. FDA and has been in use
      around the globe for the last 60 years. Traditionally, ultrasound-mediated pain treatment has
      been delivered in clinics and has been limited to short and confined periods of 5-15 min at
      acoustic intensities from 1-4 W/cm2 over a course of weeks to months. Over the past decade,
      research has increasingly focused on lower-intensity therapeutic ultrasound (30-1000 mW/cm2)
      delivered over extended 1-8 hr periods. (mW = milliwatt) Recent animal studies using
      low-intensity therapeutic ultrasound (LITUS) have demonstrated successful inflammation
      reduction, reduced cartilage degeneration, and tendon and fracture healing. It is believed
      that using a lower-intensity ultrasonic treatment regimen over extended treatment periods
      works with the body's natural healing process and minimizes acoustic insult as compared with
      traditional, higher intensity treatments. This study proposes to evaluate clinically the
      first wearable low intensity ultrasound system for noninvasive treatment of arthritis pain.
      This technology has the potential to measurably increase the quality of life for millions of
      people who suffer from osteoarthritis pain by providing a safe, effective, and easy-to-use
      treatment.

      The pilot study will test the versatile ultrasound therapy system in a clinical study that
      will enroll up to 60 patients with mobility-impairing knee OA. The goal of the study is to
      establish statistically significant data that daily 4 hour LITUS treatment decreases
      participant pain (Visual Analog Scale [VAS]) and improves patient mobility (measured by an
      accelerometer worn by each participant) over placebo devices.
    
  