
    
      Laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) is currently regarded as the gold standard treatment for
      symptomatic gallstone disease. Compared with open cholecystectomy, LC benefits include less
      postoperative pain, reduced analgesic consumption, and earlier discharge. However, besides
      the advantages mentioned above, there are exist complexity and diversity of the acute pain
      after LC, which consists of a somatic, a visceral and a referred pain component. Meanwhile,
      our team also found many LC patients experience visceral pain after surgery. According to
      epidemic research show that chronic pain after LC is a common complication with an incidence
      ranging between 3-56%. Several reports have indicated that early postoperative pain has been
      shown to be a significant risk factor of chronic pain. In many cases, however, the cause
      chronic pain after LC remains unknown and visceral hyperalgesia and central sensitizationhave
      been suggested to be part of the pathophysiology. To reduce the incidence of chronic pain
      after LC, so we conduct the randomized controlled trial to investigate whether calot's
      triangle block combined with PCIA is superior to PCIA in reducing the incidence of chronic
      pain after LC.

      This study was approved by the institutional review board of the First Affiliated Hospital of
      Chongqing Medical University. The protocol design is in accordance with Consolidated
      Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) statement. All potentially eligible participants will
      be asked to give written informed consent before they are enrolled in this study. This study
      is a prospective, randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trial guided by the standard
      of good clinical practice (GCP), and eligible participants are divided into two groups: group
      CTB and group PCIA, and primary assess the outcomes of the incidence of chronic pain after LC
      and the intensity of acute pain after LC.

      Participants in group CTB will receive a single injection of ropivacaine in calot's triangle
      before surgical dissection combined with PCIA post-operatively.

      Participants in group PCIA will receive a single injection in calot's triangle with normal
      saline before surgical dissection and PCIA post-operatively.

      The primary outcome of this study is the incidence of chronic pain after LC.

      The secondary outcomes of this study are acute post-operative pain, moderate-severe pain,
      rescue medication and adverse events associated with the post-operative analgesia.

      This study will be conducted under the supervision of an independent auditor. Every week, the
      auditor checked the data of the participants the day after the surgery was conducted.
      Assessment of pain intensity and prognostic outcomes must be confirmed by the auditor in
      sample population. When there is disagreement between surgeon and anesthesiologists in
      evaluating the prognosis of patients, the auditor must solve this disagreement by discussion
      with evaluators. Data will be double-entered by two statisticians with limitation of access
      and locked during statistical analysis.
    
  