
    
      Given the seriousness of the global health consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic and the
      difficulty of covering the world population with effective vaccination, several questions
      arise:

        -  Are the antibodies made by a patient neutralizing and do they protect the individual
           from further contamination?

        -  What is the persistence of the antibodies over time according to the clinical
           presentation, knowing that the very symptomatic forms have developed a much higher level
           of antibodies than the forms followed only on an outpatient basis and no less severe?

        -  What is the impact of vaccination (against wild-type virus and emerging variants) ? The
           investigators propose a single-center, observational study including 300 patients to
           answer the two questions, by selecting from the file of all the patients having had a
           positive RT-PCR 3 distinct groups: severe (hospitalized), pauci-symptomatic to moderate
           (followed in ambulatory only). Note: people living with HIV can be included in each of
           the groups.

      MAIN EVALUATION

      > Presence of specific anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in the different study groups at M24 at
      each of the sampling times (M0, M3, M6, M9, M12, M15, M18, M24)

      SECONDARY EVALUATION CRITERIA

        -  Presence of specific anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in the different groups of the study at
           M12 and in each of the subgroups at M12 and M24

        -  Neutralizing capacity of anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies to M6, M12 and M24 on the classical
           strain and the new variants, before and after a possible vaccination against COVID-19

        -  Measurement of CD8 (CD38 + DR +), CD4 and activated B lymphocytes in culture This will
           make it possible to answer the question of the persistence or not of an immune response
           over 24 months, an essential element in the event of seasonal circulation of the virus
           in the years to come, and of the persistence or not of the neutralizing capacities of
           these antibodies in the over time, especially when the title approaches the detection
           threshold.

      These information will be decisive in the event of successive waves of the SARS-CoV-2
      epidemic given a low level of collective immunity (<10% in France at the end of 2020) in
      order to know whether previously affected patients are durably protected.

      In the context of a lack of vaccine, results from this study would make it possible to select
      candidates for vaccination from the truly non-immune population.

      Vaccine sub-study :

      Study of the kinetic of neutralizing antibodies after vaccination :

      Volunteers participants, provided they give a special agreement for the vaccine sub-study,
      will undergo an additional grid of samples to accurately study the kinetic of neutralizing
      antibodies before and monthly after (up to 6 months) receiving anti-SARS-CoV-2 vaccine
      (whatever the product used). A special attention will be given to the capacity of their
      antibodies to neutralize emerging variants. Samples will include blood and possibly
      nasopharyngeal swabs (not mandatory).
    
  