
    
      In this study, the investigators will only enroll adults with confirmed or suspected
      epilepsy; there is no control group. Patients admitted to the UIHC Epilepsy Monitoring Unit
      (EMU) for continuous VideoEEG will undergo video recordings of their face and body,
      electroencephalography (EEG), and electrocardiogram (ECG) as part of their normal clinical
      care. Research subjects will undergo noninvasive cardiorespiratory monitoring during their
      EMU stay for the purpose of correlating heart rate and breathing patterns with EEG patterns
      related to their seizures.

      Eligible subjects will undergo several respiratory tests. This may include sniffing and
      breath holding and breathing through tubes of different sizes. One test, called the
      hypercapnic ventilatory response (HCVR), will have you rebreathe a gas mixture of 6% carbon
      dioxide and 50% oxygen to look at how more you breath in response to the increase in carbon
      dioxide levels. The investigators will then measure how much more subjects breathe in
      response to the increase in carbon dioxide levels, and also how breathing feels at the end of
      the test. The investigators will analyze the relationship between the HCVR and
      cardiorespiratory changes from seizures. The investigators will also analyze the effect of
      seizures on the HCVR. The HCVR test will be done by our respiratory therapist during
      subjects' stay in the EMU.

      Some subjects will be asked to participate in repeat testing of the HCVR 3 more times as an
      outpatient over the next 2 years. Additional subjects will also be enrolled from the clinic
      and will also undergo HCVR testing 4 times over the 2 years. All subjects will agree to
      undergo an interview in person or by phone, email, or questionnaire annually for ten years.
      They will also provide consent for follow-up with a personal contact in the event of subject
      death, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the death was due to SUDEP.
    
  