
    
      - Introduction

      o NIPT (non invasive prenatal testing)

      Down's syndrome is the leading cause of mental retardation in France. It results form in a
      supernumerary chromosome 21. It concerns on average of 27.3 per 10,000 pregnancies and 6.6
      per 10,000 births, frequency of non-disjunctive chromosomes increasing exponentially with
      age. French national policy is to systematically propose Down's syndrome screening during
      pregnancy which is intended for supposed healthy fetuses. Purpose is to target high-risk
      fetuses for which a diagnosis will be proposed and make minimum number of fetal samples, to
      decrease on one hand risk of miscarriages for healthy fetuses as well as health care cost on
      the other hand.

      Prenatal screening for Down's syndrome was initially based on a risk calculation from
      maternal serum markers (HCG and PAPP-A) combined to nuchal translucency during first
      trimester ultrasound and personal data (maternal age, antecedent of Down's syndrome).
      Diagnosis by invasive sampling was therefore only proposed to high-risk fetuses group or for
      fetuses with ultrasound abnormalities. This combined strategy is accounted for a sensitivity
      of 81.2% and a false positive rate of 2.8% with a detection probability between 73% to 100%.
      Invasive samples are carried out in 5% of cases and are associated with a risk of induced
      miscarriage of 0.5% to 1%.

      Since 2017, a new screening strategy is available from extracting fetal fraction in cell-free
      DNA in maternal plasma from a simple blood sample. NIPT (noninvasive prenatal testing) was
      born form new sequencing techniques and estimates the amount of fetal free circulating DNA in
      maternal blood in order to detect presence of a supernumerary 21 chromosome. This technique
      has sensitivity and a specificity that are far superior to "classical screening" and avoids
      95% of invasive sampling. A negative result makes it possible to exclude with almost complete
      certainty the diagnosis of Down's syndrome but must always be confirmed by a karyotype in
      case of a positive test. Its effectiveness in the detection of a fetal Down's syndrome is
      higher than classical screening. In order to reduce invasive sampling number and improve
      performance of screening, NIPT was included in French screening strategy in April 2017. NIPT
      is now proposed to pregnant women in the following indications: for pregnant women with an
      increased risk of Down's syndrome: combined risk result between 1/51 and 1/1 000, maternal
      age above 38 years old who could not benefit from serum markers and parents presenting a
      Robertsonian translocation involving a Down's syndrome, chromosome 21 or a history of fetal
      aneuploidy. NIPT is not indicated in case of ultrasound anomalies. As a screening test, it
      must absolutely be completed by a karyotype in case of positive and does not substitute for a
      diagnostic test.

      o Women's insight about Down's syndrome screening

      In parallel with Down's syndrome screening reform implementation in 2009, women's
      acknowledgement and feelings about the screening strategy were collected and revealed low
      awareness and lack of understanding of the risk calculations used in Down's syndrome
      screening. In a French study, about 21% of patients seem to confuse notion of risk
      calculation and diagnosis, and 64% of them do not feel well informed about the screening.
      This highlights flaws in the provided information on Down's syndrome screening by health care
      professionals. What's more, patient's knowledge of limitations of ultrasound in the diagnosis
      of T21 seem insufficient, putting to light confusion between screening test and diagnosis
      test.

      Highlighting the lack of patient's screening understanding brings up the issue of validity of
      consent and the possibility of informed choice regarding screening. It is therefore essential
      for practitioners to deliver high quality information during consultations and taking the
      time necessary to explain screening strategy to women. Since introduction of NIPT for Down's
      syndrome, no studies have been conducted regarding patient information and understanding of
      the updated screening strategy which is provided mainly during and after the first trimester
      ultrasound. A recent German study conducted in high-risk population of T21 (> 1/200) shows
      that the majority of women have sufficient knowledge to make an informed choice.

      It therefore seems important to ensure that the quality of the information delivered is
      sufficient during the first trimester ultrasound. French national authority (HAS) insist on
      guaranteeing fair access to appropriate and quality information for all pregnant women.
      Consequently, mentioning implication of a positive screening test results decreases anxiety,
      which automatically have an impact on the duration of the consultation. There is currently no
      French study on patient understanding and knowledge of Down's syndrome screening and NIPT
      testing since its formal entry as a tool in Down's syndrome screening.

      - Objective

      The aim of this study is to assess the quality of information and understanding of Down's
      syndrome by NIPT before and after the first trimester ultrasound consultation. Secondary
      objectives stand in collecting modalities of the provided information (time spent, substrate
      used), satisfaction of women on the provided information received and identifying risk
      factors associated with a better understanding of the screening strategy.

      Understanding of this new screening strategy by pregnant women is a key issue in decision
      making. We seek to highlight the absolute necessity of upstream information (brochure
      provided by secretaries, information disclosed throughout the three month pregnancy
      consultation, booklet delivered with initial documents ....) to enhance patient's
      comprehension and satisfaction.

      - Investigation plan

      This is a observational study intended for all pregnant patients from 11 to 17 + 6 WA (weeks
      of amenorrhea) expecting a single baby, consulting in the obstetrics and gynecology
      department of the University Hospital of Reims for their 1st trimester ultrasound. The study
      includes consultations of all certified doctors of the Maternity Department of the Reims
      University Hospital. It will concern all ranges of consultation regardless of the doctor who
      performs the consultation.

      Information about the study will be given to the patient when she arrives to present herself
      to the secretaries. Study and its implication will be explained by a doctor a dedicated room
      to respect the confidentiality of the collected information. When the patient agrees to
      participate to the protocol (no objection form), the "pre-consult survey" will be attributed.
      After the consultation, the post- consult survey" will be fulfilled.

      The questionnaire collects: (i) demographic characteristics, (ii) awareness of NIPT, (iii)
      general knowledge about Down's syndrome screening, (iiii) specific knowledge of NIPT for
      Down's syndrome and (iiiii) patient's satisfaction about provided information. Estimation of
      participation will be 30 minutes in total. Participation to the study does not change the
      patient's care and ultrasound realization will not be affected by the patient's participation
      in the study. Gynecologist performing the ultrasound will not be aware of the patients
      participation to the protocol. The duration of the inclusion phase will be 6 months. The time
      required to complete these questionnaires was estimated at half an hour (additional time to
      the duration of the consultation for the T1 ultrasound).

      Without data from the literature regarding patient information about Down's syndrome
      screening since the 2017 HAS guidelines and the facilitation of access to NIPD, it was
      pragmatically decided to include all eligible patients. Given the activity of the obstetrics
      and gynecology department of Reims University Hospital and the 6-month inclusion period, an
      inclusion of 200 patients is planned.
    
  