
    
      IMR has previously been implemented for adolescents in an inpatient unit in the hospital's
      catchment area. In order to offer the same treatment to all young patients, IMR treatment
      groups will be established in 4 out of 7 outpatient clinics in the hospital's catchment area.
      Participants belonging to the clinics in which no IMR treatment groups are being established
      will be invited to participate in IMR groups in clinics nearby.

      The primary aim is to gain new insight into how young people experience the utility of IMR
      treatment groups conducted in outpatient practices and, if relevant, which changes could be
      made to adapt IMR more to young people. To explore how the participants experience the
      utility of IMR treatment groups, a qualitative focus-group study, consisting of a maximum of
      5 focus-group interviews will be conducted. The participants in each IMR treatment group will
      be offered treatment once a week up to 10-12 months. To establish an IMR treatment group a
      minimum of 4 patients and a maximum of 8 participants must participate. Participants are
      mainly being included in the IMR treatment groups at the two primary admissions to each
      treatment group. Thus, some of the participants in the focus-groups may have participated in
      IMR groups for less than 10-12 months.

      Secondary outcomes are related to fidelity to the model and the extent to which IMR treatment
      groups are implemented at an organizational level. The treatment groups will be led by
      trained IMR-therapists employed in inpatient units, together with therapists in training who
      are employed in outpatient clinics. Leaders and other clinicians in the outpatient clinics
      will contribute knowledge about the extent to which core components of IMR are being
      implemented, as well as information relating to quality improvement and individual
      adjustment. Two of the out-patient clinics in which no IMR group is being established will be
      included in the sub-study. The clinics will receive written feedback after each measurement
      time to support quality improvement.

      The goal is to include up to 48 participants receiving IMR treatment in outpatient clinics.
      Up to 8 hospitalized participants will participate in a pilot focus-group interview. In the
      sub-study, a maximum of 16 IMR therapists, trained and in training, and up to 24 staff
      members will be invited to participate.
    
  