
    
      Latinos are the fastest growing ethnic group in the US and are disproportionately impacted by
      chronic conditions (e.g., overweight/obesity, diabetes) that can be mitigated by physical
      activity. While evidence-based programs are available to improve physical activity,
      dissemination is constrained by reliance on costly, limited resources. Short message service
      (SMS or text messaging) has strong potential as an intervention medium for Latinos, as they
      are dominant users of mobile phones and text messaging, including those with limited literacy
      and computer skills. The investigators propose to develop a personalized,
      culturally-congruent and interactive SMS program to promote the adoption and maintenance of
      physical activity for overweight, underactive Latino adults and test it for comparable
      efficacy to an evidence-based telephone-based advising program that has been used
      successfully with Latinos. Grounded in Social Cognitive and Self-Determination Theories, both
      programs will include a core set of self-regulatory skill building, social support, and
      autonomous motivation enhancement, and will be tailored for cultural, linguistic and literacy
      appropriateness. Randomized at the individual level, 376 sedentary, overweight Latinos ages
      45 years and older will be assigned to one of three arms: the SMS-delivered physical activity
      program, the Human-delivered physical activity program, or an attention-control arm of
      SMS-delivered basic healthful nutrition advice. They will receive their assigned program for
      12 months, and then will be followed for a 6-month maintenance phase, with a final assessment
      at 18 months. Analyses will determine if the two physical activity programs result in
      equivalent efficacy in adoption and maintenance of clinically meaningful physical activity
      increases, and superiority over the attention-control arm at 12 and 18 months. The two
      physical activity interventions will also be compared for equivalency in prevention of weight
      gain and reduction in abdominal adiposity. The investigators will explore the relative costs
      of the programs to determine which program increases physical activity for a lower cost.
      While health promotion programs delivered by professional staff may be more expensive than
      those delivered electronically, it is unclear if the automated version can produce more
      cost-efficient outcomes (i.e., comparable improvements in outcomes for significantly reduced
      cost). This study will determine if SMS is equivalent in efficacy to the traditional
      human-delivery channel in increasing physical activity and preventing weight gain, and if it
      results in a more cost-efficient program. If achieved, this research can significantly reduce
      health disparities associated with physical activity for Latinos by providing an efficacious,
      tailored and culturally appropriate program poised for widespread dissemination and rapid
      uptake.
    
  