
    
      3.1 Overview Two independent questions will be addressed in this study. For evaluation of the
      safety and efficacy of the hybrid closed loop (HCL), participants will use the hybrid closed
      loop during and after a standardized meal on the clinical research center. For evaluation of
      the safety and efficacy of the fully automated closed loop (FACL), participants will use the
      system for a 24 hour clinical research center stay incorporating meals and standardized
      exercise. Safety and efficacy will be evaluated by descriptive outcomes including number of
      completed studies and glycemic control.

      3.2 Eligibility. Participants will be recruited from the Diabetes Registry at the Benaroya
      Research Institute. Eligibile participants may enroll in the HCL, the FACL, or both studies.

      HCL Study visit, Day 1 (~7 hours total): The below times are approximate and may be adjusted
      to accommodate the CRC schedule. Prior to arrival at the CRC, participants will be asked to
      eat their normal breakfast and take their usual amount of insulin based on BG and
      carbohydrate content before 8am. Once at the CRC, participants will be able to drink water ad
      lib, but no food other than the prescribed meals can be eaten, unless hypoglycemia
      intervention is necessary. Participants will be required to check FSBG before the meal and
      calibrate if the FSBG value varies by >30% from CGM value.

      FACL Study visit, Day 1 (~ 23 hours total): The below times are approximate and may be
      adjusted to accommodate the CRC schedule. Prior to arrival at the CRC, participants will be
      asked to eat their normal breakfast and take their usual amount of insulin based on BG and
      carbohydrate content before 8 am. Once arrived at the CRC, participants will be able to drink
      water, but no food other than the prescribed meals can be eaten, unless hypoglycemia
      intervention is necessary. Participants will be required to check FSBG before meals, at
      bedtime and at 0300. They will calibrate if the FSBG value varies by >30% from the CGM value.
      They will calibrate the CGM every 12 hours as recommended by Dexcom.
    
  