
    
      Serious antisocial behavior, including criminal offending, is extremely costly to society.
      Rates of such behavior are highest during emerging adulthood. Antisocial behavior is
      especially high among emerging adults (EAs) with mental illness (MI); findings suggest the
      majority of EAs with MI will be arrested by age 25, most with multiple arrests, and for
      serious charges. Thus, there is a clear public health need for effective treatments to reduce
      serious antisocial behavior in EAs with MI. Astonishingly, there are no established
      interventions with evidence of efficacy to reduce serious antisocial behavior among EAs, with
      or without MI. Effective antisocial behavior interventions in adolescents address the
      comprehensive causes of that behavior. Similarly, this team has developed and completed
      research on a well-defined age-tailored intervention for EAs with MI and serious antisocial
      behavior that addresses the correlates of EA antisocial behavior, and provides MI treatment.
      The intervention is an adaptation of the well-established effective juvenile antisocial
      behavior intervention, Multisystemic Therapy (MST). MST-EA is a single source that targets
      the EA correlates of antisocial behavior, including gainful activity (school, work, housing,
      and positive relationships) and reduced substance use, in part by targeting the proximal
      mechanism of poor self-regulation. MST-EA also addresses these correlates through reducing MI
      symptoms. The investigative team has already established the safety, feasibility, and
      preliminary efficacy of this type of intervention in a successfully completed community-based
      open trial (R34MH081374-01, PI: Davis). The proposed study will rigorously evaluate the
      effectiveness of MST-EA for reducing serious antisocial behavior. Specifically, 240 EAs with
      MI and recent arrests or release from justice facilities will be randomized to receive MST-EA
      or Enhanced Treatment as Usual (E-TAU). Assessments will be completed at months 0, 2, 4, 6,
      8, 12, and 16, with confirmation of outcome data using collateral reports and system records.
      The first aim will be to evaluate the effect over time of MST-EA for improving the ultimate
      outcome of treatment: reduced serious antisocial behavior. The second aim is to evaluate the
      effect of MST-EA on (a) the key proximal target of treatment (self-regulation) and (b) the
      proposed intermediate outcomes of treatment (gainful activity, substance use, and MI
      problems). The final aim will be to determine whether MST-EA's effect on the ultimate outcome
      is the result of its effect on the proximal target and intermediate outcomes of treatment.
      There is a current absence of any antisocial behavior treatments with demonstrated efficacy
      in this age group. The ultimate effect of the proposed research would be decreased antisocial
      behavior and other public health-related behaviors (MI symptoms, substance use, homelessness,
      unemployment) among one of the highest-risk population of individuals with MI. With an
      emphasis on treatment mechanisms and the near absence of MI research focused on EAs, this
      innovative research has high potential to advance the field.
    
  