
    
      By launching the 90-90-90 strategy UNAIDS has shown a way forward in controlling and finally
      eradicating the deadly AIDS epidemic. Recent global data shows that progress towards the
      first UNAIDS target, i.e. to ensure that 90% of HIV-positive individuals are aware of their
      status, is lower than progress in other areas of the HIV care cascade. It is estimated that
      still approximately 2.7 million HIV-positive people do not know their HIV status.

      Home- or community-based HIV testing has been proven to be very effective in resource-limited
      settings and therefore is a key strategy endorsed by WHO. Although acceptance of testing
      during such campaigns is usually very high, coverage remains low due to absent household
      members. And usually these absent people are men and young adults - both of which have a
      disproportionately high risk of HIV acquisition and poorer clinical outcomes once infected.

      Oral HIV self-testing (HIVST) has shown to be an accurate diagnostic tool with a high
      acceptance and feasibility in sub-Saharan Africa. Experiences from the sub-Saharan region
      suggest that when HIV self-testing is provided as part of a home-based HIV testing campaigns,
      it can increase uptake of testing and facilitate linkage to care, especially among
      individuals who are at high risk of HIV infection.

      The HOSENG study is linked to a follow-up trial, the VIBRA study. Together they are called
      the GET ON ("GETing tOwards Ninety") research project. The HOSENG study with its home-based
      HIV testing campaign provides the platform for the VIBRA study.

      The HOSENG study is a cluster randomized, parallel-group (1:1:1:1 allocation), open-label,
      superiority, prospective clinical trial. Clusters are stratified by district, size of
      village, and village access to the nearest health facility.

      The primary endpoint is HIV testing coverage among individuals aged 12 years or older in the
      surveyed area within 120 days after the home visit, defined as the proportion of all
      individuals 12 years or older living in a household of the surveyed area with a confirmed HIV
      test result. The secondary enpoints are listed below.

      For the entire GET ON project we will collect cost data. Specifically for HOSENG trial,
      first, direct costs of the intervention will be assessed: Staff costs (campaign team, VHWs,
      clinic staff), personnel training costs (VHWs), cost of equipment (HIV tests, consumables,
      logistics), as well as non-medical costs to the participant (i.e. cost of transportation to
      ART service). These data will provide the average cost per participant achieving the primary
      endpoint within 120 days in each cluster arm ('per participant tested cost'). Secondly, a
      cost-effectiveness analysis will be performed with respect to the primary endpoint. Da-ta to
      assess patient level costs will be collected from a randomly selected sub-sample of study
      participants from each cluster arm. Costs will be reported as means (incl. SD) and medians
      (incl. IQRs) in local currencies and US dollars and International Dollars.

      A nested study (ADORE study: "ADolescent ORal sElf-testing") will explore the acceptability
      of oral HIVST among adolescents and young adults with quantitative methods (see secondary
      endpoint) and qualitative methods: A qualitative case-control study. Cases are those who
      refused testing through oral HIVST and controls are those who accepted testing through oral
      HIVST. We plan to conduct at least 10 interviews per group, stratified by two pre-defined
      factors (male vs female; age 12-15 vs age 16-24), following the concept of saturation. Data
      will be collected by a trained study member, who was part of the HIV testing campaign, using
      a piloted interview questionnaire (KoboToolbox; www.kobotoolbox.org), conducted in the local
      language (Sesotho). Qualitative data will be recorded, transcribed, translated into English
      and coded and analyzed using the Framework Method.

      More, detailed information:

        -  https://getonproject.wordpress.com

        -  https://www.swisstph.ch/en/topics/hiv-aids/
    
  