
    
      Opioid misuse is a known public safety threat and public health problem, both nationwide and
      in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. As a part of these efforts, Emergency Department (ED)
      outpatient prescriptions have been identified as a potential area for improvement. The
      Massachusetts Hospital Association (MHA), in conjunction with other stakeholders, developed a
      set of recommendations to address opioid management and prescribing within the ED setting.

      This study is timed to coincide with the rollout by UMassMemorial Health Care of a
      system-wide opioid prescribing practice guideline/policy which mirrors the Massachusetts
      Hospital Association's guideline. This rollout provides a unique opportunity for a natural
      experiment related to provider prescribing practices.

      This is a quality improvement project with two primary objectives:

        -  Improve understanding of physician practice patterns related to emergency department
           (ED) opioid prescribing

        -  Evaluate the effectiveness of providing individual clinician profile data in influencing
           behavior change among ED providers, as it relates to their opioid prescribing patterns

      There are two corresponding specific aims:

        -  Quantitatively describe the current state of opioid prescribing by ED clinicians at four
           UMass Memorial EDs (using prescriptions generated within the ED electronic health
           information system between February 2014 and the study implementation date). Descriptive
           statistics being considered for feasibility of study include:

        -  Number of opioid prescriptions per hundred patients seen

        -  Percentage of total prescriptions written that are opioids

        -  Mean or median quantity of pills dispensed per opioid prescription

        -  Number of prescriptions for long-acting opioid formulations

        -  Evaluate the effect on prescribing practices of providing individual clinicians with
           their profile data to illustrate their personal opioid prescribing patterns, relative to
           the de-identified distribution for all other clinicians in the ED group

      This project is timed to coincide with the separately planned implementation of a system-wide
      opioid prescribing guideline. The guideline implementation is an independent event, but we
      feel that it presents a unique opportunity for a simultaneous experimental intervention to
      assess whether providing clinicians with their individual data alters their prescribing
      practices beyond any effect achieved simply by being subject to the new guideline. Data
      collected from the electronic medical record and clinician self-reported data about their
      perceptions of their prescribing practices will be used to evaluate both the effect of the
      guideline implementation (i.e. comparison of prescribing patterns for all clinicians before
      and after guideline implementation) and the combined effect of guideline implementation plus
      individual profile intervention (i.e. comparisons across intervention versus control groups).
    
  