
    
      Caffeine, the most widely used psychoactive drug in the world, exerts its behavioral effects
      by antagonizing adenosine receptors (AR). Four different human AR subtypes have been found
      and there is evidence that the stimulatory effect of caffeine is mainly caused by an
      inhibition of transmission via adenosine A(2a) receptors. A significant association has been
      found in healthy infrequent caffeine users between caffeine-induced anxiety and two linked
      polymorphisms on the A(2a) receptor gene, the 1976C greater than T and 2592C greater than
      Tins polymorphisms. In one study looking at monozygotic and dizygotic twin pairs, there was
      much evidence that individual differences in caffeine use, intoxication, tolerance, and
      withdrawal were substantially influenced by genetic factors. Family and twin studies have
      shown that genetic factors may increase vulnerability to panic disorder. In one study a
      systematic mutation screening and association study of the A(1) and A(2a) adenosine receptor
      genes in panic disorder showed a significant association between the 1976T allele and 1976T/T
      genotype of the A(2a) receptor gene and panic disorder. As the 1976T/T genotype of the A(2a)
      receptor gene has been associated with both increased caffeine-induced anxiety in healthy
      controls, and has been associated with increased vulnerability to panic disorder, we wish to
      study whether the 1976T/T genotype in panic disorder patients is associated with increased
      caffeine-induced anxiety.

      This study will study subjects with panic disorder and healthy controls. Based on previous
      studies the following hypotheses will be tested (2 replication and 2 new hypotheses):
      Replication; (1) panic disorder subjects will report higher anxiety after a caffeine
      challenge than the healthy control subjects. (2) healthy controls with the1976 T/T
      polymorphism will report increased anxiety after a caffeine challenge compared to healthy
      controls with the 1976 C/T and 1976 C/C genotypes, New hypotheses; (3) panic patients (two
      separate groups: currently ill and remitted) with the 1976 T/T polymorphism will report
      increased anxiety after a caffeine challenge compared to panic patients with the 1976 C/T and
      1976 C/C genotypes, (4) panic patients (two separate groups: currently ill and remitted) with
      the 1976 T/T polymorphism will report increased anxiety after a caffeine challenge compared
      to healthy controls with the 1976 T/T polymorphism will report increased anxiety after a
      caffeine challenge compared to healthy controls with the 1976 T/T genotype.
    
  