
    
      Colonoscopy plays an increasingly important role in the diagnosis and treatment of colorectal
      pathologies. The recent progress in endoscopic technologies and interest in colorectal cancer
      screening have enabled the diagnosis of a larger number of early colorectal neoplasms,
      including benign polyps and early cancers. Colonoscopic polypectomy remains the cornerstone
      of therapy for the majority of colorectal polyps and helps prevent colorectal cancer.
      However, if colorectal neoplasms are too large or cannot be removed "en bloc" endoscopically,
      operative procedures are required to reduce risks of incomplete removal and local recurrence.
      Laparoscopic resection represents a minimally invasive alternative for treating colorectal
      neoplasms that are not amenable to en bloc endoscopic resection. However, laparoscopic
      surgery has to be done under general anesthesia, is associated with operative morbidity, and
      is expensive.

      Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is a revolutionary endoscopic procedure that enables
      en bloc resection of large gastrointestinal tumors, irrespective of the size of the lesion.
      ESD, which was pioneered in Japan for the treatment of early gastric neoplasms, has now been
      successfully applied to the colon and rectum. ESD has been shown by recent studies to be a
      safe and effective resection technique for large early colorectal neoplasms. However, no
      report can be found in the literature comparing ESD and laparoscopic resection for early
      colorectal neoplasms that are not amenable to en bloc endoscopic resection with conventional
      techniques. Furthermore, it remains unclear whether ESD is less invasive than laparoscopic
      surgery in terms of systemic inflammatory and cytokine responses, and all these may have
      implications for cancer recurrence.

      We propose to conduct a prospective randomized trial to compare the short-term clinical
      outcomes and systemic inflammatory/cytokine responses of ESD versus laparoscopic resection
      for early colorectal neoplasms that are not amenable to en bloc endoscopic resection with
      conventional techniques. The overall costs of the two therapeutic approaches will also be
      compared. Findings of this proposed project may provide evidence-based clarification of the
      efficacy and safety of ESD in treating early colorectal neoplasms. We hypothesize that ESD is
      associated with lower morbidity, earlier recovery, shorter hospital stay, and lower costs
      when compared with laparoscopic resection. A faster recovery and earlier discharge after ESD
      may reduce financial burden to the hospital and health care system. The results of this
      proposed project may have a significant impact on the future treatment strategy for early
      colorectal neoplasms, and may provide new insights into the systemic inflammatory responses
      of ESD.
    
  