
    
      Inadequate physical activity and extended bouts of sedentary time are prevalent in adults,
      increasing from middle age into older adulthood. Even small changes in behavior, such as
      standing or walking in place periodically to break up sedentary bouts, can have large effects
      on cardiometabolic risk factors. Pedometer-based walking interventions have demonstrated
      effectiveness in increasing physical activity in this population, but these interventions
      have not targeted sedentary behavior. Recent technological advances have produced activity
      monitors that are capable of intervening on both behaviors. These wrist-worn monitors provide
      feedback and motivation for walking as well as cues to action in the form of idle alerts.
      These idle alerts vibrate when the wearer has remained sedentary for an extended period of
      time. Several preliminary studies have shown that older adults are willing to break up their
      sedentary time if prompted, but interventions thus far have relied upon television
      commercials as a cue to action. Use of these monitors would allow idle alerts to occur
      throughout the day, not only during television watching periods. The purpose of the IMPACT
      study (Inactivity Monitoring and Physical Activity Controlled Trial) is to investigate the
      feasibility of using activity monitors to simultaneously target both physical activity and
      sedentary behavior. First, we will conduct a pre-pilot test (N = 10) over six weeks. This
      brief study will provide basic feasibility and acceptability information on the monitor,
      content for weekly sessions, and assessments. Results will be used to refine the intervention
      for use in a larger pilot two-arm randomized controlled trial (N = 20, 12 weeks). This trial,
      comparing the intervention to a wait-list control group, will test feasibility,
      acceptability, and health, behavioral, and psychological outcomes. The primary outcome will
      be physical activity, operationalized as objectively-measured minutes of moderate-vigorous
      intensity physical activity over seven days (SenseWear armband). We will also measure
      cardiorespiratory fitness, physical function, body composition, and psychosocial variables
      such as autonomous motivation. The results of this innovative project will provide a
      foundation for future intervention in sedentary behavior and potentially create a large
      public health impact in a population at unique risk.
    
  