
    
      Today colonoscopy is a standard method for examination of the colon. To correctly diagnose
      and give adequate therapy after colonoscopy examination it is necessary with a thoroughly
      done bowel preparation, i.e. the intestines should preferably be empty. The ideal preparation
      should not only be reliable and easy to carry out but also be done without discomfort for the
      patient. Unfortunately we do not today have any purgative that fulfils these criteria's.

      Studies have shown that Phosforal compared to Laxabon have the same or even a better effect
      regarding the bowel preparation and also a higher patient tolerance. The amount of side
      effects with Phosforal is larger and has potentially greater medical effects for the patient.
      Phosforal might result in serious changes in the liquid- and salt-balance and especially
      patients with heart diseases and kidney dysfunctions should be restricted to use this
      preparation.

      Laxabon, on the other hand, has not showed any side effects for changes in the salt balance,
      but studies have shown that up to 40% of the patients are not able to drink such a large
      amount as four litres. Side effects as nausea, vomiting and discomfort are common.

      At Ersta hospital we have for many years done research studies on the metabolic response in
      connection with surgery. Patients undergoing surgery for cancer in the rectum often are
      prepared with energy drinks in order to receive a higher energy level before the operation.
      As a result of this the patients often avoid nausea and have a better intestinal function
      after surgery. We think that this treatment has worked well on the patients but no scientific
      studies have been done on these patients. As a complementary result of the treatment with
      nutritional drinks we have found that the colon is empty already after a short time of
      treatment. We have also prepared some patient for colonoscopy, that due to their primary
      disease not are able to use traditional purgatives, with nutritional drinks for five days
      combined with a local purgative on the day of the examination. The colonoscopy examination on
      these patients were performed without any problems. We have found no studies describing this
      preparation before colonoscopy.

      This is a study that will find out if traditional preparation before colonoscopy could be
      replaced by nutritional drinks combined with local purgative on the day of the examination.
    
  