
    
      Hospitals are not consistently patient centered, contributing to worse outcomes and a sense
      of loss of control. Prior interventions that promote patient-centered care focused on
      provider and hospital factors vs. engaging patients directly. No project to date has
      capitalized on digital health technology to engage families in shared decision-making and
      patient engagement. The goal of the proposed randomized controlled trial is to test the
      impact of an evidence-based educational module delivered using an interactive patient-facing
      IT platform, on measures of patient engagement and shared decision-making. The platform was
      developed for the UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital by OneView, Inc. and includes an
      educational module that promotes shared decision-making through orientation to the hospital
      and evidence-based teaching on engaging with providers. This study will provide pilot data
      for a large-scale trial measuring the impact of the system on patient engagement. The
      investigators will start by finalizing the educational module and adding randomization for
      the trial (Aim 1). The investigators will then complete iterative user testing in the live
      system through measurement of educational module views and usability feedback interviews with
      20 end users (Aim 2). The investigators will then conduct a randomized controlled trial to
      test the impact of the educational module on existing measures of patient engagement (Aim 3).
      Our hypothesis is that parents who receive the educational module will have higher scores on
      shared decision-making, patient activation and overall patient experience. The eligible study
      population is all pediatric and newborn inpatients and their caregivers from June 2015 -
      August 2015. The investigators anticipate needing a sample size of 100, 50 in each arm. This
      pilot will generate key information on the platform's feasibility and acceptability and
      initial data on effect sizes to power future large-scale grants.
    
  