
    
      Natural killer (NK) cells are innate immune lymphocytes that are identified by the expression
      of the CD56 surface antigen and the lack of CD3. Unlike antigen specific T cells, NK cells do
      not require the presence of a specific tumor antigen for the recognition and killing of
      cancer cells. Our in vitro studies have demonstrated that pretreatment of malignant cells
      with bortezomib significantly enhances NK-mediated tumor cytotoxicity by sensitizing cells to
      TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL). TRAIL is a member of tumor necrosis factor
      family of cytokines that promotes apoptosis. Importantly, in our laboratory, in vitro
      expanded NK cells isolated from patients with metastatic cancers or hematological
      malignancies exhibited significantly more cytotoxicity against their tumor cells when tumors
      were pre-treated with bortezomib compared with untreated tumor controls. These findings
      suggest that drug-induced sensitization to TRAIL could be used as a novel strategy to
      potentiate anticancer effects of autologous adoptively infused NK cells in patients with
      cancer.

      Murine studies conducted in our laboratory have also established that bortezomib treatment
      sensitizes tumors in vivo to killing by adoptively infused syngeneic NK cells; murine renal
      cell carcinoma line (RENCA) tumors in BALB/c mice grew significantly slower and survival was
      prolonged when syngeneic NK cell infusions were given following bortezomib treatment compared
      to mice receiving NK cell infusions alone or bortezomib alone. This anti-tumor effect was
      further potentiated by eradicating T-regulatory cells prior to adoptive NK cell infusion and
      by administering interleukin-2 after adoptive NK cell infusion.

      Recently, our laboratory has developed techniques for the in vitro isolation and expansion of
      NK cells to levels suitable for the treatment of cancer patients. Furthermore, we have also
      established good viability and sterility of these expanded NK cells which, compared to fresh
      NK cells, have increased surface expression of TRAIL and have enhanced cytotoxicity against
      tumor cells.

      We therefore propose this non-randomized, Phase I, dose escalating study designed to evaluate
      the safety and the anti- tumor effects of escalating doses of adoptively infused ex vivo
      expanded autologous natural killer (NK) cells against metastatic cancers or hematological
      malignancies sensitized to NK TRAIL cytotoxicity with Bortezomib.

      The primary study objective is to determine the safety (maximum tolerated dose) of escalating
      NK cell doses of adoptively infused ex vivo expanded autologous NK cells in subjects with
      treatment refractory metastatic tumors or hematological malignancies that are sensitized to
      NK cell cytotoxicity using bortezomib. Secondary objectives will include the anti-neoplastic
      effects of this treatment regimen (assessed using standard disease specific response
      criteria) and the toxicity profile associated with extended cycles of protocol therapy.

      The primary endpoint will be assessed at day 21 (3 weeks after the Day 0 NK cell infusion).
    
  