
    
      ASA is the most commonly drug used worldwide for prevention of cardiovascular diseases.
      However, ASA is increasingly recognized as a culprit for small bowel bleeding. The latter
      condition manifests as overt bleeding (i.e., passing black or bright red stool) or occult
      blood loss (i.e., normal stool but progressive decrease in hemoglobin level), with normal
      findings in the stomach and colon. Small bowel bleeding is notoriously difficult to diagnose
      because it is beyond the reach of conventional endoscopy. The advent of wireless, video
      capsule endoscopy has revolutionized the visualization of small bowel. Capsule endoscopy is a
      pill that contains a tiny camera for capturing pictures of the small bowel after being
      swallowed. Currently, capsule endoscopy is a recommended noninvasive approach of identifying
      the source of small bowel bleeding.

      The problem of small bowel bleeding is increasingly recognized, partly because the use of ASA
      is rising. In a regional hospital in Hong Kong, we diagnose about 100 cases of ASA-associated
      small bowel overt bleeding/occult blood loss each year. In a prospective cohort study we
      found that among ASA users with a history of small bowel bleeding, the risk of recurrent
      small bowel bleeding is 4 times higher in patients who continued to use ASA than in those who
      discontinued ASA.

      Management of ASA-associated small bowel bleeding is a major clinical challenge for two
      reasons. First, there is not a single effective treatment for small bowel ulcer. Unlike
      peptic ulcers, injury to the small bowel is acid-independent. Thus, conventional stomach
      protective drugs cannot heal or prevent small bowel ulcers in ASA users. Neither can
      switching to other non-ASA anti-platelet drugs reduce the risk of bleeding. Second, we have
      shown that continuation of ASA increases the risk of recurrent small bowel bleeding. However,
      discontinuation of ASA exposes patients to thrombotic complications. Currently, there is no
      local or international guideline on the management of ASA-associated small bowel bleeding.

      Suppression of prostaglandin synthesis is an important mechanism of ASA-induced small injury.
      Consistent with this theory, preliminary data from a case series showed that misoprostol, a
      prostaglandin analog, healed small bowel ulcers in ASA users. However, the efficacy of
      misoprostol in healing ASA-associated small bowel ulcers has not yet been confirmed by
      prospective randomized trials.
    
  