
    
      Many patients with reduced exercise tolerance have a preserved left ventricular function.
      These patients are labelled as having heart failure with preserved ejection fraction
      (HeFPEF), when the combined use of echocardiography and biochemistry. The prevalence and the
      incidence of HeFPEF are on the increase and currently it accounts for around 50% of all
      patients diagnosed with HF. The last twenty years of research has led to great improvement in
      available treatments for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HeFREF); however,
      current guidelines only suggest diuretics to improve symptoms of those patients with HeFPEF:
      clinical trials of several pharmacological interventions have failed to show convincing
      reductions in morbidity or mortality for patients with HeFPEF.

      The effect of oxygen therapy on exercise capacity has remained poorly understood in HeFREF
      and, at the time of writing this study, it has never been explored in HeFPEF. The
      investigators recently completed a study showing an increase in exercise time, exercise load
      at peak exercise and peak metabolic equivalent on cycle ergometry with 28% oxygen
      supplementation and further increments when 40% oxygen supplementation was used in patients
      with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction.

      The investigators aim to improve exercise time in patients with HeFPEF with oxygen
      supplementation. Identifying the correct dose of oxygen will be a further aim to avoid
      hyperoxygenation but provide adequate oxygen to improve exercise tolerance.

      Patients will be identified from heart failure clinics and will be invited for screening
      visit. Eligible patients will have three treatment visit at least one week apart (each visit
      with a different oxygen concentration i.e room air, 28% and 40% oxygen, randomly determined
      by sealed envelopes)

      Patients will use standard cycle ergometry to exercise and work load will be increased every
      minute by 5-10 watts. Patients will be encouraged to cycle until tired. At the end of
      cycling, exercise time, peak metabolic equivalent, work load, shortness of breath score will
      be noted at each visit.
    
  