
    
      The current investigation will address some similar factors considered in prior research, but
      will considerably extend our understanding of how psychological, familial, and environmental
      factors influence noncardiac chest pain. In this investigation, a number of variables that
      have not been considered in prior research in this area will be included. Among these child
      variables are: the children's pain coping strategies, the children's somatization behaviors
      aside from chest pain, the children's externalizing symptoms (e.g., symptoms of ADHD,
      oppositional defiant disorder), school related problems, social competencies, parental
      perceptions of the child's vulnerability, functional disability (the degree to which chest
      pain interferes with normal daily functioning), and the child's health care utilization.
      Also, a more sensitive quantification of the children's frequency and intensity of chest pain
      will be collected, as well as information on situations in which the pain occurs. Parent
      report of child functioning and child self-report will be used to assess children's behavior.
      The parental factors to be assessed include the parents' own physical conditions and health
      care utilization, as well as the parents' psychological functioning. The amount of changes
      and stress the family as a whole has experienced in different domains will also be assessed
      as well. Measures of these constructs, as well as children's anxiety and depression (similar
      to Lipsitz et al. reviewed above) will be collected at the time of the original appointment.

      With the exception of the chest pain measure, quantification of these variables will be
      collected for both chest pain and innocent murmur patients between the ages of 8 and 18 years
      of age at the time of their initial appointment. Further, approximately one month following
      the medical assessment by the cardiologists, the parents and children will be asked to
      complete a measure of their satisfaction with the medical care they were provided, their
      health care utilization subsequent to the diagnostic cardiology appointment, their various
      somatic symptoms, and their functional disability at the one month follow-up assessment.
      Also, the chest pain patients will be asked to complete the chest pain inventory in
      conjunction with their parent.

      Between-group analyses will address how these multiple variables differ for the chest pain
      group and patients presenting for an evaluation for heart murmurs. This will be true at both
      the time of the patients' appointment and at follow-up. Further, within-group correlational
      analyses will be conducted primarily for with the chest pain group. The goal of these within
      group analyses will be to address how the various child, parent, and familial factors
      correlate with the children's chest pain symptoms, healthcare utilization, other somatic
      symptoms, and functional disability. In addition, for the chest pain group, the patients' and
      their families' functioning at the time of the initial appointment will be used to predict
      chest pain and other somatic symptom maintenance, health care utilization following the
      initial appointment, and satisfaction with their medical care at follow-up. Each of these
      questions will advance the literature in this area.

      We should also point out why the innocent murmur group was chosen as a comparison sample for
      the chest pain patients. As noted above, pain is a subjective experience that is first noted
      by the patient and then communicated to others. It is then reacted to in various ways by
      those in the child's environment. In contrast, a child with a heart murmur is not the one who
      first notices the symptom and then communicates it. Instead, the patient with a murmur is
      told that they have the symptom by a pediatrician, family practice physician, or other health
      care provider. This tendency to notice and interpret pain in a particular manner is an
      essential component in the history of the children and their families who report to
      cardiology clinics for an evaluation of the etiology of chest pain. Such noticing and
      interpretation is fundamentally a psychological process.

      Comparison: adolescents who present in a cardiac specialty clinic with noncardiac chest pain
      versus those who present with innocent murmurs.
    
  