
    
      Mitochondria are essential for a wide range of functions in almost every cell in our body.
      Best known for their role in adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production, mitochondria are also
      closely involved in a wide variety of cell functions such as calcium buffering, redox
      regulation, apoptosis and inflammation, and regulate metabolism through several mechanisms,
      including epigenetic changes. ATP produced is essential for many cellular systems. Thus,
      abnormal mitochondrial function can adversely affect cellular systems by several mechanisms.

      Given the important role of the mitochondria in cellular function, individuals with classic
      mitochondrial disease demonstrate devastating symptoms, particularly in tissues that have
      high-energy demands such as the brain, muscles, gastrointestinal (GI) tract and immune
      system. Mitochondrial dysfunction contributes to the pathophysiology of more common diseases,
      including psychiatric diseases, neurodegenerative disorders, neurological disorders including
      migraine and seizures, persistent systemic inflammation, cardiac disease, cancer and
      diabetes. Mitochondrial dysfunction also effects a significant portion of individuals with
      autism spectrum disorder (ASD) as well as genetic syndromes associated with ASD.

      One of our goals is to develop a method using the Seahorse Analyzer to measure individual
      variations in mitochondrial function which can identify children with medical disorders and
      mitochondrial dysfunction without an invasive muscle biopsy. In order to establish
      comprehensive profiles of mitochondrial function for individuals with known neurological and
      neurodevelopmental disorders, we will compare blood, urine, and stool from these individuals
      to those of healthy, typically developing (TD) children. The relationship between
      mitochondrial function, development, and behavior will be assessed by performing standard
      developmental testing. In addition, in patients who have a procedure that produces leftover
      tissue, we will examine the mitochondrial function in that tissue and correlate it with
      findings from blood.
    
  