
    
      The correction of Class II malocclusion is one of the most common problems facing the
      orthodontist, with an estimated one-third of all orthodontic patients treated for this
      condition.

      Many strategies are available for Class II treatment on growing patients, and most
      orthodontists tend to choose a treatment protocol based on what part of the craniofacial
      deformity they believe the appliance will affect the most.

      A number of authors have described the dentoalveolar and skeletal changes induced by the
      Herbst appliance. The dentoalveolar effects consist of distalization of the maxillary molars
      and forward movement of the mandibular dentition. The main skeletal change "mandibular
      stimulation" is acceleration of a patient's inherent mandibular growth rather than increased
      growth beyond what would occur without treatment.

      Maxillary molar distalization, is one of the Class II treatment. Mini-implants have become
      popular in recent years, and various kinds of mini-implant-borne distalization approaches
      have been described.

      Because Class II correction appears to be achievable with either appliance, a follow-up
      question is whether there is a difference in the esthetic outcomes. However, because of the
      complexity of the human face and the subjectivity of facial beauty, a simple set of measures
      of lines or angles cannot quantify facial beauty.

      Being the principle quantifiable diagnostic tool, the use of lateral head films lead
      orthodontists to have thought primarily in two dimensions. With the advances in 3-dimensional
      imaging, it is now possible to capture and superimpose digital images and measure the changes
      in the soft tissues from 3-dimensional images. Such advances in facial imaging allow a more
      thorough investigation of changes in 3 dimensions and prevent the inherent loss of
      information that results from 2-dimensional imaging. Optical scanners with short shutter
      speeds are convenient for clinicians and patients for capturing soft-tissue records.

      Bearing in mind that the aim of orthodontic treatment is to achieve facial harmony along with
      excellent occlusion, one of the most important objectives of an orthodontist should be the
      improvement of facial appearance. Therefore, it is important to gain a better understanding
      of how or whether orthodontic procedures affect the appearance of the soft tissues. Thus, the
      aim of this clinical trial is three dimensional evaluation of soft tissue facial changes on
      late mixed dentition patients following maxillary arch distalization with palatal screws one
      group and acrylic split herbst patients on other group and to compare these changes.
    
  