
    
      The Pro Pack Trial will evaluate the outcomes of subjects treated with Target Coils, in whom
      the packing density is actively calculated prior to coil selection. Selecting the coil with
      the best volumetric filling has been shown to increase overall packing density. Each coil
      thereafter will be evaluated prior to placement to assess the resultant packing density. An
      initial goal of 10% or greater packing density with the first coil will be used as a guide to
      coil selection. A final packing density of greater than 25% should be attempted as feasible.
      Currently, a maximum packing density is not defined. While theoretically a packing density
      may approach 100%, in reality the spaces between the coil loops occupy a large percentage of
      the coil mass, and packing densities rarely reach 50% or greater. As such, the final packing
      density is left to the operator, and is based on ability to place coils safely by the
      operator.

      Potential subjects will be screened, consented, imaged, and evaluated in order to obtain 25
      patients with complete 12-month follow-up. Baseline patient data will be collected at the
      time of the procedure; follow-up information will be collected within 48 hours of the
      procedure, and at approximately 12 months (±3 months) after the procedure. The anticipated
      study duration is approximately 24 months: 12 month recruitment, 12 month primary endpoint
      and closeout.

      Enrollment in the study occurs after a signed Informed Consent form has been obtained, all
      eligibility criteria have been met, aneurysm volume has been calculated, and the procedure to
      place Target Coils with prospective density measurements has begun, i.e., at the time of
      target procedural angiography. From the moment of placement of the first coil, the patient is
      considered in the study whether they receive Target Coils or not, and will be followed up and
      included in the final analysis. Patients enrolled in the trial will be followed for
      approximately 12 months after the index embolization procedure. This will allow evaluation of
      the primary and secondary study endpoints. Targeted enrollment is 25 patients with complete
      12 month follow-up evaluations. Every effort will be made to follow the progress and monitor
      the safety of patients who have been treated with Target® Coils.

      Embolization utilizing Target® Coils may proceed at the time of diagnostic angiography for
      eligible patients who have signed an Informed Consent form. The investigator must perform the
      embolization procedure. Framing, filling, and finishing should be done with Target Coils. In
      the event of aneurysms with wide necks or unfavorable anatomy, adjunctive therapy, Neuroform
      Stent may be used to ensure the best clinical and angiographic results.

      The site will enter ongoing, real time information into an electronic imaging database and
      track outcomes during the follow-up angiographic evaluations. The degree of occlusion, by
      coils and/or thrombus, will be measured post procedurally and at 12 +/- 3 months post
      procedure by the Angiographic Core Laboratory using a 3 point categorical scale: complete,
      residual neck/dog ear or residual aneurysm. Additionally, for the final angiogram, a same/
      better / worse scale shall be applied.
    
  