
    
      Acute severe pain after cesarean delivery is frequent. At least 10 to 15% of the women
      develop chronic pain .Effective postoperative analgesia after caesarean section is important
      because it enables early ambulation and facilitates breast-feeding.

      The administration of opioids, local blocks and other analgesic medication is instituted to
      decrease the duration and intensity of postoperative pain as a part of a multimodal analgesic
      regimen. The transversusabdominis plane (TAP) block is a regional analgesic technique which
      blocks T6-L1 nerve branches and has an evolving role in postoperative analgesia for lower
      abdominal surgeries .

      In postoperative analgesia, efficacy of TAP block is equivalent to morphine with the
      additional benefits of increasing duration of analgesia, reducing postoperative opioid usage,
      with satisfactory pain relief and few side effects.

      The TAP block avoids the risk of neuraxial complications and opioid complications in all
      patients. TAP block the neural afferents of theanterior abdominal wall after spreading of the
      local anesthetic agent in the neurofascial plan between the internal oblique and
      transversusabdominis muscle.

      TAP block has been underutilized in spite of having very low complication and high success
      rate using ultrasound technique This may be due to the lack of availability of ultrasound at
      most of the centers, lack of training in ultrasound guided block technique.

      A new technique can be used in TAP block without the fear of complications in the blind
      landmark based approach.The advantage of this technique includes avoiding missing the second
      pop in obese and pregnant patients due to thinning of the internal obliqueaponeurosis,
      reposition of the needle by surgeon if one enters the peritoneal cavity accidentally. Also
      there are nil chances of visceral injury thus can be safely used by a beginner without any
      fear of complication. However, there might be a chance of needle stick injury to the
      surgeon's hand.

      This study aims to evaluate effect of the Modified Surgeon Assisted Bilateral TAP block on
      time required for first analgesic dose after Cesarean Section under spinal anesthesia
    
  