
    
      Restoring quadriceps muscle strength following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction
      (ACLR) may help prevent the post-traumatic knee osteoarthritis that affects over 50% of knees
      10-20 years after surgical reconstruction. However, a fundamental gap exists in current
      understanding of how to maximize muscle strength following ACLR, as current rehabilitation
      fails to restore symmetrical quadriceps strength. The investigators pilot work shows that
      when patients return to activity, quadriceps strength is ~70% of the uninjured side, which is
      far below the recommended 90%. Further, these data suggest that embedding high-intensity
      neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) and eccentric exercise into standard of care ACL
      rehabilitation leads to higher quadriceps strength when compared with standard of care alone.
      However, the true efficacy of these interventions is unknown, as controlled trials with
      adequate sample sizes are currently lacking. The absence of this information serves as the
      driving force and focus of the proposed trial. Therefore, the investigators propose a
      double-blind randomized controlled trial where ACLR patients will be randomized to 1 of 2
      arms. Study arms will include: 1) 8 weeks of NMES+8 weeks of eccentric exercise; 2) 8 weeks
      of NMES placebo+8 weeks of eccentric placebo. All study arms will receive standard of care
      ACL rehabilitation in addition to the study interventions. The investigators hypothesize that
      subjects receiving NMES+eccentric exercise (Arm 1) will realize greater improvements in
      strength and biomechanical function at 6 months following ACLR than patients in the placebo
      study arm. Further, the investigators anticipate that patients in the NMES+eccentric exercise
      arm (Arm 1) will best eliminate negative changes in cartilage health at 18 months following
      ACLR. This study is innovative, because it employs interventions that directly target the
      primary mechanisms that result in strength loss following ACLR and will also evaluate whether
      improving muscle strength can minimize early changes in cartilage health, which may be
      indicative of future osteoarthritis. The proposed research is significant because it will
      identify evidence-based treatment approaches that can successfully counteract the muscle
      weakness which plagues ACLR patients for years after injury and contributes to the onset of
      post-traumatic osteoarthritis.
    
  