
    
      Primary endpoint

        1. Objective Response Ratio (ORR) Evaluate the effectiveness of the combination of
           dabrafenib and trametinib using an objective response rate (ORR) for BRAF-mutated
           anaplastic thyroid cancer in neoadjuvant mode 7, 14, 28 days, 12, and 24 weeks after the
           start of treatment. Includes patients with a confirmed partial (PR) and complete
           response (CR) as the best response according to RECIST v 1.1.

        2. Number of R0 resections after 3 months of neoadjuvant combination therapy with anti-BRAF
           and MEK inhibitors.

      Comparison of the proportion of complete surgical resection (surgical resection R0 or R1)
      with historical controls of 5%. The R0 / R1 ratio will be determined by the proportion of
      patients who successfully undergo thyroidectomy with clear (R0) or microscopically positive
      (R1) resection margins.

      Secondary endpoints

        1. Safety Profile (Number / Severity of Serious Adverse Events, SAEs) Number of serious
           adverse events classified by severity as assessed by CTCAE v 5.0

        2. Percentage of patients who received a complete response 3 months after the first dose of
           treatment.

        3. Health-related quality of life Changes in health-related quality of life will be
           measured using the European Quality of Life Assessment Questionnaire (EQ-5D). The EQ-5D
           consists of a description and a health assessment. The health description consists of
           five dimensions (mobility, self-care, normal activities, pain/discomfort, and
           anxiety/depression), with each dimension identifying five levels of severity [best (1) -
           worst (5)]. Health assessment is assessed using a visual analog scale ([worse (0) -
           better (100)].

        4. Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Median progression-free survival (mPFS) is defined as
           the time from the date of inclusion to the date of the first documented progression of
           disease or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. PFS will be determined based on
           the tumor score (RECIST criteria version 1.1).

        5. Overall Survival (OS) Median overall survival (mOS) at 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months are
           calculated as the time from the date of inclusion to the date of death for any reason at
           the specific time points.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive dabrafenib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and trametinib PO once daily (QD)
      for 3 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then
      undergo surgery.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months during years
      1-2, every 6 months during years 3-4, and then annually thereafter.
    
  