
    
      Rationale: Choice of the appropriate size of stents in the treatment of coronary artery
      stenosis can often be challenging. Marked tapering of vessels' diameter in their
      proximal-distal development may lead to sub-optimal results. Distal under-expansion of the
      drug-eluting stent (DES) or vessel perforation may occur if a larger DES, best suited for the
      proximal diameter, is chosen. Proximal DES under-sizing with struts malapposition may happen
      if a smaller DES, fitting the distal diameter, is implanted. Moreover, ectasic vessels
      present irregular and varying diameter, which may lead as well to segmental malapposition or
      under-expansion of DES. Self-apposing stents can overcome these limitations thanks to their
      ability to self-expand also after their release in the vessel and to adapt to a wide range of
      vessel diameters. Multiple generation of self-apposing, drug-eluting stents have been
      developed, with progressive amendments pertaining the stent-deployment technique (from
      deployment by covering-sheath retraction to balloon-delivery) and the drug released (from
      paclitaxel to sirolimus). The last generation of the self-apposing stents is represented by
      the sirolimus-eluting, balloon-delivered Xposition S stents. Studies assessing performance of
      this stent are however limited in sample size and length of follow up, and are mainly
      controlled trials. Few data are available regarding the clinical outcomes of the
      self-apposing Stentys stents in a "real-life" setting.

      Aim of this study is to assess the feasibility, the effectiveness and the safety of the
      implantation of self-apposing, drug-eluting Stentys stents for percutaneous coronary
      intervention.

      Study population: Patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention with implantation of
      a self-apposing Stentys stent.

      Primary analysis: Longitudinal cohort follow up

      Study end-points:

      Primary efficacy end-point:

        -  Major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) (a composite end point including death,
           myocardial infarction (MI, excluding periprocedural MI), stent thrombosis, unplanned
           hospitalization for unstable angina, target lesion revascularization (TLR))

      Secondary efficacy end-points:

        -  Individual components of MACE (death, MI, stent thrombosis, unplanned hospitalization,
           TLR)

      Secondary safety end-points:

        -  Procedural complications:

             -  Periprocedural MI

             -  Bleedings

             -  Access site complication

             -  Failure to cross stent struts with guidewire in the treatment of bifurcation

             -  Failure to delivery the stent

             -  Contrast-induced nephropathy

        -  Bleedings at follow up
    
  