
    
      Cardiac arrest (CA) occurs in nearly 350,000 patients in the U.S. each year with an estimated
      mortality of 60% in those surviving the initial arrest. Moreover, the overall prognosis for
      survivors is often limited by neurologic injury. Two randomized control trials (RCTs) have
      demonstrated that therapeutic hypothermia (TH) after CA improves survival and reduces
      neurologic morbidity. As a result of these studies, TH has become the standard of care in
      post-CA patients. The mechanism of action for TH is hypothesized to be a reduction in
      cerebral oxygen consumption that occurs following an ischemia-reperfusion injury. Another
      similar potential target following ischemia-reperfusion injury is mitochondrial function in
      the injured brain cells and attenuation of potentially damaging oxygen-free radicals.
      Specifically, optimizing mitochondrial function and reducing oxygen free radicals may enhance
      cellular function and mitigate cellular injury thereby leading to improved neurologic
      outcomes. Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) is an essential mitochondrial co-factor and free radical
      scavenger that has been found to have neuroprotective effects in various neurodegenerative
      disorders such as Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease. Whether CoQ10 can provide
      neuroprotection in acute ischemia-reperfusion injury remains less clear, but has been
      recognized by the American Heart Association as a potentially promising neuroprotective
      agent. We hypothesize that the administration of exogenous CoQ10 will raise serum
      concentrations of CoQ10 and as such may mitigate the adverse effects of the post-CA
      ischemia-reperfusion injury on the brain by optimizing mitochondrial function and reducing
      oxygen-free radicals. We support this hypothesis by the following:

        1. Ischemia-reperfusion injury disrupts normal mitochondrial function and increases O2 free
           radicals.

        2. CoQ10 has been found to attenuate the effects of ischemia-reperfusion injury through
           optimizing mitochondrial function and mitigation of cellular apoptosis.

        3. CoQ10 has neuroprotective effects in other neurodegenerative disorders.

        4. Our group has unpublished preliminary data showing low CoQ10 levels in a majority of
           patients with septic shock, and that lower CoQ10 levels are significantly associated
           with multiple markers of the inflammatory cascade.

        5. A pilot human trial in post-CA patients demonstrated a reduction in mortality and trend
           toward reduction in neurologic morbidity.

      To test our hypothesis, we propose the following pilot study as proof of concept in
      preparation for a larger multicenter trial powered toward neurologic outcome and mortality.
      This pilot study will allow for a more informed power analysis for a larger trial, provide
      proof of concept for enrollment and administration of therapy, examine the time-frame for
      drug absorption into serum, and evaluate for tolerability.
    
  