
    
      Physical inactivity has emerged as an important risk factor for many chronic diseases. The
      decline in physical activity is a key public health concern.

      Objective. The objective of the study is to assess the effectiveness of a 3-months physical
      activity programme in the primary healthcare centres (HC), combined with community resources
      and interdisciplinary work, to create adherence to physical activity in sedentary
      individuals.

      Methods. The design of the study is a randomized controlled trial with a randomized selection
      of the sample. A total of 424 subjects of both sexes, older than 18 years old, with a low
      physical activity level (IPAQ), independent, with no medical contraindication to practice
      physical activity, and coming from 8 different HC, will participate in the study. Each
      subject will be offered to participate voluntarily in a physical activity programme (24
      sessions, twice a week, 60 minutes/session). There will be two groups of 15-20 subjects in
      each HC (a total of 8 HC), randomizing the subjects of the intervention (GI) and control
      groups (GC). The study will be divided in two phases, and in each phase there will be 16
      groups (8 GC and 8 GI).

      In the first and last session different parameters will be assessed in all the subjects (GC
      and GI): (1) quality of life related to health with SF-12 questionnaire, (2) the attitude
      towards practicing physical activity with Prochaska stage changes, (3) the physical activity
      level with the reduced version of the IPAQ, (4) health perception with COOP/WONCA
      questionnaire, and (5) the social support for physical activity with SSPAS. The welfare
      pressure to the HC of each participant is also registered, during the 6 months previous and
      after the programme. Subjects of GI will go through the 24 sessions while subjects of GC will
      go through a health educational program and will be asked to continue with their everyday
      activities. After 3, 6 and 12 months of the end of the programme, a pursuit by means of a
      call will be done (IPAQ, SF-12 and SSPAS). After 6 and 12 months of the end of the programme
      the same call will be used to assess the Prochaska stages.
    
  