
    
      This study utilises a prospectively collected clinical database. All patients referred to the
      Interventional Cardiology team are included onto this database. No patients will be contacted
      solely for research purposes. Patients will not have any investigations/procedures performed
      for research purposes. All data will only be available for access by named members of the
      Interventional Cardiology team. Data will be anonymised by the clinical care team and passed
      onto the research team before it is used and no patient identifiable information will be used
      in the analysis of the study or the publications of its results.

      The database started in April 2015 and has collected data on all patients so far and will
      continue to do so for the duration of clinical work by the Interventional Cardiology team. As
      a result this study will continue indefinitely.

      This study will include all patients admitted to or reviewed in clinic at Barts Health NHS
      Trust with either a diagnosis of MINOCA or who do not have a clear cause of a troponin rise.
      These patients range from young adults to the elderly and will include any patient ≥16 years
      of age. Patients who are followed up with and without any intervention (i.e. both medically
      managed patients as well as patients undergoing intervention) are equally as important and
      therefore the investigators shall include both groups of patients.

      Patients will be included from referrals made by other clinicians either as in or
      outpatients. All these patients have their clinical data captured on a database or hospital
      based clinical programme.

      This study aims to assess, in a real-world setting, the safety, efficacy and feasibility of
      further investigations in patients diagnosed with MINOCA among all patients with coronary
      artery disease.

      The study will test various hypothesis including but not limited to:

        1. The efficacy of diagnosis rates of CMR in patients diagnosed with MINOCA

        2. Outcomes in patients diagnosed with MINOCA treated medically

        3. Long-term outcome of patients diagnosed with MINOCA
    
  