
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of creatine supplementation and
      supervised resistance training in stroke survivors. It is hypothesized that creatine
      supplementation and resistance training will increase whole-body lean tissue mass, limb
      muscle thickness, muscle strength, tasks of functionality and cognition and decrease symptoms
      of depression and anxiety compared to placebo and resistance training.

      Stroke is characterized by an abrupt disturbance in cerebral circulation causing a
      neurological deficit. It is a major cause of adult neurological disability in North America,
      often resulting in significant muscle loss, weakness and functional limitations. Disability
      associated with stroke limits independent living and social participation in at least half of
      all stroke survivors. A sedentary lifestyle after stroke can increase the risk for recurrent
      stroke, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes mellitus. All factors may adversely affect
      independence and quality of life. The majority of stroke survivors have residual impairments
      such as hemiparesis, spasticity, cognitive dysfunction, and aphasia, with full recovery
      reached in a small portion of these individuals. One of the major consequences of these
      impairments is physical inactivity which inevitably contributes to muscle loss, decreased
      muscle function (i.e. strength, endurance) and impaired functionality. One intervention which
      may help improve muscle mass, muscle function and functionality in stroke survivors is
      supervised resistance training. Resistance training does not lead to muscle spasticity in
      stroke survivors and has been shown to improve the ability to perform activities of daily
      living. Another intervention which may be beneficial for stroke survivors is creatine
      supplementation. Creatine has been shown to increase muscle mass, muscle function and tasks
      of functionality when combined with resistance training, possibly by influencing cellular
      hydration status, high-energy phosphate metabolism, muscle protein kinetics, satellite cells,
      anabolic growth factors, and inflammation. Creatine has also shown promise for improving
      cognition and symptoms of depression and anxiety; however, no study has examined the combined
      effects of creatine supplementation and resistance training in stroke survivors.

      The study will be a double-blind, repeated measures design. In order to minimize group
      differences, participants will be matched according to age, gender, and type of stroke and
      then be randomized on a 1:1 basis to one of two groups, creatine monohydrate or placebo
      (corn-starch maltodextrin). Creatine and placebo will be similar in taste, color, texture and
      appearance. A research assistant will be responsible for randomization and another research
      assistant will prepare study kits. Each study kit will contain the participants supplement
      for the duration of the study, detailed supplementation instructions, as well as measuring
      spoons. For days 1-7, participants will ingest 0.3g/kg of creatine or placebo (0.075 g/kg x 4
      times daily). This creatine dosing strategy has been shown to be effective for increasing
      intramuscular creatine stores. For subsequent days, participants will consume 0.1 g/kg/day of
      creatine or placebo as this creatine dosage is effective for increasing muscle mass. On
      training days, participants will consume their supplement within 5 minutes after each
      training session. On non-training days, supplements will be consumed at the participants
      leisure. Adherence with creatine supplementation, placebo, and resistance training will be
      assessed by training and supplementation compliance logs. A retrospective treatment
      identification will be administered to all participants upon completion of the study in order
      to assess whether participants thought they were administered creatine, placebo, or unsure
      about what supplement they consumed.

      The dependent variables that will be measured at baseline and after the intervention include:
      (1) whole-body lean tissue mass (dual energy x-ray absorptiometry) (2) muscle thickness
      (elbow and knee flexors and extensors; ultrasonography), (3) muscle strength (1-repetition
      maximum leg press and chest press), (4) tasks of functionality (berg balance scale, 6-minute
      walk test) (5) cognition (Montreal Cognitive Assessment), (6) depression (The Center for
      Epidemiologic Studies- Depression Scale) and anxiety (Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item).
      Participants will also complete a 3-day food log at baseline and during the last week of
      supplementation and training to determine whether total calories consumed as well as
      macronutrient intake changed over the duration of the study. Participants will be instructed
      to record all food and beverages consumption during these 3 days. Food records will be
      analyzed using MyFitnessPal.
    
  