
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the disease-free survival of women with primary breast cancer treated with
           letrozole vs placebo after completing approximately 5 years (i.e., 4½ - 6 years) of
           aromatase inhibitor therapy (e.g., letrozole, anastrozole, or exemestane).

      Secondary

        -  To compare the effect of these drugs on overall (all cause specific) mortality of these
           patients.

        -  To compare the incidence of contralateral breast cancer in patients treated with these
           drugs.

        -  To evaluate the long-term clinical and laboratory safety of aromatase inhibitor therapy,
           particularly cardiovascular morbidity and mortality (e.g., significant coronary artery
           disease, including myocardial infarction and angina requiring percutaneous transluminal
           coronary angioplasty or coronary artery bypass graft, fatal and nonfatal strokes, and
           all vascular deaths); incidence of all bone fractures (with particular emphasis on hip
           and wrist fractures as indicators of osteoporosis); changes in bone density; and common
           toxicities.

        -  To compare overall quality of life (QOL) and menopausal-specific QOL of patients treated
           with these drugs.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to lymph node status
      at diagnosis (negative vs positive vs unknown), prior adjuvant chemotherapy (yes vs no),
      interval between last dose of aromatase inhibitor therapy and study randomization (< 6 months
      vs 6 months to 2 years), and duration of prior tamoxifen citrate use (0 vs < 2 years vs 2 -
      4½ years vs > 4½ years). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral letrozole once daily for up to 5 years in the absence of
           unacceptable toxicity, disease recurrence, or development of a second malignancy.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo once daily for up to 5 years in the absence of
           unacceptable toxicity, disease recurrence, or development of a second malignancy.

      Patients undergo bone mineral density measurement by DEXA scan at baseline (if not done
      within 12 months of study entry), at 24 and 48 months during study therapy, and at the
      completion of study therapy. Some patients also complete quality-of-life questionnaires at
      baseline and at 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed annually.
    
  