
    
      Group 1: One day of split-dose Golytely 4L (2 liters the evening before procedure, 2 liters
      the morning of procedure) Group 2: Two days of split-dose Golytely 4L (beginning 2 days
      before the procedure with 2 liters in the evening, 2 liters the morning of the day before the
      procedure, 2 liters the evening before the procedure, 2 liters the morning of the procedure)
      Patients will be instructed to ingest each of the 2-liter aliquots of Golytely over 2 hours.

      Diet: Both groups will be instructed to ingest a low-residue diet beginning 2 days before the
      procedure, (attachment 2) the last low-residual meal at 4 pm on day prior to procedure, with
      no food on the day of the procedure. Clear liquid diet after 4 pm on day prior to procedure
      and clear liquids on the day of procedure up-to 4 hours prior to the procedure.

      Education: Both groups will receive face to face, pre-procedure education 1 week prior to
      their procedure. Patient who cannot come for face-to-face education will not be included in
      the study.

      Reminders: Both groups will receive a telephone call 2 days prior to their procedure to
      remind them of their procedure and to remind them to take the laxative preparation as
      prescribed.

      Compliance: Patient will receive an educational handout about bowel preparation and
      colonoscopy. This practice is standard for all patients receiving colonoscopy at our
      institute. All Patients will get a copy of low residual diet and be asked to complete diet
      intake handout for 2 days prior to procedure. Patients will be requested to bring their
      unused Golytely prep medications to evaluate compliance.

      Tolerability: The tolerability of the bowel preparation will be assessed using the validated
      Mayo clinic bowel prep tolerability questionnaire. (Attachment 3) On the day of the
      procedure, a member of the research team will review the patient's diet for the previous 2
      days, the proportion of bowel prep solution ingested, and complications potentially related
      to the preparation (described above); the patient will also complete the Mayo tolerability
      questionnaire. Orthostatic vital signs will be checked prior to colonoscopy. Patient will
      undergo colonoscopy by an endoscopist following our standard protocols at WHVA MC. The bowel
      preparation will be scored using the BBPS and all polyps identified will be recorded and
      removed in the standard fashion.

      Following discharge, patients will receive a telephone call within 2 days to document any
      post-procedure complications, including emergency room visits or hospitalizations.
    
  