
    
      Number of subjects: Patient undergoing THA and TKA will be enrolled in this prospective
      study. Patients older than 18 years of age, with cell phones capable of text messaging, and
      who agree to participate in this study will be included. Patients who have their primary
      residence in Missouri will be excluded from this study due to the lack of a state wide
      narcotic prescription database in Missouri. Up to 240 patients will be enrolled to reach a
      minimum of 200 participants (100 THA, 100 TKA patients) with complete data from pre to 1 year
      postoperatively.

      Preoperative questionnaires: Patient will be required to complete a preoperative pain
      catastrophizing score, abrief pain inventory, EQ-5D, a hip disability and osteoarthritis
      outcome score (HOOS JR.) or knee injury and osteoarthritis outcome score (KOOS JR.) and
      aAbaseline pain level on a visual analog scale (0-10) will be recorded.

      Preoperative pain medication assessment: Preoperative controlled substance use will be
      assessed using the patient's state residence Controlled Substance Reporting System. Patient
      socioeconomic status, prior history of pain medication use, and history of drug abuse will be
      recorded.

      Patient preoperative pain sensitivity testing: Patients will then undergo pain algometer
      testing (FPK algometer, Wagner Instruments, Greenwich CT) to establish an objective baseline
      pain tolerance. There is no risk to the patient with algometer testing. Pressure algometer
      testing will be performed in a standard fashion. The probe is applied at a 90 degree angle to
      the skin at a constant rate of 10kPa/s to minimize the impact of the examiner's reaction time
      on recorded pain thresholds. The participant is instructed by the measurer to say "stop" when
      the sensation of pressure became the very first sensation of pain. There will be three spots
      to test patients, one for familiarity of the testing and the other 2 for data collection.
      This is initially performed once on ipsilateral the tibialis anterior as a "warm up." Then 3
      measurements are taken on the operative medial epicondyle (for TKA) or ipsilateral lateral
      iliac crest (for THA) and averaged for the official score. Lastly, 3 measurements are also
      taken on the contralateral olecranon to measure systemic pain sensitivity. If the
      contralateral elbow has had prior surgery or active bursitis, the ipsilateral elbow will be
      used. Of important note, the algometer has a max force lock out of 100N to prevent any harm
      to the patient. In addition, we will capture dominant handgrip strength measured by the
      average of 3 attempts on a standard dynamometer.

      In-hospital and postoperative pain and medication assessment: Patient's pain scores on an
      analog scale will be recorded daily from the patient's electronic medical record (lowest,
      highest, median) while admitted to the hospital. Patient will be contacted daily via text
      message to report pain scores and pain medication use. Text messaging via cell phones has
      become very common in the US and has been shown to be efficacious in obtaining longitudinal
      research data, specifically in assessing pain scores. Patient will be contacted daily via
      text messaging (Mosio, Seattle, WA).Mosio is a two-way mobile messaging platform that deploys
      automated text messages to study subjects. Subjects reply to the questions bv text message
      which are sent and received through mosio.

      The participants will be asked the following questions by text messaging daily:

        1. What was the average pain level (0-10) in the past 24 hours?

        2. What was the highest level of satisfaction (0-10) with the total joint in the past 24
           hours?

        3. How many pain medication pills were taken in the past 24 hours?

      The responses by the patient are replied to and typed as a standard text message. The answers
      will be captured by mosio and transferred in the secure database. The study team has instant
      access to the data server via secured log in authentication. Study replies can be downloaded
      as excel spreadsheets for further analysis.

      At the standard of care 6-week and 1-year postoperative visit, participants will complete a
      Visual Analog Scale (VAS), PROMIS pain scale, EQ-5D and HOOS JR or KOOS JR questionnaire.
      Once questionnaires are completed this will conclude study participation.
    
  