
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of MDM2 inhibitor KRT-232 (AMG-232 [KRT-232]) in
      combination with standard-dose radiotherapy in soft tissue sarcoma (STS) in two separate
      patient cohorts (A, extremity or body wall; B, abdomen/pelvis/retroperitoneum).

      II. To determine the maximum tolerated dose/recommended phase II dose (maximum tolerated
      dose/recommended phase 2 dosage [MTD/RP2D]) of AMG 232 (KRT-232) in combination with
      radiotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. To determine % necrosis and pathologic
      complete response (pCR) in final surgical resection specimen.

      III. To determine % local failure (LF), disease free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS)
      at 2 years.

      IV. To determine pharmacodynamics (PD) effects of AMG 232 (KRT-232) when combined with
      radiotherapy by assessing serial serum macrophage inhibitory cytokine (MIC)-1 levels.

      V. To determine AMG 232 (KRT-232) exposure (pharmacokinetics)-response relationships (PD,
      toxicity, and efficacy).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine tumor volume changes determined by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or
      computed tomography (CT) with and without contrast pre- and post-radiotherapy.

      II. To characterize clinical outcomes in patients treated with AMG 232 (KRT-232) by genomic
      biomarkers.

      III. To determine the correlation between mdm2/4 expression determined by next-generation
      sequencing (NGS) and the protein levels by immunohistochemistry (IHC).

      IV. To explore the possibility of identifying tumor genetic mutations in (1) cell-free (cf)
      circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA), (2) deoxyribonucleic acid/ribonucleic acid
      (DNA/RNA) isolated from exosomes, and determine the concordance of these results and that
      from NGS.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study.

      Patients receive MDM2 inhibitor KRT-232 orally (PO) on day 2, days 2 and 4, days 2-4, days
      2-5, or days 1-5 of weeks 1 to 5. Patients also undergo radiation therapy daily on weeks 1-5.
      Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, and
      then at 2.5 years.
    
  