
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the overall survival between two strategies of lenalidomide maintenance
      following induction with a proteasome inhibitor? immunomodulatory drug (IMiD) combination:
      limited duration of maintenance (24 months) versus indefinite maintenance therapy until
      disease progression.

      II. To compare progression-free survival between bortezomib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone
      (VRd) and carfilzomib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone (CRd) induction followed by
      lenalidomide maintenance in patients with newly diagnosed symptomatic multiple myeloma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the progression-free survival between two strategies of lenalidomide
      maintenance following induction with a proteasome inhibitor?IMiD combination: limited
      duration of maintenance (24 months) or indefinite maintenance therapy until disease
      progression.

      II. To compare induction rates of response between VRd and CRd arms. III. To evaluate time to
      progression, duration of response and overall survival between VRd and CRd induction therapy.

      IV. To compare induction rates of toxicity between VRd and CRd arms. V. To evaluate toxicity
      during lenalidomide maintenance. VI. To compare minimal residual disease (MRD) negative rates
      between VRd and CRd arms at end of induction therapy.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the short and long-term health-related quality of life impact between the two
      strategies of lenalidomide maintenance.

      II. To compare the impact on health-related quality of life between VRd and CRd induction
      therapy.

      III. To evaluate the association between early induction response and change in
      health-related quality of life.

      IV. To describe changes in health-related quality of life during the induction, active
      maintenance and observation phases.

      V. To evaluate correlation between treatment adherence during maintenance and health-related
      quality of life.

      VI. To compare MRD negative rates between the two strategies of lenalidomide maintenance.

      VII. To compare MRD negative rates between VRd and CRd arms during induction therapy.

      VIII. To examine patterns of change in MRD levels over time and examine conversion from
      detectable to MRD negative status.

      IX. To evaluate agreement and association between International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG)
      and MRD based disease-free status.

      X. To describe the mutational profile of newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. XI. To identify
      mutations associated with resistance to VRd and CRd induction therapy.

      XI. To identify expression profiles associated with MRD negative status with each induction
      therapy.

      XII. To determine the ability of MRD status at induction end to predict short-term and
      long-term overall and progression-free survival.

      XIII. To determine the effects of tobacco, operationalized as combustible tobacco (1a), other
      forms of tobacco (1b), and environmental tobacco exposure (ETS) (1c) on provider-reported
      cancer-treatment toxicity (adverse events [both clinical and hematologic] and dose
      modifications).

      XIV. To determine the effects of tobacco on patient-reported physical symptoms and
      psychological symptoms.

      XV. To examine quitting behaviors and behavioral counseling/support and cessation medication
      utilization.

      XVI. To explore the effect of tobacco use and exposure on treatment duration, relative dose
      intensity, and therapeutic benefit.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive bortezomib subcutaneously (SC) or intravenously (IV) on days 1, 4, 8,
      and 11 of courses 1-8 and days 1 and 8 of courses 9-12; lenalidomide orally (PO) daily on
      days 1-14; and dexamethasone PO daily on days 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, and 12 of courses 1-8 and
      days 1, 2, 8, and 9 of courses 9-12. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 12 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive carfilzomib IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, and 16;
      lenalidomide PO daily on days 1-21; and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment
      repeats every 4 weeks for 9 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE: After completion of induction therapy (or completion of at least 6 courses in
      Arm A but stopped early due to unacceptable toxicity, or at least 4 courses in Arm B but
      stopped early due to unacceptable toxicity), patients are then randomized to 1 of 2
      maintenance treatment arms.

      ARM C: Patients receive lenalidomide PO daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks
      for 24 courses in the absences of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM D: Patients receive lenalidomide PO daily on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually for 10 years.
    
  