
    
      This study is a national, multicenter, open-label randomized, 2-arm phase III non-inferiority
      trial.

      Patients with mid or low LARC (cT3N0 or cT1-T3N+ with CRM > 2 mm on pretreatment MRI) will be
      randomized to two arms of treatment: one experimental arm with systemic FOLFIRINOX
      chemotherapy for 3 months and one control arm with systemic FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy for 3
      months followed by conventional standardized radiochemotherapy (intensified-modulated
      radiotherapy 50Gy + capecitabine). The choice of FOLFIRINOX for preoperative chemotherapy is
      based on recent data regarding its safety and efficacy rectal cancer with or without
      metastatic disease. Since the annual world meeting of ASCO 2020, a new standard of treatment
      has been adopted using the combination of chemotherapy followed by radiochemotherapy that has
      been show to improve disease free survival in phase III controlled randomized trial (Conroy
      et al, J Clin Oncol 38: 2020 (suppl; abstr 4007).

      All patients will have reassessment MRI after preoperative treatment and before surgery.

      Objectives and study endpoints

      - primary endpoint : 3-year progression-free survival (PFS) from the time to randomization.
      In this trial, a modified definition of PFS will be used for the primary endpoint. The
      rationale for using this modified definition of PFS is to better assess time to failure of
      the whole treatment strategy (preoperative treatment and surgery).

      Progression will be assessed as follows:

        -  progression during preoperative treatment and before surgery: circumferential resection
           margin ≤ 2mm at MRI reeassessemnt and diagnosis of any new distant lesion whatever the
           site (liver, lung, peritoneum, adrenal) are considered as progression events.

        -  progression after surgery: recurrence/progression after surgery or death, whatever comes
           first.

             -  Secondary endpoints: treatment related toxicity, treatment compliance, R0 resection
                rate, sphincter saving surgery rate, postoperative morbidity and mortality rates,
                loco-regional recurrence free survival, overall survival, bowel and sexual
                functions at diagnosis, quality of life, radiologic and pathologic response after
                preoperative treatment.

      Statistical analysis A sample size of 518 patients, based on an expected accrual duration of
      36 months, 60 months follow-up, and an expected 3 year PFS rate in the preoperative
      chemotherapy followed by chemoradiotherapy arm of 75%, is expected to provide 239 PFS events
      required to provide 80% power to declare non-inferiority of the preoperative chemotherapy arm
      when the true hazard ratio between arms is 1.0 (H1). This design has a global type one-error
      rate of 0.05 if the true hazard ratio between arms is 1.39 (H0). This hazard rate, in an
      exponential survival model, corresponds to a decrease in the 3-year PFS rate on the
      preoperative chemotherapy arm to 67%. By considering a rate of 4% for not informative or lost
      to follow-up patients the total number of patients to be included in this trial was
      518*100/96 = 540 patients.

      Ancillary studies Pronostic value of circulating cancer cells before and after preoperative
      treatment and after surgery in patients undergoing surgery for rectal cancer after
      chemotherapy or radiochemotherapy will be evaluated. After assessment of prognostic value of
      each rate on survival, recurrence and response to treatment, evaluation of prognostic impact
      of variation of the rate during differents phases of treatment will be carried out.
    
  