
    
      Exclusive breastfeeding is the normative model against which all alternative feeding methods
      must be measured with regard to infant growth, health, development, and all other short and
      long-term outcomes.

      Recommendations for what is "safe" storage of Expressed HM have been developed, mainly for
      use by HM banks, but what constitutes optimal storage is less evident. Optimal handling of
      Expressed HM (EHM) should include proper storage as well as proper heating and thawing prior
      to use, in order to reduce damage to its nutritional and bioactive components.

      Efficient heat transfer abilities affect both heating and cooling processes. In a previous
      work , the investigators showed that overheating of EHM is highly probable when using
      commercially available electrical water-based bottle warmers, even if the manufacturer's
      recommendations are followed . Besides warming process, EHM stability can also be affected by
      container composition and shape, storage temperature and whether or not sterilization was
      effected prior to storage. Following our previous study, the investigators hypothesized that
      a non-standard storage and warming process may increase EHM preservation. The investigators
      therefore designed a novel device with larger surface area and narrower milk width in order
      to minimize temperature gradients within the milk volume.

      The investigators plan to store and heat HM in regular baby bottle and in our device and test
      thermolabile properties of HM, such as certain proteins and microbiological cultures, to
      asses if the new device can indeed protect the milk.

      In order to obtain EHM from mothers, the investigators will collected freshly pumped milk The
      pumped milk will be pooled into a single container. A milk samples will be taken to define
      the reference values then it will equally divide into three study containers and into six
      control containers (C-container, regular baby bottles). After filling, all containers will be
      placed in a dark refrigerator at the temperature of 4ºC.

      The experiment will last for 5 days. On the first day, one S-container and two C-containers
      will be taken out of the refrigerator and tested: the milk in each container will be warmed
      to feeding temperature in the container; it was then stirred gently and a sample of the
      warmed milk was obtained and stored at -20ºC until analyzed. This procedure was repeated on
      days 3 and 5 of the experiment.

      The warming procedure used on the C-containers was as follows: the C-container will be warmed
      in standard electric water-based bottle warmer. Usually the warmer has three heating options;
      fast, medium, and slow. Investigators plan to test the fastest option on three of the six
      bottles and the slowest option on the remaining three bottles. The heating process will be
      terminated once the temperature of the heated milk reached 37ºC.

      The warming procedure used on the S-containers was as follows: the S-container was placed in
      a bowl containing water at approximately 40ºC and gently moved in circles until the EHM
      reached 37 ºC.
    
  