
    
      The goal of this study is to improve our understanding of cortical spreading depolarizations
      (CSDs) as a mechanism of secondary injury in severe traumatic brain injury (TBI). The primary
      obstacles to advancing treatment of TBI are its heterogeneity in terms of cause, severity,
      pathophysiology and the paucity of therapeutic targets. At the current time, there is no
      intervention to reverse or restore the function of brain tissue damaged or lost during the
      initial traumatic insult; therefore the therapeutic focus is centered on minimizing secondary
      insults that result in expansion of the initial brain injury.

      The past several years have witnessed significant advancement in the understanding of
      potential mechanisms of secondary injury after severe TBI. This is important work as
      secondary injury after severe TBI is thought to significantly increase the severity of the
      initial injury and this type of injury is thought to be open to interventions to attenuate
      the subsequent injury severity. Among the putative mechanisms of secondary injury after
      severe TBI, it was recently demonstrated that there is a relationship between CSD events and
      worse outcomes after severe TBI. Therefore, a more thorough understanding of the factors that
      influence the initiation and frequency of CSDs after TBI is warranted in order to develop
      therapeutic strategies to reduce or block these events from occurring.

      In young people, TBI is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in developed countries.
      TBI is a frequent sequelae of accidental injury in the USA with approximately 2.5 million
      people affected per year, approximately 10% of whom requiring extended hospitalization, often
      in an intensive care unit. Around 275,000 (15.1%) of hospital admissions and 52,000 deaths in
      the USA each year are due to TBI. Those that survive the initial insult invariably face
      prolonged stays in a neurologic intensive care unit (ICU), possible neurosurgical
      intervention, and prolonged period of post-acute supportive care. In the US, it is estimated
      that 5.3 million individuals are living with long-term disability as a result of TBI.

      Given the complexity and duration of medical care that accompanies severe TBI, it follows
      that the cost of care associated with TBI are immense. It is estimated that total hospital
      charges for TBI-related admissions in 2010 were $21.4 billion. Beyond hospital charges, it is
      estimated that TBI costs the US economy $76.5 billion annually with the costs for disability
      and lost productivity outweighing those of acute medical care and rehabilitation.

      Since their first description in 1944, spreading depolarizations (SDs) were subsequently
      demonstrated in numerous animal studies as a mechanism of secondary brain injury after
      ischemic stroke, subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), and traumatic brain injury. SDs have also
      been demonstrated to occur in the cerebral grey matter of the human brain in patients after
      acute brain injuries such as TBI, SAH, and ischemic stroke. To date, electrocorticography
      (ECoG) monitoring of over 500 patients after TBI has shown that SDs occur in 55-90% of
      individuals for days to weeks after the initial injury. These studies have demonstrated an
      initial peak in SD frequency at 1-2 days post-TBI and a second peak at 6-7 days. Furthermore,
      SDs are associated with worse outcomes after TBI.

      SDs which consist of massive waves that depolarize neurons and astrocytes and disrupt local
      cortical function for minutes to hours, were first demonstrated to occur in severe TBI
      patients via ECoG recordings obtained from single subdural electrode strips. In these
      studies, severe TBI patients who underwent neurosurgical intervention for decompression
      and/or hematoma evacuation had a single linear subdural electrode strips (six electrodes with
      10 mm spacing between electrodes) placed near the injury epicenter which allowed continuous
      ECoG recordings to be obtained for up to 7 days after the initial injury. The above studies,
      and several subsequent investigations, were important steps to demonstrate that (1) the SD
      phenomena, which was first described in animal studies, occurs in patients after TBI and (2)
      SDs are associated with worse outcome after TBI.

      Despite the advances that have been made, previous studies discontinued ECoG recordings after
      a maximum of 7 days. A 7 day recording period is, however, likely inadequate to accurately
      characterize the total burden of SDs following TBI as previous work demonstrates an early
      peak period of SDs around 0-2 days post-TBI followed by a relative quiescent period and then
      a second peak of increased SD frequency around 7 days post-TBI. Therefore, a longer
      recordings period will provide a better understanding of the natural history of SDs following
      TBI and allow a more accurate understanding of the physiologic and pathophysiologic factors
      that influence initiation of these pathologic events.

      All prior ECoG recordings of SDs has relied on subdural electrode strips consisting of a
      linear array of electrodes placed over the cerebral cortex near contused brain tissue. This
      recordings strategy is adequate to capture SD events, however, it affords the ability to
      monitor a small area of the cortical surface. The small monitoring area imposed several
      limitations on previous studies. First, CSDs are captured within a limited distance of each
      recording electrode contact. CSDs that occur beyond the monitoring region are not recorded
      and, therefore, prior studies likely underestimate the true frequency of SD events after TBI.
      Second, the linear configuration of subdural strips does not provide adequate spatial
      information regarding the CSD waves to determine the origin or direction of propagation.
      Improved spatial resolution of the ECoG recordings in conjunction with appropriate analytic
      techniques will allow determination of the direction of SD wave propagation and possibly the
      identification of pathologic foci where SDs originate. Identification of where SDs originate
      will afford the ability to correlate these locations with imaging to determine the structural
      characteristics and pathology that give rise to this pathological phenomenon.

      The overall goal of this study is to preliminarily evaluate an improved recording strategy
      and analytical techniques to better define SD events and structural abnormalities in the
      severely injured brain that produce these CSD events in severe TBI. In order to achieve this
      goal, this study will utilize 4 subdural electrode strips arranged to produce a 4x4 grid of
      electrode contacts for the recording of ECoG activity in conjunction with simultaneous
      acquisition of several other physiological measures in TBI patients requiring neurosurgical
      intervention.

      The findings of this study could provide a key advancement in the means to both monitor CSD
      events after TBI and identify the specific types of pathology that give rise to these events.
      This would be an important next step in the development of new interventions to reduce or
      eliminate the frequency of SDs in TBI patients and thus the degree of secondary brain injury
      that leads to greater morbidity and mortality after severe brain injury.

      Despite advances that have been made in the care of patients after severe brain injury, TBI
      continues to confer a very high morbidity and mortality. The development of effective
      treatments to minimize the morbidity and mortality following TBI has been hindered due to a
      fundamental lack of understanding of the factors that contribute to secondary injury after
      the initial inciting traumatic event. By better understanding mechanisms of secondary brain
      injury after TBI, such as CSD, as well as methods for monitoring for pathologic events, there
      will be more opportunities to develop new treatments. This is a preliminary study with the
      goal of better characterizing CSD following severe TBI.

      Subdural electrodes have been used extensively to record ECoG activity following TBI and
      other forms of brain injury. Despite requiring an invasive form of recording, ECoG activity
      remains the only established means to monitor CSD events. Invasive neuromonitoring via
      subdural electrodes was first demonstrated in the 1930s and continues to be a commonly
      performed neurosurgical procedure for epilepsy monitoring. A recent retrospective review
      found an overall complication rate of approximately 9.1% with 0.6% of patients experiencing
      permanent neurological deficits following subdural electrode placement.19 Furthermore, there
      has not been a single infection associated with subdural electrode placement at the
      University of Minnesota Medical Center. In addition to allowing detection of CSD events,
      subdural electrodes will allow the identification of subclinical seizures, and, therefore may
      provide a clinical benefit to the patients who undergo subdural electrode recording.

      Subjects enrolled in this study will be selected from patients requiring neurosurgical
      intervention in the form of craniectomy or craniotomy and, therefore, will not be exposed to
      an invasive procedure solely for the placement of subdural recording electrodes. During the
      standard craniectomy/craniotomy procedure, the dura is opened to expose allowing the
      placement of the subdural recording strips with minimal modification to the standard surgical
      procedure. After the subdural strips are placed, the leads will be tunneled away from the
      brain so that they exit away from the brain, minimizing infection risk. This approach has the
      added benefit that when the study period is over, the tunneled leads can be removed at the
      bedside.

      In addition to ECoG recordings, other forms of invasive neuromonitoring, including Licox bolt
      (Integra Life Sciences, Plainsboro, New Jersey) for measurement of ICP, brain tissue
      oxygenation and temperature, as well as external ventricular drain (EVD) will be placed as
      part of the current standard of care treatment for severe TBI.

      The study period will be as long as invasive neuromonitoring is clinically indicated
      following severe TBI. As outlined in the background section, previous investigations of CSD
      have ended after a 7-day recording period. The shorter recording period has likely hindered a
      full understanding of the natural history of CSDs following severe TBI and therefore a full
      understanding of the pathophysiological factors that produce these events. There will be
      minimal additional risk to extending the recording period to the full period of clinically
      indicated invasive neuromonitoring as subdural recording is routinely performed at the
      University of Minnesota for epilepsy monitoring for 4-6 weeks without a documented serious
      complication.

      Hennepin County Medical Center (HCMC) is a regional level 1 trauma center that serves the
      upper midwest and is one of the training sites for the University of Minnesota Neurosurgery
      Residency Program. As a large regional trauma center, there has historically been a large
      volume of severe TBI patients requiring neurosurgical intervention in the form of craniectomy
      or craniotomy with subsequent prolonged invasive neuromonitoring necessary as part of the
      clinical standard of care. The study population will be drawn from all trauma patients who
      present to the HCMC Emergency Department, trauma bay or as direct transfer to neurosurgery.
    
  