
    
      For many years, medical treatment of heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) was
      defined by a combination of low-cost, generic medications. Recently, new medications have
      demonstrated reductions in mortality and hospitalization. These include the angiotensin
      receptor blocker and neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI) sacubitril-valsartan, sodium-glucose
      cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2I), and ivabradine. These medications all carry important
      clinical benefits but also are more expensive, with co-payments varying significantly but
      often in the range of $50-$100 per month. These costs are highly relevant for patients'
      decisions, especially for patients who have Medicare Part D drug coverage and are not
      eligible for co-pay assistance programs.

      Prior research has demonstrated that patients are sensitive to costs regarding HFrEF
      medications and receptive to cost discussions with clinicians. Some broad efforts at price
      transparency have been promoted, but generic price information is of little value to patients
      and clinicians when out-of-pocket costs vary significantly from patient to patient based on
      insurance coverage. At present, neither clinicians nor patients have out-of-pocket costs
      available at the time of clinical encounters in order to facilitate integration of this
      information into decisions.

      The objective of this trial is to examine the impact of integrating patient-specific
      out-of-pocket cost into shared decision-making regarding heart failure medications in
      patients with HFrEF. This will be performed by integrating patient-specific cost into an
      existing, evidence-based checklist for HFrEF medications. The study will utilize a simple
      cluster-randomized design. All patients in the study will receive, at the time of a clinical
      encounter, an evidence-based heart failure medication checklist that describes
      guideline-recommended medications for HFrEF. Patients in the intervention group will receive
      a version of the checklist that also includes their estimated co-payment for non-generic
      heart failure medications based upon their insurance status at the time of the encounter.

      This study is designed as a preliminary trial to understand the real impact of providing
      patient-specific cost at the time of the clinical encounter. The researchers will audio
      record clinical encounters, conduct a follow-up survey with participants, and collect
      follow-up data regarding each patient's medications.
    
  