
    
      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE Veterans, while serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, may have had
      exposure to improvised explosive devices (IEDs). These blast exposures resulted in the
      "signature injury" of these operations, traumatic brain injuries (TBIs). The
      over-pressurization shock waves emitted from the blast causes human brain injury, which may
      be considered a mixed mechanism injury event; involving both a focal (direct impact of
      brain's surface on the bony protuberances of the skull) and diffuse injury (stretching and
      twisting of axons and blood vessels by shearing forces). The blast event injury is generally
      followed by a secondary, longer duration injury related to the activation of molecular and
      biochemical responses stemming from the initial blast injury. This secondary injury was once
      thought of as self-limiting (hours or days post- injury); however recent findings suggest
      that the abnormal brain signaling and inflammatory processes last much longer and can lead to
      long term symptoms. In addition, these processes can cause a disruption of normal brain
      connectivity, abnormal electrical brain waves and patterns, as well as disruptions of intra-
      and interhemispheric communication, which can persist from acute to chronic stages in many
      patients. The changes in the brain stemming from TBI may persist and even progress in the
      long run. Recent evidence has confirmed the long-suspected association between TBI and the
      development of neurodegenerative diseases later in life. The majority of blast related
      injuries are not detectable by current neuroimaging strategies, e.g. computed tomography (CT)
      or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) but rely on self-report of blast exposure and its effects
      for TBI diagnosis.

      The prevalence rate of TBI for Service Members (SMs) involved in these operations is
      estimated to be 20% with about 80% of these injuries considered mild(m)TBI. It has been
      suggested that the actual rate of mTBI may be under-reported (up to 50%) since cognitive
      disturbances associated with TBI may impact SM's memory of the blast experience and SMs who
      are caught up in the battle may not report blast exposures. The residual effects of mTBI can
      also be unrecognized, undocumented, under reported, misinterpreted or misdiagnosed as only
      psychological. Most SMs, who experienced mTBI, appear to recover within hours or days,
      however for a significant number, estimated at 23-48%, symptoms persist and may persist for
      many years post injury.

      SMs and Veterans with mTBI can fatigue easily and have disordered sleep, headache, dizziness,
      irritability or aggression on little or no provocation, as well as experience anxiety,
      depression, or affective lability and changes in personality and cognitive functioning. When
      these symptoms persist, they can negatively impact Veterans' self-rated health, occupational
      status (ability to return to work, school) social functioning (relationships, participation
      in groups) and quality of life.

      Developing and implementing strategies to reduce the persistent symptoms associated with mTBI
      is of critical importance. Veterans diagnosed with mTBI and experiencing PCSs present growing
      treatment challenges to the healthcare system due to limited or suboptimal treatment options.
      Currently, treatment for PCSs is symptom-focused. For instance, Veterans with migraine
      headaches associated with mTBIs are often treated with abortive agents (i.e. Triptans) and
      preventive medications (i.e. anticonvulsants and tricyclics). Cognitive dysfunction and
      insomnia are treated with cognitive rehabilitation programs, cognitive behavior therapy
      (CBT), occupational therapy, and medications (i.e., hypnotics for insomnia). Symptom
      management is just that, applying a temporary fix on symptoms or addressing concerns one at a
      time. While cognitive rehabilitation and psychological support are widely used to treat mTBI
      PCSs, neither has been shown to be effective in addressing the core brain deficits associated
      with mTBIs. Since symptoms often return and persist, it is clear that improved treatment
      options for these persistent PCSs need to be developed for Veterans with mTBIs.

      Rather than a symptom management approach, Defina and colleagues in 2009 describe the
      possibilities of brain repair in TBI by treatments that would enhance neuroplasticity.
      Although the concept of neuroplasticity was first presented in the 1940's and further
      developed in the 1990's, it is only recently that neuroplasticity training and interventions
      have been developed. According to Defina and colleagues, neuroplasticity interventions may
      establish a more normalized or stable brain environment and enable the brain to re-organize
      itself and function more normally. The use of specific neurotransmitters or hormones that are
      related to the biochemical cascade of TBI, as well as, electromagnetic stimulation,
      nutraceuticals, median nerve stimulation and neurofeedback have been suggested as possible
      treatments to effectively normalize the brain environment and maximize natural healing. The
      benefits of neuro enhancement strategies could potentially reduce suffering and improve
      quality of life.

      Neurofeedback (NFB) is a sub-specialization of biofeedback. Biofeedback is defined as a
      method of treatment that trains patients to become aware of and learn to control their own
      physiology to improve physical and psychological health. The NFB system is able to reflect a
      person's (referred to as the trainee) brain wave pattern instantaneously back to the trainee
      through conventional electroencephalography (EEG) providing salient information to which the
      trainee can respond accordingly.

      NFB has been demonstrated to influence cortical neuroplasticity significantly and can lead to
      actual and meaningful microstructural changes in white and gray matter. NFB has been shown to
      contribute to neuronal rehabilitation by changing connectivities of specific areas of the
      brain that may have been impaired, and these rehabilitative changes appear to be permanent.
      Functional (f)MRI studies further validate that NFB may be useful in promoting recovery from
      neurological disorders that are linked to abnormal patterns of brain connectivity. Hence,
      this non-invasive and non-pharmacological method may be used to 'normalize' abnormal network
      activity by manipulating and thereby strengthening region specific brain networks.

      In 2019, the PI of this clinical trial conducted a pilot project with the overall objective
      to ascertain the feasibility of conducting a randomized, controlled trial. In addition to
      determining its feasibility, this pilot study's objective was to evaluate NFB training as a
      low risk, non-invasive, effective treatment for Veterans who had an mTBI, while serving in
      the military. The chronic PCSs targeted were headache, insomnia, and attention difficulties.
      Perceived quality of life was also assessed pre and post intervention. With the high
      incidence of PTSD, depression and distress co-occurring with mTBI, these symptoms were also
      evaluated. It was hypothesized, that those Veterans who receive NFB training will experience
      a clinically significant benefit. The pilot was expected to show: 1) the study is feasible to
      conduct at a VA located in the Pacific region; 2) reduction in the frequency and/or severity
      of headaches; 3) decreased severity of insomnia and/or enhanced perceptions of sleep; 4)
      improved attention; and 5) improved perceptions of quality of life; and 6) decreased levels
      of self-reported PTSD, depression, distress and general symptoms. Although 19 Veterans were
      interested, only four were able to participate in the IRB approved pilot. Since all of the
      procedures that would be related to a randomized, controlled trial were successfully
      conducted, the pilot study demonstrated feasibility. All the issues encountered in this pilot
      study were related to time constraints of the project and the need for funding. The data
      obtained from the four veterans were very positive. All the hypotheses demonstrated
      significant clinical gains on the 12 different questionnaires used to assess the outcome of
      the intervention although the sample size is small.

      NFB has been used since the 1960's for symptoms related to mTBI. Duff in his extensive review
      of the literature, suggests that since the 1960's, studies using NFB, (EEG biofeedback or
      neurotherapy) have shown that patients can be taught to promote normal functioning in brains
      with excessively slow wave activity, which is often found in post-concussion syndrome. In a
      2013 review of the literature, May and colleagues used a 10-level classification rubric (10
      being the highest level e.g. randomized control trials; to the lowest 1 being case
      study/anecdotal evidence) to classify the research literature of NFB and mTBI. They found two
      studies at level 5 (randomized waitlist or intention to treat), six studies at level 3
      (historical control), ten studies at level 2 (no control group) and five studies at level 1
      (case study/anecdotal evidence). Of the 23 studies reviewed, all found NFB to positively
      impact symptoms associated with mTBI (attention, memory, quality of life, sleep, motor
      control, coordination, depression, headaches). May and colleagues called for more randomized
      control group studies and suggested the need for double blind and sham NFB studies. Recent
      studies have continued to demonstrate support for the use of NFB with symptoms related to
      mTBI. Nelson and Esty in 2012 found in their small study (n=7) that neurotherapy
      significantly reduced depression, somatic and memory/attention symptoms, when employed with
      Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) and Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) Veterans diagnosed with
      TBI and PTSD. A study conducted in 2013 demonstrated that NFB was able to enhance quality of
      life and perceived control in 29 SMs with mTBI and PTSD. In a control group/waitlist study
      conducted in 2014, sixty mTBI participants (aged 18-49 years old) received NFB, and it was
      found that 20 sessions of NFB significantly improved quality of life. Munivenkatappa and
      colleagues in 2014 provided further validation of the ability of NFB to enhance structural
      and functional connectivity and cognitive scores of mTBI patients. Arns and Kenemans in 2014
      reported in their review of the literature regarding attentional and sleep disorders that NFB
      is associated with improved sleep quality and sleep onset.

      After a thorough meta-analyses of NFB research, Larsen and Sherlin in 2013 rated NFB
      "probably" efficacious for the treatment of mTBI symptoms, with its limitation being the lack
      of randomized controlled trials with a large enough sample to obtain power. NFB has been
      demonstrated as effective in treating symptoms related to mTBI in a sizable number of case
      reports and research studies. It would appear that the next logical step would be to conduct
      a randomized control clinical trial evaluating NFB in treating specific persistent PCSs. As
      post-traumatic headaches, attention problems, and sleep issues were identified as common
      PCSs, this proposed study will therefore target those Veterans with deployment associated
      mTBIs and who are experiencing those PCSs of chronic headaches, insomnia and attentional
      difficulties. Since persistent PCS symptoms have been demonstrated to impact quality of life,
      this variable will also be evaluated. Quality of life is considered one of the most
      clinically important variables since it a central part of patients' everyday functioning and
      experience.

      OBJECTIVES: The objective of this randomized control clinical trial is to provide data on the
      clinical impact of NFB treatment in Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF), Operation Iraqi Freedom
      (OIF), and/or Operation New Dawn (OND) Veterans diagnosed with mild traumatic brain injury
      (mTBI) and experiencing persistent post-concussive symptoms as compared to a randomized
      control group, who will only receive usual care. Comparisons will be made at baseline, at the
      study treatment midpoint (around 4-6 weeks), and conclusion of study treatment (around 8-10
      weeks) and at a two-month follow-up.

      The effect of NFB will be assessed on the following:

        1. Frequency of headaches as measured by NEUROQOLTBI headache tool, and headache impact on
           functioning as measured by Headache Impact Tool (HIT-6)

        2. Severity of sleep disturbance as measured by Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) and quality
           of sleep as measured by the NEUROQOLTBI Sleep disturbance tool.

        3. Attentional functioning as measured by computerized visual attention performance test
           (QIKTest) accuracy index

        4. Quality of life as measured by Quality of Life after Brain Injury (QOLABI) and
           NEUROQOLTBI Satisfaction with roles and activities & Ability to Participate in roles and
           activities.

        5. General physical and emotional symptoms possibly co-occurring with mTBI as measured by
           self-report using General Symptom Scale (GSI), Depression, Anxiety and Stress Scale
           (DASS21), Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Checklist (PCL), Patient Health
           Questionnaire-Depression (PHQ9), and NEUROQOLTB Positive affect and wellbeing short
           form.

      Hypotheses

      The investigators hypothesize that the intervention group, receiving NFB training over the
      course of treatment, relative to the control group, will experience a clinically and
      statistically significant change in scores that indicates a:

        1. decreased severity of headaches on the NEUROQOLTBI headache tool and enhanced
           functioning on the HIT-6.

        2. greater improvement in perceptions of quality of sleep on the NEUROQOLTBI Sleep
           disturbance tool and decreased severity of sleep disturbance on the ISI.

        3. greater improvement in attention function in the QIKTEST accuracy index.

        4. greater improvement in quality of life as shown by enhanced involvement in roles on the
           NEUROQOLTBI Satisfaction with roles and activities & Ability to Participate in roles and
           activities tools and on the QOLATBI baseline scores.

        5. greater improvement in general physical and emotional symptoms score on the PCL-5; on
           the PHQ9; on the DASS21; on the GSI, and on the NEUROQOLTBI Positive affect and
           wellbeing tool

      RESEARCH DESIGN: The proposed study is a randomized controlled clinical trial using NFB, also
      known as EEG biofeedback, as the study intervention. The control group members will continue
      with their usual care and will receive a15-minute phone call from the PI on a weekly basis to
      briefly discuss one of eight possible health topics that the treatment group would receive as
      a normal part of their NFB session, with the only difference is the treatment group will
      receive NFB. For those participants in the control group, when the control group activities
      are complete, they will receive NBF and become part of the delayed intervention group.

      METHODOLOGY: Male and non-pregnant female OEF-OIF-OND Veterans diagnosed with mTBI, via a
      Level 2 TBI evaluation, ages 18 to 60 with complaints of chronic headaches, insomnia, and
      attention difficulties will be invited to participate in this study. It is estimated that 72
      Veterans need to complete the study for a statistical meaningful effect. Up to 100 veterans
      may be enrolled to achieve the desired number of participants. All eligible potential
      participants will be screened for suicide intent and consented and will fill out a contact
      information form.

      NFB will be the study Intervention. The NFB system will read and interpret a person's brain
      wave pattern which will be instantaneously fed back to the person providing information, to
      which a person can respond accordingly. The NFB specialist assumes a coaching role with
      people training on the NFB system to assist in the achievement of a focused relaxed state,
      which enhances the overall brain functioning. The significance and unique aspect of NFB is
      the direct impact on physiological dysregulation, which is the basis of this treatment
      approach.

      The Cygnet NFB system to be used during the course of this study is comprised of a desktop
      computer or laptop with dual monitors fully loaded with operational Cygnet NFB systems with
      Neuroamp and Alpha-theta feedback capability. Twenty, one-hour, NFB training sessions will be
      provided to each participant in the intervention group by a trained NFB specialist over an
      8-10-week period. Participants in the intervention group will receive up to 5-sessions but
      usually 3 session a week. Participants in the control group will continue with their usual
      treatment and receive a 15-minute call for eight weeks from the PI on a health topic. This
      will help to keep members of the control group engaged in the project and receive the same
      information that is offered to the intervention group members. The health topics that are
      generally discussed during NFB sessions include sleep hygiene, basic nutritional concepts,
      beverage choices, positive thinking, thought reframing, fitness, daily calming activity, and
      enhancement of focus strategies.

      The benefits to the subject could include: For the participants receiving NFB, benefits may
      include a decrease in the number and severity of headaches, enhanced sleep, and attention
      ability and an overall perception of enhanced quality of life. In addition, the participant
      may experience enhanced positive emotions. Indirect benefits include the knowledge that the
      participant has contributed to the body of knowledge relating to the efficacy of NFB. There
      may be no direct benefit to volunteers. The risk to volunteers in this study is designed to
      be minimal. Because this intervention is a personal biofeedback process, whereby the
      participants are training themselves based on their own physiological parameters, no serious
      adverse event is anticipated or expected. Anticipated and not serious brief side effects such
      as anxiety, a tightness in muscles, stomach discomfort, or mental cloudiness may be
      experienced but are expected to go away within minutes. Most people feel relaxed and calm
      during and after NFB training.

      This project will be an important step towards the broad clinical implementation of an
      evidence-based treatment solution for Veterans experiencing chronic headaches, insomnia and
      attention disorders. This study directly maps onto VA initiatives focused on enhancing
      Veteran's access to evidence based non-invasive and non-pharmacological treatment options.
      Also, because of the ethno-culturally diverse population in Hawai'i, results can inform VHA
      providers about the use of NFB among diverse groups of Veterans, including Asian American and
      Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander Veterans not often adequately represented in other
      studies. NFB is not widely used in the VA, therefore the results will be highly relevant to
      VA clinicians, administrators, and policy makers nationwide who seek effective non-invasive
      treatment options. Results can guide future full clinical trial studies on use of NFB in
      relation to current best practices for care of Veterans in relation to other issues
      experienced by Veterans, i.e. PTSD, Pain, etc. Dissemination activities will target a broad
      audience and will include: (1) a one-sheet summary abstract, (2) web-based fact sheets for
      several VA venues, (3) manuscripts and publications for both professional and
      non-professional channels. The publications stemming from this research project will be made
      available to the public through the National Library of Medicine PubMed Central website
      within one year after the date of publication. Costs for producing the dissemination
      materials will be minimal. The investigators will also deliver local and national
      presentations at VA and academic professional conferences. Finally, long term research
      results can assist in the future development effective NFB protocols that can be potentially
      implemented in VA clinical settings and disseminated directly to clinical settings via
      existing infrastructures established by this research team.
    
  