
    
      TMC-CP01 is a treatment based on the VANISH (Virtual Autonomic Neuromodulation Induced
      Systemic Healing) system and method, which combines existing technologies and therapies into
      Virtual Reality (VR) to help people learn to auto-regulate the way their body feels. TMC-CP01
      is designed specifically for pain management and is tailored for low back pain. The treatment
      utilizes virtual reality and biofeedback to train patients to auto-regulate themselves and
      improve their pain over time. By providing patients an accessible and effective alternative
      pain management tool, patients can avoid opioid use, dependency, and resulting complications
      due to opioids. TMC-CP01 uses virtual reality as a platform to enable and optimize
      biofeedback training and psychological exercises.

      Virtual Reality, alone is a proven method for pain management both through distraction and
      through active pain control mechanisms. Due to its stimulating nature, VR has the power to
      claim the majority of a user's attention and distract them from other stimuli such as pain.
      Because it is so visually engaging, VR is a powerful tool for visualization, which can be
      used to optimize and enhance visualization of biofeedback. VR can also affect users' emotions
      and perception by providing a sense of presence and psychological engagement. With recent
      developments in portable head mounted display (HMD) technology, VR has become accessible to
      people on a much broader and more affordable scale and it represents an ideal platform to
      develop a non-invasive pain management tool for chronic pain. Biofeedback is at the heart of
      TMC-CP01 and is the main mechanism by which patients learn to control their physiology. By
      allowing patients to visualize their physiological processes, patients gain a greater
      mind-body awareness and can learn to auto-regulate physiological functions that previously
      seemed out of their control.
    
  