
    
      Decrements in visual acuity during head movement in patients with vestibular hypofunction are
      potentially serious problems. This deficit could contribute to decreased activity level,
      avoidance of driving with resultant diminished independence and, ultimately, limited social
      interactions and increased isolation. Oscillopsia occurs because of inadequate
      vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) gain and suggests that compensation for the vestibular loss has
      not occurred. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of an exercise intervention
      on visual acuity during head movement in patients with unilateral and bilateral vestibular
      hypofunction. We hypothesized that 1) patients performing vestibular exercises would have
      improved visual acuity during head movement compared to patients performing placebo
      exercises; 2) there would be no correlation between dynamic visual acuity (DVA) and the
      patients' subjective complaints of oscillopsia; and 3) improvement in DVA would be reflected
      by changes in residual vestibular function as indicated by an increase in VOR gain.

      Patients are assigned randomly to either the vestibular exercise or placebo exercise group.
      The randomization schedule is generated using a computer program for 2-sample randomization.
      The sequence was not concealed from the investigator who obtained consent from the subjects
      and supervised the exercises (SJH). The group assignment (vestibular exercise or placebo
      exercise) was concealed from the participants and from the investigator who performed the
      outcome measures.

      The vestibular exercise group practiced exercises that consisted of adaptation exercises and
      eye-head exercises to targets (Table 1), which were designed to improve gaze stability 16.
      They also performed gait and balance exercises. The placebo exercise group performed
      exercises designed to be 'vestibular-neutral'.
    
  