
    
      Background: With an incidence of 6 in 1000 live born children congenital heart disease is
      among the most common birth defects. Survival rates of children with CHD have significantly
      improved during the past decades due to better surgical and intensive care medicine.
      Nowadays, even children requiring open- heart surgery for CHD most frequently have a good
      cardiac outcome and survive into adulthood. Even those with the most complex forms of CHD
      have sufficient cardiac outcome. However, impaired quality of life, mental health and
      behavior problems, as well as neurocognitive and motor impairments have been described to
      occur more frequently in children with CHD compared to healthy children and may persist into
      adolescence.

      Current findings on QoL, psychological adjustment, and academic achievements in young adults
      with CHD are currently quite inconsistent due to methodological reasons. Moreover, little is
      known on risk factors for a negative outcome. To date, mainly medical risk factors have been
      examined while psychosocial characteristics (e.g., socioeconomic status, parenting, family
      characteristics) have not been systematically studied. Importantly, little is known about
      academic achievements and employment situations of young adults with CHD.

      Aims: In this study the investigators aim to evaluate the psychosocial situation of adult CHD
      patients in terms of health-related quality of life, mental health, academic achievement, and
      employment status.

      Methods: The study is designed as a case-control study beeing a mono-center project. The
      patient group will consist of a maximum of 350 patients with congenital heart disease treated
      at the cardiologic department of the University Hospital Zurich and a control group
      consisting of the same amount of also up to 350 individuals beeing good friends of the
      patients with same gender and similar age.

      Recruitment: Participants will be consecutively recruited from May 1st, 2015 to April 30th,
      2016. Eligible patients will be contacted by the study nurse during the outpatient
      consultation at the university hospital. Patients will be informed about the study during
      their consultation by the study nurse as well as the doctor with whom they have their
      appointment.The control group will be recruited as good friends (same gender, approx. same
      age) of the patients.
    
  