
    
      TYR sphere is a glycomacropeptide (GMP) based protein substitute for patients with
      tyrosinaemia.

      The Evaluation of TYR sphere study has been designed to generate data required by the United
      Kingdom's Advisory Committee on Borderline Substances (ACBS), the national regulator for
      Foods for Special Medical Purposes (FSMP).

      The ACBS specify that before a FSMP can be routinely prescribed by the NHS, its acceptability
      must first be evaluated by a clinical trial in patients for whom it is ultimately designed.
      The ACBS define acceptability as comprising patient evaluations of the product's
      palatability, data on their adherence to recommended intakes and their gastrointestinal
      tolerance of it. TYR sphere is designed for patients of three years of age and upwards. This
      has informed the trial's age-related inclusion criteria.

      Using a mobile phone application, or paper diary form, patients will record their intake of
      TYR sphere along with the recommended amount on each of the 28 study days. Gastrointestinal
      tolerance will be recorded each day during weeks one and four, while palatability of TYR
      sphere will be recorded at the end of the 28 days, or immediately on discontinuing TYR sphere
      if the patient stops the trial early. An evaluation of the patient's previous protein
      substitute and usual GI symptoms are recorded on day one, before the first intake of TYR
      sphere.

      Metabolic control, measured via dried blood spots taken at both visits, and weekly during the
      28 days study period, is another primary outcome measure alongside acceptability.

      The trial's secondary endpoint is evaluations of growth. Height and weight will be recorded
      at the Baseline and End of Study visits.

      If it is deemed appropriate by the investigator, patients may continue to take the product at
      the end of the Evaluation Period as part of Care After Research. This continued supply would
      be given free of charge by the sponsor up until the product is available via a regular
      prescription, having completed the registration process with the ACBS.
    
  