
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify the maximally tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of trametinib to be
      used in combination with 5FU (fluorouracil) and radiation in patients with rectal cancers.

      II. To determine a recommended phase II dose of trametinib to be used with 5FU chemoradiation
      in patients with locally advanced rectal cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluation of the tolerability and safety of the combination of trametinib and 5-FU
      chemoradiation in locally advanced rectal cancer.

      II. Evaluation of post-therapy pathologic response.

      III. Evaluation of the rate of local control, disease-free survival and overall survival.

      IV. Analysis of biomarkers - total mutations in v-Ki-ras2 Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene
      homolog (KRAS), v-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B1(BRAF), and neuroblastoma RAS
      viral (v-ras) oncogene homolog (NRAS), as well as RAS/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)
      and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase (PI3K)/v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene
      homolog 1 (AKT) pathway signaling pathways to potentially correlate with clinical benefit.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of trametinib.

      Patients receive trametinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days -14 to -10 and 1-38 and
      fluorouracil intravenously (IV) continuously 5 days a week from days 1-38. Patients also
      undergo radiation therapy 5 days a week on days 1-33. Patients then undergo surgery 6-10
      weeks later.

      Patients achieving negative surgical margins after complete resection of tumor receive
      postoperative chemotherapy comprising leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours and fluorouracil IV
      continuously over 46 hours on days 1 and 15 OR oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, leucovorin
      calcium IV over 2 hours and fluorouracil IV continuously over 46 hours on days 1 and 15.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, and
      then annually for 3 years.
    
  