
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerable dose of veliparib in combination with low-dose
      fractionated whole abdominal radiation therapy (LDFWAR) in patients with peritoneal
      carcinomatosis from advanced solid malignancies. At dose levels 5 and 6: to determine the
      maximum tolerable dose of veliparib in combination with LDFWAR in patients with epithelial
      ovarian, fallopian or primary peritoneal cancers with intraabdominal disease.

      II. Determine the safety and toxicity of the combination of veliparib in conjunction with
      LDFWAR in patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis from advanced solid malignancies; at dose
      levels 5 and 6: to determine the safety and toxicity of veliparib in combination with LDFWAR
      in patients with epithelial ovarian, fallopian or primary peritoneal cancers with
      intraabdominal disease.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess clinical activity of veliparib plus LDFWAR in patients with peritoneal
      carcinomatosis from advanced solid malignancies as assessed by response rate by Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria. At dose levels 5 and 6: to assess
      the clinical activity of veliparib plus LDFWAR in patients with epithelial ovarian, fallopian
      or primary peritoneal cancer and intraabdominal disease as assessed by response rate by
      RECIST 1.1 criteria.

      II. Evaluate if microsatellite instability or baseline levels of various deoxyribonucleic
      acid (DNA) repair proteins (excision repair cross-complementing 1 [ERCC1], x-ray repair
      complementing defective repair in Chinese hamster cells 1 [XRCC1], breast cancer 1, early
      onset [BRCA1], breast cancer 2, early onset [BRCA2], poly [adenosine diphosphate
      (ADP)-ribosyl]ation [PAR]) correlate with clinical activity of this regimen.

      III. Evaluate changes in quality of life for patients treated with this regimen by serial
      measurements using the Quality of Life Questionnaire Core-30 (QLQC-30) standardized
      questionnaire.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of veliparib.

      Patients receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21 (days 5-21 of course
      1). Patients undergo LDFWAR in BID on days 1 and 5 of weeks 1-3. Treatment repeats every 28
      days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months.
    
  