
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the efficacy of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in combination with paclitaxel and
      carboplatin in patients with advanced stage (measurable stage III or IVA), stage IVB and
      recurrent endometrial cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the nature, frequency and degree of toxicity as assessed by Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) for each treatment arm.

      II. To evaluate blinded independent central review (BICR) assessed or investigator assessed
      objective response rate (ORR) as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) 1.1 by treatment arm and by mismatch repair (MMR) status in patients who enter the
      study with measurable disease.

      III. To evaluate BICR assessed or investigator assessed duration of response (DOR) by
      treatment arm and by MMR status in patients who enter the study with measurable disease.

      IV. To evaluate the effect of pembrolizumab on overall survival (OS) in patients with
      mismatch repair protein proficient (pMMR) or mismatch repair deficiency (dMMR).

      V. To determine whether the addition of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) to standard combination
      chemotherapy is associated with improved patient reported physical function as measured with
      the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS)-physical function scale
      (short form), quality of life as measured with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy
      (FACT) - Endometrial Trial Outcome Index (En TOI) and worsened fatigue as measured with the
      PROMIS-Fatigue scale (short form) in the pMMR patients.

      VI. To determine concordance between institutional MMR immunohistochemistry (IHC) testing and
      centralized MMR IHC.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the correlation between patient-reported physical function as measured with the
      PROMIS-physical function scale (short form) and quality of life as measure with the FACT-En
      TOI.

      II. To explore whether the addition of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) to standard combination
      chemotherapy is associated with self-reported neurotoxicity as measured with the
      FACT/Gynecologic Oncology Group Neurotoxicity (GOG-Ntx) subscale (short) and the extent to
      which patients differ on their self-reported bother from side effects of cancer therapy in
      the pMMR patients.

      III. To evaluate the efficacy of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in combination with paclitaxel and
      carboplatin in patients with advanced stage (measurable stage III or IVA), stage IVB and
      recurrent endometrial cancer by PD-L1 IHC (positive versus [vs] negative).

      IV. To assess the association between PD-L1 IHC (positive vs negative) and mismatch repair
      status (pMMR and dMMR).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I:

      COMBINATION PHASE: Patients receive placebo intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1,
      paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1, and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients with stable disease (SD) or partial response (PR) who still
      have measurable disease may continue treatment for up to a total 10 cycles (if deemed
      necessary by the treating physician) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE PHASE: Patients receive placebo IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 6 weeks for up to 14 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM II:

      COMBINATION PHASE: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1, paclitaxel IV
      over 3 hours on day 1, and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 3 weeks for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients with SD or PR who still have measurable disease may continue treatment for up to a
      total of 10 cycles (if deemed necessary by the treating physician) in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE PHASE: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 6 weeks for up to 14 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  