
    
      The primary purpose of this line of research is to investigate the effects of carbon fiber
      custom dynamic orthosis (CDO) design on the forces and contact stress at the ankle, with the
      goal of reducing the development of post traumatic osteoarthritis (PTOA) in the ankle.
      Research suggests that ankle arthritis develops, in part, due to increased contact stresses
      within the ankle joint following fracture. It is expected that reducing articular contact
      stress at the ankle has the potential to delay or prevent the development of PTOA. CDOs have
      been shown to significantly improve function following extremity injury, and show promise for
      offloading the injured limb after severe lower extremity injuries. Therefore, the proposed
      effort is designed to evaluate how different CDO design factors influence offloading and
      therefore the reduction of forces and articular contact stress at the ankle following
      traumatic lower limb injury.

      Adult participants who have sustained a traumatic ankle fracture of the tibial pilon will be
      evaluated while wearing carbon fiber braces of varied geometry. The primary dependent measure
      is ankle joint contact stress. Following consent and enrollment computerized tomography (CT)
      images will be used to determine the geometry of the joint articular surfaces. Ankle contact
      stress will be calculated using discrete element analysis and biomechanical data collected in
      subsequent data collection.

      Participants will be cast and fit for three CDOs with varied geometry. Participants will be
      blinded to the design variation of each device and will only know them as CDO-A, CDO-B, or
      CDO-C. Testing will be completed under 4 conditions: No-CDO, CDO-A, CDO-B, CDO-C, with each
      bracing condition (A/B/C) representing a CDO design variant. Physical performance measures
      will incorporate tests of agility, speed, and lower limb power to ensure that changes to
      device design do not negatively affect physical function. Questionnaires will be used to
      evaluate participants' current and desired activity level, pain with and without CDO use,
      satisfaction with the devices, perception of comfort and smoothness between devices, and
      preference between CDOs. Semi-structured interviews will be completed to fully capture the
      participant's perspective. Lower limb forces and motion will be assessed using a computerized
      motion capture system and force plates in the floor. Forces between the foot and CDO will be
      measured using force sensing insoles, and muscle activity data will be collected using
      surface electromyography. Devices will be mechanically tested, and participant demographic
      and anthropometric data will be recorded.
    
  