
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the feasibility, toxicity, and efficacy of a high-risk pediatric treatment
           regimen in adult patients with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).

        -  To explore the relative toxicity of pegaspargase IV.

        -  To explore the relative efficacy and toxicity of adding imatinib mesylate to multi-agent
           chemotherapy for patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive ALL.

      Secondary

        -  To estimate the complete remission (CR) rate at the end of induction therapy and
           calculate the corresponding 90% confidence interval (CI).

        -  To estimate the disease-free survival (DFS), defined as the time from achieving a CR to
           the first disease recurrence or death, of a subset of patients who achieve a CR at the
           end of induction therapy.

        -  To estimate the overall survival (OS), defined as the time from study entry to death
           from any cause, of all patients.

        -  To calculate the median, 2-year, and 3-year DFS and OS rates and their corresponding 95%
           CI's.

        -  To evaluate the prognostic significance of the prednisone prophase response, minimal
           residual disease at various time points, the frequency and type of tyrosine kinase
           mutations, and gene expression profiles at diagnosis.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Steroid prophase therapy (for patients who have not received steroids within the past 7
           days): Patients receive cytarabine intrathecally (IT) on day 0 or 1 and
           methylprednisolone IV 3 times daily on days 1-3.

        -  Induction therapy (weeks 1-4): Patients receive vincristine sulfate IV on days 4, 11,
           18, and 25; doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on days 4 and 5; methotrexate IV on day 6;
           pegaspargase IV over 1 hour on day 7; and prednisone or prednisolone orally 2-3 times
           daily or methylprednisolone IV 3 times daily on days 4-32. Patients also receive
           methotrexate, cytarabine, and hydrocortisone IT on day 18 and methotrexate IT on day 32.
           After completion of induction therapy, patients with documented complete remission (CR)
           proceed to consolidation IA therapy (group A). Patients with partial remission proceed
           to consolidation IC therapy (group B). Patients with refractory disease are removed from
           the study.

        -  Consolidation I therapy (weeks 5-13): Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups according
           to their CR status.

             -  Group A (patients who achieved CR by day 32 or patients with delayed recovery):

                  -  Consolidation IA therapy (weeks 5-7): Patients receive vincristine sulfate IV,
                     doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, methotrexate IT, and high-dose methotrexate IV
                     on day 1. Patients also receive oral mercaptopurine once daily on days 1-14.
                     Patients then proceed to consolidation IB therapy.

                  -  Consolidation IB therapy (weeks 8-10): Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV
                     over 1 hour and methotrexate IT on day 1, low-dose cytarabine IV or
                     subcutaneously (SC) on days 2-5 and 9-12, and oral mercaptopurine once daily
                     on days 1-14. Patients then proceed to consolidation IC therapy.

                  -  Consolidation IC therapy (weeks 11-13): Patients receive high-dose cytarabine
                     IV over 3 hours twice daily on days 1 and 2, etoposide phosphate IV over 2
                     hours on days 3-5, and oral dexamethasone twice daily on days 1-5. Patients
                     also receive pegaspargase IV over 1 hour every 2 weeks beginning on day 8 and
                     continuing during CNS therapy and consolidation II therapy until a total of 15
                     doses are administered. After completion of consolidation IC therapy, patients
                     proceed to CNS therapy.

             -  Group B (patients who failed to enter a CR after 32 days of multi-agent induction
                chemotherapy):

                  -  Consolidation IC therapy (weeks 5-7): Patients receive high-dose cytarabine IV
                     over 3 hours twice daily on days 1 and 2, etoposide phosphate IV over 2 hours
                     on days 3-5, and oral dexamethasone twice daily on days 1-5. Patients who
                     achieve CR at the end of consolidation IC therapy proceed to consolidation IA
                     therapy. Patients with > 5% blast count at the end of consolidation IC therapy
                     are removed from the study.

                  -  Consolidation IA therapy (weeks 8-10): Patients receive vincristine sulfate
                     IV, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, methotrexate IT, and high-dose methotrexate
                     IV on day 1. Patients also receive oral mercaptopurine once daily on days
                     1-14. Patients then proceed to consolidation IB therapy.

                  -  Consolidation IB therapy (weeks 11-13): Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV
                     over 1 hour and methotrexate IT on day 1, low-dose cytarabine IV or SC on days
                     2-5 and 9-12, and oral mercaptopurine once daily on days 1-14. Patients also
                     receive pegaspargase IV over 1 hour every 2 weeks beginning on day 8 and
                     continuing during CNS therapy and consolidation II therapy until a total of 15
                     doses are administered. After completion of consolidation IB therapy, patients
                     proceed to CNS therapy.

        -  CNS therapy (weeks 14-16): Patients receive vincristine sulfate IV and doxorubicin
           hydrochloride IV on day 1, oral mercaptopurine once daily on days 1-14, oral
           dexamethasone twice daily on days 1-5, and pegaspargase as described in consolidation I
           therapy. Patients also receive methotrexate, cytarabine, and hydrocortisone IT twice
           weekly for 4 doses and undergo cranial irradiation once daily for 8-10 days. After
           completion of CNS therapy, patients proceed to consolidation II therapy.

        -  Consolidation II therapy (weeks 17-43): Patients receive vincristine sulfate IV and
           doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on day 1, oral mercaptopurine once daily on days 1-14, oral
           dexamethasone twice daily on days 1-5, and pegaspargase as described in consolidation I
           therapy. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks until patients have received a cumulative
           dosage of 300 mg/m^2 of doxorubicin hydrochloride and 30 post-remission weeks of
           pegaspargase have been administered. When patients complete doxorubicin hydrochloride,
           they receive methotrexate IV once weekly (except on the week that they receive
           methotrexate IT). Patients also receive methotrexate, cytarabine, and hydrocortisone IT
           every 18 weeks (first dose is given 18 weeks after the first lumbar puncture
           administered during CNS therapy). After completion of consolidation II therapy, patients
           proceed to continuation therapy.

        -  Continuation therapy (weeks 44-113): Patients receive vincristine sulfate IV on day 1;
           methotrexate IV on days 1, 8, and 15; oral mercaptopurine once daily on days 1-14; and
           oral dexamethasone twice daily on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for a total
           of 104 weeks (24 months) of continued CR. Patients also receive methotrexate,
           cytarabine, and hydrocortisone IT every 18 weeks. Patients do not receive methotrexate
           IV on the week that they receive methotrexate IT.

      Patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive disease or with bcr-abl translocation on
      molecular studies also receive oral imatinib mesylate once daily beginning on day 14 of
      induction therapy and continuing until completion of continuation therapy. These patients
      should proceed to allogeneic stem cell transplantation as soon as feasible based on donor
      availability and the patient's medical status.

      Bone marrow, peripheral blood, and other samples are collected periodically for research
      studies (including minimal residual disease analysis, gene expression profiling, and tyrosine
      kinase sequencing).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly for 6 months, every 2
      months for 6 months, every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually
      thereafter.
    
  