
    
      Rationale:

      In a recent study un initial experience was reported with neoadjuvant PRRT followed by
      surgical resection in patients affected by PanNETs. In this study, patients with resectable
      or potentially resectable PanNETs at high risk of recurrence after surgery who underwent
      neoadjuvant PRRT were compared with a group of patients who underwent upfront surgery. Of
      note, patients who underwent neoadjuvant PRRT had a significant lower risk of developing
      pancreatic fistula and a lower risk of postoperative complications. Moreover, among those
      patients who underwent curative resection, patients who received PRRT had a progression-free
      survival significantly longer after compared to upfront surgery. Neoadjuvant PRRT may be a
      valuable option to reduce the risk of failure after surgery in patients with PanNETs who are
      at high risk of recurrence. Nevertheless, the safety and the efficacy of neoadjuvant PRRT has
      never been investigated in a prospective trial.

      The main aim of this study is to evaluate the safety and the efficacy of neoadjuvant PRRT
      with 177Lu-DOTATATE followed by surgical resection for resectable non-functioning PanNETs at
      high risk of recurrence.

      The primary endpoint is the Rate of postoperative 90-day morbidity and mortality after
      neoadjuvant PRRT with 177Lu-DOTATATE followed by pancreatic resection and the secondary
      endpoints are:

        1. Rate of objective radiological response to PRRT with 177Lu-DOTATATE according to
           modified RECIST criteria (mRECIST)

        2. Quality of life (QoL) after neoadjuvant PRRT followed by pancreatic surgical resection.

      The study is designed as a prospective phase II single-arm trial. 8 Italian centers will
      participate to the study (6 surgical sites, 2 nuclear medicine sites).

      Patients will be recruited for 12 months. The study will end 2 months after operation of the
      last patient enrolled and the total duration of the study will be 24 months.

      Sample size:

      By using the Single-Stage Phase II sample size method, we estimated a sample size of 30
      patients to test if the proportion of patients without postoperative complications
      (responses) is more than or equal to 57% (p1 ) or less than equal to 39% (p0 ).

      To be enrol in the study, all the patients should have a cytological/histological
      confirmation of PanNET and meet one or more inclusion criteria. Moreover, all the exclusion
      criteria should have been ruled out.

      Patients will undergo the following laboratory examinations at week 0, week 1, week 9, week
      17, week 25, week 38, week 40, week 45-52: blood cell count, urea, creatinine, sodium,
      potassium, cloride, calcium, glucose, bilirubin, AST, ALT, LDH, GGT, ALP, Albumin, urine
      test. Gravindex will be executed at week 0, week 1, week 9, week 17, week 25, week 40 and
      they will be asked to fill a quality of life questionnaire at wwk 0, week 38, week 40-52.

      Enrolled patients will be treated with standard pancreatic resection according to PanNET
      localization, after a course (4 cycles) of neoadjuvant PRRT with 177Lu-DOTATATE.

      Patients will receive a cumulative activity of 29.600 MBq (800 mCi), divided in 4
      administrations (or cycles) of 7.400 MBq (200 mCi) each, with treatment intervals of 6-8
      weeks. The per-cycle activity of 177Lu-DOTATATE (and consequently the cumulative activity)
      might be reduced if relevant blood and renal toxicity, or other side effects, will occur
      during the course of PRRT.

      177Lu-DOTATATE will be slowly injected intravenously over a period of 30 minutes and using a
      dedicated pump-system of infusion.

      During the administration of the therapy, performed into a dedicated room of the Nuclear
      Medicine Division, the Health Physics staff will monitor the patient by means of an
      ionization chamber, in order to check the completeness of the radiopeptide administration.

      In order to obtain an adequate hydration of the patient and to protect the renal parenchyma
      during the phase of excretion of the radiopharmaceutical from an excessive tubular reuptake
      of radiopetide, the administration of the radiopharmaceutical will be preceded and followed
      (without interruption) with intravenous infusion of 1000 ml of 0.9% sodium chloride solution
      containing L-Arginine hydrochloride and/or Lysine.

      The gamma emission of 177Lu (113 and 208 KeV, relative abundance 6 and 11%, respectively)
      allows a suitable observation of the radiopharmaceutical biodistribution during the entire
      therapeutic phase.

      After 16-24 hours from administration of 177Lu-DOTATATE (and for each treatment cycle)
      patients will undergo anterior and posterior whole body scan (imaging will be acquired on a
      128x512 matrix, by means a double-headed gamma-camera, equipped with a low-energy
      high-resolution collimator (LEHR), with energetic window set on 177Lu peaks.) in order to
      verify the correct bio-distribution of the radiopharmaceutical and its focal uptake into the
      target lesions.

      Moreover, at 1st and 4th cycle, when feasible and indicated, a more accurate imaging
      evaluation will be performed by using SPECT or SPECT/CT imaging (6-24 hours after
      administration), in order to quantify percentage of radiopharmaceutical uptake and half-life,
      absorbed dose, effective biological dose (BED), equivalent uniform dose (EUD) both in target
      lesions and critical organs (bone marrow and kidney) and correlate these parameters with the
      response to the treatment) and with the toxicity profile.

      All patients will be re-evaluated 3 months after the 4th cycle of PRRT, in order to assess
      the rate of objective radiological response, according to mRECIST.

      Patients will undergo standard pancreatic surgery plus lymphadenectomy at one of the
      participating surgical site identified in the protocol. Pancreatic resection will be
      performed according to the localization and extended to nearby organs and/or vessels when
      invasion is present. Concomitant liver resection may be performed in the presence of liver
      metastasis.

      Assessment of outcomes. 90-day post-operative mortality and morbidity will be classified
      according to the definition proposed by Dindo et al.

      The rate of objective radiological response to PRRT with 177Lu-OTATATE according to modified
      RECIST criteria (mRECIST).

      The quality of life (QoL) at diagnostic workup, after neoadjuvant PRRT and after the
      pancreatic surgical resection, will be evaluated by EORTC-QLQ-C30 questionnaire.

      Data will be collected with CRFs and information will be recorded in a protected database.
    
  