
    
      Before the application of TCT, complete transurethral bladder tumour resection (TURBT) was
      performed. RE-TURBT was conducted within 4 weeks for patients with initial T1 pathology. The
      first TCT instillation was applied at 1mo following the TURBT or the RE-TURBT.

      Thermochemotherapy application and treatment schedule:

      The bladder wall TCT (BWT) system (Elmedical Ltd, Hod-Hasharon, Israel) was used as a
      conductive heating modality. MMC (40 mg; MMC Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan) was
      mixed with 50 mL of 0.9% saline solution and applied using a disposable silicone 20Fr 3-way
      TCT catheter (UniThermia catheter; Elmedical Ltd). In each session, the bladder was irrigated
      with MMC solution at 42°C-45°C for 45 min via the BWT system. The treatment schedule
      consisted of an initial 6-week instillation, followed by control cystoscopy and urine
      cytology in the 3rd month and monthly instillations up to 1 yr. Urine cytology and cystoscopy
      were performed every three months. The samples were collected from the suspected areas during
      cystoscopy. At the end of the first year, control cystoscopy with random bladder biopsies was
      conducted. During the second year, routine controls were conducted every three months.
      Subsequently, follow-ups were performed every six months. In case of development of any
      complication in a patient, TCT was discontinued. Before each instillation of TCT, clear urine
      cultures were obtained from all patients. No prophylactic anticholinergic was administered
      prior to intravesical TCT. If TUR BT pathology was Ta or T1 during the follow-up, it was
      accepted as a recurrence. If it was CIS or T2, it was accepted as a progression. All adverse
      events observed during the study were recorded according to the Common Terminology Criteria
      for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0 [9. All study protocols were approved by the local
      ethical committee at our institution. An informed consent was obtained from all patients.
    
  