
    
      INTRODUCTION

      The use of positive expiratory pressure devices is considered beneficial in patients who have
      undergone abdominal and thoracic surgery with an impact on blood gas measurement values, the
      hospitalization length, the use of antibiotics and the pathology of the chest. Of course,
      there are researchers who doubt the effectiveness of the method, mainly due to the fact that
      it does not possibly reduce the risk of atelectasis, especially in patients who undergone
      cardiac surgery. However, the method is very popular in physiotherapy, and the use of
      alternative devices that create positive expiratory pressure, such as water bottles or
      gloves, is suggested, especially in cases when the access to the classic devices is not easy,
      mainly during the periods of crisis.

      Coughing is a process that ensures the cleaning and protection of the airways. The outcome of
      the thoracic surgery may often depend on the quality of the patient's cough postoperatively
      which may put the patient at risk that could last for up to eight weeks. The effectiveness of
      the cough can be assessed by measuring the peak cough flow using a peak flow meter, method
      that many researchers in Europe and America prefer. Cough with a maximum expiratory flow over
      160 L/min could ensure a safe extubation or decannulation of severely ill and postoperative
      patients. Therefore, if there was a way leading to cough enhancement, this could be a
      lifeline to the recovery of these type of patients.

      PURPOSE

      The present study was performed to test the suitability and effect of a soft drink straw as
      an alternative positive expiratory pressure device in patients undergone thoracic surgery and
      includes two sub-exploratory areas.

      In the first one, it was investigated the most appropriate command of exhalation into a
      specific internal diameter straw, whereas on the other hand, it was examined the improvement
      of patient's overview by using the particular alternative device.

      RESEARCH HYPOTHESIS

      Is there any possibility of a simple soft drink straw being an alternative PEP device which
      could improve the cough flow of patients who undergone thoracic surgery?

      METHODOLOGY

      The research was approved by "ATTIKON" University General Hospital (with reference number
      725/25/11/2019) and by the University of Thessaly (with reference number 101SE2/16-01-2020).

      The study was performed at the Cardiac Surgery Clinic of "ATTIKON" University General
      Hospital and participated all the adult thoracic surgical patients, with no limit of age,
      from 12-02-2020 to 08-03-2020 Patients beforehand, are informed with the purpose of the study
      and necessarily sign the Patient Consensus Form for their participation in the study.

      Sample:

      The sample of present study included all adult patients that undergone thoracic surgery, with
      no limit of age, with a mesosternal or lateral incision, who considered hemodynamically
      stable, were supplied with an O2 mixture of below 50%, full-conscious, with systolic pressure
      below 150 cmH20. The records were carried out on the 2nd and 3rd postoperative day.

      Patients with history of chronic respiratory disease, with severe symptoms, tendency to
      vomit, cardiac arrhythmia due to atrial fibrillation postoperatively, and patients with
      angina were excluded from the study. The records were carried out in the morning or at noon
      and were automatically stopped if patient had any difficulty, decrease in saturation ≤90,
      feeling of dizziness, fainting and palpitations. The number of volunteers excluded from the
      study was n = 4 (2 people due to dizziness during the sitting position, 1 person with a
      tendency to vomit before the beginning of the process and 1 person due to re-intubation
      before the beginning of the process).

      Procedure:

      All patients were beforehand informed about the purpose of the study and signed the Patient
      Consensus Form in order to participate the study. Data, such as age, height and weight, type
      of surgery and concomitant pathologies, if any, were collected. Patients' medical records
      were examined to verify the collected information and find any indication that could have led
      to their exclusion from the study. Records and measurements were begun only after
      consultation with patient's doctor.

      Each participant was placed in a sitting position, with his popliteal region of the knees
      near the edge of the bed and stayed in this position for at least 2 minutes in order to be
      checked that he won't develop any symptom such as discoloration of the face's skin, dizziness
      or fainting. In case of appearance of any of the above symptoms, patient was placed back in a
      supine position and the procedure stopped. Patients who felt a very light dizziness detected
      by overview or oral evaluation, remained seated until the symptom passes and then records and
      measurements were started. If the symptom continued, the procedure was stopped and patient
      returned to the supine position.

      In the first phase of the study, all volunteers' saturation and heart rate was recorded using
      oximeter or monitor's indications, whereas the recording of respiratory rate followed by
      placing one researcher's hands on the subject's epigastrium. Both systolic and diastolic
      blood pressure were recorded with an analog pressure gauge, as well dyspnea (calibrated using
      the borg scale) and thoracotomy pain, which was quantified using the numerical pain scale
      (Numeric Rating Scale - oral application).

      The maximum expiratory flow of air during coughing was estimated with a Peak Flow Meter (PFM)
      device. Participants applied their lips to a disposable mouthpiece, which was connected to
      the PFM and followed the command "please cough hard inside the device". The value recorded
      through the PFM device, which was the airflow during coughing, corresponded to the Cough Peak
      Expiratory Flow. Patients' surgical trauma was supported by holding a pillow on the incision
      during cough attempts, whereas there was no visual contact with PFM.

      Intervention:

      The first part of the study was to investigate the most appropriate command for exhalation
      through a straw of a certain inner diameter (5mm) and carried out by using a device consisted
      of a drinking straw, a disposable mouthpiece and a manometer to quantify the developed
      pressures during the exhalation attempts. The sample of this part included all the
      volunteers. Patients did not have visual contact with the manometer. The effectiveness of
      each command (Command A: "please blow continuously so that you feel low resistance during
      exhalation" and Command B: "please blow continuously so that you feel moderate resistance
      during exhalation") was estimated by comparing the average of the developing pressures during
      exhalation attempts arose by the corresponding command with the therapeutic range of pressure
      (10-20 cmH2O). This part of the study was a cross-sectional transition and every volunteer
      performed 3 attempts for each command. The outputs of the above attempts were recorded but
      only the ones of the 3rd attempt were used to the study.

      The second part of the study was conducted to evaluate the benefits arising from the use of a
      drinking straw as an alternative PEP device. A number of n = 8 volunteers (intervention
      group) was selected from the total sample, using the closed envelope method. The remaining
      volunteers (n = 5) consisted the control group. Taking into account the results of the first
      part of the study, intervention group was requested to exhale as indicated by the "right"
      command, performing 3 sets of 10 repetitions, included short breaks between sets.

      After the intervention phase, all patients were re-examined to measure the Cough Peak
      Expiratory Flow, dyspnea, pain, saturation, heart and respiratory rate, systolic and
      diastolic blood pressure.
    
  