
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine the immune response from the new Shingrix vaccine
      in UC patients on tofacitinib monotherapy in comparison to other UC therapies. the
      investigators plan to determine this by vaccinating IBD patients on (a) tofacitinib
      monotherapy, (b) anti-TNF monotherapy, (c) anti-TNF combination therapy with a thiopurine, or
      (d) aminosalicylates or other non-immunosuppressive therapy with the new Shingrix vaccine and
      measuring markers of cell-mediated immunity before vaccination and at one and six months
      after the last vaccine dose. Cell-mediated immunity will be measured with an interferon gamma
      (IFNγ) enzyme linked immunospot (ELISPOT) test to assess T-cell response. Humoral immunity
      will also be measured with an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kit to quantify
      antibody concentrations of Varicella Zoster Virus (VZV), the pathogen that when reactivated
      results in shingles.

      The study population will include adult patients aged 50 or older with UC (diagnosed by
      standard clinical, radiographic, endoscopic, and histopathologic criteria) receiving care at
      Boston Medical Center, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, or University of Wisconsin
      Hospital and Clinics. There is no randomization or use of placebo in this study. Four study
      groups (each containing 25 subjects) will be established -- 1. Group A - UC patients on
      tofacitinib monotherapy. 2. Group B - UC patients receiving anti-TNF monotherapy (adalimumab,
      golimumab, infliximab). 3. Group C - UC patients on an anti-TNF agent and a thiopurine
      (6-mercaptopurine, azathioprine). Group D - UC patients on non-immunosuppressive therapy or
      5-aminosalicylates. For each subject, 3 total samples will be collected.

      Methods: Eligible patients with UC will be recruited from the Center for Digestive Diseases
      at Boston Medical Center, the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, or the University
      of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics. Patients will be screened for participation in the study
      and recruited by their primary gastroenterologist. In clinic, a handout of the risks and
      benefits of the clinically indicated vaccine (Shingrix) will be given to each patient from
      their primary gastroenterologist for their review. Patients will have the opportunity to opt
      in or out of the study early in the consent process upon review of the handout. If a patient
      elects to participate in the study, patients will sign the consent, be entered into the study
      with assignment of a Subject ID number, and complete the initial study assessments:

      Subject contacts:

        -  1 - Baseline/Enrollment Visit 1 (Day 0): Subjects will have a comprehensive medical
           history and physical exam performed, including vaccination history and all medications
           over past 30 days. They will also complete a Simple Clinical Colitis Activity Index
           (SCCAI) questionnaire. A baseline blood sample of approximately 20mL (4 tablespoons)
           will then be obtained. If proof of past varicella infection is met by appropriate
           history, subjects will receive the Shingrix vaccine indicated based on their vaccination
           history as recommended by their gastroenterologist; otherwise subjects will follow-up in
           1 week to review confirmatory serology results and receive vaccine if indicated. The
           Shingrix vaccine will be given in a two-dose series (0.5 mL each) administered
           intramuscularly -first dose at Month 0 followed by a second dose anytime between 2 and 6
           months later. Subjects will be instructed to call the study team for any concerns or any
           development of fever, chills, rash or other concerning symptom.

        -  2- Follow up Visit 2 (approximately day 7): This visit is only needed for patients who
           require serologic confirmation of past varicella infection, therefore patients who meet
           proof for past varicella infection by appropriate history do not require serologic
           confirmation and will NOT be scheduled for this visit. Subjects will review results of
           the VZV antibody level test with their provider. If VZV antibody levels are positive,
           subjects will receive the Shingrix vaccine indicated based on their vaccination history
           as recommended by their gastroenterologist. Subjects will be instructed to call the
           study team for any concerns or any development of fever, chills, rash or other
           concerning symptom.

        -  3 - Follow up Phone Call 1 (approximately day 14): Subjects will receive a follow-up
           phone call to identify any adverse effects including fevers or chills, rash, and visits
           to the emergency room or to their primary care physicians. They will also be reminded
           about their follow up visit.

        -  4 - Follow up Visit 3 (approximately day 60): Subjects will complete a SCCAI
           questionnaire, and information will be collected to identify any adverse effects
           including fevers or chills, rash, and visits to the emergency room or to their primary
           care physician. The 2nd dose of the Shingrix vaccine will be administered.

        -  5 - Follow up Phone Call 2 (approximately day 72): Subjects will receive a follow-up
           phone call to identify any adverse effects including fevers or chills, rash, and visits
           to the emergency room or to their primary care physicians. They will also be reminded
           about their follow up visit.

        -  6 - Follow up Visit 4 (approximately day 90): Subjects will complete a SCCAI
           questionnaire, and information will be collected to identify any adverse effects
           including fevers or chills, rash, and visits to the emergency room or to their primary
           care physician. A blood sample of approximately 20mL (4 tablespoons) will then be
           obtained.

        -  7 - Follow up Visit 5 (approximately day 240): Subjects will complete a SCCAI
           questionnaire, and information will be collected to identify any adverse effects
           including fevers or chills, rash, and visits to the emergency room or to their primary
           care physician. A blood sample of approximately 20mL (4 tablespoons) will then be
           obtained.

      The entire procedure will be identically performed at the additional sites outside of Boston
      Medical Center. Subjects' duration of participation will range from 8 to 12 months, depending
      on when the 2nd vaccine dose is administered.
    
  