
    
      INTRODUCTION/BACKGROUND

      Diabetes and Ramadan (DAR) and IDF international collaboration created the IDF-DAR guidelines
      which include the practical recommendations for HCP to better manage people with diabetes who
      plan to fast Ramadan. The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence has
      recommended implementation of structured education programs to help individuals enhance their
      knowledge about diabetes and improve their management techniques. The educational program
      needs to ensure that patients can cope with specific situations such as exercise, illness
      which should extend to religious fasting.

      We have developed and adopted a 5-day educational program widely used in the UK for delivery
      in Kuwait. The course trains adults with Type 1 Diabetes in the UK to manage their condition
      more effectively using multiple injections. As part of our course, DAFNE graduates receive
      yearly Ramadan diabetes educational specific session (separate from the main 5-day course)
      and all DAFNE graduates are invited. During the 6 hours session, we seek patients' views,
      willingness to fast and introduced to the specific food that commonly consumed during
      Ramadan. Previous personal experiences of fasting and problems encountered are collected.
      Patients who are intending to fast and whom we deem safe to undertake this, receive clear and
      practical guidance on safe fasting during Ramadan.

      Current Gaps in the Literature

      Most intervention studies up to date have been performed in controlled conditions, using a
      small number of participants and with a short duration of intervention, ie not closely
      related to real-life. The variability of insulin regimens, dietary patterns and physical
      activity levels and the complexity of ways in which they are tested make it difficult to
      identify the individual effects of each component on diabetes outcomes. As a result, further
      research is needed to help expand the currently available knowledge regarding the management
      of diabetes and its associated complications when fasting during Ramadan. We believe that
      large, randomized, controlled intervention trials are necessary to broaden our understanding
      of the implications of fasting and evaluate guidance without bias. Further research into the
      effect of fasting during Ramadan on both high (measured by SMBG and HbA1C) and low glucose
      (measured by the incidence of hypoglycemia) is required. Robust evaluation of evidence-based
      guidelines will lead to useful practical assistance for patients who can fulfill religious
      obligations despite the additional burden of insulin-treated diabetes. This pilot study
      builds on an educational program, DAFNE which includes many of the elements of flexible
      eating and insulin dose adjustment which should permit patients to fast safely.

      Study Rationale

      Adopted IDF-DAR guidelines are available but recommend a significant reduction in insulin
      doses and change to the timing of basal insulin for MDI users. There is no evidence that
      fasting increases the risk of hypoglycemia, and glucose tends to be higher during Ramadan, as
      a result of a reduction in insulin doses.

      Local DAFNE patient's experience with fasting during the past years points towards no
      significant changes in insulin doses (minor reductions were needed in basal or bolus insulin
      doses) without the need of the change of basal insulin timing, however we are not aware
      without running a randomized control trial (RCT) to test DAFNE guidelines versus DAR-IDF
      guidelines.

      OBJECTIVES / HYPOTHESIS

      The primary objectives of this study are to assess whether insulin doses require reduction
      during Ramadan and change of timing and whether fasting increases the risk of hypoglycemia
      for people with T1DM who fast Ramadan.

      Hypothesis:

      This study hypothesized no changes in insulin dose timing and fasting does not increase the
      risk of hypoglycemia.

      METHODOLOGY

      Potential patients will be identified via DAFNE database at DDI. Candidate subjects who are
      current users of (FSL) and administer insulin via (MDI) will be contacted by phone and will
      be offered conditional participation in the study. Those agreeable will be given the consent
      form with the preferred language (Arabic or English) and will be scheduled a study visit. The
      same will be done for insulin pump users.

      Study design

      Open-label randomized controlled trial in people with uncomplicated T1DM fasting during
      Ramadan (1 month) comparing insulin management according to IDF-DAR guidelines (IDF-DAR arm)
      and local experience (DAFNE arm), on time spent in range (TIR) of 4-10 mmol/L, and
      hypoglycaemic self-reported episodes.

      Primary outcome:

        1. Percentage TIR 4-10mmol/L

        2. Rate of self-reported hypoglycemia by participants

      Secondary outcomes:

        1. Percentage time <4mmol/L

        2. Percentage time >10mmol/L

        3. Number of sensors detected hypoglycaemic events

        4. Number of days needed to break the fast

      Inclusion/exclusion criteria:

      Mentioned in separate section

      Intervention:

      The intervention in this study is insulin dosing and timing during Ramadan, and it will be
      assessed by creating two groups of participants that are similar to one another in all
      respects, except to the intervention to be assessed. Participants will be DAFNE graduates who
      were trained properly on carbohydrate counting and adjusting insulin doses according to the
      carbs consumed. The whole cohort will be using the same insulin regimen; multiple daily
      injections (MDI) and monitoring glucose using the same monitoring systems; flash glucose
      monitoring (FGM) system: FreeStlye Libre (FSL) Reader and sensors, and self-monitoring of
      blood glucose (SMBG) using the FreeStyle optimum test strips, or insulin pump.

      The null hypothesis is that there is no difference in the rates of hypoglycemia between basal
      insulin taken at iftar time versus bedtime in people with T1DM during fasting Ramadan.

      Ramadan Workshop

      DAFNE structured education program was conducted to all subjects in a stage their life with
      T1DM. Consequently, subjects are familiar with carbohydrate counting and aware of dose
      adjustments needed to cover their meals. Nevertheless, this workshop will include food tables
      with real food models of traditional Ramadan plates. The workshop includes advices on healthy
      eating habits during Ramadan. General instructions will be provided to all participants which
      are part of DAFNE Ramadan protocol.

      Ramadan Visits, Daily messages, and Calls

      Visits: Weekly or whenever required, to upload FSL reader and adjust doses without crossing
      the arm recommendations for adjustments. This can be done in person or via the cloud Daily
      Messages: Did you fast full day? If no, was it due to hypoglycemia, and did you check BG to
      confirm hypoglycemia? Daily count of hypoglycemic episodes? Was all confirmed with SMBG? Are
      you wearing a glucose sensor, and scanning readings at least once every 8 hours? Calls: If
      participant was not answering messages, calls will be initiated. A message or call should be
      performed in the last day of Ramadan to instruct participants about the insulin dosing and
      timing post-Ramadan

      Post-Ramadan Visit:

        1. Upload FSL reader

        2. Physical examination will be repeated, including weight and routine blood will be
           collected again including HbA1C, FBC, U&Es with eGFR, full chemistry, urine ACR within
           three months

        3. This will conclude the study visits for the subject

      DATA ANALYSIS

      For statistical analysis, this can be done using two-tailed unpaired t-test as we are
      comparing results of different subjects who are in different conditions and the change can be
      rise or fall in time in range.

      Telemonitoring data including daily questionnaires, WhatsApp messages, food logs, and meal
      pictures will be collected and added to an excel sheet for analysis.

      FreeStlye libre software will be used to extract reports and data export readings of FSL
      readers. The following analysis will be carried out for both arms and for all fasted days:

        1. Total average of 24 hours of glucose

        2. Estimated A1c

        3. Percentage time in range 4.0-10mmol/L

        4. Percentage time spent <4.0mmol/L

        5. Percentage of time spent >10mmol/L

        6. Low glucose events

        7. Low glucose duration

        8. Total patient-reported hypoglycemia events (from telemonitoring data mentioned above)
           One-way ANOVA to compare means of percentage time in all above glucose ranges with an
           alpha <0.05

      IMPORTANCE OF THE RESEARCH OUTCOMES

      IDF-DAR guidelines recommend reducing insulin doses in people with T1DM or insulin-dependent
      T2DM to prevent hypoglycemia especially in the 3 to 4 hours before iftar, in addition to
      changing the basal insulin timing. DAFNE earlier work at DDI demonstrated that fasting
      Ramadan did not require a significant reduction of background basal insulin (most 5-10% if
      needed) without reduction of meal bolus insulin. It also advocates that there is no increased
      risk of hypoglycemia in Ramadan if done with the support of diabetes with prior education and
      close glucose monitoring. However, there is significant evidence that glucose tends to be
      higher during Ramadan especially post-iftar, as a result of eating feasting behavior and most
      probably a reduction in insulin doses as per guidelines. There is no consensus between
      guidelines and local experience and no evidence about the cut-off reduction in insulin doses
      which requires running this randomized control trial which hypothesized that the change in
      eating behavior in Ramadan does not change insulin requirement and carb counting will provide
      safe insulin dosing during Ramadan similar to that outside Ramadan

      ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS Informed Consent Forms

      We will give a patient information sheet for the participant to keep and ask for written
      informed consent. We will document that 3 copies have been distributed: one to the
      participant, another to his/her doctor and one for the study team

      CONFIDENTIALITY

      All hard copies of any study material will be kept in locked cabinets on the premises of DDI.
      Subject identifiable information will be only available to study team and ethics committee
      for inspection in case this becomes required.
    
  