
    
      Study Purpose

      This study will investigate the use of an experimental research device called transcranial
      direct current stimulation (tDCS). tDCS is a way to stimulate the brain with potential
      therapeutic benefits. It works by either increasing or decreasing brain excitability. This is
      done by delivering a current to the outside of the head. This weak electrical current then
      passes through the skull and modulates the underlying brain tissue. Genetic factors may
      contribute to the effectiveness of this intervention; therefore, a saliva sample will be
      collected to assess the status of two genes: Brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and
      apolipoprotein E4. Our purpose is to determine the best location of stimulation for tDCS that
      improves the symptoms and quality of life in people with CD. The results of this study will
      help to identify alternative interventions for people with cervical dystonia. Brain
      excitability will be measured using an additional form of non-invasive brain stimulation,
      specifically by a device called a transcranial magnetic stimulator. By applying a magnetic
      field to the outside of the head, electrical currents are produced within the brain that can
      transiently affect brain activity and be recorded though electrodes on your skin. Using this
      procedure, different areas of the brain can be studied to gain a greater understanding of the
      brain physiology in patients with cervical dystonia.

      Procedures

      Intervention: Briefly, non-invasive brain stimulation can be delivered safely and painlessly
      via different mechanisms with the goal of either exciting or inhibiting the underlying brain
      issue. In focal dystonia, as indicated above, there is thought to be a lack of inhibition,
      thus settings are typically used to increase inhibition. Transcranial direct current
      stimulation (tDCS) is one device that has been shown to be safe and effective at modulating
      excitation and inhibition in humans and has been used extensively in a variety of research
      applications for over 10 years. In addition to the potential physiologic benefit of altering
      excitability, tDCS is a particularly practical technique for use in people with CD, because
      it does not require one's head to remain still, thus not applying additional stress to the
      impaired neck.

      An investigator will deliver tDCS using a constant current of 2 milliamps (mA) using a direct
      current stimulator (TCT Research Limited, Hong Kong) via two 35 cm2 saline soaked sponge
      electrodes. Treatment is 1x/day for 4 days. Electrode placement will be at one of four
      locations referenced in terms of dystonic head-turn resting position (i.e. if head turns to
      the left, the primary muscles involved are on the left, so contralateral M1 would be the
      right hemisphere): 1) Bilateral M1 with cathode to contralateral M1 and anode to ipsilateral
      M1, 15 minutes (Goal: decrease contralateral M1 excitability); 2) Cerebellum with anode to
      ipsilateral cerebellum with cathode to ipsilateral side of face, 15 minutes (Goal: increase
      ipsilateral cerebellum activation which exerts inhibitory effect on motor circuits); 3)
      M1+cerebellum: M1 will first be 'primed' with anode on contralateral M1, cathode on face, for
      10 min, followed immediately by 15 min of cerebellar stimulation as in #2. (Goal: prime the
      contralateral M1 with increased excitability to engage a potentially larger effect from the
      following ipsilateral cerebellar stimulation that will be excited to exert inhibitory effect
      on the motor circuits including M1); or 4) Sham stimulation: electrode placement will be same
      as M1. Sham tDCS will be applied by ramping down current intensity to 0 after 30 seconds
      following standard practice for sham tDCS (Gandiga et al. 2006).

      Pre-testing (Day1) will occur 10 weeks post standard care (SC) visit, so the participant will
      be near most impaired level of functioning prior to 12 week visit for botulinum (BTX)
      injection. tDCS will be delivered on day 1 and each subsequent day for 4 days. Posttesting
      will occur on Day5 and then 1 week later prior to SC visit (follow up- day 12). The primary
      endpoint of interest is follow up at one week.

      Cortical Excitability Testing: Before and after intervention, single-pulse TMS will be
      delivered with a figure of eight coil (90 mm wing diameter) (MagStim Co., Whitland, Dyfed,
      Wales), positioned over M1. The 'hotspot' over the M1 contralateral to the direction of
      dystonic head turn will be used to collect motor evoked potentials (MEPs) in cervical muscles
      (upper trapezius) ipsilateral to head turn will be located and marked on the scalp. Various
      measures will be collected according to established methods to assess cortical excitability
      by single and paired pulse TMS.

      Clinical assessment: Severity of CD will be assessed before and after the intervention.
      Behavioral measures will be administered by an investigator, blinded to intervention and will
      be assessed pre and post each intervention and at follow up. The primary endpoint of interest
      is the Craniocervical Dystonia Questionnaire CDQ-24. This primary outcome was selected
      because it is a patient-rated, disease-specific assessment of quality of life, which we feel
      should be the primary issue of concern. Secondary measures are TWSTRS and visual analog
      scale.

      CDQ-24: The CDQ-24 contains 24 items with 5 subscales: stigma, emotional well-being, pain,
      activities of daily living and social/family life. Internal consistency and reliability is
      satisfactory for all sub-scales and total score with good sensitivity and high test/retest
      reliability (Muller, 2004).

      TWSTRS. Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Rating Scale is an outcome measure used to rate
      severity, disability and pain in CD (Consky et al., 1990). TWSTRS utilizes three sub-scores
      of physician-based severity (0-35), patient-based disability (0-30) and pain (0-20) with
      higher scores indicating greater severity of symptoms. Inter-observer reliability is
      excellent (rs=99) and good for disability and pain measurements (r˃0.88). The global severity
      scale was moderate (rs=0.63)(Salvia et al., 2006). TWSTRS exam will be videotaped for posthoc
      assessment by investigator blinded to group and testing period.

      Visual Analog Scale (VAS). At the end of each intervention session participants will be asked
      to rate the ease of movement and perceived pain during cervical rotation in the contralateral
      direction to their head turn using VAS for self-assessment.

      Adverse reactions. Adverse reactions will be recorded using established reporting forms.

      Genetic Testing: At the last session, a saliva sample will be collected for genetic screening
      for BDNF and apolipoprotein E4 polymorphisms. We will collect approximately 2 ml (less than
      one-half teaspoon) of saliva by asking the subject to spit into a tube. It may take up to 30
      minutes to provide a saliva sample, however, most people typically require less time
      (approximately 5 minutes). Collection of saliva using Oragene Discover is non-invasive and
      there are no anticipated personal risks of injury.
    
  