
    
      It will be a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study with 144
      postmenopausal women with sexual dysfunction, met in Menopause Clinic at the Faculty of
      Medical Sciences of Santa Casa de São Paulo and in the Vale do Sapucai University. All women
      signed the Informed Consent. The study will be conducted in accordance with the protocol and
      principles set out in Declaration of Helsinki (1996 version), according to International
      Conference on Harmonization and Tripartite Guidelines for good practice clinics and
      applicable regulatory requirements.

      The protocol was submitted and approved by the Ethics Committee, Faculty of Medical Sciences
      Committee Santa Casa de São Paulo. The diagnosis of sexual dysfunction will be done by a
      sexologist physician experienced and trained in the diagnosis of female sexual disorders
      through a structured clinical interview, a list of sexual symptoms. It will be oriented to
      avoid further consumption of diet or another type of herbal medicine during the study. After
      the interview, signing the Informed Consent and they will be informed about the
      randomization. Interview with sexological questionnaires will be applied used in Sexology
      Clinic, Faculty of Medical Sciences of Santa Casa de São Paulo and Vale do Sapucai
      University, with the purpose of obtaining data sociodemographic. The Female Sexual function
      Index (FSFI) and the Female Intervention Efficacy Index questionnaire (FIEI). When necessary,
      the Beck Depression Inventory II (Cunha 2001) will be used to ward off depression, which will
      be applied by enabled professional. The application will be individually and by the same
      researcher. The results will be analyzed and interpreted in the light of the theoretical
      framework of socio-historical psychology, this theory of knowledge, is associated with the
      understanding of the culture of the structure, social organization and the rescue human
      subjectivity.
    
  