
    
      Participant recruitment for this six-year research study focuses on multiple sclerosis (MS)
      that has remained active despite treatment. This study will compare high dose
      immunosuppression followed by autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (AHSCT) to
      best available therapy (BAT) in the treatment of relapsing MS.

      MS is a disease caused by one's own immune cells. Normally, immune cells fight infection. In
      MS, immune cells called T cells, or chemical products made by immune cells, react against the
      covering or coat (myelin) of nerve fibers in the brain and spinal cord. This leads to
      stripping the coat from certain nerve fibers (demyelination), and this causes neurologic
      problems. MS can cause loss of vision, weakness or incoordination, loss or changes in
      sensation, problems with thinking or memory, problems controlling urination, and other
      disabilities.

      Most individuals with MS first have immune attacks (called relapses) followed by periods of
      stability. Over time, MS can have episodes of new and worsening symptoms, ranging from mild
      to disabling. This is called relapsing MS. Relapsing MS includes relapsing remitting MS
      (RRMS) and secondary progressive MS (SPMS). There are medicines (drugs) to decrease relapses,
      but these are neither considered to be curative nor, to induce prolonged remissions without
      continuing therapy.

      More than a dozen medicines have been approved for the treatment of relapsing forms of MS.
      These medicines differ in how safe they are and how well they work. Despite availability of
      an increasing number of effective medicines, some individuals with relapsing MS do not
      respond to treatment. Research is being conducted to find other treatments.

      High dose immunosuppression followed by autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
      (AHSCT) has been shown to help relapsing MS in cases where medicines did not work. AHSCT
      involves collecting stem cells, which are produced in the bone marrow. These stem cells are
      "mobilized" to leave the bone marrow and move into the blood where they can be collected and
      stored. Participants will then receive chemotherapy intended to kill immune cells. One's own
      stored (frozen) stem cells are then given back, through an infusion. This "transplant" of
      one's stem cells allows the body to form new immune cells in order to restore their immune
      system. New research suggest that MS might be better controlled with AHSCT than with
      medicines.
    
  