
    
      Knee and hip arthroplasty are profoundly successful operative interventions, however, some
      joint replacements do fail and the life expectancy of a knee or hip arthroplasty is finite.
      This fact has largely been responsible for the continued development of new devices and
      techniques for joint arthroplasty surgery.

      The OtisMed Custom-fit technique has great potential to shift knee replacement surgery to a
      more patient-specific paradigm. Existing studies with OtisMed surgeries have found a reduced
      need for soft-tissue releases, alignment comparable to conventional and computer navigated
      surgery, reduced tourniquet time, and reduced instrumentation. Although the preliminary
      results are promising the OtisMed Custom-fit system is still unproven, with no long-term
      follow-up studies completed to date. An initial report has questioned the effectiveness of
      the procedure although it is a very limited series of four surgeries. To definitively
      determine if the technique is an improvement on conventional knee arthroplasty a randomized
      controlled trial with high-resolution quantitative assessment of outcomes is clearly called
      for.

      Question 1: Is there a difference in micromotion patterns for implant components between CAS
      and the OtisMed knee system?

        -  Null Hypothesis: There are no significant difference in micromotion patterns.

        -  Alternative Hypothesis: There are significant differences in micromotion patterns
           between the tibial and/or femoral components.

      Question 2: Do the CAS knee components achieve adequate fixation to the underlying bone?

        -  Null Hypothesis: There is no significant continuous migration of the tibial and femoral
           components at 2 years indicating adequate long-term fixation at the implant - bone
           interface.

        -  Alternative Hypothesis: There is significant continuous migration of the tibial and/or
           femoral components at 2 years indicating inadequate fixation at the implant - bone
           interface.

      Question 3: Do the OtisMed knee components achieve adequate fixation to the underlying bone?

        -  Null Hypothesis: There is no significant continuous migration of the tibial and femoral
           components at 2 years indicating adequate long-term fixation at the implant - bone
           interface.

        -  Alternative Hypothesis: There is significant continuous migration of the tibial and/or
           femoral components at 2 years indicating inadequate fixation at the implant - bone
           interface.

      Question 4: For what proportion of implants in each group does migration continue to increase
      during the two year follow-up?

      Question 5: Are inducible displacements, measured during loaded follow-up exams, different
      between the 2 groups?

      Question 6: Are there significant differences in bone mineral density between the operative
      knee (proximal tibia) and other body sites over time?

      Question 7: Are there significant differences in bone mineral density of the proximal tibia
      between the OtisMed and CAS groups over time?

      Question 8: Is there a significant difference in gait symmetry measures, health status and
      functional outcome between the OtisMed and CAS groups?

      Question 9: Is there a significant difference in postoperative full-leg length alignment
      between the CAS and OtisMed groups?

      Question 10: Are there significant differences in the frontal plane alignment curves obtained
      from the CAS system between the CAS and OtisMed groups?

      Question 12: Are there significant differences in the quantity of bone resection between the
      CAS and OtisMed groups?

      Question 13: Are there significant differences in the frontal plane alignment curves obtained
      from the CAS system between the CAS and OtisMed groups?

      Question 14: Are there significant differences in the number of intra-operative deviations
      from the surgical plan between the CAS and OtisMed groups?

      Question 15: Is there a significant difference in the duration of surgery (tourniquet time)
      between the CAS and OtisMed groups?

      Question 16: Is there a significant difference in the number of instrument pans used between
      the CAS and OtisMed groups?

      Question 17: Is there a significant difference in length of hospital stay between the CAS and
      OtisMed groups?

      Question 18: Are there intra-patient differences between the OtisMed surgical plan and the
      CAS surgical procedure in terms of predicted versus actual resection and alignment?
    
  