
    
      1. On the day before surgery the participant will be shown 10 objects that he should
           remember. On the day after surgery he will be requested to recall the objects he
           remembers and to answer the level of anxiety he is feeling using the Visual Anxiety
           Scale.

        2. In the event of discharges (a possible side effect of ketamine due to muscarinic /
           parasympathetic stimulation), a single dose of scopolamine (1 mg - ) will be given
           intravenously.

        3. At the end of the surgical phase of opening (of the same side being operated on) the
           propopol will be discontinued (as routinely done), and a continuous low-dose ketamine
           infusion (0.25 mg per kilogram per hour) will be given until the permanent electrode is
           implanted on the same operated side, or in the event that unwanted side effects that
           can't be controlled appear.

        4. During surgery, monitoring of muscle activity (EMG) and brain activity (EEG) will be
           performed

        5. During the operation a short canola will be inserted through the meningeal opening and
           fixed to the surface of the cerebral cortex.

           Through the cannula A 10 mm deep microelectrode will be inserted, which will record
           electrical activity from the cerebral cortex for several minutes (up to 15 minutes).
           During the recording period the patient may be asked to perform a simple cognitive task
           using a computer or iPad. Following the recording the canola and the microelectrode will
           be removed and the canola will be inserted to the depth of the brain as part of the
           standard surgery and through it the microelectrode will be inserted into the brain
           target, and recording of electrical activity from the depths of the brain, as is
           customary will be performed. At the end of the ketamine phase, at the end of the
           electrophysiological monitoring required for navigation, prior to the electrical
           stimulation, when the electrode is placed at the bottom of the sub-thalamic nucleus, the
           patient will be shown for 60 seconds 10 images of objects (a single object in each
           image, different from the objects presented to him the day before) which he will asked
           to remember. At the same time on the screen will present electrical recordings from the
           depth of the brain (MER) by the brain electrode. In addition, the patient will be asked
           grade the anxiety level he is experiencing using the Visual Anxiety Scale (VAS) .

        6. On the day after surgery, the patient will be asked to recall which objects were
           presented to him the day before the operation and during the operation. Note that the
           two object lists will be from a database of objects used in functional day-to-day life
           (standard lists used for the CMT test - contextual memory test). In addition, the
           patient will be asked to answer a Visual Anxiety Scale (VAS) and the Iowa satisfaction
           score questionnaire detailing the patients overall overall experience, mood and feelings
           during surgery.

           These assessments will be performed by a neuropsychologist and using a validated
           questionnaire.

        7. Two weeks surgery, the patient will be presented with pictures of various objects and
           will be asked to recall which of them were presented before and during surgery. In
           addition the patient will be requested to fill grade his VAS anxiety scale and the IOWA
           questionnaire.
    
  