
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a form of sleep-disordered breathing (SDB) where cessation
      of breathing occurs during sleep in 9% of middle-aged women and 25% or middle-aged men. Major
      health issues and risks have been linked to untreated sleep apnea, including drug-resistant
      hypertension, obesity, congestive heart failure and diabetes.

      Patient awareness of this condition is growing, but obtaining adequate data has continuing
      barriers. The gold standard for sleep testing is the overnight clinical polysomnogram (PSG)
      where over 20 sensors are attached to a patient and vital signs are monitored and recorded
      over the course of a 6-8 hour sleep test.

      This is a prospective clinical performance study to compare the ability of proprietary
      algorithms that analyze sleep recordings from smartphones, with FDA cleared Level III home
      sleep testing (HST) devices, to identify patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA).

      Consecutive patients referred for home sleep testing (HST) for possible OSA will be offered
      participation. Participants who provide informed consent will fill out a questionnaire and
      then proceed with HST in their home. During HST, additional sound recordings will be made
      with either:

        1. Android type smartphone with a recording application (app). The phone will be placed on
           a table 50-100 cm (20-40 inches) from patient's mouth.

           or

        2. IPhone type smartphone with a recording application (app). Phone will be placed on a
           table 50-100 cm (20-40 inches) from patient's mouth

      The sound recordings obtained via smartphones will be analyzed electronically for OSA by the
      proprietary algorithms. This will be performed by engineers at Resonea, Inc., the study
      sponsor, who will be blinded to the results obtained by the Level III HST device

      HST will be performed using a type III home sleep monitor that has been cleared by the FDA
      and validated to assist in the diagnosis of OSA. HST results will be interpreted according to
      the standards established for the device being utilized. HST tests will be interpreted by
      sleep medicine physicians at the study sites who will be blinded to the assessment from the
      proprietary algorithms.

      The independently determined results of HST and proprietary algorithms analysis will then be
      compared.

      The results of the proprietary algorithm testing will not be known to those providing HST and
      the proprietary algorithm analysis will not be utilized in the clinical management of study
      participants

      The primary objectives are: (a) to demonstrate that obtaining recordings in home setting for
      use with the proprietary sound analysis software is feasible and safe; and (b) to compare the
      results of the proprietary algorithm score with HST for the diagnosis of OSA.

      The secondary objectives are: (a) to compare the recorded sound data against various scoring
      metrics from the HST; and (b) to demonstrate that use of the sound analysis software on
      smartphones is feasible for patients in the home sleep setting; and (c) to use the
      proprietary software to identify sleep disordered breathing beyond OSA, including central
      sleep apnea, snoring and other conditions.
    
  