
    
      Introduction In the last four decades of oncological breast surgery, based on Umberto
      Veronesi and Bernard Fisher's prospective comparative studies, organ conservation became
      highly significant in the case of early breast cancer with the application of microscopically
      negative surgical margin and adjuvant whole breast irradiation (WBI), which is proven to
      offer the same survival chance as mastectomy.[1,2] However, in practice, the apparent
      benefits of organ conservation shaded by the need of second surgery, 5-30%, (repeated
      directed re-excision or mastectomy) due to microscopically positive surgical margins; the 3-5
      weeks long, logistically demanding radiotherapy; and the cosmetically impaired or distorted
      breasts that remains almost 30% of the surgeries. [3-5] The latter can be explained by our
      published previous prospective study that the patients report significantly intolerable
      cosmetic results after 10% volume loss from the inner quadrants and approximately 15-20%
      volume loss from the lateral quadrants, when its associates with adjuvant WBI. [6] Aside from
      volume reduction, during a traditional breast conserving surgery (BCS) the tumor bed is left
      behind as a cavity, whose posterior wall is composed of the pectoralis major muscle and the
      pectoral fascia, while its anterior wall is composed of skin. Already in the early
      postoperative stage, with the removal of the seroma, the skin retracts and adheres to the
      breast muscles or to the fascia. This process is accelerated by the irreversible of the
      complete residual parenchyma and the change of the skin's structure, elasticity and
      microcirculation during WBI. This could result 10-20% shrinkage of the breast. The breast
      shows a typical deformity with the directly curved incision line above the tumor as a result
      of secondary wound healing process mentioned above. Compared to the contralateral side its
      volume shrunk, the nipple dislocated to the axillary fold due to the adhesion of the
      upper-outer quadrant in case of this quadrant's volume loss and typical bird beak formation
      occurs in case of lower quadrants' border excision; while a central excision usually results
      in a so-called doughnut shaped breast with a central retractation. Additional challenge is
      the reconstruction of the post-BCS breast because it is more complicated and achieves poorer
      cosmetic results than the post-mastectomy breast construction. [7] In order to prevent the
      above listed disadvantages of BCS, a sophisticated organ conservation breast-surgery was
      developed with the adaptation of plastic surgery techniques in the last decade, which was
      named Oncoplastic Surgery (OPS) by Werner Audretsch. [8] These surgeries are volume reducing
      breast lift surgeries or their alterations, which are based on the knowledge of breast
      anatomy - especially on its blood circulation (e.g. Würinger's Septum), and its structural
      and aesthetic subunits (e.g. inframammary fold (IMF), nipple and areola complex (NAC)). The
      surgeries require particular plastic surgery knowledge. The OPS based on volume displacement
      using and mobilizing the glandular pillars to fill the wound cavity using the advantages of
      breast ptosis, narrowing the overall base diameter and the "footprint", and repositioning the
      NAC, which left behind after the radical removal of the tumor. The OPS is suitable to perform
      real quadrantectomy, even with a better aesthetic result then it is preoperatively. According
      to each segments of the breast, various oncoplastic techniques can be applied, giving the
      oncoplastic surgeon an unprecedented freedom to offer a personalized solution. The OPSs can
      be classified based on their technical complexity or on the level of volume (<20% / 20-50%)
      needed to be replaced (Level I./II.). [9] Following the OPS, the remaining scars caused by
      radiation become almost invisible, and due to the lack of wound cavity, adhesion does not
      occur.

      The most popular Level I. oncoplastic techniques are the periareolar or round-block
      techniques, or retroglandular technique, which was first published in the international
      literature by the current authors. These techniques are for those malignant tumors (cT< 3cm)
      which could be possibly located centrally in every quadrant and requires wide surgical
      excision less than 20% of the entire breast. [10, 11] The literature relied on oncoplastic
      breast conserving techniques is usually limited to retrospective cohort studies, while its
      prospective randomized comparison with traditional breast conserving surgery cannot be
      performed due to ethical reasons.

      The purpose of the current clinical study is to scientifically analyze and compare the
      clinical, oncological and aesthetic results of the standardized oncoplastic breast conserving
      surgical techniques, round-block versus retroglandular, in one center for unilateral,
      solitary, malignant breast tumors in a responsive-adaptive (RAR) prospective randomized trial
      with long term follow-up.

      Aim of the study The aim of this clinical study is to analyze due long term follow-up, the
      clinical, oncological, aesthetic results and patients' reported quality of life and
      satisfaction in a responsive-adaptive (RAR) [12] prospective, randomized study at a large
      number of patients whom receive round-block and retroglandular oncoplastic breast conserving
      surgeries.

      According to the study's hypothesis, breast conserving surgery can be oncologically
      successful and safe with low complication rates resulting in high rate of patient
      satisfaction and good quality of life, which can be maintained for a long time after WBI with
      the application of modern oncoplastic breast conserving surgeries. We assume in this study
      that against of the earliest and mostly studied round-block oncoplastic surgery, the
      retroglandular technique, firstly reported in the literature by the current authors, is also
      adequate for oncologically safe, radical tumor removal that comes with low complication
      rates, suited for adjuvant treatments and able to offer better cosmetic results (NAC does not
      distorted, and pathological scar will not develop) than round-block OPS and high rate of
      patient's satisfaction that can be maintained for long-term.

      Patients and method The participation in this study is voluntary. In this current
      response-adaptive (RAR) prospective randomized study the applied surgical operations count as
      routine interventions in the literature, as much as in our Department, with standardized
      techniques. The applicable round-block and retroglandular oncoplastic breast conserving
      surgeries do not mean new surgical procedures for the patients, not in their techniques, nor
      in their indications; the prospective examination serves only as a guarantee for the
      quantitative and qualitative data collection. The examination does not influence the applied
      oncological therapies; those are still executed based on the institution's preoperative and
      postoperative multidisciplinary breast oncological committee's professional decisions.

      The study does not change the complex oncological treatment in any ways, considering the NCI
      protocol.

      In this study the response-adaptive classification means that the choice of the optimal
      surgical procedure for the patient is not influenced by the clinical study. The decision
      making model is the same as it is in our department, same as for patients that are not
      participating in the study, so the subgroups chosen according to the oncological morbidity,
      the location of the tumor (the round-block technique is more appropriate for those ones that
      are closer to the surface, while the ones located more deeper, closer to the pectoralis major
      muscle are adequate for the retroglandular procedure), the breast size, the structure and
      ptosis of parenchyma. The applied and studied surgical techniques like aside of the clinical
      examination, do not require symmetrization.

      The current study does not include intervention in a scientific term due to the above listed
      reasons, so it is not differs of the routinely used treatment protocol.

      The primary endpoint of the study Correlation analysis of oncological control, cosmetic
      result, patients' satisfaction and quality of life achieved by various surgical techniques;
      and these follow-ups in one, two, three, four, and five years.

      The study's secondary endpoints To determine the complication's ratio of early and late
      surgeries, and the surgical strain (the length of the surgery and hospitalization).

      Based on the results, once it gains scientific confirmation, the retroglandular, oncoplastic
      breast conserving technique, proposed by the authors for the first time, could become a Level
      I oncoplastic technique.

      Patients:

      - Under the age of 65, suffering from unilateral (cT< 3cm) in situ or invasive breast cancer,
      who are fit for breast conserving surgeries, who had no previous breast surgery, independent
      from axillary surgery (sentinel lymph node biopsy or axillary block dissection)

      Excluding factors:

        -  In case the patient does not volunteer for the examination or the follow-ups

        -  Age above 65 years or poor general health condition, where the estimated life
           expectancies would be less than 2 years even without a tumor

        -  Malignant invasive tumor in the past history (except for non-melanoma skin tumors)

        -  Mastectomy performed due to positive resection margin

        -  Prior breast surgery (e.g. aesthetic surgery, breast lift) and/or radiotherapy on the
           breast or in the axilla

        -  Malignant tumor is not removed completely with pathological examination

        -  Severe non-surgical (e.g. radiotherapy) complication, which could influence the
           aesthetic and functional results

        -  Autoimmune diseases

        -  Tumor requiring mastectomy, or clinically larger than 3 cm tumor primary, or mastitis
           carcinomatosa, lymphangitis carcinomatosa

        -  Long-term steroid usage, which changed the skin's quality and structure

        -  Patient under foster care, or psychically non-cooperative patient

      Preoperative examinations:

        -  Physical examination

        -  Triplet examination of the breast

        -  Preoperative core biopsy or FNAB

        -  Staging examinations: chest x-ray, abdominal ultrasound, bone scintigraphy

        -  Axillary ultrasound and cytological examination if required

        -  Required additional imaging based on the oncological staging (targeted x-ray, CT, MRI,
           PET)

        -  Routine hematological and blood test analysis

        -  Measurements of jugulum-nipple width, nipple midline width, and nipple inframammary-fold
           width

        -  Measurements of the areola's horizontal and vertical diameter

        -  Regnault Classification of breasts' ptosis

        -  Photo documentation (standard 5 directions and ap with raised arms) and the application
           of the BCCT.core program (regarding data protection regulations) [13]

        -  Filling out the BREAST-Q questionnaire [14]

      Recorded data:

      Age, body mass, height, BMI, pre-/postoperative cup sizes, presence of preoperative breast
      assymetry and its severity (BCCT.core software data), past history, medication, smoking
      habits, oncological data, cTNM, pTN, pathological data, molecular genetic subtype,
      neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy, type of axillary treatment, locoregional cancer recurrance,
      metastasis.

      Postoperative complications were classified following Clavien-Dindo Classification[15, 16]
      Grade I complication (light inflammations, non-surgical haematoma or suffusion, seroma
      formation, partial skin/NAC loss, limited fat necrosis, SSI and lymphoedema) does not require
      medication or surgical treatment. Grade II complication is a Grade I complication that
      requires medication or surgical interaction (antibiotic therapy, resuture due SSI and
      multiple puncture due chronic seroma). Grade III complication requires invasive surgical
      action (haematoma evacuation, chronic inflammation which requires reoperation, severe fat
      necrosis, full skin/ NAC necrosis and wound dehiscense). Grade IV complication means
      temporary organ failure. Grade V complication is one that leads to death.

      The following data are collected in this trial: preoperative jugulum-nipple width,
      nipple-midline width, nipple-IMF width, vertical and horizontal width of the areola, Regnault
      Classification of the breast ptosis then repeating the above measurements during the
      follow-up (every 6 months) with parallel photo documentation, using BCCT.core program and
      data recording of the BREAST-Q questionnaire and 5 point Likert-scale.[17]

      Methods Enrolled patients who require round-block, or retroglandular oncoplastic breast
      conserving surgery on one side, they filled out BREAST Q questionnaire and have undergone
      preoperative photo documentation, BCCT.core software analysis and breast ptosis detection
      according to Regnault Classification. In case of neoadjuvant therapy, the procedure is the
      same and the patient selection and data recording are performed preoperatively.

      Flow chart

      OPS, oncoplastic breast conserving surgery The patients after breast conserving surgery
      receive adjuvant therapy based on the decision of the multidisciplinary breast cancer board
      of the Institute. Data collection: measurements of the patients, the photo documentation,
      filling the BCCT.core software database and the postoperative quality of life BREAST Q
      questionnaire made postoperatively in the 4th-6th week then in the 3rd postoperative month
      then after every 6 months. The oncological follow-up carried out by the guideline of the
      Institute, and the follow-up lasts until the end of the 5th year. During this period,
      correction of the breast is not allowed.

      Surgical therapy The treatment of the patients examined in the study relied on the techniques
      of the Breast and Sarcoma Department of the National Cancer Institute including standardized
      round block oncoplastic breast conserving surgery, or the standardized retroglandular
      oncoplastic technique, which was first described in the literature by our workgroup. (See the
      detailed description of these: Z Mátrai, G Gulyás, T Kovács, M Kásler Principles and practice
      of oncoplastic breast surgery. Medicina Kiadó Zrt, 2019., 10.4. Periareolar oncoplastic
      technique; 10.13. Retroglandular oncoplastic breast-conserving surgical technique) [18]

      The round block oncoplastic breast conserving technique The surgical procedure planned after
      the exact localization of the cancer in surgical position. In case of non-palpable tumors,
      the preoperative markings are obligatory (isotope). Considering the previously mentioned
      facts, we mark in standing position the double round-lines and midline, the footprint and the
      line between the medioclavicular point and nipple, and its distal extension through the IMF.
      After desinfection and isolation, we de-epithelize the gap between the double round-lines,
      and we dissect the dermis from the best localization where we can reach the tumor. We suggest
      to infiltrate the wound line with adrenaline diluted saline (1:1000) before the incision to
      avoid the continuous bleeding of the subdermal plexus, which can disturb the procedure. If
      the tumor located close to the skin then we are not performing de-epithelization, we excise
      it with the skin. We mark every wall of the tumor bed with clips. After oncologically safe
      resection (resection border, tumor bed marking, intraoperative specimen
      mammography/ultrasound and control of the pathological "safe border" macroscopically), we
      dissect the surrounding parenchyma- so called parenchyma pillars- from the pectoral fascia
      and the skin, and we mobilize it. The line under the skin means, the layer under the
      subcutis, above the superficial fascia, so gives appropriate blood supply to the skin. The
      mobilization of the parenchyma pillars should be done adequately with absorbable sutures to
      avoid dead space, skin intrusion and breast deformity. After this the incision line should be
      placed 5 mm from the outer round line, so a dermis pillar should be left, and the skin is
      dissected from the parenchyma as needed. The outer round line should be tightened with a
      non-absorbable running Benelli suture to fit the areola then interrupted sutures placed to
      make tensionless the running intracutaneous suture. A subcutaneous drain should be left if
      needed until the 2nd postoperative day. We use a slight compression bandage for 12 hours. The
      wound should be covered according to the general surgical rules, if possible, using
      Steri-strip (topical mupirocin cream suggested on it), the sutures removed after 2-3 weeks.

      The retroglandular oncoplastic breast conserving technique We mark the midline and the
      breast's footprint in standing position. After desinfection and isolation in the OR, we
      infiltrate the subdermal plexus with the above mentioned way then we incise the skin slightly
      lateral in the IMF, around 7 cm long. We dissect with electrocauther the parenchyma with the
      pectoral fascia from the pectoralis major muscle at least until the mamilla. If the tumor's
      localization requires until the whole footprint is reached. We incise the fascia along with
      the parenchyma which contains the tumor and macroscopically 10 mm safe zone. If the tumor is
      palpable, we turn the parenchyma slightly inside-out, if not, we localize it at the maximum
      measurement detected according to the ROLL labeling. We mark the specimen and then send it to
      pathological examination, if needed intraoperative mammography and/or hystological
      examination. After marking the tumor bed, we directly adapt the surrounding parenchyma
      pillars with absorbable sutures, or inverting sutures, or if it requires, we adapt the tumor
      bed with so-called dual plane mobilization. The sentinel lymph node biopsy is performed from
      the same incision, while in case of axillary dissection, we perform it in a separate ca. 6 cm
      long incision line placed in the axillary fold. After revision, we close the fascia with
      absorbable running suture over the Redon drain then subcutaneous running suture with
      absorbable suture and finally intracutaneous skin closure. The Redon planned to be removed 50
      ml/day.

      The surgery required localization technique of the Institute, in case of non-palpable cancer,
      is the routinely used ultrasound guided or stereotaxic isotope labeling technique (ROLL),
      which marker is the same as the radiolabeled 99Tc albumin solution in sentinel lymph node
      biopsy.

      According to the valid protocol of the National Cancer Institute, the surgery of the axilla
      can be either sentinel lymph node biopsy or axillary lymphadenectomy/ axillary block
      dissection, if needed with radiotherapy of the axillary and supraclavicular region depending
      on the regional stage of the breast cancer. (see as well in Z Mátrai, G Gulyás, T Kovács, M
      Kásler Principles and practice of oncoplastic breast surgery. Medicina Kiadó Zrt, 2019. 8.
      fejezet: Tradicional breast surgery, 8.1.2. Axillary lymph nodee dissection; 9. Sentinel
      lymph node biopsy in breast cancer)[18]

      Using and collecting cosmetic results The following data collected in standing position
      marking the midline and the IMF preoperatively then postoperatively in the 4th-6th week then
      in the 3rd postoperative month then after every 6 months: jugulum-nipple width,
      nipple-midline width, horizontal and vertical width of the areola and nipple-IMF width The
      breast ptosis examination performed according to Regnault Classification at the beginning and
      after symmetrization.

      The primary aesthetic stage will be documented with standard photo documentation using valid
      BCCT.core software making it measurable which allows us to compare it. the photo
      documentation performed the standard way in 5 position (antero-posterior (ap), 45 degree
      oblique and 90 degree lateral), in ap direction both ways arms up and down with strict
      adherence to personal privacy policies. The patients are anonymous on the pictures without
      their faces, and the photo documentation performed without jewelry. The mentioned software
      counts measurements regarding to the photo documentation and gives a 4-point rating scale (1:
      excellent, 2: good, 3: acceptable, 4: non-acceptable). These numerical results can be
      statistically analyzed.

      The quality of life is measured by BREAST-Q validated questionnaire. According to this, we
      give a score in a 1-100 scale measuring the variables of "satisfaction with the breast",
      "discomfort by radiotherapy", "psychosexual wellbeing" and "physical wellbeing". We use
      preoperatively a preoperative questionnaire and postoperatively a postoperative
      questionnaire. Higher rates show better quality of life. [14] The questionnaires are filled
      before the procedure and after the surgery 4th-6th weeks then postoperatively in the 3rd
      months and every 6th months.

      We use the Likert scale (1. definitely not, 2: no, 3: abstain, 4: agree, 4: definitely agree)
      for evaluating the subjective aesthetic outcome based on the photo documentation
      (preoperative, postoperative 4-6th weeks, 3rd months, every 6 months 5 years long). Based on
      the photo documentation three, non-involved breast surgeons make the evaluation separately
      without communication. The results are collected and averaged.

      Follow-up The follow-up is similar to the surgical and oncological follow-up in the National
      Cancer Institute, so it is not a burden for the patients The primary check-up and data
      registration performed preoperatively, the second check-up performed 4-6th weeks after the
      oncoplastic procedure then 3rd postoperative months with photo documentation, body
      measurements, body mass calculation and BREAST-Q questionnaire.

      After this the photo documentation, body measurements, body mass calculation and BREAST-Q
      questionnaire examination performed every 6 months until the 5th year.

      The bioethical background of the study It is a non-interventional clinical study is conducted
      by the competent regional research ethics committees in accordance with the Medical law 164 /
      A. § (2).

      This non-interventional clinical trial is performed with the permission of the Ethical
      Committee of the National Cancer Institute according to the 23/2002. (V.9.) Medical
      Regulation.

      The Researchers commit themselves to protect the patient's data, photo documentation in
      accordance with the WHO Good Clinical Practice ( based on the Helsinki Declaration) and the
      applicable provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) regarding the
      international ethical and scientific quality requirements pertaining to the design, conduct,
      documentation and reporting principles of tests conducted on humans.

      Data collection and registration It is performed with the registration sheet for computer
      processing and BREAST-Q questionnaire which is an internationally validated and authorized
      mirror translated questionnaire. Digital photo documentation (standard 5 direction with
      lowered arms and ap direction with raised arms) The BCCT.core made with at least 9 megapixel
      photo documentation, ap and lateral directions with lowered and raised arm to calculate
      numerically with a validated procedure the aesthetic outcome.

      Planned number of patients The planned number of the patients(calculated patients number plus
      10%): 110x2=220+ 22 cases ∑242 cases should be included.

      Planned time of patient inclusion: 1 year. Planned follow-up time The planned follow-up time
      after reconstruction and symmetrization is 5 year. Interim analysis performed after 2 years
      median follow-up period. Final analysis is performed 5 years after closing the patient
      inclusion period.
    
  