
    
      The American Heart Association and the American College of Cardiology define stage B heart
      failure (HF) as asymptomatic subjects with abnormal heart structure/function. With the
      advancement of cardiac imaging and biomarkers, abnormal heart structure and function can be
      detected before the development of symptoms. Stage B HF can represent either diastolic or
      systolic dysfunction and both are at increased risk of adverse cardiac events and development
      of symptomatic HF.

      The broad objective of this study is to define the integrated cardiorenal response to acute
      volume expansion (VE) in humans with presystolic dysfunction (PSD), prediastolic dysfunction
      (PDD), and normal cardiac function. We hypothesized that there is an impaired cardiorenal
      endocrine response to acute VE in PSD and PDD which is characterized by the lack of
      appropriate activation of urinary cGMP and urinary sodium excretion. Further, we hypothesized
      that PSD, PDD, and normal control subjects would respond similarly to exogenous
      administration B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP).

      The natriuretic peptides (NPs) are a family of structurally similar but genetically distinct
      peptides with vasodilating, natriuretic, renin inhibiting, and lusitropic properties. Acute
      peptide therapy with brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) infusion has recently been approved by
      the FDA as a therapeutic strategy for the treatment of acute human decompensated congestive
      HF. We will determine the effects of acute subcutaneous BNP or placebo administration on the
      integrated cardiorenal and humoral response to acute sodium load (sodium chloride 0.9% 0.25
      ml/kg/min for 1 hour) in three groups of subjects: Group 1 normal controls, Group 2 with PSD,
      and Group 3 with PDD. Doppler echocardiography and tonometry will be used to measure cardiac
      and vascular function before and during the sodium load. Renal function studies will assess
      sodium excretion, renal plasma flow, and glomerular filtration rate at baseline, during, and
      after the sodium load. Blood will be drawn for humoral analysis including catecholamines,
      renin, aldosterone, angiotensin II, atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), BNP, and cyclic
      guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) at baseline, during, and after the sodium load.
    
  