
    
      The secondary objectives of this study are:

      A. To describe, for 15 healthy volunteers with no history of venous thromboembolism (VTE),
      plasma nucleosome and DNA concentrations.

      B. To describe, for 100 patients with a history of VTE currently consulting for chronic
      disease or thrombophilia work-up, plasma nucleosome and DNA concentrations.

      C. To compare plasma nucleosome and DNA concentrations between healthy volunteers and VTE
      patients

      D. To describe, for 100 patients with a history of VTE currently consulting for chronic
      disease or thrombophilia work-up, the relationships between classification of VTE and plasma
      nucleosome concentrations:

        -  anatomical classification of VTE: (i)superficial, deep ((ii)distal or (iii)proximal), or
           (iv)pulmonary embolism

        -  circumstantial classification of VTE: (i) triggered, no chronic risk factor; (ii)
           untriggered, with chronic risk factor; (iii)triggered, with chronic risk factor; (iv)
           untriggered, no chronic risk factor (idiopathic)

      E. To describe, for 100 patients with a history of VTE, the variation in plasma nucleosome
      concentrations 6 months after the first evaluation

        -  according to the above anatomical classification

        -  according to the above circumstantial classification

        -  according to intercurrent events and treatments

      F. To compare the plasma concentrations of nucleosomes and free DNA

      G. To evaluate the relationship between plasma nucleosome and free DNA concentrations and:

        -  circulating leukocyte populations: total leukocyte count, absolute number of
           neutrophils, monocytes, lymphocytes

        -  markers of coagulation activation: d-dimers, circulating fibrin monomers

        -  platelet count

        -  patients on antivitamin K: INR, patients receiving heparin: antiXa activity

      H. Creation of a biological collection
    
  