
    
      The mental health needs of children and youth are well-documented as an under-addressed and
      significant public health need in the United States. A number of barriers prevent children,
      youth, and families from accessing behavioral health services in standard clinic settings,
      including lack of sufficient transportation, cost, and stigma related to receiving services.
      School behavioral health (SBH) programs-in which community mental health providers join
      school teams to better address the social, emotional/behavioral, and academic needs of
      students-are growing in the United States because of their ability to reach youth who need,
      but may not otherwise receive, services. However, these efforts are limited by a lack of
      patient and stakeholder engagement. This has commonly resulted in SBH programs not being
      implemented, implemented inconsistently, or underutilized. The study will compare an
      evidence-based Patient-Centered Enhancements (PCE) intervention added to an evidence-based
      framework termed Clinical Services Supports (CSS) in a three-year intervention for students
      in middle schools. Investigators predict the addition of the PCE intervention will improve
      school climate and enhance SBH services, resulting in significantly improved social,
      emotional/behavioral, and academic outcomes in students. The study has three aims:

        1. Investigators will evaluate the extent to which PCE increases the number of students and
           families receiving school behavioral health services and expressing satisfaction with
           services received.

        2. Investigators will evaluate the impact of PCE on students' social, emotional/behavioral,
           and academic outcomes throughout the course of the intervention period (sixth through
           eighth grade).

        3. Investigators will evaluate the follow-up effects of PCE on social,
           emotional/behavioral, and academic outcomes and risk behaviors in a sample of students
           followed into high school.
    
  