
    
      Over the age of 40, all people with Down's Syndrome have substantial changes in the brain
      similar to those of Alzheimer's disease and most are at very high risk of developing a
      clinical dementia with progressive decline of function and cognitive abilities.

      There are changes to all of the key chemical messenger systems in the brain as people develop
      Alzheimer's disease. One of the most ubiquitous chemical messenger systems, present on the
      majority of nerve cells in the brain, is called the glutamatergic system. In this system the
      main receptors present on the nerve endings are referred to as glutamate receptors. Under
      certain circumstances, usually when there is damage to particular parts of the brain, these
      receptors can lead to "overfiring" of the nerve cells with disastrous consequences. This can
      result in the generation of a number of toxic chemical molecules that lead to further damage
      to the nerve cells (such as phopholipases, proteases, nitric oxide synthases, inflammatory
      molecules and free radicals), usually referred to as excitotoxicity. Memantine blocks the
      effects of pathologically elevated tonic levels of glutamate that may lead to dysfunction of
      nerve cells and in this way is thought to block the main glutamate excitotoxicity site on
      nerve cells.

      Randomized clinical trials in people with Alzheimer's disease indicate that memantine
      significantly slows down the progression of functional and cognitive impairments. Memantine
      has now been licensed for the treatment of moderate-severe Alzheimer's disease on the basis
      of these trials. We would hypothesise that older people with Down's syndrome would
      particularly benefit from treatment with Memantine, partly because of the large amount of
      Alzheimer's disease changes present in the brain and partly because excessive glutamate
      receptor activity has been demonstrated in adults with Down's syndrome.

      In a recent study we assessed 122 individuals with Down's Syndrome using newly developed
      neuropsychometric battery of tests, (the the Down's syndrome Attention, Memory and Executive
      function battery -DAME battery, Margallo-Lana 2002a,b). People with Down's Syndrome over the
      age of 40 without dementia experienced a decline of 11% over one year, indicating that
      progressive cognitive decline precedes dementia (hence offering an important opportunity for
      prevention) and that these measurements are sensitive to cognitive change over time, hence a
      trial to evaluate the prevention of dementia is feasible with current evaluation measures.

      Study Design:

      Participants will be given Memantine or placebo (dummy tablet) for 52 weeks. To avoid bias,
      participants will be allocated to the placebo or Memantine group at random (this is a
      randomized trial) and none of the researchers or participants will know which treatment
      people are getting (the study is double blind). However, in an emergency, the investigators
      can contact the study pharmacist to find out whether a particular participant was receiving
      Memantine or the dummy tablet. The placebo and Memantine groups will be compared at the end
      of the study (the study is placebo control) to see if Memantine is any better than the dummy
      pill. The efficacy of Memantine will be assessed by comparing the change in scores between
      the initial assessments and assessments in the follow-up period at 12, 26 and 52 weeks. Thus
      participant will be assessed on 4 occasions.

      Assessments:

      In addition to a clinical history and the collection of standardized information such as any
      adverse events, the assessment will include:

        1. Assessment of memory, attention and planning abilities:

           Memory, attention and executive function (planning abilities) will be assessed by direct
           testing with the participants using the DAME battery. The DAME battery has been
           validated as a measure that is sensitive to change in older people with Down's syndrome.
           The range of scores is 0-241 and can be completed in 45 minutes by most people with
           mild-moderate learning disability. The test re-test and inter-rater reliability is XX
           and YY respectively.

        2. Development of dementia:

           To facilitate the diagnosis of dementia, we will use the Dementia Questionnaire for
           mentally Retarded Persons (DMR). This is a standardised, validated and reliable tool
           specifically developed to aid the assessment of dementia in people with mild and
           moderate learning disabilities. It is an informant-based questionnaire and consists of
           50 items to be completed by family or staff about the patient who is known to them.
           Items are arranged in 8 subscales: short term memory; long-term memory; spatial and
           temporal orientation; speech; practical skills; mood; activity and interest; behaviour
           and disturbance. The range of scores is 0-104 and can be completed in 15-20 minutes. The
           inter-rater reliability is 0.76.

        3. Diagnosis of dementia:

           Standardized criteria for diagnosis of dementia based on the International
           Classification of Diseases, 10th Version (ICD 10) will be used by 2 experts (Dr
           Margallo-Lana, Dr Prasher) to identify new cases. The assessment for dementia will be
           done at baseline, week 26 and week 52 assessments.

           The diagnosis of dementia will be based on clinical information supplied by carers aided
           by the use of the Dementia Questionnaire for Persons with Mental Retardation (DMR).

        4. Independent functioning :

           Independent functioning will be evaluated using the Adaptive Behavioural Scale (ABS,
           Nihira,1974). This is an informant based instrument and is part of the assessment used
           by the American Association on Mental Deficiency (Nihira, 1974) to assess daily living
           skills in people with learning disabilities. The ABS measures ten groups of skills
           related to self-care and socialization. The ten skills groups: independent functioning,
           physical development, economic activity, language development, numbers and time,
           domestic activity, vocational activity, self-direction, responsibility, and
           socialization. The ABS has a test-retest reliability of .96, which is very good. Score
           range is 0-280.

        5. Quality of life:

           Quality of life will be evaluated with the Quality of Life in Alzheimer's Disease
           (Logsdon et al. 1998). This scale was specifically developed to measure quality of life
           in people with dementia. It is composed of 13-items that measure physical condition,
           mood, memory, functional abilities, interpersonal relationships, ability to participate
           in meaningful activities, financial situation, and global assessments of self as a whole
           and QOL as a whole. The response options are 4-point multiple choice options (1 = poor,
           4 = excellent). Scale scores range from 13 to 52, with higher scores indicating greater
           QOL.

        6. Global change:

           The Clinician's Global Impression of Change (CGI/C) has been one of the most commonly
           used test to assess overall change in clinical trials (Guy, 1976). The validity of this
           type of measure is based on the ability of an experienced clinician to detect clinically
           relevant against trivial change in a patient's overall clinical state. These simple
           scales have been shown to be remarkably sensitive to change in cholinesterase inhibitor
           trials (Schneider, 1997).

        7. Standardized schedule to monitor any side effects/adverse events.

      Participants:

      180 people aged > 40 with DS (with or without dementia) who have mild-moderate learning
      disability, in a double blind, placebo controlled design.

      Related Biochemical Studies:

      Blood samples (10ml) will be taken at baseline and the final follow-up assessment. Blood will
      be processed to yield four different components: plasma, platelets, red and white blood
      cells.

      Plasma concentrations of the amino acid neurotransmitters aspartate and glutamate will be
      measured together with the rate of uptake of glutamate into blood cells (platelets). The
      ability of glutamate to bind to the platelets' receptors (particularly the NMDA receptor - a
      sub-type of glutamate receptor) will also be also assessed. These investigations will
      determine whether Memantine protects and modulates glutamatergic transmission.

      Plasma concentrations amyloid (Abeta species 1-40/1-42), the protein that typically
      accumulates in the brains of people with Alzheimer's disease, will also be measured together
      with plasma concentrations of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Preliminary studies will
      be also undertaken to see if glutamate receptors in platelets (NMDA receptors) regulate the
      release of APP/Abeta.

      The study will also investigate genetic factors that may affect the risk of Alzheimer's
      disease in people with Down's Syndrome. Any identified genetic factors will be examined to
      see if they can predict response to treatment.

      These investigations will help to determine if Memantine alters the accumulation of proteins
      in the brain typical of Alzheimer's disease in people with Down's syndrome.

      Consumers panels of relatives of people with DS and carers have been involved in protocol
      development and the writing of information sheets.
    
  