
    
      All patients in the study will receive usual care with short-course radiotherapy (RT) and
      TMZ-chemo pills.

      There are three phases of treatment in this study: the Chemo-radiation Phase, the Adjuvant
      Phase, and the Follow-Up Phase.

      Twenty-eight or fewer days prior to starting the Chemo-radiation Phase, patients will have a
      baseline Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scan.

      Chemo-radiation Phase: In this, patient will be assigned to either a one week or a three week
      treatment group with radiation treatments given approximately 5 days a week as directed by
      the study doctor. During this time they will also take TMZ-chemo orally (by mouth) once a day
      on every evening including weekends starting the evening of the day that you start
      radiotherapy. Once radiation is completed, you will stop taking TMZ-chemo for approximately 4
      weeks before going to the next phase.

      Radiation therapy: Patients will be randomized between standard radiation treatment at UPMC
      Radiation Oncology facilities included in this protocol with either 40 Gy in 15 fractions or
      25 Gy in 5 fractions, using 6 to 23 MV x-rays along with concurrent temozolomide chemotherapy
      for both treatment schedules.

        -  Clinical treatment volumes (CTV) will include all contrast enhancing tumor plus 1.7cm
           expansion into brain tissue (not crossing the tentorium) and all T2 FLAIR hyperintensity
           plus 7mm expansion into brain tissue (not crossing the tentorium). A planning target
           volume (PTV) expansion of 3mm will be then added to the CTV. No additional exclusion of
           brainstem or optic nerves is required as both treatment schedules are within tolerance.

        -  Treatment may be delivered with either 3D-conformal or intensity modulated radiotherapy
           (IMRT) techniques.

      Adjuvant Phase: In the Adjuvant Phase, you will receive standard monthly 5 day cycles of
      TMZ-chemo at 150 mg/m^2 per day for up to 1 year.

      Chemotherapy: Patient will receive concurrent temozolomide throughout radiation therapy,
      followed by standard monthly 5 day cycles for up to 1 year. Patients randomized to 25 Gy in 5
      fractions will receive 150 mg/m^2 of temozolomide per day for 5 days starting first day of
      radiotherapy. Patients randomized to 40 Gy in 15 fractions will receive 75 mg/m2 of
      temozolomide per day for 19 days starting first day of radiotherapy. Patients will be
      appropriately pre-medicated with anti-nausea medication, prior to taking temozolomide. All
      patients will also receive prophylactic treatment for pneumocystis pneumonia with Bactrim or
      other alternative antibiotics if allergic.

      Follow-up Interval: Procedures performed to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the
      study procedures are called "monitoring" or "follow-up" procedures. Subject participants will
      not be scheduled for any additional follow-up visits for this study than they would normally
      have if they were not in this study. Radiation Oncologists and Neuro-Oncologists usually see
      their patients one month after the first chemo-radiotherapy cycle before starting the next
      cycle of chemotherapy. After that Neuro-Oncologists and Radiation Oncologists will see the
      patients every 1-3 months.
    
  