
    
      OBJECTIVES This study will evaluate the effectiveness of a mindfulness-based intervention in
      alleviating RRSO-induced menopausal complaints in BRCA1/2 mutation carriers. The intervention
      to be tested is MBSR training. The investigators hypothesize that women in the MBSR group
      will report statistically significantly greater improvement of menopause-specific quality of
      life from baseline to twelve weeks when compared to the control group and that this
      improvement will be maintained at six months and twelve months. The investigators also
      hypothesize that women in the MBSR group will report a statistically significantly greater
      improvement in sexual functioning and a decrease in sexual distress from baseline to twelve
      weeks when compared to the control group and that this improvement will be maintained at six
      and twelve months.

      The primary objective is to examine the effect of MBSR training on the menopause-specific
      quality of life in BRCA1/2 mutation carriers who experience RRSO-induced menopausal
      complaints.

      The secondary objective is to examine the effect of MBSR training on sexual functioning and
      distress in BRCA1/2 mutation carriers who experience RRSO-induced menopausal complaints.

      STUDY DESIGN The study is a prospective, randomized controlled trial, with an intervention
      group that receives an eight-week MBSR training as well as care as usual and a control group
      that only receives care as usual. All participants will be asked to fill out questionnaires
      regarding menopausal and sexual complaints at baseline before randomization (T0) and at
      twelve weeks (T1), six (T2) and twelve months (T3) after randomization. The study will be
      conducted at the family cancer clinic of the UMCG.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS The two treatment arms will be summarized at baseline with frequencies
      for categorical variables and means, ranges and SDs for continuous variables. Scores for the
      MenQOL, FSFI and FSDS will be calculated according to published scoring algorithms.

      A linear mixed effects analysis will be performed on the relationship between the MenQOL
      score and the intervention. The scores on the MenQOL at 12 weeks, 6 months and 12 months will
      be modelled as a function of treatment arm, time moment, their interaction. An unstructured
      correlation matrix will be assumed, unless the data indicate the presence of another
      correlation structure. If the groups are unbalanced, covariates will added to the model. All
      analysis will be conducted on an intention-to-treat basis. All analyses will be performed
      with SPSS.

      Similar analyses will be conducted for the FSFI and FSDS, which will be used as a secondary
      outcome measure.
    
  