
    
      The project focuses on brain-behavior effects depending on the timing of iron deficiency (ID)
      and iron repletion in human infants. Iron deficiency (ID) is the world's most common single
      nutrient disorder, differentially affecting pregnant women and infants everywhere. The study
      promises to be the first systematic investigation of brain and behavior effects of prenatal
      dietary iron deficiency in human infants. The design will support comparisons of
      brain/behavior effects depending on the timing and duration of ID. The study will assess
      reversibility of effects, depending on timing of ID and its treatment, and examine maternal
      vs. fetal iron regulatory mechanisms in placenta and white blood cells. State-of-the-art
      neurophysiologic and behavioral measures will test specific hypotheses regarding effects of
      ID on sensory, motor, cognitive, affective-social and regulatory functions related to
      impaired myelination of sensory/motor systems and altered structure, neurotransmitter
      function and neurometabolism in targeted brain regions (basal ganglia and hippocampus). The
      study will be conducted in China, a rapidly developing country where ID often occurs among
      pregnant women and infants in the absence of generalized undernutrition. Cord blood
      hemoglobin (Hb) and ferritin concentrations will be measured in 1300 rural full-term infants,
      with iron status determined again at 9 and 18 mo. Brain-behavior assessments in the perinatal
      period will involve 359 infants ("newborn cohort"): 59 with low Hb ("low birth iron" group)
      will receive iron; 200 with marginal Hb or low cord ferritin ("marginal birth iron" group)
      will be randomly assigned at 6 wk, 50 to iron therapy and 150 to vitamins only; and 100 with
      normal cord Hb and ferritin levels ("normal birth iron" group) will receive vitamins only.
      The remaining 763 infants with cord blood testing will form the "blood screen cohort." At 9
      and 18 mo, the newborn cohort will be reassessed, along with IDA infants from the blood
      screen cohort - about 58 at 9 mo ("early postnatal IDA") and 48 at 18 mo ("late postnatal
      IDA"). Approximately 39 marginal-birth-iron vitamins only-treated infants in the newborn
      cohort may also have IDA at 9 mo ("combined ID"). IDA infants will be treated with vitamins
      with iron. Differential effects and/or reversibility depending on timing of ID or treatment
      could inform health policy and practice worldwide. However, the effects of prenatal iron
      deficiency have received very little study in human infants due in large part to previous
      thinking, no longer accepted, that the infant was protected. Up to 75% of pregnant women
      worldwide are anemic, with about half due to ID. An estimated 20-25% of 6- to 24-mo-old
      infants have IDA, and more have ID without anemia. Thus, the public health implications of
      study findings could be profound.

      The project is expected to continue with a 5-year follow-up (Aug 2013-July 2017).
    
  