
    
      Introduction:

      Attempting to get peripheral intravenous (IV) access can be one of the most frustrating and
      irksome tasks medical professionals encounter. Many medical therapies require the placement
      of an IV. In an emergency situation, it can be the lifeline that makes the difference between
      a good or bad outcome. Determinants of successful IV placement include the skill and
      expertise of the person who places the IV, the veins of the person who receives the IV, and
      luck.

      These difficulties are often magnified in children. Children have smaller veins. Children
      come in different sizes and shapes. Children are often uncooperative. Not uncommonly,
      multiple attempts at IV placement are required before success. The more attempts that are
      needed to get an IV placed, the more pain and anxiety a child experiences. Getting an IV in a
      timely manner can alter parental perceptions of the quality of care and improve parental
      satisfaction. Developing methods to improve success rate of IV placement has obvious
      benefits.

      During a previous study, we were able to demonstrate that in 25% of the patients in our
      pediatric emergency department who have an IV placement attempt will fail the first IV
      attempt. We were able to develop a scoring system (termed DIVA score) that we believe will
      aid in identifying those more likely to have a failed first IV attempt and so therefore may
      more likely benefit from our intervention (VeinViewer™). By attempting to demonstrate
      improved success on those with an increase likelihood of failure on first IV attempt, we
      believe that we will decrease the number of subjects needed to show an effect and to limit
      this potentially resource intensive technique to those most likely to benefit.

      The VeinViewer™ is an infrared imaging system that utilizes near-infrared light and other
      technologies to project a real-time image of the location and orientation (up to 0.06mm) of
      veins onto the surface of patient's skin. The VeinViewer™ received FDA clearance in August
      2004 as a class I device. The VeinViewer's Infrared Light is considered harmless. We believe
      a potential application for the VeinViewer™ is to improve the success rate of IV insertion in

      Objectives:

        1. To investigate if use of the VeinViewer™ can improve the success of peripheral IV
           placement in children with difficult IV access (DIVA score ≥ 3).

        2. To validate the DIVA (difficult IV access) score

      Hypothesis:

        1. The first stick success rate for peripheral IV insertion for children with difficult IV
           access in a pediatric emergency department (DIVA score ≥ 3) by registered nurses using
           VeinViewer™ guided technique is better than conventional method of IV placement.

        2. The DIVA score is a valid scoring system to identify those who are more likely to have
           failed first IV attempt.

      Methods:

      Study Design: Prospective randomized controlled trial.

      Randomization: Subjects will be randomized to either get the VeinViewer™ technique or the
      conventional method. Serially number sealed opaque study packets with the blocked
      randomization will be created.

      Subjects:

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Presentation to the ED at the CHW

        -  0 to 19 years of age

        -  Requires a peripheral IV as determined by the examining physician

        -  DIVA score ≥ 3 (a clinical scoring system that identifying difficult IV access that
           gives 2 points for vein not visible after tourniquet, 2 for vein not palpable after
           tourniquet, 1 for age 1-2yo, 3 for age < 1 yo, 3 for history of prematurity)

        -  During times when VeinViewer™ machine and participating nurse is available

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Central line available

        -  Immunocompromised patient

        -  Requirement for immediate IV placement (Patient's condition would potentially be
           compromised if there is a time delay in IV placement.)

      Patients who present to the emergency department and whom an IV is ordered will be screened
      for inclusion in the study by research assistants, nursing, or investigators. A DIVA score
      will be determined. Those with a score ≥ 3 will be approached to take part in the study.
      Informed parental consent will be obtained. Patient assent will be obtained for children 7
      years of age and older).

      Measurements:

      Predictor Variables: VeinViewer™ or conventional methods

      Main Outcome Variable: Success or failure of peripheral IV placement on first attempt

      Secondary Outcome Variable: Number of attempts to successful IV placement

      Data to be collected (potential modifiers for successful IV placement):

        -  Age (Date of Birth)

        -  Number of IV attempts until success or quitting

        -  Date of visit

        -  Location of IV attempts

        -  Weight

        -  Reason for IV (Fluid, medication, other)

        -  Height

        -  Dermablend skin color category

        -  History of prematurity

        -  Pre-attempt analgesia used

        -  Vein visibility after tourniquet

        -  Vein palpability after tourniquet

        -  Technique used (VeinViewer™/Conventional technique)

      Conventional method:

      A tourniquet is applied. The nurse identifies a target vein visually and tactilely in one of
      several areas of possible IV sites (dorsum of the hand, antecubital fossa, or forearm). The
      area is cleaned with an alcohol pad. The nurse then inserts an 18-24 gauge IV needle/catheter
      and looks for a flashback. The tourniquet is released. The IV is then flushed. If the IV
      flushes well, then the IV is secured in the usual manner. A secured flushed IV is the
      definition of a successful IV placement.

      VeinViewer™ technique:

      A tourniquet is applied. Using the VeinViewer™ the nurse identifies a vein for cannulation. A
      tourniquet is applied. The nurse then attempts to insert an 18-24 gauge IV needle/catheter
      and looks for a flashback. The tourniquet is released. The IV is then flushed. If the IV
      flushes well, then the IV is secured in the usual manner. A secured flushed IV is the
      definition of a successful IV placement.

      Subsequent Attempts:

      If unsuccessful with first attempt at IV placement, an attempt at another site with the same
      technique (VeinViewer™ guided or conventional method) will be performed. This will be
      repeated until a successful IV is placed or the physician decides to give an alternative
      therapy that does not need IV access.

      We plan to monitor the success rate for DIVA patients who are not enrolled in the study to
      demonstrate that they are comparable to our control group.

      Planned Analysis

      VeinViewer™ vs Conventional method:

      The main outcome is success or failure of peripheral IV placement on first attempt (a
      dichotomous outcome). A Chi square test will be used to compare the proportion of subjects
      with successful first stick IV placement using the VeinViewer™ technique to that using the
      conventional method with 95% confidence intervals around the difference. Also, planned is to
      look at the median number of attempts to place IV with each of the different methods of IV
      placement. We plan to use a non-parametric test like the Wilcoxon Rank sum test. To test for
      independent associations between VeinViewer™ technique or conventional method for IV
      placement and success or failure of IV placement on first attempt, multivariate logistic
      regression will be performed, with potential confounding variables (patient weight,
      diagnosis, etc) included as co-variates in the model. We plan to use an interaction term in
      the model that will take in account that there may be a learning curve for the technique
      (nurses early in the study vs. nurses later in the study).

      DIVA score validation:

      The patients whose information we collected (validation cohort) in this study will be used to
      validate the DIVA score. We will determine first attempt success rate with conventional IV
      placement method at each DIVA score in both the derivation cohort (from data previously
      collected in the derivation study) and the validation cohort. We will use chi-square
      statistics to compare derivation and validation cohorts. The areas under the receiver
      operating characteristics curves for predicting successful IV placement on first attempt at
      each DIVA score will be compared between the derivation and validation cohorts. Attempts will
      be made to refine the score should analysis demonstrates that it is warranted.

      Estimated sample size calculation: From a previous study, we demonstrated that patients with
      a DIVA score ≥ 3 had a more than 45% first attempt failure rate for peripheral IV placement
      using the conventional method. A technique that can improve success by 25% would be
      considered significant. Using alpha of 0.05, beta of 0.10 (Power = 0.90), and making the
      question two-tailed; we find an estimated sample size in each group of 85. In other words,
      170 children with DIVA ≥ 3 will be needed for our study.

      Risk to Subjects:

      There are no extra risks expected above that of receiving a standard IV. The standard risks
      of IV include bleeding, bruising, pain, and infection. The use of the VeinViewer™ technique
      may or may not take more time to place an IV. If a delay would be detrimental to the
      subject's care, they will not be asked to take part in this study.

      Anticipated significance of the study:

      A technique that improves the first stick success rate or decreases the number of sticks
      required to place an IV would decrease amount of pain, discomfort, and anxiety for the
      patient. Getting an IV in a timely manner can alter parental perceptions of the quality of
      care and improve parental satisfaction. Also, this may be a time saver for nurses.
    
  