
    
      Passive immunization involves the administration of antibodies against a given agent to a
      susceptible individual for the purpose of preventing or treating an infectious disease due to
      that agent. A general principle of passive antibody therapy is that it is more effective when
      used for prophylaxis than for treatment of disease. When used for therapy, antibody is most
      effective when administered shortly after the onset of symptoms. The reason for temporal
      variation in efficacy is not well understood but could reflect that passive antibody works by
      neutralizing the initial inoculums, which is likely to be much smaller than that of
      established disease . As an example, passive antibody therapy for pneumococcal pneumonia was
      most effective when administered shortly after the onset of symptoms, and there was no
      benefit if antibody administration was delayed past the third day of disease.

      Therapeutic and prophylactic significance was explored in influenza and measles . Transfusion
      of immune plasma is a standard treatment modality for various viral hemorrhagic fevers . Its
      efficacy in treating Ebola Virus Disease is also well established . Studies have reported
      reduction viral load in patients with H1N1 influenza .Efficacy of convalescent plasma has
      been anecdotally reported in SARS-CoV-2 infections .

      The largest study involved the treatment of 80 patients with SARS in Hong Kong. Patients
      treated before day 14 had improved prognosis defined by discharge from hospital before day
      22, consistent with the notion that earlier administration is more likely to be effective .

      In the case of SARS-CoV-2, the anticipated mechanism of action by which passive antibody
      therapy mediated protection is viral neutralization. However, other mechanisms may be
      possible, such as antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity and/or phagocytosis. The only
      antibody type that is currently available for immediate use SARS-CoV-2 is that found in human
      convalescent sera.

      In China for SARS-CoV-2 disease, it has been found that the convalescent plasma therapy is
      effective for patients with a disease course exceeding three weeks and whose virus nucleic
      acid tests continuously to show positive from respiratory tracts specimen. It can speed up
      virus clearance, increase the numbers of the plasma lymphocytes and NK cells, reduce the
      level of plasma lactic acid, and improve renal functions.
    
  