
    
      Blacks (African Americans) with Type 2 diabetes (T2DM) have higher prevalence of diabetes,
      poorer metabolic control, and greater risk for complications and death compared to Whites.
      Poor outcomes in Blacks with T2DM can be attributed to patient, provider, and health systems
      level factors. Provider and health system factors account for <10% of variance in major
      diabetes outcomes. Key differences appear to be at the patient level. Of the patient level
      factors, consistent differences between Blacks and Whites with T2DM have been found in
      diabetes knowledge, self-management skills, empowerment, and perceived control. A variety of
      interventions to improve diabetes self-management have been tested including: 1) knowledge
      interventions; 2) lifestyle interventions; 3) skills training interventions; and 4) patient
      activation and empowerment interventions. Most of these interventions have been tested
      individually, but rarely have they been tested in combination, especially among Blacks who
      have the greatest burden of diabetes related complications. This study provides a unique
      opportunity to address this gap in the literature. Using a 2x2 factorial design, this study
      will test the efficacy of separate and combined telephone-delivered, diabetes
      knowledge/information and motivation/behavioral skills training intervention in high risk
      Blacks with poorly controlled T2DM (HbA1c ≥9%). The primary objective is to test the separate
      and combined efficacy of a telephone-delivered diabetes knowledge/information intervention
      and motivation/behavioral skills training intervention in improving HbA1c levels in Blacks
      with T2DM using a 2x2 factorial design. The secondary objectives are: 1) To determine whether
      patients randomized to the telephone-delivered diabetes knowledge/information intervention,
      the motivation/behavioral skills training intervention or the combined intervention will have
      greater improvement in physical activity, diet, medication adherence, and self-monitoring of
      blood glucose at 12 months of follow-up compared to usual care; and 2) To determine the
      cost-effectiveness of each telephone intervention separately, and then in combination. The
      primary outcome is HbA1c level at 12 months of follow-up. The secondary outcomes are
      cost-effectiveness of each telephone intervention separately, and then in combination, and
      change in physical activity, diet, medication adherence, and self-monitoring of blood glucose
      over 12 months of follow-up. The long-term goal of the project is to achieve improvement in
      diabetes-related outcomes in this patient population.
    
  