
    
      Intensive cognitive-physical rehabilitation intervention. The intervention will include two
      phases:

        1. Intensive phase: 12 weekly group meeting 4 hours each. Each meeting will be composed of:

             -  2 hours guided by a neuropsychologist each dedicated to a different cognitive
                domain for example memory, concentration, planning, information processing, problem
                solving (with special emphasis on diabetes issues). Each session will be composed
                of: 1) introduction- homework from previous session will be checked and the
                cognitive domain that will be discussed on that day will be introduced; 2)
                cognitive training using a computerized system (hour); 3) group discussion on
                compensatory strategies and training to be conducted at home

             -  2 hours guided by a certified physical trainer. These will include strength,
                balance and aerobic elements conducted in a group but individualized according to
                the capabilities and targets of the individual as assessed during the evaluation
                day. These sessions will also include formulation of a plan for exercise to be
                conducted by the individual on a daily basis. Additionally, 30 minutes of each
                session will be dedicated to psycho-education on various disease management aspects
                guided by a diabetes nurse educator or a dietitian (alternating).

        2. Consolidation phase: 9 months of monthly group meetings. The consolidation group
           sessions will include monthly 2 hour group discussions on challenges of implementation
           and coping strategies Medical surveillance will take place every 2 months with
           monitoring of glucose, blood pressure lipid control as well as follow-up on other
           recommendations given during the feed-back sessions this will be conducted by the
           Diabetes nurse educator who will be work together with a diabetes specialist an
           Endocrinologist (study physician) on maximal risk factor reduction.
    
  