
    
      Although smoking prevalence is decreasing in Hong Kong, there are still 615,000 daily
      cigarette smokers in Hong Kong in 2017 and half will be killed by smoking which accounts for
      over 7,000 deaths per year. Smoking also accounts for a large amount of medical cost,
      long-term care and productivity loss of US$688 million (0.6% Hong Kong GDP). Smoking is a
      highly addictive behavior and it is difficult for smokers with strong nicotine dependence to
      quit without assistance. On the other hand, reaching and helping the many smokers who have no
      intention to quit is a challenge, because they are unlikely to seek professional help from
      smoking cessation services.

      The Quit and Win programme provides an opportunity to reach and encourage a large group of
      smokers to make quit attempt and maintain abstinence. The Quit and Win model posits that
      smokers participating in the contest will have higher motivation to quit with incentives and
      better social support. Studies have found that such quitting contests or incentive programs
      appeared to reach a large number of smokers and demonstrated a significantly higher quit rate
      for the quit and win group than for the control group.

      We propose to use adaptive design for the QTW 2019 specifically a two-phase adaptive design,
      i.e., a sequential, multiple assignment, randomized trial (SMART) design. Optional cocktail
      cessation supports will be provided based on smokers' smoking status and preference. The
      supports, including multimedia messages, active referral plus financial incentive, phone
      counseling, social support and medications, are empirically evidence-supported and most have
      been used in our previous QTW interventions.

      Therefore, the present study will examine (1) effectiveness of a combined intervention of
      AWARD advice, active referral, instant messaging and optional cocktail intervention to
      increase abstinence using a SMART design and (2) explore the use of CBPR model to build
      capacity and to engage community partners in taking on this important public health issue for
      sustainability in the community. In addition, a process evaluation will be conducted to
      assess the effectiveness of the recruitment activity and how it is linked with the overall
      program outcomes.
    
  