
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To study molecular pathology and mechanisms of disease progression.

        -  To develop novel treatment strategies for patients with advanced prostate cancer.

        -  To evaluate novel markers and treatment and epidemiological approaches.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Program I (Molecular Signaling in Advanced Prostate Cancer): Researchers from Newcastle,
           York, and Bristol analyze androgen receptor (AR) (i.e., AR regulated genes and AR
           co-activators and co-repressors) and fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signaling and
           examine the cross-talk between these two systems and the insulin-like growth factor
           (IGF) axis.

        -  Program II (Mechanisms of Skeletal Metastases): Researchers from Newcastle, Sheffield,
           Bristol, and Manchester analyze mechanisms of skeletal metastases and candidate factors
           responsible for skeletal metastases (e.g., BMP-6, TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-6 receptor). The
           balance between proteases and their inhibitors is also analyzed.

        -  Program III (Prostate Targeting, Models, and Novel Approaches to Therapy): Researchers
           from Newcastle, Sheffield, York, and Manchester analyze and develop reagents and methods
           that will facilitate novel gene-based approaches to therapy, including prostate tissue
           specific gene expression, model systems of gene function and therapeutic studies,
           translational gene-based therapies, and effectors for potential gene therapy.

        -  Program IV (Developmental Therapeutics): Researchers from Newcastle, York, and
           Manchester analyze novel proteins identified during the study to synthesize novel
           reagents aimed at disrupting pathways and signaling molecules that have been shown to be
           of critical importance to prostate cancer (e.g., AR and FGF signaling).

        -  Program V (Biorepository and Database): Tissue, DNA, blood, serum, and urine samples
           from Newcastle, Sheffield, and Manchester biorepositories are stored and used for
           analysis in programs I-IV. Support for tissue and data collection as well as database
           management is provided to enable these resources to be made available to the wider
           research community.

        -  Program VI (Clinical Trials and Health Services Research): Researchers from Newcastle,
           Sheffield, Manchester, and Bristol participate in phase I trials using dendritic cells
           and gene-directed enzyme prodrug therapy (GDEPT) approaches to analyze environmental
           interactions with the genotype and evaluate prevention strategies (e.g., diet) that may
           underlie variations in the incidence of prostate cancer.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK.
    
  