
    
      Of the nation's 45 million adult smokers, nearly 20 million visit hospital emergency
      departments (EDs) each year. ED patients, particularly smokers, are disproportionately
      low-income, with limited access to traditional primary care settings. Patients presenting to
      the ED with a tobacco-related trigger event, like an asthma attack, may be experiencing a
      "teachable moment." Thus, the ED may be an ideal location in which to identify smokers and
      initiate treatment for tobacco dependence. Initial pilot research by our group has
      demonstrated the feasibility of ED-based brief interventions for smokers. Based on our
      feasibility studies, the Institute of Medicine 2006 report on tobacco and the 2008 US Public
      Health Service guidelines now list EDs as appropriate loci for tobacco control efforts. This
      study aims to test the efficacy of an ED-initiated tobacco intervention which includes
      counseling and medication. The intervention-Screening, Brief Intervention, and Referral to
      Treatment (SBIRT)-uses a form of motivational interviewing known as the Brief Negotiation
      Interview (BNI). Our proposed intervention combines a BNI with initiation of nicotine
      replacement therapy (NRT) and a fax referral to the state Smokers' Quitline during the ED
      visit. A 6-week starter kit of NRT (patch and/or gum, tailored to level of addiction and
      patient preference) will be provided with written materials. The initial dose of NRT will be
      given in the ED. A trained nurse will administer the booster intervention via telephone 3
      days post-visit. The SBIRT+NRT arm will be compared to standard care (SC), which consists of
      written materials only, in a controlled trial of 778 smokers age 18 years or older randomized
      in a 1:1 fashion.

      The primary hypothesis is that SBIRT+NRT will be superior to SC in reducing self-reported and
      biochemically verified 7-day tobacco abstinence at 3 months. Secondary hypotheses include:
      (1) Patients with a tobacco related diagnosis for the ED visit will have a higher cessation
      rate than patients without a tobacco related diagnosis, and (2) Patients who believe their ED
      visit is smoking-related will have a higher quit rate than others. The investigators will
      conduct a cost benefit analysis of the interventions. Follow-up assessments at 1, 3 and 12
      months will combine self-report with in-person carbon monoxide testing at 3 months for
      smokers who assert abstinence via phone. Expansions of the proposed project as compared to
      earlier studies include: 1) initiation of NRT during the ED visit; 2) provision of multiple
      forms of NRT; 3) a proactive referral made to the Quitline; 4)a credible control condition
      with minimal baseline assessment, to avoid the assessment reactivity seen in similar ED
      studies; and 5) an economic analysis of the tested interventions.
    
  