
    
      The primary hypothesis of this study is that disulfiram is a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor
      and may provide benefit for patients with prostate cancer by restoration of tumor suppressor
      genes. Disulfiram is a potent DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) inhibitor in vitro in our
      laboratory and it was recently found as one of the most potent inhibitors for PCa growth in
      vitro by screening the Johns Hopkins Drug Library. Based on this data, extensive in vitro and
      in vivo studies have been performed to explore its potential antitumor activities in prostate
      PCa. Using both androgen sensitive and insensitive PCa cell lines, we have confirmed that
      disulfiram can demethylate known highly methylated tumor suppressor genes such as APC and
      RARß in PCa cell lines. Disulfiram inhibited PCa cell growth in vitro and in vivo. In
      addition to these new findings, the antitumor activity of disulfiram and its other possible
      mechanisms of action are well documented in literature. Disulfiram has been shown to induce
      apoptosis in a number of cell lines including PCa. A variety of underlying mechanisms of
      anticancer activity have been reported. Disulfiram has been shown to reduce angiogenesis,
      inhibit DNA topoisomerases, inhibit nuclear factor κB, induce p21 and p53 with G1/S cell
      cycle arrest, induce pro-apoptotic redox-related mitochondrial membrane permeabilization,
      inactivate Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase by Cu2+ complexation, inhibit Zn2+-dependent matrix
      metalloproteinases, and prevent tumor invasion or metastasis. The disulfiram analogue
      pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) has been shown to inhibit proteasomal activity in
      combination with copper in human breast and PCa cell lines. Also, disulfiram or its
      metabolites permanently inactivate the human multidrug resistance P-glycoprotein or reverses
      either MDR1- or MRP1-mediated drug efflux.
    
  