
    
      Aim 1: Determine a Pretreatment Marker of SSRI Effectiveness Using PET. With the goal of
      reducing MDD burden, many studies have assessed the utility of FDG-PET in antidepressant
      treatment prediction. However, due to the limitations listed above, there is no consensus on
      which brain regions are predictive of treatment efficacy. In addition to serving as a
      biomarker of SSRI effectiveness, only conclusive determination of these regions will provide
      insight into depression pathophysiology, helping uncover SSRI mechanism of action, and aiding
      in the search of novel therapeutics. Based on the investigators' preliminary data and other,
      similar studies, the investigators hypothesize that SSRI-induced change in the Hamilton
      Depression Rating Scale (deltaHDRS) will be correlated with pretreatment metabolic rate of
      glucose (MRGlu, quantified using arterial blood analysis) in three potential regions: (1)
      midbrain, (2) right anterior insula, and/or (3) left ventral prefrontal cortex.

      Aim 2: Isolate the Neurobiological Basis of the "Loss" Research Domain Criteria (RDoc) and
      the Change Associated with Treatment. Using a factor analysis of the HDRS, the investigators
      have previously demonstrated that the "loss" RDoC criteria is significantly correlated to
      MRGlu in frontal cortical areas. The investigators therefore hypothesize that change in MRGlu
      (pre to post treatment) in these regions will be correlated with symptom improvement
      specifically in "loss" symptoms. As an exploratory extension, the investigators will
      determine whether these changes are treatment-specific (i.e. to SSRI or placebo). A
      validation of the hypothesis suggests a targeted mechanism of action, and provides a
      significant step forward for precision treatment. If regional changes in MRGlu are not
      correlated to improvement in this RDoC category, it suggests that SSRI (or placebo) induced
      changes may be a downstream effect that should be examined further.

      Aim 3: Validate NonInvasive Full Quantification of MRGlu Using Simultaneous Estimation. Full
      quantification of brain MRGlu with FDG (as performed in this study) requires measuring FDG in
      arterial plasma (input function) from arterial catheter insertion and blood analysis. This
      costly and invasive procedure creates a barrier to widespread PET use. The investigators have
      developed an innovative method for Simultaneous Estimation (SimE) of input information and
      PET outcome measures (e.g. MRGlu). SimE fully quantifies brain MRGlu without requiring an
      arterial catheter. In the case of FDG, the investigators' data suggests that SimE used with a
      single venous sample can provide accurate results. The investigators further hypothesize that
      the venous sample may be entirely replaced by study data (e.g., injected dose) and biometrics
      (e.g., body surface area, lean body mass index). Using two different approaches (statistical
      imputation and physiological parametric modeling) and previously collected data, the
      investigators will train the SimE for accurate quantification in the absence of blood data.
      The rich data collected in this study will then provide a robust benchmark for validation of
      the SimE approach.

      Aim 4: Validate Noninvasive Estimates of Plasma Radioactivity from a Novel miniPET Scanner.
      In parallel to SimE (algorithm/software) development, the investigators will test a
      noninvasive method of plasma analysis using hardware. FDG concentration will be measured at
      the wrist, arm, ankle or leg with a novel synchronized PET scanner developed by
      co-Investigator, Dr. Paul Vaska.
    
  