
    
      This is a three-arm prospective randomized controlled trial to evaluate patient knowledge of
      preeclampsia after different forms of education. In the first arm participants will be given
      a graphic card depicting signs and symptoms of preeclampsia; they will be permitted to keep
      this card. In the second arm participants will be shown an educational video on preeclampsia.
      In the third arm participants will have no visual form of patient education; they will be
      exposed only to the counseling they receive with their routine prenatal care. Participants
      will be primiparous patients recruited from the prenatal clinic at 18-24 weeks gestation. At
      time of consent, baseline anxiety assessment with the STAI-6 questionnaire will be obtained
      followed by a short demographic survey. Participants will be given a short survey on
      preeclampsia knowledge. They will then be randomized to either preeclampsia education with
      educational video, graphic card or no visual educational intervention. The participants will
      be randomized by computer-generated randomization schema (1:1:1). Those randomized to the
      card will be given a few minutes to review the card. Those randomized to the educational
      video will watch the video which runs two minutes and 45 seconds. For those randomized to no
      further intervention, the initial interview will then be over. For the first two arms
      receiving the graphic card or watching the video, the STAI 6 assessment will be
      re-administered immediately after the educational intervention and then the interview will be
      over. Medical record numbers from every participant will be collected for chart review of
      demographics, preeclampsia risk factors, pregnancy follow up (including triage calls and
      visits) and delivery outcomes. The participants will be approached again at 32w0d-36w6d
      gestation to complete a follow up preeclampsia knowledge survey to assess retention of
      knowledge. This follow-up survey will be collected via phone interview. Participants in the
      control arm receiving routine prenatal care will also complete a follow up knowledge survey
      as a control.
    
  