
    
      This study is a single-centre, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised trial.
      Participants will undergo a 2 week run-in period, followed by randomisation to either
      probiotics supplements or placebo for 6 months. The study population are hemodialysis
      patients from Dialysis Department in First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong University.
      The Dialysis Department have 400 patients who regularly come to receive dialysis therapy
      three times a week.It's relatively easy for us to follow up and collect data.Patients who
      meet the criteria and are able to provide informed consent will be recruited.Then
      computer-generated randomisation of participants to treatment order will be undertaken by an
      external statistical consultant. This process of allocation will conceal the randomisation
      order to researchers and participants. In addition, the supplements will be packed off-site
      with a generic label.

      After randomization,baseline data will be collected and all participants will undergo
      face-to-face dietary education with a dietitian, incorporating standard hemodialysis
      education during the first week of run-in.In the week following, and throughout the
      intervention, patients will be encouraged to maintain stable protein and fibre intakes, with
      specific attention to maintaining the same sources of these nutrients.Participants' dietary
      intakes during the study will be assessed every month using a semi-quantitative food
      frequency questionnaire. And when the trial starts, questionnaires and biological samples
      will be performed and collected at the corresponding time. All serious adverse events will be
      reported to the ethics committee, whether deemed to be intervention related or not. Adherence
      to supplements will be measured by pill count every two weeks.

      This study is an explorative clinical trial.And in the absence of any data about the effect
      of probiotics on hemodialysis patients intestinal and serum microbiota,sample size can't be
      calculated.Data will be reported as s mean±SD if normally distributed and as median(25-75%
      percentiles) if not. The Shapiro-Wilk test is performed to assess whether data are normally
      distributed. Statistical comparisons of normally distributed data are performed using
      Student's t-test. Mann-Whitney U-test is used to compare the rank variables measuring
      gastrointestinal symptoms in probiotics and placebo groups. The threshold for statistical
      significance is at p values <0.05. And an external statistical consultant from our Clinical
      Research Center will be involved in the data validation and analysis activities.
    
  