
    
      A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial in 28 patients with a diagnosis
      of prediabetes (IFG and IGT) in accordance with the American Diabetes Association with out
      treatment.

      They will be assigned randomly two groups of 14 patients, one of the groups will receive 850
      mg of metformin twice at day (before breakfast and before dinner) and one pill of placebo
      (before lunch) for 14 weeks. There will be a running period, starting with a dose of 500 mg
      the first week, the second week increasing to 1000 mg and from the third to the fourteenth
      week will be a dose of 1500 mg.

      The other group will receive 500 mg of berberine three times at day (each one before the
      mealtime) for14 weeks. There will be a running period, starting with a dose of 850 mg the
      first week, the second week dose of 850 mg of metformin plus one placebo pill and from the
      third week to the fourteenth week will be a dose of 1700 mg ( two 850 mg metformin pills)
      plus one placebo pill.

      They will be measured fasting blood glucose, postprandial glucose levels and glycosylated
      hemoglobin, and will be calculated Area Under Curve of glucose and insulin, total insulin
      secretion (Insolinogenic index), first-phase of insulin secretion (Strumvoll index) and
      insulin sensitivity (Matsuda index).

      This protocol it's already approved by the local ethics committee and written informed
      consent it's going to be obtained from all volunteers.

      Statistical analysis will be presented through measures of central tendency and dispersion,
      average and deviation standard for quantitative variables; frequencies and percentage for
      qualitative variable. Qualitative variables will be analyzed by X2, will be used for
      differences inter-group Mann-Whitney U Test and Wilcoxon Test for the within-groups
      differences. It will be considered statistical significance p≤0.05.
    
  