
    
      Bladder cancer is the fourth most common malignancy in men and the ninth most common in women
      in the US, with an estimated 68,810 new cases and 14,070 deaths for the year 2008.
      Approximately 90% to 95% of newly diagnosed patients are with transitional cell carcinomas
      (TCC). Approximately 20% to 25% contain advanced (muscle invasive or metastatic) disease.
      Muscle invasive bladder cancer is life threatening. Clinical trials have demonstrated that
      TCC is a chemotherapy-sensitive malignancy. Most current cancer treatment strategies involve
      the use of chemotherapeutic or biological drugs that have a low therapeutic ratio. The
      limitations are a consequence of effects of the therapeutic drug on normal tissues. One
      approach to control systemic exposure effects is to target the drug itself into the site of
      the tumor. For example, antibodies have been developed for use as tumor targeting agents and
      have had success in the clinic. However, despite the promise of antibody-based immunotherapy,
      there are limitations with these class of reagents. Even so, immunotherapy remains a
      promising approach to treat cancer.

      One strategy that has received attention is treatment with cytokines such as IL-2 to enhance
      anti-tumor immunity. IL-2 has stimulatory effects on a number of immune cell types including
      T and B cells, monocytes, macrophages, lymphokine-activated killer cells (LAK) and natural
      killer (NK) cells. Based on the ability of IL-2 to provide durable curative anti-tumor
      responses, systemic administration of IL-2 has been approved to treat patients with
      metastatic melanoma or renal carcinoma. Unfortunately, the considerable toxicity associated
      with this treatment makes it difficult to achieve an effective dose at the site of the tumor
      and limits the population that can be treated. Thus, there is critical need for innovative
      strategies that enhance the effects of IL-2, to reduce its toxicity without compromising the
      clinical benefit, and to treat other diagnoses.

      The study drug, ALT-801, is a biologic compound of interleukin-2 (IL-2) genetically fused to
      a humanized soluble T-cell receptor directed against the p53-derived peptides expressed on
      tumor cells. The p53 protein is one of the most important factors that protects from
      developing cancer and is also one of the most frequently mutated genes in many cancers, which
      include muscle-invasive bladder cancer. For any given cancer type, p53 dysfunction generally
      correlates with poor prognosis versus other the same site-of-origin. In some tumors, p53
      mutation and over-expression also is associated with resistance to chemotherapy. This study
      is to further evaluate whether directing IL-2 activity using ALT-801 to the patient's tumor
      sites that over-express p53 results in clinical benefits
    
  