
    
      Cervical dilation will be confirmed by a member of the obstetric team prior to epidural
      catheter placement as is routinely done at our institution. A baseline pain visual analog
      scale (VAS) score will be obtained using a 100-mm unmarked line with the end points labeled
      "no pain" and "worst pain imaginable.

      Labor analgesia will be initiated using CSE analgesia with 25 mcg of intrathecal fentanyl. An
      epidural test dose will be performed as routine (1.5% lidocaine with epinephrine 1:200, 3
      mL).

      Labor analgesia will be maintained using timed-intermittent boluses of local anesthetic with
      PCEA using the CADD-Solis pump (Smiths Medical). An unblinded anesthesia research nurse will
      program the epidural pump and initiate the maintenance of labor analgesia.

      Fifteen minutes following the intrathecal dose, a VAS score and a sensory level of analgesia
      will be obtained. The following information will be obtained hourly until complete cervical
      dilation (10 cm): VAS pain score, sensory level, a modified Bromage score (0 - no motor
      paralysis; 1 - inability to raise extended leg, but able to move knee and foot; 2 - inability
      to raise extended leg and to move knee, but able to move foot; 3 - inability to raise
      extended leg or to move knee and foot).

      The time to the first request for supplemental analgesia will be recorded on the study data
      sheet. The time, type and volume of local anesthetic used, and VAS scores before and 15
      minutes after the redose will be recorded.

      All other clinical management will be as per routine, and study participation will not
      interfere with anesthetic or obstetric care. Anesthesiologists will manage breakthrough pain
      in the usual manner (assessment of stage of labor and extend/density of neuraxial blockade,
      followed by the appropriate maneuver to reestablish adequate analgesia).

      Following delivery, the patient will be asked to give one final VAS score and her overall
      satisfaction with labor using a 100 mm unmarked line. Mode of delivery, as well as the
      duration of the 1st and 2nd stage of labor will be recorded by study personnel.

      Patient Controlled Epidural Analgesia (PCEA) pump utilization data will be downloaded from
      epidural pumps after delivery. This will include the time to first PCEA request, the number
      of PCEA demands, the number of times that PCEA boluses were delivered, the total amount of
      local anesthetic consumed.
    
  