
    
      This will be a double-blind, individually randomised trial, with 2:1 randomisation with the
      R21/Matrix-M malaria vaccine or a control rabies vaccine (Rabivax-S). The study groups are as
      follows:

      Standard vaccination regime, 5-17 months olds R21/Matrix-M x 3, n = 1600 Rabies vaccine x 3,
      n = 800

      Seasonal vaccination regime, 5 - 48 month olds R21/Matrix-M x 3, n = 1600 Rabies vaccine x 3,
      n = 800

      In each group, a booster (4th) dose of the same vaccine will be administered 12 months after
      the third dose. Initial follow-up will be for two years after dose three, with a primary
      analysis at 12 months after dose 3.

      Extension of the trial will be considered to allow for longer follow-up as indicated by the
      12-month safety and efficacy data.

      2400 participants will be enrolled for the standard vaccination regime in: Dande, Burkina
      Faso; Kilifi, Kenya; and Bagamoyo, Tanzania.

      In addition, a further 2400 participants will be enrolled for the seasonal vaccination regime
      in Nanoro, Burkina Faso and Bougouni, Mali.

      Study population

      Standard vaccination regime:

      5-17 month old children living permanently in the study area who are eligible.

      Seasonal vaccination regime:

      5-48 month old children living permanently in the study area who are eligible.

      Primary study objectives

      Efficacy:

        -  To assess the protective efficacy of R21/Matrix-M against clinical malaria caused by
           Plasmodium falciparum, in 5-17 month old children living in a malaria endemic area, 12
           months after completion of the primary course (standard vaccination regime).

        -  To assess the protective efficacy of R21/Matrix-M against clinical malaria caused by
           Plasmodium falciparum, in 5-48 month old children living in a malaria endemic area, 12
           months after completion of the primary course (seasonal vaccination regime).

      Safety:

      • To assess the safety and reactogenicity of R21/Matrix-M, in both vaccination regimes, of
      children living in a malaria endemic area, in the month following each vaccination, and 12
      months after completion of the primary course.

      Secondary objectives

        -  Efficacy against clinical malaria after a booster vaccination

        -  Efficacy against asymptomatic P. falciparum infection.

        -  Efficacy against severe malaria disease.

        -  Efficacy according to different transmission settings.

        -  Efficacy against incident severe anaemia, blood transfusion requirement and malaria
           hospitalisation.

        -  Safety and reactogenicity (including Serious adverse events (SAEs) and any deaths)
           following the booster vaccination and for the duration of the study.

        -  Assessment of humoral immunogenicity by anti-CSP antibody concentrations measured 12
           months after completion of the primary series of 3 vaccinations and 12 months after
           booster vaccination
    
  