
    
      This is a non-interventional, multicenter, prospective registry of patients with a confirmed
      diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the prostate presenting with mCRPC, based on documented
      metastatic prostate cancer and documented castration resistance. Castrate-resistant prostate
      cancer is defined by disease progression despite testosterone <50 ng/dL, and/or androgen
      deprivation therapy, and/or a history of orchiectomy, and may present as a continuous rise in
      prostate-specific antigen (PSA), and/or worsening of existing disease/symptoms, and/or the
      appearance of new metastases. Observational methodology will be used to capture data. The
      decision of patients to take part in the registry will not influence their medical care.
      Treatment decisions will be made at the discretion of the treating physician, per routine
      clinical practice. Only data available from routine clinical practice will be collected. It
      is expected that approximately 3,000 patients will participate in this registry. To ensure a
      patient population representative of clinical practice and to reduce selection bias, all
      patients meeting the eligibility criteria at a participating site should be consecutively
      enrolled in the registry, irrespective of their treatment. The planned total duration of the
      registry will be 5.5 years from the date that the first patient is enrolled, irrespective of
      the country or registry site. The anticipated duration of patient enrollment is 2.5 years.
      The maximum duration of follow-up for individual patients in the observational period of the
      registry will be 3 years, regardless of when they are enrolled. The 3-year period of the
      observational period will document the sequencing of systemic mCRPC treatments during routine
      clinical practice, considering the life expectancy of patients with mCRPC in the registry.
      Unless specified otherwise per local regulations, all patients must give their informed
      consent to participate in this registry before data collection (ie, data entry into the case
      report form [CRF]) is performed. Patients will be enrolled at the time of initiation of a new
      systemic mCRPC treatment or during a period when a patient is considered to be in
      surveillance according to clinical practice. Baseline data collection will include details of
      the patient's prostate cancer history and prior prostate cancer treatment. This will be
      followed by a prospective observational period during which patients may cycle through
      multiple systemic mCRPC treatment periods and periods of surveillance. During the
      observational period, data will be collected at the following time points of a patient's
      course of treatment in routine clinical practice: initiation of a new systemic mCRPC
      treatment; termination of a systemic mCRPC treatment; when the duration of a systemic mCRPC
      treatment or surveillance period is >3 months, data collection will be performed at a minimum
      frequency of 3-monthly intervals during that period. Survival data will be collected for all
      patients 3 years after their enrollment or at the close of the registry, whichever occurs
      first, except for those patients who withdraw their consent prior to completing the
      observation period.
    
  