
    
      The quest for an effective pharmacotherapy for problem gambling remains an important priority
      for the problem gambling treatment research field. While several medications have been
      evaluated in controlled clinical trials no medication has been shown to unequivocally reduce
      gambling behaviour and, to date, no medication has been approved for treating this disorder.
      Recently, topiramate, indicated for the treatment of seizure disorders, has shown some
      promise as a pharmacotherapy for problem gambling. The most persuasive evidence for the
      efficacy of topiramate has been reported for alcohol (in a placebo-controlled study) and for
      problem gambling (in which fluvoxamine served as an active control). No study has examined
      the efficacy of topiramate in a placebo-controlled clinical trial or examined its efficacy
      within specific sub-groups of gamblers.

      Topiramate has recently been found to be effective in a number of psychiatric and addictive
      disorders. Dannon reported the first trial evaluating topiramate as a treatment for
      pathological gambling, comparing it to fluvoxamine. Treatment was delivered over a 12-week
      period with a maximum dose of 200 mg/d. Nine out of 15 topiramate subjects had achieved full
      remission of gambling behaviour compared to 6 out of 16 fluvoxamine subjects. However, both
      groups improved to a similar degree on other measures of psychopathology (e.g., anxiety).
      This study and Dannon's previous study of topiramate's efficacy in the treatment of
      kleptomania, suggests that topiramate may be particularly effective for Impulse-Control
      Disorders.

      Topiramate-induced modulation of the noradrenergic pathways that mediate hyper- arousal,
      conditionability and intrusive/ emotional memories suggests that this medication may be
      particularly efficacious in problem gamblers characterized by hyper-arousal, anxiety and
      depression. Blaszczynski in their delineation of the Pathways Model of problem and
      pathological gambling, has identified a group of problem gamblers who self-regulate dysphoric
      emotional states through escape, dissociation and numbing (i.e., Emotionally Vulnerable
      problem gamblers). The Impulsivist and the Conditioned problem gambler, the two other
      sub-types described by Blaszczynski are characterized by conditions and histories that may be
      less effectively targeted by topiramate (i.e., impulsive, antisocial personality structure in
      the case of the Impulsive gamblers and irrational cognitions in the case of the Conditioned
      problem gambler). This population of gamblers, especially common among females, may report
      positive histories of substance abuse, anxiety and mood disorders, familial and childhood
      dysfunction, and familial gambling.

      In an open-label study of topiramate with a sample of patients with post-traumatic stress
      disorder, an amelioration of dissociation and numbing was reported. These findings are also
      consistent with this medication's reported amnesic effects, and suggest that topiramate may
      reduce neural reactivity of problem gamblers that would otherwise increase the probability of
      engaging in gambling to self-regulate dysphoric emotional states.

      The current study proposes to further evaluate the clinical efficacy of topiramate in a
      randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial, the first study to do so. Interaction of the
      effects of the medication and gambling sub-type will be examined to determine whether the
      efficacy of topiramate is correlated with the specific biopsychosocial history of the
      gambler. An experimental trial of an acute dose of topiramate will run concurrently in order
      to identify cognitive-behavioural mechanisms that may mediate the clinical effects of
      topiramate on gambling-related behaviours evaluated in this study.
    
  