
    
      The primary objective of this study is to develop a protocol, consistent with DHHS/ Center
      for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) guidelines and requirements to further document
      safety in clinically indicated MR imaging in patients with implanted cardioverter
      defibrillators (ICD's) and pacemakers.

      MRI's will be conducted on patients who require a clinically indicated MRI only. All studies
      will be done in the 1.5 Tesla MRI unit. ECG monitoring pads will be placed on the patients
      for the duration of the study. An external defibrillator and Advance Cardiovascular Life
      Support (ACLS) drugs will be on hand. Heart rate, blood pressure, O2 saturation will also be
      monitored non-invasively throughout the study. All devices will undergo a complete
      interrogation prior to imaging. Parameters such as atrial and ventricular pacing thresholds,
      R and P wave amplitudes, lead impedance, and battery status will be measured and recorded.
      PPMs will be programmed to an asynchronous mode if dependent and to an inhibited mode in
      patients without pacemaker dependence.

      The pacemaker function of ICD's in pacemaker independent patients will be programmed to
      ventricular inhibited (VVI) mode at 50 bpm. Pacemaker dependant patients with ICDs will be
      excluded.

      In addition, there is a theoretical concern that patients who have capped or abandoned leads
      in their chest may be at risk for heating. While there is little or no objective data to
      support this concern, given this theoretical concern, patients in this category will only be
      admitted to the study if the referring physician deems the MRI critical and after the PI has
      carefully considered the risk/benefit ration for each patient who falls in to this category.

      Similarly, there historically has also been a concern that newly implanted leads (<4 weeks)
      are at risk for lead to dislodgement d/t possible torque from the MRI environment. This too
      is only a theoretical concern and there is little or no scientific evidence to support this
      claim. Nevertheless, patients with newly implanted pacemaker/ICD leads will be considered by
      the PI for protocol inclusion only if the referring physician deems the MRI to be critical
      and after considering the risk/benefit to each individual patient.

      After the appropriate MRI protocol for each MRI patient's unique condition has been
      completed, the device will be re-programmed to its original settings and completely
      interrogated to detect any changes in device performance.
    
  