
    
      Esophageal cancer is a common malignant tumor of the digestive tract. Every year, there are
      about 400,000 new cases of esophageal cancer in the world and about 300,000 people dying of
      this disease. China with high incidence of esophageal cancer, the number of new cases and
      deaths account for about 50% of the world every year. In the past few decades, surgery,
      radiotherapy, chemotherapy and other treatments were continuously improved, however, the
      mortality of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma patients was not significantly decreased.
      Early local invasion, lymph node metastasis and distant metastasis are the main causes of
      poor prognosis for the patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.

      For patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer, direct surgery is not effective. It is
      difficult to achieve radical resection by surgery merely, and even if many patients receive
      surgery, they may eventually have tumor recurrence and poor survival rate. Therefore, it is
      necessary to explore effective perioperative neoadjuvant treatment to reduce the risk of
      postoperative recurrence and improve the postoperative survival rate of patients.

      In recent years, PD-1 antibody is undoubtedly the most dazzling star in the field of tumor
      therapy. It shows excellent efficacy in of the different kind of tumors. According to the
      reports, the expression of PD-L1 in esophageal cancer was about 41.4% (Meta-analysis of 1350
      Chinese and Japanese subjects showed that the over-expression of PD-L1 tended to decrease
      overall survival). Therefore, PD-1/ PD-L1 immunocheckpoint inhibitor may become a new method
      for the treatment of esophageal cancer. Preliminary clinical results showed that
      immunotherapy combined with chemoradiotherapy provided a synergies antitumor effect. Multiple
      clinical results showed that Carrillizumab provided higher overall response rate for advanced
      esophageal cancer. It also provided superior progression free survival and overall survival
      compared with Pembrolizuma and paclitaxel. 2020 Chinese Society Of Clinical Oncology
      esophagus cancer guidelines recommended Carrillizumab as the first level for squamous cell
      carcinomas.

      However, in patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer, the efficacy of Carrillizumab
      combined with chemotherapy and apatinib for sequential radical surgery is still unclear. The
      purpose of this study is to observe and evaluate the efficacy and safety of Carrillizumab
      combined with chemotherapy and antiangiogenic drugs in the neoadjuvant therapy of resectable
      esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.
    
  