
    
      This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded crossover study to test the
      following hypothesis: In mid- to late pubertal girls with hyperandrogenism, spironolactone
      (50 mg twice daily) for 2 weeks will reduce sleep-associated luteinizing hormone (LH) pulse
      frequency compared to placebo treatment. To test this hypothesis, 16 late pubertal girls
      (signified by either [a] post-menarcheal status [Tanner breast stages 2-5] or [b] Tanner
      breast stage of 4 or 5 [whether pre-menarcheal or post-menarcheal], but no more than 4 years
      post-menarcheal) with hyperandrogenism (serum [calculated] free testosterone concentration
      greater than the Tanner stage-specific reference range and/or clinical hirsutism) will
      undergo two clinical research unit (CRU) admissions separated by at least 4 weeks. During
      each admission, blood will be obtained every 10 minutes through an indwelling IV catheter
      from 1600 to 0700 h. This will allow full characterization of pulsatile LH secretion in
      addition to other hormone measurements. Formal polysomnography will be performed during CRU
      admissions. Subjects will be randomized to be pretreated for 2 weeks with either
      spironolactone (an androgen receptor blocker commonly used for hyperandrogenism) or placebo
      prior to the first admission; subjects will be pretreated with the other medication (placebo
      or spironolactone) for 2 weeks before the second admission in accordance with a cross-over
      design. The primary endpoint is LH pulse frequency while asleep. (LH pulse frequency while
      awake is an important secondary endpoint). The sleep-associated LH pulse frequency data from
      the spironolactone and placebo admissions will be analyzed via a hierarchical linear mixed
      model (HLMM). Secondary endpoints will include the relationships between sleep stages and LH
      pulse initiation (analyzed as per Lu et al., Neuroendocrinology 2018 [Epub ahead of print -
      doi: 10.1159/000488110]), and we will test the following hypothesis: In mid- to late pubertal
      girls with hyperandrogenism, spironolactone will enhance the ability of rapid eye movement
      (REM) sleep to inhibit LH pulse initiation.
    
  