
    
      Schizophrenia patients treated with even the best currently available antipsychotic drugs
      continue to experience significant symptoms. There is a strong need for better treatments
      including treatments that can safely be given as adjunct to current antipsychotics in order
      to improve overall efficacy of treatment.

      Oxytocin is a neurohypophyseal peptide best known for its role as a neurohormone involved in
      parturition and lactation. In addition to these well established peripheral effects, there is
      a compelling body of converging evidence indicating that oxytocin plays a critical role in
      the regulation of a number of diverse centrally-mediated behavioral and cognitive processes
      that are highly relevant to Schizophrenia, including social attachment and memory , (see
      Argiolas and Gessa 1990; McCarthy and Aaltemus 1997).Furthermore, several lines of research
      suggest that oxytocin receptors may be an important target for development of novel
      treatments for schizophrenia. Oxytocin and its receptors exist in several areas of the brain
      which have been heavily implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, such as the
      nucleus accumbens and the hippocampus, (Van Leeuwan et al 1985). Oxytocin administered
      peripherally inhibits dopamine transmission in the mesolimbic pathway (Sarnyai 1992) et al,
      1990). Antipsychotics have been found to elevate the secretion of oxytocin in rats
      (Uvnas-Moberg et al 1992a) suggesting that endogenous oxytocin may play a role in the
      therapeutic effects of antipsychotic drugs.

      Each subject will be enrolled for 6 week treatment period after a screening phase Study
      procedure involves weekly clinic visits as an outpatient. Forty patients will be randomly
      assigned to either 40 IU oxytocin twice daily or vehicle placebo. After 3 weeks, treatments
      will be crossed over such that subjects that received oxytocin will receive placebo and vice
      versa. The study ratio is 1:1. Dose of oxytocin is based upon previous studies in humans
      showing improvement in schizophrenia related changes in behavior and brain function (Kosfeld
      et al, 2005; Kirsch 2005; Heinrich M 2003).

      The total study duration for each individual subject will be approximately 7 weeks, which
      includes up to 7-day screening period, a baseline (randomization) visit, three week treatment
      period, 1 week washout, baseline, and three weeks cross over treatment.
    
  