
    
      Specific aim.

      The GiSAS study is a randomized controlled superiority trial that aims to evaluate the
      tolerability and effectiveness of aripiprazole, olanzapine and haloperidol in outpatients
      with schizophrenia over a 12-month period.

      Inclusion criteria.

        -  Age≥18.

        -  Patients entering the study must have a condition appropriate for changing the
           antipsychotic treatment or starting a new one.

      Exclusion criteria.

        -  Diagnosis of metabolic syndrome.

        -  Diagnosis of diabetes mellitus type II.

        -  The patient has never been exposed to antipsychotic drugs.

        -  One of the studied treatments is clearly contraindicated.

      Recruitment.

      The study will be conducted in a broad array of clinical settings in order to provide
      generalizable and practically relevant study findings. The recruitment period will last 12
      months in each participating center.

      Study design.

      The GiSAS study is a multi-centre RCT that will involve about 80 italian psychiatric services
      and will recruit 800 patients affected by schizophrenia.

      In a non-selected sample of schizophrenic patients, it is hypothesized that there are
      significant differences in the overall safety, tolerability and acceptability of
      aripiprazole, olanzapine and haloperidol and consequently in their effectiveness.

      It is a pragmatic trial. Thus, participants are selected to represent a broad range of
      "real-world" patients, including those with comorbid conditions (i.e. substance use
      disorders, medical problems.

      Patients will be assessed:

        -  at baseline (all subjects);

        -  when monotherapy treatment is stopped;

        -  at 12 months (all subjects).

      Pharmacological treatments.

      In this study, the following drugs will be tested: (a) aripiprazole, (b) olanzapine, (c)
      haloperidol. All treatment medications are non-blinded.

      After randomization, the assigned drugs will be prescribed according to usual care practice.
      Patients will be prescribed daily oral dose of the assigned drug, based on individual
      response and side-effects. For patients already taking an antipsychotic medication prior to
      study entry, tapering the previous medication over a period of four weeks will be allowed.

      All the drugs used in each arm of GiSAS trial are currently licensed and marketed in Italy
      for the treatment of schizophrenia. No other antipsychotic medication will be allowed.

      Concomitant psychotropic medication (e.g. benzodiazepines, antidepressants) and the use of
      non-psychotropic drugs will be allowed and routinely recorded.

      Primary outcomes.

      The measure for effectiveness is retention of patients on the assigned treatment at 12
      months. The measure for tolerability is the onset of metabolic syndrome at 12 months (primary
      endpoint). Switching to another antipsychotic, adding a second antipsychotic or stopping
      antipsychotic treatment will be considered as drug discontinuation. Reasons for
      discontinuation will be registered and will be taken into account when creating the secondary
      outcomes.

      In order to capture whether, when and why participants stop the assigned treatment or add
      concomitant medication, the patients' ongoing treatments will be monitored at least once a
      month.

      The primary endpoint (i.e. Metabolic Syndrome) is assessed centrally by blinded independent
      observers.

      All statistical analyses will be blinded and will include all randomized subjects following
      the intent-to-treat principle.
    
  