
    
      Hypothesis: We hypothesise that a combination of CT coronary angiography, ultrasound of the
      heart and of the arteries of the neck, evaluation of expression of genetic markers and
      bio-markers in the blood will help identify diabetic patients at highest risk of heart
      disease progression,that can result in angina, heart attacks, heart failure and
      cardiovascular deaths.

      Previous studies using coronary calcium scanning in diabetic patients showed that those with
      the greatest progression in calcified plaque in the coronary arteries were at the highest
      risk for heart attacks. However, coronary calcium scans only identify the calcified plaque
      and are not able to pick up non-calcified, cholesterol rich plaques. Cholesterol rich
      non-calcified plaques are more often associated witn acute heart attacks. CT coronary
      angiography can identify both calcified and non-calcified plaques and can therefore add
      significantly to our predictive ability. Certain chemical substances (biomarkers) measured in
      blood indicate the severity of plaque burden and inflammation in the coronary arteries. A
      combination of CT coronary angiography, expression of genetic markers, measure of function of
      the cells lining the blood vessels and biomarkers can help to identify diabetic patients at
      highest risk of heart attacks, allowing us to start appropriate risk reduction treatments in
      those patients. In previous studies with coronary artery calcium, patients suffering from
      heart attacks were those who also had a higher progression of coronary artery calcium (CAC)
      score. In diabetics, in particular, patients with poor control of their blood glucose also
      had greater progression of the CAC score. In order to test the validity of our hypothesis, we
      have decided to base our study on a population of established diabetics with difficult to
      control blood pressure, high cholesterol and chronic complications of the small blood
      vessels, i.e. involvement of the retina (back of the eye) and peripheral nerves as well as
      protein in the urine. Patients with chronic complications of diabetes are known to have
      higher incidence of heart disease as well.

      Methodology and Timetable: Patients will be recruited from Diabetes clinics of NHS hospitals
      in North West London.

      If eligible for the trial, an informed consent will be obtained from the patients and their
      general practitioner will be subsequently informed about their participation in the trial.
      Once recruited into the trial, a CT coronary angiogram (CTCA, CT of the arteries of the
      heart), ultrasound scan of the heart and carotid arteries of the neck as well as a measure of
      endothelial function will be performed at the Wellington Hospital in St. Johns Wood, London
      within 1-2 weeks. At the same time, blood samples will also be obtained for bio-markers. A
      report of the CTCA will then be forwarded to the consultant in-charge of the patient's care
      as well as to the GP.

      If a narrowing of moderate degree (70%) is noted on the CT angiogram, the patient will then
      be brought back to the Wellington Hospital within 2 weeks for a heart perfusion scan which
      evaluates the relative discrepancies in flow of blood to the heart muscle and helps plan
      further management.

      If there is significant reduction in blood flow noted in the perfusion scan,patients will be
      referred back to the consultants for further clinical management.

      During their first visit to the Wellington Hospital for the CT scan, blood samples will be
      taken and stored on-site for biomarker analysis.

      Patients will be followed up after 18 months from the time of recruitment into the trial,when
      a second CTCA, ultrasound of the arteries of the neck will be performed to assess the degree
      of progression of calcium and cholesterol deposits within the coronary arteries and thickness
      of the lining of the arteries in the neck in addition to blood sample collection for
      bio-markers.

      Patients with significant narrowing of coronary arteries (>70%) requiring a stent to be
      inserted in the first scan will be excluded from follow up. Patients with normal coronary
      arteries on the initial scan also will be excluded from the follow-up.
    
  