
    
      The aim of this study is to examine the relationship between optical blur from poor
      refractive corrections (glasses) of workers using computers and their productivity and
      comfort in the workplace. We believe that improving the visual status of subjects who use
      computers will have a beneficial effect on productivity and visual comfort. All subjects will
      be required to complete a vision screening at no charge to decide if you qualify for the
      study. Subjects will select a frame to be worn during the period of the study. Subjects will
      wear either your best correction or your present prescription in the frame for a period of
      1-month. This will be a double-blind study, which means that neither the subject nor your
      doctors will know which pair of glasses the subjects will be wearing during the parts of the
      study. Subjects will complete 4 hours of testing during the first period (4 weeks) then the
      lenses will be switched for the second period (4 weeks). During the testing, subjects will
      complete two tasks on a standard computer. Either the investigator or co-investigator will
      explain to you how to do these simple tasks. One of these tasks will involve looking at
      printed material and entering correct information into the computer. The other task involves
      finding and deleting apostrophes from a manuscript on the computer. All subjects will answer
      a short survey before and after these tasks to check on symptoms resulting from using the
      computer. Before and after each period, the subjects also will answer another survey to
      measure their visual functioning using these glasses.

      The following periodic measurements will be made during the study: productivity and accuracy
      to enter a list of state populations, and a search for apostrophes (') in a document on one
      of the states of the U.S. These tasks will require 4 hours testing with each of the two pairs
      of trial glasses for two periods (each period lasts for one month). Subjects will be asked to
      return to the clinic for 4 hrs during the first 4-week period and for 4 more hrs during the
      second 4-week period. At each visit subjects will be asked if they have experienced any
      undesirable reactions and will complete a short survey.

      Subjects will also be required to complete a short 9-question survey to determine their
      visual comfort before and after 1-hour of work on their own computer at your home or job
      during each 1-month period of the study. These short phone surveys will take less than
      5-minutes to complete and will be arranged at the subject's convenience before and after the
      subjects are going to be working on your computer for at least 1-hr. This survey will be
      repeated on five occasions. Finally, 3-months after the experimental portion of the study is
      completed, all subjects will be required to also answer the same short 9-question survey as
      you work on your computer. This will also be a phone survey and will be completed on three
      occasions before and after 1-hr of work on their own computer at home or job.
    
  