
    
      Detailed Description:

      A triple-blind cross-sectional observational study is designed where subjects with low back
      pain will be selected and blinded to receive the Magnetic Tape® (tape with magnetic effects
      of less than 2 Gauss) or placebo Tape. Likewise, the evaluator who puts the Magnetic Tape®
      does not know what material he is using, as it is supplied by another researcher. The patient
      does not know what tape will be placed on him.

      The recommendations of the "Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology" (STROBE) will
      be followed. All participants will receive a participant information sheet and sign informed
      consent. Patients aged 18 to 65 years with low back pain will be recruited from different
      private clinics in the city of Valencia, Spain.

      The hypothesis is that when Magnetic Tape® comes into contact with electromagnetic fields
      such as those generated by living beings, due to the movement of electrical charges (ions),
      as defined by Ampere's Law, the domains of the tape are oriented or aligned in parallel with
      the external magnetic field creating a magnetic flux with a north pole and a south pole. This
      generated field in turn produces a magnetic induction proportional to the variation of the
      magnetic flux, as defined by the Faraday Law.

      This electric potential produces a redistribution of the electric charge (ions) generating a
      magnetic field due to the orientation of the tape domains, then exerting a force on the
      moving charges within the electrolyte.

      Physiological, Lorentz's Law, regulating Magnetic Tape® aberrant electromagnetic fields.

      The protocol for data collection will be as follows:

      After signing the informed consent and data protection, the groups with low back pain will be
      formed that will receive the application of both Magnetic Tape® and the intervention of a
      placebo tape. To avoid that the order of the intervention influences the results of the
      study, the subjects will be randomized into two different groups, Group A and Group B. Group
      A will receive Magnetic tape® and Group B will do the opposite. The next day the other tape
      will be applied

      Passive joint ROM of both hips is assessed by placing the patient in a supine position with
      90º hip and knee flexion, performing passive internal hip rotation. The video camera and
      infrared thermometer are located perpendicular (ceiling) to the ipsilateral knee and hip to
      make recordings and measurements.

      The recording equipment and the infrared thermometer are placed on the subject at a
      sufficient height to frame the iliac fossa to be evaluated.

      After recording the passive hip rotation maneuver, the joint ROM will be assessed using the
      Kinovea® program.

      During the same movement, the muscle activation of the movement antagonist ipsilateral
      adductor longus will be assessed with the surface electromyograph so that it is not
      activated.

      The local temperature variation of the ipsilateral iliac fossa will also be assessed with the
      infrared thermometer.

      Subsequently, a 5-8 cm long by 5 cm wide strip of Magnetic Tape® will be placed over the
      ipsilateral iliac fossa of the hip with movement limitation to perform the passive internal
      rotation of the hip again and record the degrees of range of motion.

      Next, a cold pack will be placed on the tape to inhibit the nerve receptors in the area and
      measurements of passive internal hip rotation and temperature of the area will be performed
      every minute, removing the cold pack for two seconds to measure temperature, until rotation
      is limited again.

      To conclude, the cold pack will be permanently removed to return the area to the initial
      temperature and the passive internal hip rotation will be recorded again with the tape.

      Each subject will be your control since one day a tape will be placed and the next day the
      other.

      Neither application has to be painful.
    
  