
    
      Current treatment regimes, with the addition of temozolomide, have improved progression-free
      survival as well as overall survival for patients with a high grade glioma. The median
      overall survival (MOS) for patients with a glioblastoma (GBM) is 14.6 months, with a
      progression free survival (PFS) of 6.9 months.

      Due to longer survival and a better performance status, patients often reach a point at which
      re-treatment is feasible. Treatment options for recurrent glioblastoma and anaplastic glioma
      can include surgery, chemotherapy and re-irradiation. Re-irradiation of patients with
      recurrent high grade glioma is slowly becoming standard of care. It provides a comparable
      overall survival to palliative chemotherapy. In case of GBM there is a median time to
      progression after treatment of 20-27 weeks and a MOS of 26 to 60 weeks.

      Patients with tumor recurrence have a significantly worse quality of life compared to
      patients without recurrence at the same follow-up. They experience significantly more
      problems with physical functioning (e.g. motor dysfunction, weakness of legs, visual
      disorders), work or other daily activities, mental health (e.g. future uncertainty) and
      general health.

      With regard to re-irradiation, current available data is mostly provided by retrospective
      studies which often lack solid quality of life data. Endpoints include e.g. performance
      status, clinical (neurological) status and decreased steroid requirement after treatment.
      These endpoints are however inadequate to determine quality of life accurately.

      Several studies have used the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer
      Quality of Life Questionnaire core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) and the brain cancer module (QLQ-BN20)
      scales to assess quality of life. The latter consists of 20 items including visual disorder,
      motor dysfunction, various disease symptoms, treatment toxicity and future uncertainty. A
      change of 10 points or more on these scales can be considered clinically relevant.

      To date only Ernst-Stecken and colleagues have used the EORTC QLQ-C30 to prospectively
      evaluate the quality of life in patients with a recurrent malignant glioma after
      radiotherapy. In this study patients were treated with hypofractionation. The quality of life
      questionnaire score could be kept stable in two thirds of patients with a median follow-up of
      9 months. They conclude that hypofractionated stereotactic radiotherapy is an effective
      treatment that helps to maintain quality of life for an acceptable period, comparable to the
      results found with chemotherapeutic regimes.

      In patients with glioma, the tumor, radiotherapy as well as chemotherapy can disrupt
      cognitive function. Cognitive functioning can be evaluated by a cognitive screening
      instrument and/or comprehensive neuropsychological test batteries. The most well-known and
      convenient screening instrument is the Mini Mental-State Examination (MMSE). However, the
      MMSE is developed to assess dementia and does not include items related to executive
      function. As such, the MMSE is insufficient to assess frontal-subcortical network dysfunction
      associated with cognitive damage after irradiation. More sensitive cognitive tests should be
      administered to determine the effects of re-irradiation on cognition. There is however still
      little consensus on which test should be used. Although comprehensive neuropsychological test
      batteries are most sensitive, a brief cognitive screening is preferable in the present
      setting. For this trial, the investigators intend to use a number of relevant standard tests
      including the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised (HVLT-R, the Trail Making Test and
      Controlled Oral Word Association (COWA) as suggested by the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group
      (RTOG). The Stroop colour-word test (Stroop) is added to the battery in order to assess
      visual attention.

      Physical functioning has a major impact on quality of life in patients with cancer. A number
      of studies have investigated the effects of exercise on physical functioning. They have
      shown, predominantly in patients with breast cancer, that exercise has beneficial effects on
      health and well-being. Physical performance can be measured by several means. The hand grip
      strength (HGS) test has been validated in previous studies for the evaluation of general
      health status. This test is performed with the Jamar hand dynamometer which displays hand
      strength in kilograms. By comparing data after re-irradiation to the data collected before
      the treatment the amount of muscle strength loss can be determined.

      Another method of measuring physical performance is by analyzing fatigue. This is a very
      common symptom in cancer patients and negatively influences their quality of life. Fatigue in
      patients with cancer can be determined with the use of both the EORTC QLQ-C30 and the more
      specific Fatigue Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-FA13).
    
  