
    
      Background:

      One in five strokes occur during sleep, but patients with "wake-up" stroke are not given
      thrombolytic therapy because time of stroke onset is unknown. On-going trials are testing
      alteplase, and use MRI techniques for selection of patients. Tenecteplase has many
      pharmacological advantages over alteplase: greater fibrin specificity, very rapid action,
      longer half-life, and single bolus administration. In addition, patient selection based on
      MRI findings risks excluding many patients that might otherwise benefit. TWIST will test
      tenecteplase and will not use MRI techniques for selection of patients. Plain CT and CT
      angiography (if possible) will be performed before randomisation, and CT perfusion will be
      performed at selected centres, as part of a sub-study.

      Study design: TWIST is an international, multi-centre, randomised, open-label,
      blinded-endpoint trial of tenecteplase for acute ischaemic 'wake-up' stroke.

      Study questions:

        1. Can tenecteplase given <4.5 hours of awakening improve functional outcome at 3 months?

        2. Can findings on cerebral plain CT and CT angiography (and CT perfusion, at selected
           centres) identify patients who benefit from such treatment, compared to other patients?

      Patients eligible for treatment who are able to receive tenecteplase within 4.5 hours of
      waking, will be randomly allocated to treatment with tenecteplase in addition to best
      standard treatment, versus best standard treatment.

      Randomisation and treatment: Central randomisation (over the internet) to tenecteplase 0.25
      mg/mg i.v. (maximum dose 25 mg) plus best medical treatment vs. best medical treatment alone.

      Imaging: All patients will undergo CT and CT angiography (CTA, if possible) before
      randomisation and on day 2. CT perfusion (CTP) will be performed at selected centres, as part
      of a sub-study.

      Follow-up and primary effect variable: Centralised follow-up via telephone or mail at 3
      months. The primary effect variable is functional outcome (modified Rankin Scale score).

      Study size and centers: 600 patients from centers in Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland,
      Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, United Kingdom, Switzerland and New Zealand.
    
  