
    
      Balanced anesthesia is an anesthetic procedure of choice for intra-abdominal surgery. Main
      components of this procedure are loss of consciousness, treatment of pain and appropriate
      neuromuscular blockade (NMB). Peripheral neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) are drugs used
      for muscle relaxation during balanced anesthesia. Their use plays essential role for tracheal
      intubation, orotracheal tube tolerance, introduction of mechanical ventilation and provision
      of calm surgical field.

      In laparoscopic procedures, introduction of capnoperitoneum for good visibility in surgical
      field is necessary. From anesthetic point of view this requirement can be met by adequate
      muscle relaxation. After withdrawal of capnoperitoneum at the end of the surgery the
      procedure is usually terminated quickly (this phase consists only from suture of a peritoneum
      and the small incisions through which instruments were inserted). Spontaneous recovery from
      NMB or usual reversal of the block by neostigmine are not fast and reliable enough at this
      moment. During standard neuromuscular blockade the dosage of NMBA is a compromise between
      optimal surgical conditions (sufficiently deep block) and capability to antagonize the block
      rapidly at the end of the surgery. Introduction of sugammadex into clinical praxis brings the
      potential to change this paradigm. With rocuronium, it is possible to maintain deep
      neuromuscular blockade safely until the very end of the surgery and unlike with spontaneous
      recovery or reversal of the block with neostigmine, administration of sugammadex at the end
      of the surgery will enable quick and consistent reversal of the block. Data about routine use
      of the deep block are rare, PubMed lists with search strategy [(deep neuromuscular blockade)
      AND (laparoscopic surgery OR laparoscopy)] 11 references (January 12, 2015, www.pubmed.com).

      Patients undergoing robotic radical prostatectomy will be randomized to two groups differing
      in muscle relaxation strategy (standard vs. deep) and the type of antagonizing drug at the
      end of the surgery (neostigmine vs. sugammadex). Relevant end-points and the differences
      between groups with deep and standard neuromuscular blockade will be compared. Indication and
      dosage of rocuronium, neostigmine and sugammadex correspond to manufacturers'
      recommendations.
    
  