
    
      More than 1.5 million deaths of African children under 5 years of age are due to Plasmodium
      falciparum malaria. There is an urgent need for available and affordable strategies to
      control malaria morbidity in childhood.

      Malaria control measures have been assessed for their potential to reduce intensity of
      infection in order to decrease the risk of malaria. It has been shown that malaria prevention
      using drugs is potentially capable to reduce malaria morbidity, school absenteeism, and
      all-cause mortality. However, prevention using drugs in the first years of life can also
      result in the loss or delay of acquired resistance which can lead to a rebound phenomenon
      (i.e. an increased risk of severe malaria after the therapy ended). In a recent study on
      intermittent treatment with Fansidar® at 2, 3, and 9 months of age, the number of malaria
      cases during the first 12 months of life was significantly reduced and no rebound effect was
      observed. This study has demonstrated that the intermittent administration of Fansidar® is
      safe and has beneficial effects for the children. However, the effectiveness decreased some
      months after discontinuing the drug. The promising effect of the intermittent administration
      of fansidar shown in this study needs to be confirmed in areas of different endemicity such
      as Lambaréné, Gabon. It is assumed that a more extended intermittent application of Fansidar®
      than performed in the above example would likely result in a longer period of protection from
      malaria, and the extended intermittent administration of Fansidar should not lead to rebound
      effects resulting in a higher occurrence of malaria.

      The framework of this study offers a unique opportunity to study characteristics of
      infectious disease of importance in the Lambaréné area and the development of resistance
      against microbes at the maternofetal (mother/foetus) interface. Comparable studies will
      simultaneously take place in two associated study sites (Kumasi and Tamale) with different
      malaria endemicity in Ghana, West Africa.

      Comparison: Comparison of malaria attacks in children with and without intermittent Fansidar®
      treatment with drug administration at months 3 and 9 (alongside with routine vaccinations
      delivered through child vaccination programme) and an additional administration at month 15.
    
  