
    
      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a complex medical condition affecting as much as 36% of the
      Veteran population. Both empirical and anecdotal evidence identify elevations in fatigability
      as a major health concern in Veterans with CKD predialysis. Neuromuscular deteriorations
      resulting from CKD are likely to contribute to excessive fatigability, impacting an
      individual's functional status. Flywheel resistance exercise (FRE) uses inertial resistance
      to allow for optimal muscle loading through the entire concentric muscle action and promotes
      greater eccentric force generation compared to traditional resistance exercise. FRE has been
      shown to be superior to traditional resistance exercise for improving muscle strength, power,
      and physical function in healthy populations suggesting it may be a useful treatment for
      addressing neuromuscular impairments and functional decline. However, it is unclear if the
      addition of aerobic exercise to FRE would provide additive improvements in fatigue resistance
      in patients with CKD, without compromising neuromuscular and functional benefits. The purpose
      of this project is to (1) advance the understanding of performance fatigability and perceived
      fatigability, and the association with neuromuscular capacity in Veterans with CKD stage 3 &
      4 predialysis and (2) determine the extent to which combination FRE plus aerobic exercise
      training can improve fatigability status, neuromuscular capacity, and physical function in
      Veterans with CKD stage 3 & 4 predialysis. The central hypothesis is that reductions in
      neuromuscular capacity are associated with increases in fatigability severity, and that FRE
      plus aerobic exercise training will reduce fatigability severity while enhancing
      neuromuscular and functional capabilities in Veterans with CKD stage 3 & 4 predialysis. To
      address this hypothesis, researchers will characterize performance fatigability and perceived
      fatigability, and assess the associations between fatigability outcomes and neuromuscular
      capacity in Veterans with CKD stage 3 & 4 predialysis and examine the effects of 12-weeks of
      FRE plus aerobic exercise training on changes in performance and perceived fatigability,
      neuromuscular capacity, and physical function in Veterans with CKD stage 3 & 4 predialysis.
      Findings from this project will provide valuable information for advancing the understanding
      of performance fatigability and perceived fatigability, and their inter-relationship, in
      Veterans with CKD stages 3 and 4. Additionally, novel evidence on the responsiveness of
      performance and perceived fatigability, neuromuscular capacity, and quality of life to FRE
      plus aerobic exercise training will be gained.
    
  