
    
      Interventions: Two interventions will be tested, CP9700 (400 mg) and a placebo. Importantly,
      the placebo will be matched to the active treatment for sugars and vitamin C levels. All
      interventions will be supplied in blister packs.

      Participants: A total of 60 healthy, young adult participants will be recruited for these
      studies. Based upon the medium effect size (d = .65) observed in previous work using healthy
      adults and the Go/No go task, we calculate that a sample of 25 participants/treatment will
      provide considerable power (.70) to detect a similar sized effect in this study. The
      recruitment procedure allows for a 15% drop out rate. Participants will be recruited directly
      from the School of Psychology & Clinical Language Sciences Undergraduate Research Panel.

      Procedure: Following recruitment to the study, participants will start a two-week 'run-in'
      phase. During this phase, all participants will complete a 3-day food frequency questionnaire
      to give a measure of their habitual diet before being asked to adhere to a low-flavonoid
      diet, we will collect a 3-day food diary to check compliance and they will attend the
      laboratory for an initial 'practice' session of the cognitive tasks (see below). On the
      evening before the 'active treatment' phase commences, participants will be asked to consume
      a standard meal- this procedure will be repeated for each evening meal consumed prior to a
      test day. On the acute test day, participants will attend the laboratory in a fasted state
      where they will receive a standard low-flavanoid breakfast, followed by a battery of
      cognitive and mood tasks (see below). Subjects will then be given their intervention, and
      will be re-tested on our task battery at two-hourly intervals over a 6 hour period before
      being allowed to return home. During the chronic phase of the study, after 6 and 12 weeks of
      consuming the intervention, subjects will return to the lab in a fasted state (prior to
      taking their daily intervention), will be given a standard low flavonoid breakfast, and will
      be tested on the task battery before consuming their allocated intervention. Compliance will
      be assured through collection of used blister packs.

      The task battery is composed of cognitive tests and measures of mood, which our previous data
      show to be sensitive to flavonoid interventions, both acutely and chronically. More
      generally, the cognitive tests are categorised into one of two key cognitive domains; (i)
      Executive Function (i.e., Serial Sevens, Stroop, Modified Attention Network Test) and (ii)
      Episodic Memory (i.e., immediate and delayed auditory recall, verbal recognition, immediate
      and delayed spatial memory). Moreover, our previous data indicates increased cerebral blood
      flow in the in the acute postprandial phase 2-5 hours following flavonoid consumption in
      brain regions required for executive function and episodic memory including the frontal
      cortex and frontal gyrus. In addition, changes in mood will be measured using the PANAS,
      which has previously been shown to be sensitive to flavonoid interventions acutely and
      chronically.
    
  