
    
      Disruptive behavior problems are among the most prevalent mental health conditions for young
      children, and they carry significant risks for later socioemotional, conduct, and academic
      problems, such as substance abuse, delinquency, and school failure. How parents handle these
      challenging behaviors strongly influences their children's long-term trajectory.
      Evidence-based parenting programs have shown much value in reducing early-onset disruptive
      behavior problems, thereby reducing risks for later substance abuse and other behavioral
      health problems. The reach of parenting programs is limited, however, by significant
      challenges in recruiting, engaging, and retaining parents, such that most parents who could
      benefit from parenting assistance never receive it. A public health approach for improving
      parenting practices that makes evidence-based parenting programs widely available and
      accessible in a range of formats could reduce the prevalence of disruptive behavior problems,
      and thus the population-level risk for substance abuse and other adverse outcomes.
      Internet-based intervention offers significant potential as part of a population-wide
      strategy for bringing evidence-based parenting practices to a broad range of parents
      experiencing challenges in raising their children. Furthermore, pediatricians could be a
      natural touchpoint for reaching families with evidence-based parenting supports. The field
      knows little, however, about the potential of the internet to strengthen parenting practices,
      or about how pediatric practitioners might be engaged in improving the reach of an online
      parenting program. This study will experimentally evaluate an internet-based version of the
      Triple P Positive Parenting Program, the Triple P Online System (TPOS), which presents the
      Triple P content in an interactive, video-enriched, and personalized format with 3-levels of
      flexible dosage, and will compare it against usual community services. Thirty pediatric
      clinics involving 100 practitioners in 9 counties across western Washington will be recruited
      and randomized to receive (a) access for their patients to the Triple P Online System and
      training in how to effectively promote TPOS and advise parents on their children's behavior
      problems or (b) Usual Care Community-Waitlist Control, in which parents will be assisted with
      an appropriate referral for services in the community. Practitioners will recruit into their
      respective conditions 400 families of 3-8 year-old children with elevated behavior problems.
      Measures of parents' parenting practices, family functioning, children's disruptive behavior
      problems, and practitioners' protocols for advising on behavior problems will be obtained at
      baseline, post-intervention, and 1-year follow-up. The efficacy of the Triple P Online System
      in improving these outcomes will be examined, as well as dosage-response relationships. This
      study will further our understanding of the potential value of promoting internet-based
      parenting programs through pediatric practitioners. Maximizing the reach of evidence-based
      parenting programs has the potential to reduce the prevalence of children's behavior
      problems, and thus reduce risks for later problems such as substance abuse.
    
  