
    
      Patients referred for antireflux surgery and/or hiatal hernia repair will be considered for
      enrollment. Standard preoperative evaluation will include esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) to
      assess for intraluminal pathology including esophagitis, columnar lined esophagus suggestive
      of Barrett's esophagus, intraluminal masses, and to measure hernia size. Patients will also
      undergo preoperative high resolution esophageal manometry testing with impedance as
      clinically indicated to evaluate esophageal motility as assessed by standardized Chicago
      Classification V3. Manometry will occasionally be avoided in patients with paraesophageal
      hernias without substantial dysphagia or those not amenable to manometry, with appropriate
      upper gastrointestinal radiology imaging (UGI), who will be having partial fundoplications.
      UGI is also a routine preoperative evaluation. Furthermore, pH testing for evaluation of acid
      reflux will be performed in patients without LA grade C or D esophagitis, paraesophageal
      hernia, or pathologic confirmation of Barrett's esophagus.

      Patients appropriate for enrollment will be consented in the office setting. Preoperative
      baseline evaluations of symptom severity will be assessed via the GERD-HRQL survey and Mayo
      Dysphagia Questionnaire. Surgery will be scheduled and patients will undergo intraoperative
      impedance planimetry with EndoFLIP obtaining measurements of the cross-sectional area,
      balloon pressure, minimum diameter, compliance, length of high pressure segment, and
      distensibility index of the EGJ using an 8cm EndoFLIP balloon. Sequential assessments will be
      performed to 30ml and 40ml for up to a minute for each volume of distension. An initial
      baseline measurement will be obtained after establishment of pneumoperitoneum. A second
      measurement will occur following hiatal dissection and mobilization but prior to crural
      closure. Two additional measurements will be obtained after hiatal closure and after
      fundoplication.

      Surgeons will be blinded to EndoFLIP results for half of the cases, with the first 25 cases
      blinded and the second 25 cases with the surgeons unblinded. There will be interim analysis
      between the two groups' surgeries. During blinded cases no adjustment will be made to the
      surgical procedure based on EndoFLIP results, as the operating surgeon will not be informed
      of the measured values. After the first 25 cases, the surgeons will be unblinded and be able
      to determine goal impedance planimetry values based on patient postoperative symptom scores.
      In the following 25 unblinded cases, the surgeon will be able to augment the surgical intent
      based on EndoFLIP measurements, such as adding or removing hiatal sutures or repeating the
      fundoplication. Patients will be blinded to the type of procedure (i.e. surgeon blinded or
      unblinded). The EndoFLIP catheters and generator will be provided by Medtronic, at no cost to
      the patient. Medtronic will also cover the fees associated with the EndoFLIP procedure (CPT
      91040 is used).

      Postoperative clinical care will proceed as per standard protocol for foregut surgery, with 1
      additional office visit. Reports of postoperative symptomatology and QOL will be performed,
      via GERD-HRQL and Mayo Dysphagia Questionnaire during follow up clinic appointments at 2
      weeks and 6 weeks postoperative, and with additional long-term follow-up of at 6 months.
      Long-term follow-up will again assess for QOL symptoms via GERD-HRQL and the Mayo Dysphagia
      Questionnaire. The 6 month follow-up visit is not typical practice and the patients cost for
      this visit will be covered by Medtronic. Per standard clinical care, recurrence of symptoms
      or dysphagia at any point may lead to additional postoperative testing, including UGI, EGD,
      pH testing, esophageal manometry, CT scan, or EndoFLIP. Postoperative GERD-HRQL and Mayo
      Dysphagia score results will be compared to intraoperative EndoFLIP measurements in interim
      and final analysis.
    
  