
    
      The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of hypnosis for reducing
      musculoskeletal pain (MSP) in women taking aromatase inhibitors (AIs) for breast cancer.
      Research indicates that AIs are associated with musculoskeletal pain in up to 61% of breast
      cancer survivors. AI-associated MSP can include joint pain in the wrists, hands, and knees;
      carpal tunnel syndrome and trigger finger; and decreased grip strength, morning stiffness,
      and general muscle pain. MSP can lead to difficulty performing daily activities and can
      reduce quality of life in breast cancer survivors. This pain is not only aversive in and of
      itself, but also is associated with non-adherence to prescribed, daily AI regimens. In some
      studies, AI non-adherence estimates were as high as 50%.

      At the present time, there is no "gold standard" treatment for AI-associated MSP. What is
      needed is an intervention that: reduces breast cancer survivors' MSP and helps them be more
      adherent to their prescribed AI regimen, does not have side-effects of its own, does not
      place a large time or financial burden on survivors, and which can be taught to survivors to
      practice on their own.

      Hypnosis, a mind-body intervention, has been widely demonstrated to reduce pain. In fact,
      analgesia is perhaps the best known effect of hypnosis. Meta-analyses have consistently
      supported the efficacy of hypnosis for pain control, including chronic pain. Hypnosis also
      has a long tradition in cancer symptom management, especially for pain reduction. Hypnosis
      has been defined as an agreement between a person designated as the hypnotist (e.g., health
      care professional) and a person designated as the client or patient to participate in a
      psychotherapeutic technique based on the hypnotist providing suggestions for changes in
      sensation, perception, cognition, affect, mood, or behavior.

      This study will examine whether or not hypnosis is helpful in reducing breast cancer
      survivors' AI-related MSP and in improving their adherence to their prescribed AI regimen.
      This study will also examine whether the hypnosis intervention is cost effective. To answer
      these questions, this randomized clinical trial will compare hypnosis (three sessions) to a
      non-hypnosis, attention control, empathic listening condition (three sessions). For each
      intervention, the first session will be approximately 40 minutes, and sessions 2 and 3 will
      be approximately 30 minutes each. Both interventions will be delivered face-to-face, by a
      doctoral-level psychology professional.

      All participants will be taking AIs for breast cancer, will be experiencing some
      musculoskeletal pain since starting AIs (≥3 on a 10 point scale), and will be randomized to
      one of the two intervention groups. Study participants will be asked to complete measures of
      pain, AI adherence, and other behavioral and psychosocial measures over the course of
      12-month period. The follow-up assessments will evaluate the clinical efficacy and
      cost-effectiveness of hypnosis versus professional attention.

      Overall, this project is a critical step towards reducing the struggles of breast cancer
      survivors experiencing AI-related MSP, and associated non-adherence. By reducing MSP and
      improving AI adherence, the hypnosis intervention tested here has the potential to improve
      quality of life and well-being.
    
  