
    
      Hypogonadism is becoming an increasingly recognized clinical syndrome affecting millions of
      men in the United States and globally, and is characterized by symptoms including chronic
      fatigue, decreased libido and muscle mass, and low serum testosterone level. Treatment of
      hypogonadism in men typically involves treatment with exogenous testosterone.

      However, exogenous testosterone therapy is not without risks, and can cause numerous side
      effects including high blood pressure, hyperlipidemia, and erythrocytosis, or elevated
      hematocrit. Adverse effects of erythrocytosis can include an increased risk of developing
      thromboembolism, and treatment of erythrocytosis involves therapeutic phlebotomy and
      testosterone dose adjustment, which can decrease the symptomatic benefits of testosterone
      therapy.

      Aghazadeh et al.found that erythrocytosis occurring during testosterone therapy may be
      related to dihydrotestosterone (DHT) levels. As part of normal physiology, testosterone is
      converted to DHT via 5-alpha reductase (5AR). DHT is associated with various effects on the
      body, including stimulation of prostate growth, male pattern baldness, and others. Currently,
      finasteride, a 5-alpha reductase inhibitor (5ARI), is available as an FDA-approved drug used
      to treat DHT-related prostate growth and to prevent DHT-related baldness.

      Given the positive association between DHT and the increased hematocrit seen in men being
      treated for hypogonadism with exogenous testosterone, finasteride's effects in preventing the
      synthesis of DHT may improve or even prevent erythrocytosis in men on testosterone.

      The study will be a prospective randomized controlled trial of patients on injectable
      testosterone therapy. Subjects will be evenly distributed between the control and treatment
      groups. The treatment groups will receive finasteride and the control groups will not. All
      subjects will then be followed with blood tests to determine if there are any changes in
      their hematocrit, testosterone, DHT, and other blood test values.

      An interim data analysis will be performed after approximately 150 men (75 treatment and 75
      control) are accrued into the study and followed for at least 1 year. Rates of hematocrit
      elevation and erythrocytosis will be evaluated in finasteride treated and untreated men to
      determine whether finasteride is having an impact on erythrocytosis rates and whether any
      unanticipated adverse effects are occurring. Secondary outcomes, including effects on
      erythropoietin and hepcidin levels, will also be evaluated. Study accrual will continue if
      there is evidence that finasteride may decrease the incidence of erythrocytosis. The study
      will be stopped if unacceptable adverse events are identified or if there is no evidence
      suggesting that finasteride mitigates the risk of erythrocytosis.
    
  