
    
      The study described herein is a small randomised, open-label, single centre feasibility study
      of 12 patients with T1D and obesity. The aim of the study is to assess the safety,
      acceptability and feasibility of ILED (850kcal/day 2 days/week) and CLED (850kcal/day) over
      12 weeks in a real life setting with people with T1D and obesity to help them lose weight and
      improve their glycaemic control. The low energy diets will involve Nestle Optifast® meal
      replacements as a total diet replacement (TDR).

      People with T1D are becoming increasingly accustomed to remote monitoring of their blood
      glucose by health professionals using several continuous glucose monitoring devices including
      the Freestyle Libre® flash glucose monitoring system. The Freestyle Libre® allows healthcare
      professionals to view patient blood glucose trends and patterns from the web-based platform
      Libreview®. The study described herein will also assess the safety and practicality of
      providing remote follow-up support by healthcare professionals (dietitian, nurse and
      psychologist) to patients with T1D and obesity during the course of implementing the low
      energy diets. High-frequency remote follow up has been shown to be superior to low-frequency
      face-to-face care in weight management interventions. Remote care reduces participants'
      burden to attend face-to-face appointments and may be cost-effective compared with
      face-to-face care whilst improving access to care. The study described herein will
      incorporate high-frequency remote follow up via telephone and/or the Oviva® smartphone
      application facilitating messaging, video calls and self-monitoring of weight and blood
      pressure. The Freestyle Libre® flash glucose monitoring system will facilitate remote review
      of blood glucose readings.

      Positive results from this feasibility study of two different low energy diets will inform
      whether one or both diets go forward into a large and longer term randomised efficacy trial
      following the Medical Research Council complex intervention guidance. This could provide the
      evidence base to inform the use of low energy diets in individuals with T1D and obesity for
      weight loss to improve their metabolic status and reduce the risk of cardiovascular and other
      physical and mental co morbidities associated with T1D.
    
  