
    
      This prospective cohort study aims to investigate the long-standing chemosensory disorders
      and oral manifestation after recovery of the COVID-19 illness. A correlation between the
      long-standing symptoms and the COVID-19 severity grade will be very important to understand
      and clarify the aetiology of these symptoms.

      Study objectives:

        1. To describe the frequency and severity of oral signs and chemosensory disorders that
           persist after the recovery of COVID-19 and to examine whether "taste disorders" can be
           discriminated into an- or hypogeusia and an- or hyposmia.

        2. To report any correlation between the severity grade of COVID-19 and the resulting
           standing symptoms.

        3. To describe the oral microbiome after infection with COVID-19 and to describe possible
           changes in comparison to normal healthy individuals.

      Clinical and -if indicated- radiological examination to assess the long-term oral and
      chemosensory impairment and complaints of COVID-19 patients after their recovery shall be
      performed in an interdisciplinary setting of Maxillofacial Surgery, ENT and Medical
      Microbiology.

      The study subjects will be divided into three groups according to the severity grade of
      illness: non-hospitalized, hospitalized, and intensive care patients. All adult COVID-19
      recovery patients (exceeding the age of 18) will be included in the study. The time between
      illness and study recruitment shall be at least 3 months. Exclusion criteria are psychiatric
      or neurological diseases, previous trauma, surgery or radiotherapy in the oral or nasal
      cavities, pre-existing taste or smell dysfunctions or chronic rhinosinusitis.

      The study variables include age, sex, co-morbidities, possible causes of exclusion from the
      study. The oral health assessment will be performed by examination of: periodontal status,
      assessment of oral lesions, a radiological examination by using panoramic x-ray if clinically
      indicated, photo documentation, objective evaluation of the olfactory and gustatory functions
      with psychophysical tests. The gustatory and olfactory function will be tested by using the
      combined Burghart Screening 12 test containing smelling sticks and taste strips (Fa.
      MediSense, Groningen, Netherlands). Evaluation of taste and smell is performed by offering
      the sticks/strips and demand a forced multiple choice.
    
  