
    
      According to the total population of cancer patients, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and
      colorectal cancer (CRC), two of gastroenterological cancers are involved in the most acquired
      five cancers. Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of tumor-related morbidity and
      mortality worldwide, and HCC is one of the top ten cancers in China. Currently, the
      intervention for gastrointestinal cancers mainly focuses on surgical removal, but patients
      still have a high risk of recurrence. Thus, the prevention of cancer recurrence is the most
      crucial topic for the intervention. The pathophysiology of gastroenterological cancers is
      multifactorial and not yet completely understood. However, immunosuppression is a major
      contributing factor in tumor cells play a central part in disease progression. It determines
      the prognosis of patients.

      The immune checkpoint or complementary therapy in the course of cancer treatment has been
      reported as effective methods for patients. In recent years, more integrated treatment
      studies have found that acupuncture can improve the discomfort and pain caused by
      chemotherapy. In addition, the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis has shown that acupuncture
      can effectively regulate the immunity of patients. In this study, investigators are
      considering to apply modern acupuncture as the immune modulation in gastroenterological
      cancers. Modern acupuncture is to use the scalp and ear acupuncture methods to identify
      diseases and checkpoints and apply them to regulate the immune function of patients with
      gastroenterological cancers. The infiltration of a specific subtype of T-cell and the
      expression of PD-L1 in tumors may be applied as indicators of cancer prognosis. These CD8 T
      cells (also called Tex cells) often fail to eradicate tumors and can become dysfunctional or
      exhausted. The magnitude of the reinvigoration of circulating Tex cells determined in
      relation to pretreatment tumor burden correlated with clinical response. By monitoring Tex
      cells, investigators will evaluate the feasibility of acupuncture as a complementary therapy
      to regulate the immune functions of patients with gastroenterological cancers
    
  