
    
      In this clinical trial, invvestigators combine decitabine and talazoparib in the treatment of
      patients with AML. Decitabine will be given in the established regimen of IV daily dosing for
      5 days every 28 days. Talazoparib will be initiated orally daily on a continuous basis,
      beginning on Day 1 of Course 1. In this phase 1 trial, decitabine and talazoparib will be
      tested at 3 and 4 dose levels, respectively, yielding up to 6 combinations. Doses will be
      escalated based on tolerability using a 'classic' 3+3 design. Once the MTD for decitabine
      combined with 0.25 mg talazoparib is established, the dose of talazoparib will be escalated
      with the dose of decitabine kept fixed at the provisional MTD dose. There is no further
      stepping up or down of the drugs in the combination.

      The regimen for phase 2 testing will be chosen based on tolerability, but also based on
      available pharmacodynamic and efficacy data. In phase 2, the selected combination regimen
      will be studied for efficacy.

      Each patient will be treated until occurrence of either unacceptable toxicity or disease
      progression. Bone marrow aspirate and biopsy will be performed on approximately day 28 of
      each treatment course unless circulating blasts persist in the peripheral blood, until
      documentation of CR or CRi. Bone marrow aspirate and biopsy will then be repeated at time of
      clinical concern for disease progression.

      In Phase 1, the clinical trial will enroll patients with relapsed and refractory AML in order
      to test the novel combination initially in patients with less favorable outcomes with
      decitabine alone. This is being done to avoid the possibility of compromising the outcomes of
      untreated patients, who have up to a 40% response rate to 5-day decitabine as a single agent,
      in the unlikely possibility that the combination is inferior. The regimen will then also be
      tested in previously untreated AML patients unfit for chemotherapy in phase 2.
    
  