
    
      The study is a pragmatic, single-blind, single-centre randomised controlled trial (RCT) where
      community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) patients will receive standard of care microbiological
      testing or standard of care microbiological testing and comprehensive ultra-rapid molecular
      testing (UR-MT).

      Investigators will over a 3-year period (2020-2022), consecutively enroll cases of CAP
      admitted (~900/year) to Haukeland University Hospital (HUS, Bergen). The study will consist
      of representative patients admitted with CAP and thus, will potentially be generalisable to
      hospitalised patients with CAP in Norway. As COVID-19 cannot be distinguished clinically from
      other pneumonias, the study will therefore include patients with suspected CAP, including
      with COVID-19. Approximately 1500 CAP patients will be screened to achieve a total of 1060
      (allowing for a 10% dropout rate) enrolled patients that are randomly assigned to receive
      standard of care microbiological testing or standard of care testing microbiological and the
      comprehensive ultra-rapid molecular test (UR-MT).

      Inclusion criteria for the study are: adults (aged ≥18 years), with a clinical diagnosis of
      CAP (presence of at least two clinical criteria [new/worsening cough, new/worsening
      expectoration of sputum, haemoptysis, new/worsening dyspnoea, pleuritic chest pain, fever, or
      abnormalities on chest auscultation or percussion] or one clinical criterion and radiological
      evidence of CAP), requiring hospitalisation to a non-ICU ward, and with a capacity to give
      informed written consent or consent provided by the patient's legally authorized
      representative.

      Exclusion criteria include: lung tumour, cystic fibrosis, a palliative approach, patients who
      decline to provide respiratory tract specimens, severe immunodeficiency, and hospitalization
      for two or more days in the last 14 days.

      Based on clinical evaluation and data of admission, patients will be triaged for severity
      according to current risk assessment guidelines, as well as the CRB-65 score for the
      assessment of severity of pneumonia. Randomization of CAP patients to the two treatment arms
      (1:1) will be performed in blocks of size 4, 6, or, 8, occurring in random order, to ensure
      approximately equal allocation over the year.

      The prescribed empirical therapy for each patient will be compared with what antimicrobial(s)
      would have been appropriate for pathogen-directed therapy, based on the UR-MT result.
      Appropriate pathogen-directed therapy will be determined using national guidelines
      recommended by the Norwegian directorate of health
    
  