
    
      This is a multi-centre, observational (non-interventional) study, designed to follow patients
      with advanced ovarian fallopian tube and primary peritoneal cancer, who are receiving
      Niraparib as maintenance treatment, according to the Niraparib access criteria (via TESARO
      patient access programme, EMA licence and NHS pending NICE assessment due 2018) including
      assessment of tolerability to Niraparib therapy. These pathways will include patients who
      have been registered and not prescribed drug. In these cases, the reason for patients not
      receiving Niraparib will be recorded. Up to 15 centres will be involved in the study. Centres
      will be selected based on interest in or experience of prescribing Niraparib and geographical
      location in order to give a representative picture of the management of Niraparib in the UK.

      Cohort 1: Retrospective Cohort

      This cohort will include:

        -  Patients who have previously commenced maintenance Niraparib prior to the MONITOR study
           opening at the site and are still receiving Niraparib but in whom quality of life data
           are not available.

        -  Patients who have previously commenced Niraparib prior to the MONITOR Study opening at
           the site but are now deceased but will be eligible for retrospective data collection
           without the need for informed consent.

        -  Patients who have previously commenced maintenance Niraparib prior to the MONITOR study
           opening at the site but have discontinued treatment.

        -  Data in respect of AEs, SAEs, ADRs and AESIs will be recorded in Case Report Forms and
           be identified via the patient's medical records. There is no requirement to complete
           trial specific SAE reporting forms in this cohort.

      Cohort 2: Prospective Cohort

      This cohort will include:

        -  Patients who have previously commenced maintenance Niraparib prior to the MONITOR study
           opening at the site and are still receiving Niraparib and in whom quality of life data
           is available.

        -  Patients who are due to commence maintenance Niraparib treatment.

      The collection of QoL data, using EQ-5D-5L and EORTC QoL-OV28, FACT-O questionnaires will be
      mandatory. For patients continuing on Niraparib, data will be collected retrospectively to
      the point they sign the consent form, and prospectively. Going forward QoL data will not be
      collected for these patients unless available as part of routine clinical care and baseline
      QoL is available.

      The collection of data relating to adverse events will be mandatory. The scope of adverse
      events to be recorded includes AEs, SAEs, ADRs and AESIs - see section 5.3.1 for definitions
      of these events. Details in respect of AEs and SAEs, ADRs and AESIs will be recorded during
      routine clinic visits or via standard of care contact with the patient.

      No additional visits will be required, no study medication will be administrated, and no
      additional procedures will be performed outside the local routine practice as part of the
      trial. Patients will be managed and followed up according to routine practice. Only data
      available in the patient's medical record will be collected. Patients consented to cohort 2
      will be asked to complete validated QoL tools; EQ-5D-5L, FACT-O and EORTC QOL-OV28.
      Approximately 200 patients will be enrolled with an estimated 50 in the retrospective cohort
      and 150 in the prospective cohort.
    
  