
    
      In vitro Fertilisation (IVF) treatments can be performed without gonadotropins to reduce side
      effects. These kinds of IVF treatments are called Natural Cycle IVF (NC-IVF). As NC-IVFs are
      almost equally effective as classical IVF with gonadotropins but less stressful, they are
      preferred by many women.

      However, a relevant burden in NC-IVF still is the ovulation induction by self-injection of
      human Chorionic Gonadotropin (hCG).

      Replacing hCG injection by a nasally applicable Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone agonist
      (GnRHa) might reduce this discomfort. GnRHa are already used to induce ovulation in classical
      IVF treatments.

      The objective of our study ist to answer the question whether NC-IVF treatment with a nasal
      GnRH agonist can increase treatment tolerability and reduce discomfort while being equally
      successful in terms of embryo transfer rates than NC-IVF treatment with subcutaneous
      application of hCG.

      The study will be a randomized controlled proof-of-concept trial. It will be performed in two
      steps whereas the power analysis only relates to the first step which is
      prospective-randomized and will be performed as follows:

      Step 1:

      Prior to the start of the first NC-IVF treatment cycle the patients will be randomized in
      equal parts by electronic randomisation to receive either the standard therapy with hCG
      injection (Intervention A) or the study therapy with nasal GnRHa (Intervention B).

      • Intervention A: As soon as the expected follicle size is >15 mm, ovulation will be induced
      by injecting 5.000 IU hCG. The follicle aspiration, including flushing of the follicle will
      be performed 36 hours later. The transfer of the embryo will be performed 2-5 days after the
      aspiration.

      In order to determine estradiol- and progesterone concentrations blood will be taken 10±1
      days after the hCG application. Pregnancy will be confirmed or excluded by hCG testing in
      serum or urine 14-21 days after the follicle aspiration. In case of positive hCG testing,
      clinical pregnancy will be confirmed by vaginal ultrasound 4-6 weeks after follicle
      aspiration.

      • Intervention B: The study therapy (Intervention B) will be performed identically as
      Intervention A with the following exception: Instead of injecting subcutaneous hCG the
      patients will apply 1 hub of a GnRHa nasal spray (200 microg Nafarelin) to induce ovulation.

      Step 2:

      If there is no pregnancy achieved in the first treatment cycle, the patients will switch to
      the respective other intervention (cross-over design). This procedure allows for an
      intraindividual comparison of the main outcomes (treatment tolerability and discomfort).
      Again, the two interventions will be performed as described in step 1.

      Questionnaires:

      At the beginning of the study, all participants will fill in the Fertility Quality of Life
      (FertiQoL) Core questionnaire.

      For each treatment cycle, they will additionally fill in the FertiQoL Treatment questionnaire
      and a set of visual analog scale (VAS) questions concerning the level of discomfort
      encountered in the treatment.
    
  