
    
      The standard surgical treatment for highly differentiated papillary thyroid cancer > 10 mm
      according to recent national and international guidelines, is total thyroidectomy and central
      lymphnode clearance, and for patients with cytology indicating thyroid neoplasia of unclear
      malignant potential hemithyroidectomy on the side of the tumour.

      There are however a number of clinical problems with these approaches:

        -  For patients with papillary thyroid cancer, a significant proportion will receive
           unnecessary extensive surgical treatment

        -  In papillary thyroid cancer, central lymphnode clearance increases the risk for
           complications, especially the risk for hypoparathyroidism.

      According to a Scandinavian survey (Scandinavian Quality Register for Thyroid- and
      Parathyroid Surgery; www. thyroid-parathyroidsurgery.com),16 % of patients with unclear
      follicular neoplasia, will have a final histological diagnosis of thyroid cancer, and in half
      of them, this cancer will be of the papillary subtype. In patients with preoperatively
      suspected, but not proven malignancy by cytology, 30 % will receive a final histological
      diagnosis of thyroid cancer, and in these patients, 70 % will be of the papillary subtype.
      Typically these patients will undergo a second operation with a contralateral
      hemithyroidectomy. In many cases, due to risk for complications, central lymphnode clearance
      is avoided in these cases. Therefore, the staging of the cancer will be incomplete, and some
      patients will receive suboptimal surgical treatment.

      The study is designed to compare SN investigation with the final histology of the central
      lymphnodes:

        -  Pretracheal and bilateral paratracheal for patients with preoperatively diagnosed
           papillary thyroid cancer

        -  Pretracheal and ipsilateral paratracheal for tumours of uncertain malignant potential on
           cytology

      The identification of SN will be aided by preoperative ultrasound guided injection of 99m-
      Tc- nanocolloid albumin in the thyroid tumour. The results of the histological investigation
      of SN will be compared to that of the results from the central lymphnode clearance.
    
  