
    
      The severe form of COVID-19 infection is characterized and marked by severe pneumonia and the
      Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). ARDS is characterized by the loss of pulmonary
      tissue compliance and severe hypoxia. The central pathophysiologic changes of COVID-19+ ARDS
      are dysregulated inflammation within the alveolar space and altered permeability of the
      alveolar-capillary barrier. The public health impact of this COVID-19+ ARDS is considerable
      with a large number of ARDS cases that need to be treated currently on German Intensive Care
      Units. To date, the associated mortality ranges between 30 to 50%. In the ongoing COVID-19
      crisis cases of ARDS will still increase and pose a significant challenge to the German
      Medical System. Despite the emerging understanding of COVID-19+ ARDS, treatment only remains
      to be symptomatic using mechanical ventilation, prone positioning and in severe cases of
      hypoxia extracorporal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). Current evidence generated by clinical
      trials demonstrates that patients with ARDS should be referred to a specialized center to
      receive expert treatment. The use of ECMO might have a beneficial effect on overall patient
      outcome, yet this has not been proven by clinical trials and to date ECMO is recommended as
      measure of last resort in the current ARDS treatment guidelines. The timing of ECMO placement
      to relieve hypoxia is an important question for the treating clinician but is not well
      studied to date. This might also have impact on the long-term functional outcome of patients.
      In addition, evidence about the role of ECMO in the outcome of COVID-19+ patients might have
      significant impact on the referral of patients to a specialized center and is important for
      the treating physician. Therefore, the investigators want to pursue the questions whether
      early ECMO placement is superior than the placement of ECMO as a rescue measure, and whether
      this could result in improved overall outcome of patients with COVID-19+ ARDS.
    
  