
    
      The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of telephone symptom triage protocols on
      symptom management, quality of life and self-maintenance in patients with cancer who applied
      systemic treatment. The study is a randomized controlled experimental study.

      Before starting the research, permissions were taken. Pan-Canadian Oncology Symptom Triage
      and Remote Support (COSTaRS) guides were translated into Turkish and expert opinions were
      obtained.

      The sample of the study included cancer patients who were treated with chemotherapy in the
      Akdeniz University Hospital Day Chemotherapy Unit. The study included 80% power, 95%
      reliability and 0.05 error margins, and 70 patients (35 interventions and 35 controls) were
      randomized into the computer program.

      According to the interference protocol of the study:

        -  Four patients who received systemic chemotherapy were tested with pilot study.

        -  Patients were included in the study according to the inclusion criteria and
           randomization list.

        -  Preliminary interviews were conducted with the newly diagnosed patients in the control
           and intervention groups. Preliminary tests were performed after obtaining consent. For
           this purpose, Personal Information Form, Chemotherapy Symptom Assessment Scale,
           Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Form-General - FACT-G (Version 4) Quality of
           Life Scale and Self-Care Power Scale were applied.

        -  After the pre-tests, the patients who were included in the intervention group were given
           the symptom triage protocol usage guide created according to the symptom triage
           protocol. The patients were informed by the researcher about the content and use of the
           guideline. Information about the contents of the guide was made between 10:00-14:00
           hours during working hours during the week and it took an average of 15-20 minutes.

        -  The patients included in the intervention group were searched by the researcher on the
           3rd, 7th and 10th days after each chemotherapy for 3 cycles of chemotherapy.

        -  During the three-month follow-ups, patients were able to call the investigator 7/24 to
           request symptom triage.

        -  In accordance with the Remote Symptom Management Guidelines for Adults Treated with
           Cancer, patient triage was performed for symptom management and patients were referred
           to the appropriate sources according to the severity of the symptom.

        -  In case of urgent necessity, patients were referred from the second consultant who were
           from Medical Oncology Department.

        -  The frequency of calls for the symptom triage protocol application of the intervention
           group was monitored and the information was recorded in the intervention group telephone
           interview form.

        -  The patients in the control group did not undergo any intervention other than routine
           hospital follow-up.

        -  Patients who were included in the control and intervention groups were subjected to
           final tests at the hospital after 3 months.
    
  