
    
      Neck pain is a second the most common problems in musculoskeletal problems the low back pain
      in general population.The prevalence of neck pain at the some point in their lifetime in
      general population had been reported to be between 43 to 66.7 percent.the neck problems could
      be involved physical function, psychological function and social function. The economic
      burden for neck pain is very high.Recent studies indicate that the patients with chronic neck
      pain present decreased activation and weak of neck muscles, especially deep flexor and
      extensor muscles. Alterations of deep are associated with pain and impairment of neck
      function in chronic neck pain.Recently, many studies have focused on specific training on
      deep cervical muscles, especially deep cervical flexor and deep cervical extensor muscles.
      The specific training on deep cervical muscles aims to improve control strategy, improve
      activation of deep cervical flexor muscles to optimize movement control of segmental motion
      of the cervical spine. Numerous studies using cranio-cervical flexor exercise as a treatment
      have revealed reduction on pain, neck disability, changing in activation of deep and
      superficial cervical flexor muscles. Further, the cervical extensor muscles are believed to
      be equally important for the rehabilitation of patients with neck pain. So, the activation of
      the deep cervical extensors should be emphasized for the management in people with neck pain.
      Schomacher et al (2012) suggested that isometric resisted exercise at the second cervical
      vertebra can improve semispinalis cervicis muscle activity in neck pain patients. However,
      the retention effect of semispinalis cervicis exercise is unknown. Therefore, the
      semispinalis cervicis exercise still need more evidence to support clinically effects. The
      current study will be conducted to fill the gap of the previous study in immediately, short,
      and long term effects of semispinalis cervicis exercise in chronic neck pain.
    
  