
    
      The seventh edition of the UICC/AJCC staging system, which is widely used in recent years, is
      based on survival data in the traditional era of radiotherapy. However, the survival of
      nasopharyngeal cancer patients has been greatly improved in the era of modern radiation
      therapy, which IMRT (Intension Modulated Radiotherapy) is widely used. Even with radiotherapy
      alone, the 5 year disease specific survival rate of nasopharyngeal carcinoma with stage I-II
      is more than 95%, the 3 year overall survival rate of non metastatic III-IV patients is about
      75%, and the 5 year overall survival rate is about 80%. The 5 year survival rate of
      metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma can reach more than 20% with systemic treatment. Due to
      the increase of tumor control rate and survival rate in era of IMRT, the role of the seventh
      edition of UICC/AJCC staging system in predicting prognosis is becoming weaker and
      inaccurate.

      Therefore, in the previous study, we put forward a new staging for the clinical staging of
      nasopharyngeal carcinoma in the era of IMRT without changing the current T, N, M staging
      definition of the seventh edition of the UICC/AJCC staging system. We call this new stage
      "Cooperative Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Group" stage, namely CNG stage. In CNG stage, the
      clinical stages were reduced to three stages, namely, CNG I stage includes T1-3N0-1M0 and
      T1-2N2M0, CNG II stage includes T3N2M0, T4N0-2M0 and TanyN3M0, CNG III stage includes
      TanyNanyM1, and the 5 year DSS (Disease specific survival) is 93.3%, 72.7%, and 24%,
      respectively, with a significant difference.

      This year, UICC/AJCC has proposed an eighth edition of nasopharyngeal carcinoma staging
      system based on the revision of the seventh edition. The main updates are: (1) add the
      definition of the T0 phase, that is, the EBV positive cervical lymph node metastases with
      uncertain primary foci, and (2) the invasion of the adjacent muscles (including the pterygus,
      the extradypterygus, and the anterior vertebroid muscle) into T2; (3) replace the
      "masticatory muscle space" and "subtemporal fossa" in the previous T4 definition with a
      specific description of soft tissue invasion; (4) change the supraclavicular fossa to the
      lower neck (defined as the lymph node metastases below the subchondral edge); (5) N3a and N3b
      are combined called N3, and it is defined as a single / double neck lymph node with long
      diameter > 6cm, and/or below the subchondral subchondral edge; (6) the IVA stage (T4 N0-2 M0)
      and the IVB stage (anyT N3 M0) are combined called IVA stage; (7) the IVC stage (anyT anyN)
      is changed to IVB stage. The eighth version is mainly changed in the definition and
      refinement of the anatomic location compared with the seventh edition. Except for the
      migration of the adjacent muscle invasion, and the other changes are not significant. The
      upper bound of N3 is moved from the supraclavicular fossa to the subchondral edge in N
      staging. This is different from our new CNG staging concept.

      CNG staging of nasopharyngeal carcinoma is related to the unique biological behavior of
      nasopharyngeal carcinoma, which is consistent with the three clinical patterns of
      nasopharyngeal carcinoma, namely, non metastasis, tendency to metastasis and metastasis. The
      pattern of tendency to metastasis was related to the late T and N staging. Based on the
      biological behavior and clinical survival data of NPC, we further proposed the treatment
      strategy of nasopharyngeal carcinoma under the guidance of CNG staging, that is, the CNG I
      stage is consistent with the non metastasis model, and the IMRT alone is sufficient. The CNG
      II stage is consistent with the tendency to metastasis mode, which can benefit from combined
      radiotherapy and chemotherapy. The CNG III stage is metastatic mode, which is recommended for
      systemic chemotherapy plus local radiotherapy (primary focus, neck drainage area and distant
      metastasis). In clinical practice, we suggest that for patients with CNG I stage, if EBV-DNA
      copies is more than 0 copy/ml, concurrent chemoradiotherapy will be given.

      Therefore, CNG staging and its treatment strategy was used as the experimental group, and the
      eighth edition of UICC/AJCC staging with NCCN guiding treatment was used as the control
      group. The open and randomized controlled clinical study was conducted. The purpose of this
      study was to evaluate in the era of IMRT, CNG staging can be better than UICC/AJCC eighth
      clinical staging for treatment decision-marking and selection of chemotherapy and
      radiotherapy, and differentiating differences in prognosis in each clinical stage. The
      survival results based on CNG staging and its treatment are not inferior to the survival
      results of the NCCN guide therapy based on the eighth edition UICC/AJCC staging, to avoid
      chemotherapy for some of the patients, and to improve the outcome of metastatic patients.
    
  