
    
      This is a single arm, open label, phase Ib trial of neoadjuvant vaccination in colon cancer.
      The primary endpoint is the safety and toxicity of the vaccine. The primary immunologic
      endpoint is the impact of vaccination on the tumor microenvironment compared to prospectively
      evaluated, tissue banked specimens from historical controls. The tumor microenvironment will
      also be compared in matched pre- and post-treatment tissue samples in vaccinated subjects.
      Patients with endoscopic biopsy proven colon cancer will be identified by the staff in the
      gastroenterology, surgery, and/or the hematology/oncology clinics at the individual study
      sites. A research nurse, study coordinator, or study investigator will approach these
      patients about being in the trial and will introduce the trial to the prospective volunteer
      patient. If the patient is interested and appears eligible, the nurse, study coordinator, or
      investigator will arrange an appointment to counsel and consent the patient. Once consent is
      obtained, the nurse, study coordinator, or investigator will thoroughly screen the patient
      for inclusion and exclusion eligibility criteria.

      If volunteers meet all inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria and agree to
      participate, they will continue in the study, consented and enrolled for treatment
      assignment. Enrollment will start in cohort 1 with enrollment of 6 patients, and follow
      sequentially into the remaining cohorts, until all cohorts are completed. After treatment of
      all 6 patients in each dose cohort, a comprehensive safety analysis will be performed for
      short-term toxicity. If no dose limiting toxicity (DLT, >grade 2, related, or serious adverse
      event (SAE)) is found, then the next cohort will be enrolled. If three patients in a given
      dose cohort experience a DLT, then that dose will be determined to be the maximal tolerated
      dose (MTD), and the next dose cohort will not be initiated. At the completion of dosing of
      cohorts (last surgical colectomy performed), a comprehensive safety analysis will be
      performed for long-term toxicity. If the MTD is not reached, then a total of 24 patients will
      be enrolled.

      Treatment cohorts (each n=6, total of n=24):

        1. 1 x 10^8 particles of PalloV-CC

        2. 2 x 10^8 particles of PalloV-CC

        3. 4 x 10^8 particles of PalloV-CC

        4. 8 x 10^8 particles of PalloV-CC

      PalloV-CC is inoculated weekly via intradermal injection. There will be sequential enrollment
      of dose-escalation cohorts (Appendix A), each patient treatment period is 4 weeks (Appendix
      B). Patients will conclude treatment with colectomy.

      Safety data will be collected on local and systemic toxicities and graded and reported per
      the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.03.

      A total of 190 mL of blood will be drawn throughout the course of the study over a 3-4 week
      period. The patient will have 70mL of blood drawn for the following: a CBC with differential
      (10 mL of blood), a CMP (10 mL of blood), and study blood (50 mL of blood). This will be
      drawn on two separate occasions: once prior to the first vaccine inoculation, and again after
      the completion of the final vaccine inoculation (but prior to surgery). An additional 50 mL
      of study blood will be drawn midway through the vaccine series (at the third inoculation).
    
  