
    
      Background. Recently, the investigator demonstrated that the Montreal Museum of Fine-Arts
      (MMFA) participatory art-based activity improved wellbeing, quality of life and health
      condition of Montreal older community dwellers using a pre-post single arm, prospective and
      longitudinal design. The main limitation of this pilot study was its design: it was not a
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) which is the gold standard to examine the effects of an
      intervention.

      Objectives. The overall objective is to examine the effect of the MMFA participatory
      art-based activity on wellbeing, quality of life and health condition in older community
      dwellers.

      The specific objectives are to compare the changes in 1) wellbeing, 2) quality of life and 3)
      health condition in older community dwellers participating in the museum participatory
      art-based activity (Intervention group) and in age and sex-matched older community dwellers
      who are not participants in the museum participatory art-based activity (Control group)
      during the same period of time. In addition, the compliance to museum participatory art-based
      activity in intervention will be examined. A second study, based on the same process, has
      been proceeded in Japan (Tokyo). With merging the 2 databases, we will study the impact of
      cultural specificities, comparing data collected in Montreal and data collected in Tokyo.

      Methods. The design is a unicentre (Jewish General Hospital; Montreal, Quebec, Canada),
      clinical, randomized, controlled, single blinded (i.e.; investigators), superiority trial,
      with two parallel arms (Intervention and Control groups), comparative (comparison of
      Intervention and Control groups) and analyzed with the intention-to-treat.

      The participants in the Intervention group will be participants of the museum participatory
      art-based activity. The Control group will be composed of older community dwellers matched on
      age and sex compared to the Intervention group but who will not be participate to the museum
      participatory art-based activity.

      The follow-up period will be 3 months, which is the duration of a session of the museum
      participatory art-based activity. Assessment of wellbeing, quality of life and health
      condition will be performed at baseline, at the beginning of second and third months, and at
      the end of third month.

      The same study has been developed and realized in Japan. Data collected in Canada will be
      merged with data collected in Japan and the analysis will be repeated for this international
      database.
    
  