
    
      It is recommended that patients who are at moderate or high risk of diabetic foot ulcer (DFU)
      are seen by a healthcare professional for foot review every 2-6 months. Yet, diabetic foot
      ulcers remain the leading cause of non-traumatic lower limb amputation with an amputation
      occurring every 20 secs. This suggests that additional information and prompts, as well as
      regular follow-up, are required. Additionally, long term diabetic foot complications
      including loss of protective pain sensation are related to poor glycaemic control.

      This single blinded randomised study aims to determine if weekly foot alerts (a total of 12
      alerts cycled over 12-months), delivered by the MyU phone application in combination with
      usual education routes and follow-up, improves patient foot care behaviour and foot care
      knowledge. Using standardized questionnaires at baseline and 12-months. Furthermore, does the
      frequency of viewing/engaging in foot alert content influence foot care knowledge and
      behaviour.

      Secondary objectives are to determine: 1) if individuals who receive 7-foot review
      appointments in a 12-month period have better foot care knowledge and behaviour when compared
      to those seen less frequently regardless of educational route. 2) Baseline and 12-months
      HbA1c blood test will be measured to establish if any changes occurred between the two
      groups.

      Expected results: The investigators hypothesized that participants randomised to the
      intervention group (Phone app) will have improved foot care knowledge and foot health
      behaviours.

      Sample size: 100 patients with a 1:1 ratio

      Quality Assurance:

      A standard operating procedure based on established diabetic foot screening tools will be
      used to ensure the inter-rater reliability of foot assessment.

      Educational material will go through back translation to ensure the accuracy of the content.
      Feedback on content, meaning and usability of the English and Arabic documents from a sample
      of 10 participants will be sought.

      To maintain investigator blinding the participants will be escorted to the video viewing room
      by a research coordinator.
    
  