
    
      Treatment-seeking insomnia sufferers most often present in primary care venues where the
      first and usually only treatment is a prescription for a sedative hypnotic, typically a
      benzodiazepine (BZD) or newer benzodiazepine receptor agonist (BzRA). For some patients,
      short-term or intermittent hypnotic use provides satisfactory insomnia relief. However, more
      than 65% of individuals who are prescribed hypnotics use them for more than a year, and > 30%
      remain on these agents for more than five years. Whereas some patients may appreciate partial
      or full relief of insomnia symptoms with ongoing hypnotic use, continuous long-term use of
      these agents may not represent optimal therapy. Many insomnia patients who participate in
      non-drug insomnia therapy such as cognitive behavioral insomnia therapy (CBT-I) achieve
      sustained insomnia remission long after a time-limited course of treatment. However, it is
      difficult for most long-term hypnotic users to convert from use of medications to a
      self-management approach. Interventions that combine CBT-I with supervised medication
      tapering (SMT) have shown the greatest promise for achieving this outcome, but almost 50% of
      patients who receive this assistance either fail to discontinue their hypnotics or return to
      them even if they do achieve short-term abstinence. Our clinical and research observations
      suggest that psychological factors including sleep-related performance anxiety, low
      sleep-related self-efficacy and beliefs about needs for medications interact to lead to
      difficulties abstaining from hypnotic use. Moreover, our highly promising pilot data suggest
      that such factors may be mitigated by use of a blinded SMT protocol which appears to increase
      rates of medication abstinence. The current project will use a 2 x 4 randomized longitudinal
      clinical trial design to test the relative efficacy of our highly promising blinded tapering
      protocol, vis a vis open-label tapering, when combined with therapist delivered CBT-I. A
      sample of 260 will be enrolled, complete pre-intervention baseline measures and then be
      randomly assigned to: (1) a blinded hypnotic SMT + therapist delivered CBT-I; or (2)
      open-label tapering + CBT-I. During treatment all enrollees will first receive one on one
      treatment sessions with a trained CBT-I therapist over a 6 week period while maintaining
      baseline doses of their respective hypnotics. They then will begin a 10 week SMT during which
      they are provided a blinded or open-label tapering SMT protocol. During this phase they will
      have their hypnotic medication doses reduced by 25% every two weeks. Immediately after
      completing the SMT and again at 3- and 6-month follow-ups they will complete study outcome
      measures. The primary study outcome will be hypnotic discontinuance rates of the two
      treatment groups. Secondary outcomes include nights of hypnotic use per week, nightly average
      dosage of hypnotic used in diazepam equivalents as well as scores on sleep quality, daytime
      fatigue and quality of life. This study will lead to refining guidelines for tapering methods
      and providing a better understanding of treatment outcome predictors so as to provide more
      successful, person-centered interventions.
    
  