
    
      The goal of this study is to test whether interventions change self-regulation targets most
      relevant for medication adherence in youth with Type 1 Diabetes (T1D). Poor self-regulation
      has been identified in youth with T1D and is proposed as a central mechanism contributing to
      high rates of nonadherence and thus long-term complications, in pediatric T1D populations,
      particularly adolescents. As responsibility for T1D management shifts from parent to youth
      during this time, addressing self-regulation in adolescence is critical.

      The study's self-regulation targets are executive functioning (EF; working memory, inhibitory
      control); emotion regulation (ER; capacity to manage stress, worry), and future orientation
      (FO; capacity to focus on future goals). The investigators posit that these self-regulation
      capacities are critical in order to engage in the multiple adherence behaviors (e.g.,
      self-monitoring blood glucose, administering insulin via daily injections or a pump,
      regulating carbohydrate intake, physical activity, minimizing hyper-/hypo-glycemia) youth
      must follow to achieve and maintain optimal glycemic control. Thus, in addition to targeting
      T1D-specific adherence, it is essential to employ an experimental medicine approach to test
      whether improving self-regulation results in improved adherence behaviors and T1D-related
      health outcomes (quality of life; HbA1C). Yet, these self-regulation targets have not been
      rigorously tested as mechanisms of behavior change to improve adherence to T1D regimens in
      youth.

      Using previously developed multimethod assays of these targets, the investigators will test
      the impact of interventions on these self-regulation targets, medical regimen adherence
      behaviors, and diabetes-related health outcomes (quality of life; HbA1C) in youth. The
      Scientific Premise is that poor self-regulation underlies poor medical regimen adherence. If
      improving self-regulation targets increase adherence in youth with T1D this approach may
      apply to other youth who must manage medical regimens. Findings will thus not only inform
      understanding of self-regulation as a mechanism of behavior change but will generate novel
      intervention strategies that may have trans-diagnostic implications and broad impact. As
      interventions to be delivered are designed to be light-touch and scalable, they may yield
      useful tools to use in future studies of behavior change mechanisms. The investigators
      propose an RCT design to test the following Specific Aims in a sample of youth with T1D (ages
      13-17 years, n=94):

      Aim 1. Test the hypothesis that the interventions developed in a prior study (NCT03060863)
      enhance identified self-regulation targets (EF, ER, FO) in a population of adolescents with
      T1D.

      Aim 2. Test whether interventions improve medical regimen adherence behaviors and T1D health
      outcomes.

      Exploratory Aim. Examine whether parents' SR modifies the effects of the UH3's bundled
      intervention to improve youth SR on youth treatment regimen adherence.
    
  