
    
      Basketball is a challenging sport that requires participants to demonstrate physical fitness
      and special athletic skills at high levels. Players avoid contact while attempting to prevent
      the opponent from running, passing and shooting. Although basketball includes avoiding
      contact as a rule, contact between players is inevitable. Various injuries occur in
      basketball because it is a contact sport and includes sudden movements, such as bouncing,
      running and turning.

      Wheelchair (WC) basketball is characterised by manoeuvres and high-intensity activities such
      as rolling, rebounding, passing and overhead shooting. In WC basketball players, thoracic
      kyphosis is increased because of atrophy of the upper back and shoulders muscles resulting
      from the body posture required for WC propulsion in the sitting position as well as the
      effect of gravity. This sitting posture is characterised by scapular protraction and internal
      rotation of the humerus, and it impedes shoulder movements during upper-extremity use. The
      force balance changes because of humeral internal rotation and scapular protraction, and the
      internal rotator and adductor muscles become stronger than their antagonists. In basketball,
      throwing and pushing are used to pass the ball to the target. In throwing, the force of the
      dominant upper extremity comes into play with the internal rotation of the humerus. In this
      movement, the humerus is almost horizontal and parallel to the ground.

      Increased use of the upper extremities in WC users increases upper-extremity load. For this
      reason, upper-extremity muscle strength, endurance and explosive power are of great
      importance. Rotational muscle strength of the shoulder has critical roles in activities
      specific to basketball as well as WC control in WC basketball players.

      Overhead throwing is a movement that involves high speed and repetitive movement that leads
      to upper-extremity injuries. It is important to develop muscle strength and proprioception to
      protect against these injuries.

      Throwers Ten exercise programme is a programme designed to improve the power, strength and
      endurance of large muscle groups required for the throwing activity. It consists of exercises
      involving the movement of upper limb joints in full range of joint motion (ROM) or at
      specified specific angles, with the help of a resistance band and weights specific to
      individual athletes. In a study conducted by Wilk et al., it was reported that muscle
      strength and endurance were improved by increasing muscle activation and facilitation, and
      achieving dynamic stabilisation by adding isometric contractions to the concentric/eccentric
      contractions applied in the Throwers Ten exercise programme.

      In the literature, no study has demonstrated the effectiveness of Throwers Ten exercise
      programme in these sports groups. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of
      Throwers Ten exercise programme on upper-extremity function and explosive power in the WC
      basketball players and stand-up basketball players. In addition, because the WC basketball
      players and stand-up basketball players were evaluated in this study, our secondary aim was
      to elucidate the differences in responses to the exercise programme between a group without
      lower-extremity use and incomplete strength distribution and a group with complete strength
      distribution.
    
  