
    
      Linking data from the renowned, representative, population-based Nord-Trøndelag Health
      studies of adolescents (Young-HUNT, 1995-2019) to longitudinal, individual data from the
      Norwegian prescription Database (NorPD) (2004-2020) provides a unique, longitudinal dataset
      which will be examined in this study. Thus, the study design allows for examination of early
      predictors, risk factors, and potential causal mechanisms of prescription drug (analgesic,
      sedative, and anxiolytic medication) overuse, and development of severe mental illness in
      young people.

      The Young-HUNT3 (2006-2008) study is among the world's first representative health surveys of
      youth encompassing questions about violence and other traumatic events, self-reported somatic
      and psychological health measures, a clinical examination, and consent to linkage to
      longitudinal health registries. The Young-HUNT4 (2017-2019) additionally includes validated
      actigraphy measures of activity and sleep. The full cohort of adolescents living in
      Nord-Trøndelag county were invited to participate in each of the study waves (HUNT1-4).
      Participation rates have been exceptionally high ranging from 78-90%. During school hours,
      the youth answered a number of health-related questions, including items on: physical
      violence, sexual abuse, bullying, and a range of other traumatic events (in the youngHUNT3
      and 4); diagnosed chronic disease such as epilepsy, migraine, or juvenile rheumatoid
      arthritis; somatic and psychological symptoms, including recurrent headaches, abdominal pain,
      other musculoskeletal pain, autonomic somatic symptoms, sleep difficulties, post-traumatic
      stress reactions, psychological distress (anxiety/depression), and loneliness; use of
      non-prescription analgesics; pubertal onset and developmental stage; lifestyle, such as
      physical activity and nutrition; socio-economic and psychosocial factors. The study
      additionally comprised a validated headache interview, and clinical anthropometric measures.
      The HUNT4 included a week's measure of activity and sleep by the use of actigraphs.
      Information on age and gender was obtained from the Norwegian National Population Registry.

      Each Young-HUNT participant's 11-digit social security number will be linked to individual
      data in the NorPD at the Norwegian Institute of Public Health. The NorPD registers all
      prescription drugs dispensed from pharmacies in Norway, and the database therefore contains a
      complete overview of all prescription drugs dispensed to individual patients outside
      hospitals, since 2004. Non-prescription drugs and medicines purchased abroad are not
      registered. Registered drugs are classified according to the International Anatomical
      Therapeutic Chemical Classification System (ATC). In this study, the investigators include
      information on the number of dispensed prescriptions of drugs classified within the following
      ATC codes: M01 (anti-inflammatory and anti-rheumatic agents), N01A (anesthetics, general),
      N02 (analgesics; opioids, other analgesics, and antipyretics and migraine agents), N05
      (psycholeptics; antipsychotics, anxiolytics, hypnotics and anxiolytics), N06
      (psychoanaleptics; antidepressants, ADHD and nootropics, and psycholeptics in combinations)
      and N07B (drugs for addiction disorders) from 2004 up to time of linkage (2019/2020).

      To obtain good, reliable follow-up data and outcome measures for the young-HUNT3 participants
      (2006-2008) the investigators will additionally include longitudinal data from the HUNT4
      study of young adults (2017-2019); applicable for those participating in both the YoungHUNT3
      and the YoungHUNT4.

      The data material provides a unique opportunity to study the following research questions:

        1. Prevalence and comorbidity of migraine, other headache, chronic widespread pain,
           fatigue, insomnia and posttraumatic stress reactions and related risk profiles among
           adolescents.

        2. How do discrepancies in risk & comorbidity profiles differentially affect young peoples'
           risk of analgesic, sedative, and anxiolytic medication overuse over time?

        3. Do early somatic and psychological symptoms and self-medication in adolescence mediate
           risk of prescription drugs overuse in young people?

        4. The role of early symptomatology and prescription drug overuse as predictive factors for
           development of severe psychiatric illness by young adulthood (age 29).
    
  