
    
      Rationale: Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a debilitating disorder characterized by
      persistent negative mood and a broad range of cognitive, and functional impairments. MDD is
      estimated to affect 4.4% of the global population, or over 300 million individuals,
      representing the single largest contributor to non-fatal health loss worldwide. Current
      treatment options are associated with sub-optimal rates of remission, with only 30-35% of MDD
      sufferers attaining remission with antidepressant drug monotherapy. One group for whom
      treatment selection is a particular challenge is transitional aged youth (TAY), encompassing
      the late teenage years into the early twenties. Although MDD onset typically occurs during
      this period - as high as 8.2% in Canadian TAY - the psychiatric community has only recently
      begun to recognize TAY as a unique psychiatric cohort in need of directed treatment. For
      example, although the use selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) is the first-line
      treatment for MDD in adults, their utility in TAY is hampered by the possibility of increased
      suicidal ideation within this cohort. The need for alternative and tailored treatment options
      for TAY with MDD is therefore of paramount importance. Aerobic exercise (AE) has recently
      been recognized as one such intervention, with some reports showing outcomes comparable to
      pharmacological and psychotherapeutic approaches in adult populations. Few studies however,
      have investigated to what extent these findings extend to TAY. Further, there is little
      consensus as to which intensity level, or "dose", of AE offers the most benefit, which neural
      features underlie the putative benefits of AE in depressed TAY, and the impact on both
      psychosocial and cognitive processes.

      Objectives: The primary objectives of this study are: 1) to determine the effects of moderate
      vs. high intensity AE on clinically-rated and subjective symptoms of MDD in TAY; and 2) to
      examine the psychosocial, cognitive, and neuromodulatory effects of these interventions.

      Methods: This two-arm, randomized trial will recruit 40 TAY (16-24 yrs) with MDD/persistent
      depressive disorder (PDD) into one of two AE intensity groups: medium or high. Intensity is
      defined as a percentage of heart rate reserve (HRR) achieved during exercise, as outlined in
      the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) guidelines (moderate: 50-55% of HRR; N=20;
      high: 80-85% HRR; N=20). All participants will undergo supervised and guided AE intervention
      sessions (~30min), three times per week, for twelve consecutive weeks. Pertinent clinical and
      psychosocial scores, as well as cardiac function (as assessed by maximal oxygen consumption
      [VO2max]), will be recorded pre-intervention (Week 0), mid-intervention (Week 6), and
      post-intervention (Week 12). Additionally, participants will undergo electroencephalographic
      (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance neuroimaging (fMRI) before and after the completion
      of AE intervention. Specifically, neural dynamics will be recorded at rest and during
      cognitive tasks engaging working memory (N-Back task) and response inhibition (Flanker task)
      - cognitive abilities, which have been shown to be impaired in MDD in TAY. Both
      clinical/psychosocial and neuroimaging outcomes will be compared using time as the
      within-group, and intervention type as between-group factors.

      Hypotheses: The investigators expect a significant reduction in depression symptoms post (vs.
      pre) intervention and, based on preliminary evidence in adults, a greater reduction may
      emerge in those participating in the high (vs. moderate) intensity AE. Further, the
      investigators expect changes in fMRI profiles from pre- to post-intervention (showing
      normalization of brain activity and connectivity profiles); the same is true of
      EEG/event-related potential (ERP) features. They also expect a positive relation between
      VO2max and brain-based changes.

      Significance: Findings from this project will help guide future large-scale investigations of
      AE as a potential treatment for TAY by clarifying the relation between changes to physical
      indices, depressive symptoms and neural profiles. Importantly, identifying the brain features
      modulated by AE will broaden our understanding of the neurobiological markers underlying
      depressive states, allowing for targeted therapeutic approaches and better outcomes for TAY
      suffering from MDD.
    
  