
    
      Severe respiratory failure and multi-organ damage in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)
      patients have not a unitary pathophysiological interpretation. There is evidence of an
      association between the clinical entity of the disease and its severity with the plasma
      levels of D-dimer and inflammatory indexes. On the basis of retrospective investigations
      there is accumulating evidence of alterations in the haemostatic parameters that with
      increased D-dimer values, increased coagulation time and platelets may be predictors of worse
      prognosis. A systematic survey conducted in the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) Centre of
      the AOUI Verona, as part of the Database and Study on the role of platelets in the clinical
      manifestations of COVID-19 (Ethics Committee CESC Verona and Rovigo approved) revealed by
      means of computerized tomography (CT) angiograph in patients with a persistent respiratory
      deficit and very high D-dimer values mainly multiple, bilateral vascular occlusions involving
      the segmental and subsegmental branches of the pulmonary arteries. This finding is suggestive
      of a frequent and clinically relevant thrombotic process in a appreciable number
      (approximately 20%) of patients with COVID-19 pneumonia hospitalized in medical wards. It is
      a well-established clinical notion that acute and chronic inflammatory diseases may favour
      the onset of venous thromboembolic events in hospitalized patients. Thromboprophylaxis with a
      fixed dose of heparin/low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) is recommended for medical patient
      with concomitant neoplasia or inflammatory disease. It is conceivable that under conditions,
      such as SARS-CoV2 pneumonia, an inflammation-dependent thrombotic process takes place and
      that platelet activation may play a pathogenic role both in the thrombotic process and in the
      amplification of the inflammatory process. In fact, there is experimental evidence that
      platelet activation in inflammation would lead to accelerated coagulation and a thrombotic
      vascular occlusion, with similarities to what is widely documented in atherothrombosis and
      thrombotic microangiopathies. The administration of antiplatelet drugs represents the
      cornerstone for the prevention and treatment of arterial thromboembolism in atherosclerotic
      disease and has also shown some limited efficacy also in the context of venous and arterial
      thromboembolism associated with atrial fibrillation. Preliminary observations indicate that
      the use of purinergic receptor P2Y12 inhibitors during pneumococcal pneumonia may improve the
      inflammatory process and respiratory function in humans. There are currently no validated
      protocols for thrombosis prevention in the field of pulmonary viral diseases, in particular
      COVID-19. There is adequate scientific rationale to consider the use of a P2Y12 inhibitor
      antiplatelet drug for the prevention of thrombosis in the pulmonary circulation and the
      attenuation of pulmonary inflammation. The use of a P2Y12 inhibitor is motivated by numerous
      experimental demonstrations of the anti-inflammatory activity of P2Y12 inhibitors and by the
      evidence of improvement of respiratory function parameters both in humans and experimental
      models. Prasugrel could be considered as an ideal candidate drug for administration in
      Covid-19 patients because of its higher efficacy in acute coronary syndrome compared to
      clopidogrel. Interactions of prasugrel with drugs used for the treatment of SARS-CoV2 are
      limited. The hypothesis underlying the present study project is that in Covid-19 platelet
      activation occurs via an inflammation-dependent mechanism and that early antithrombotic
      prophylaxis in non-critical patients, like those admitted to medical wards, could reduce the
      incidence of pulmonary thrombosis as well as respiratory and multi-organ failure,
      contributing to improve clinical outcome of the patients with pneumonia caused by SARS-CoV2
      viruses. The anticoagulant activity exerted by a fixed dose of enoxaparin (4000U/day),
      recommended in patients with the clinical features described, according to a note of the
      "Italian Medicines Agency" (AIFA), together with the prevention of thrombogenic activity of
      platelets by means of a P2Y12 inhibitor could prevent aggravation of COVID-19 patients to a
      greater extent than enoxaparin alone given at the same dose. Early initiation of treatment
      should mitigate the presentation of pneumonia. The proposed treatment is feasible in all
      COVID-19 patients, regardless of the treatment regimen used for their condition (antivirals,
      anti-inflammatory drugs, antibiotics), except for specific contraindications to the use of
      prasugrel, or placebo if patients are treated with antiplatelet drugs.
    
  