
    
      Fatal overdose deaths involving prescription opioids, heroin, and synthetic opioids has
      continued to increase across the US-continuing to increase in 35 states from 2013-2017. Given
      these persistent trends for adverse opioid-related outcomes in populations across the US, it
      is critical to work to identify those who are at risk, deliver appropriate care that will
      help prevent progression to more severe opioid-related outcomes, and provide referral and
      treatment resources to those who suffer from opioid use disorder. Therefore, it is necessary
      to expand the continuum of care to health care settings that previously may have been
      underutilized. One underutilized resource for addressing the current opioid epidemic is
      community pharmacies.The most important clinical tool pharmacists have available to identify
      possible misuse of opioid medications is prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMP),which
      capture patient-level prescription dispensing information to inform monitoring, dispensing
      decisions, and possible intervention.These tools are available in all US states and have the
      potential to enable pharmacists to identify patients at-risk for opioid-related adverse
      events, such as addiction and overdose. In light of the continued escalation of the opioid
      epidemic nationally, combined with the promising opportunities afforded by the further
      inclusion of community pharmacy settings for engaging patients with opioid-related risk, it
      is important to evaluate whether current PDMP risk metrics correlate with clinically
      validated opioid risk tools and if clinically meaningful risk cutoffs exist for PDMP risk
      metrics.

      This study will evaluate the concurrent validity of a PDMP-based opioid risk metric as a
      clinical measure of high risk opioid use and establish clinically useful risk-level
      thresholds relative to the widely validated gold standard of the World Health Organization
      Alcohol, Smoking, and Substance Involvement Screening Test (WHO ASSIST). This study is a one
      group, cross-sectional, health assessment study. Participants who enroll in the study will
      complete on-line surveys at a single time point. Approximately 1,523 patients will be
      recruited from approximately 15 community community pharmacies. Trained pharmacy staff will
      inform potentially eligible participants, or individuals receiving at least one
      prescription(s) for potentially eligible participants, of the survey opportunity. Patients
      recruited will complete validated measures to assess opioid use and risk behaviors, substance
      use, and physical and mental health. A series of a priori analyses will be conducted to
      evaluate the validity of the PDMP-based opioid risk metric relative to the widely validated
      gold standard WHO ASSIST and to identify cutoff thresholds. Correlational, regression, and
      Cohen's Kappa statistical analyses will also be conducted to evaluate the relationship
      between the risk metric and the WHO ASSIST.
    
  