
    
      Child Parent Psychotherapy (CPP) has been demonstrated to be effective in improving
      mother-child attachment relationship, maternal (depression, posttraumatic stress symptoms,
      global symptoms of distress) and child (behavior problems, posttraumatic stress symptoms and
      diagnosis, cognitive and representational models) outcomes, in the context of risk factors
      such as maternal depression and exposure to traumatic events. It is the only treatment for
      preschool aged children and caregivers that seeks to affect changes at both behavioral and
      schematic/ cognitive levels. The investigators aim to assess the feasibility and
      acceptability of providing CPP as a dyadic preventive intervention for children who are
      displaying signs of emotional and behavioral difficulties in the context of maternal
      depression.

      Investigators will compare the effectiveness of CPP to that of usual care (usual care defined
      as: referral to therapists in the community and within Columbia University Medical Center for
      psychoeducation, counseling/ therapy for maternal depressive symptoms, and child behavioral/
      emotional difficulties) in improving maternal depressive symptoms and child emotional and
      behavioral problems. The investigators will recruit mothers who report being mildly to
      moderately depressed and their preschoolers (aged 3-5 years) who they are concerned are
      exhibiting emotional and/or behavioral problems.

      Mother-child patient dyads will be screened via telephone to assess study eligibility. If
      eligible mothers and their children will complete an in-person pre-treatment assessment.
      After the Time 1 (pre-treatment) assessment, mother-child patient dyads will be randomly
      assigned to one of two treatment conditions - 1. six months of weekly CPP intervention
      sessions OR 2. control condition in which mothers and their children will be referred for
      usual treatment in the community. Random assignment will be done based on a pre-determined
      schedule (a random number generator will be used to create a schedule for patient treatment
      assignment). Following randomization mother-child patient dyads will complete the following
      assessments: Time 2 (after 12 sessions or an average of three months), Time 3 (after 24
      sessions or an average of six months), and Time 4 (six months after 24 treatment sessions or
      an average of one year after Time 1). All assessments will be conducted by a licensed
      clinician in conjunction with a research assistant.

      Mothers (30 in each group) will be recruited through the Women's Program and pediatric
      practices affiliated with Columbia University Medical Center, including the Columbia Center
      of the New York Presbyterian Hospital, as well as its satellite center, the Allen Pavilion,
      and the Children's Hospital of New York. Approximately 90 women will need to screened to
      recruit 60 women for the study.
    
  