
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To assess treatment-related fatigue, cognitive dysfunction, and recovery in women
           undergoing adjuvant chemotherapy for stage I-III breast cancer as compared with a
           patient-selected control population.

        -  To determine whether fatigue induced by sustained isometric contraction (SIC) is more of
           central or peripheral (muscular) origin in patients with and without treatment-related
           fatigue.

        -  To characterize changes from baseline in potential abnormal signal processing in the
           brain while performing cognitive-assessment testing (CAT) in patients experiencing
           chemotherapy-related cognitive dysfunction compared with the controls.

      OUTLINE: Patients and participants undergo assessment of treatment-related fatigue and
      cognitive dysfunction (i.e., mental fatigue) at baseline, after completion of 3-4 courses of
      standard adjuvant chemotherapy, and 1-3 weeks after completion of the most recent treatment.
      Patient recovery will be assessed at approximately 1 year from baseline. Study assessments
      will include a brief fatigue inventory, a cognitive assessment, and muscle fatigability
      testing through a sustained isometric contraction. Additional assessments will include
      quantification of brain and muscle signal alterations in patients with and without
      treatment-related fatigue and cognitive-assessment testing in patients experiencing
      chemotherapy-related cognitive dysfunction.

      Patients and participants also undergo collection of data to obtain information on patient
      age, body mass index, and menopausal status at baseline and at 1 year. Additional information
      is collected on type of chemotherapy treatment and any hormonal or other anticancer
      treatments administered throughout the course of the study. Cancer recurrences or new cancer
      events are also recorded.
    
  