
    
      Gastric cancer is the first cause of death in Chile and the second worldwide. Currently, no
      screening methods are available for early detection of gastric cancer at population level.
      The only available test is serum levels of pepsinogen I/II for gastric atrophy, a precursor
      lesion only for intestinal type with low risk to progress to gastric cancer. The
      investigators' previous work, supported by FONDECYT (National Council for Research and
      Technology) and FONIS (National Council for Research and Development of Human Health) both
      from the Government of Chile led us to discover a potential biomarker for early detection of
      gastric cancer, Reprimo, a tumor suppressor gene related to p53 in the arrest of G2-M of the
      cell cycle (Clin Cancer Res. 2008;14:6264-9). Here, the investigators propose to evaluate
      plasmatic detection of Reprimo in conjunction with gastric atrophy markers and H.pylori
      detection to establish a novel screening and triage strategy for early detection of gastric
      cancer. The aims are i) to determine sensitivity and specificity for Reprimo in the detection
      of gastric cancer in a high-risk population evaluated by upper gastrointestinal endoscopy
      (1,000 males, 30-74 y.o. low income, symptomatic or asymptomatic) and ii) to characterize at
      clinical, pathological and molecular level cases of gastric cancer identified and
      non-identified by direct detection of Reprimo along with atrophy, H.pylori and clinical
      markers. With this information, the investigators will develop an algorithm for screening and
      triage evaluating predictive values of plasmatic detection of Reprimo versus atrophy &
      H.pylori detection and clinical data in a general population (3,000 male/female, 40-70 y.o.)
      from a high-risk area for gastric cancer in Chile. In this step the investigators will
      evaluate also acceptability, efficacy and efficiency of the proposed algorithm. In this
      proposal the investigators aim to develop a commercial kit to be used in primary screening
      and non-invasive triage for early detection of gastric cancer. This kit will be
      cost-effective and more accessible to the general population. In addition, the investigators
      would like to expand the investigators' current patent already submitted to INAPI and propose
      royalties to biomedical diagnostic companies for the use of the investigators' product at
      international level.
    
  