
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Assess the antitumor activity of two different doses of anti-uPA serine protease
           inhibitor WX-671 when given in combination with gemcitabine hydrochloride in patients
           with locally advanced unresectable pancreatic cancer.

        -  Compare the efficacy, in terms of response rate, progression-free survival, time to
           first metastasis, overall survival, and tumor and uPA system-related markers, of these
           regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the safety, in terms of vital signs, ECG, biochemistry, hematology (including
           coagulation), and adverse events, of these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1
      of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive of oral anti-uPA serine protease inhibitor WX-671 once daily in
           weeks 1-8 (weeks 1-4 of each subsequent course) and gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30
           minutes once weekly in weeks 1-7 (weeks 1-3 of each subsequent course) of course 1. All
           subsequent courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral anti-uPA serine protease inhibitor WX-671 (at a lower dose
           than in arm I) once daily in weeks 1-8 (weeks 1-4 of each subsequent course) and
           gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes once weekly in weeks 1-7 (weeks 1-3 of each
           subsequent course) of course 1. All subsequent courses repeat every 4 weeks in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes once weekly in
           weeks 1-7 (weeks 1-3 of each subsequent course) of course 1. All subsequent courses
           repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    
  