
    
      Radiotherapy is an effective treatment for treating metastatic disease. When used to treat
      disease in the lower abdomen or pelvis, however, it is frequently associated with
      gastrointestinal toxicity. The most common symptoms of radiation enteritis are diarrhea,
      bloating, and abdominal cramping. They are caused by irritation and inflammation of the bowel
      mucosa, and although the pathophysiology is poorly understood, it is thought to be due in
      part to malabsorption of bile salts and lactose, imbalances in bacterial flora, disturbances
      in motility. The true incidence of clinically significant enteritis is not well known and
      probably underestimated, because the majority of patients with symptoms do not seek medical
      advice, but is approximately 80% in patients receiving pelvic radiotherapy for gynecologic
      and rectal tumors. Different approaches have been taken to try to minimize acute small and
      large bowel toxicity from radiotherapy. Medical management with opioid derivatives, such as
      loperamide, is often effective for mild cases. Other medications, which try to inhibit the
      biochemical pathways leading to symptomatic gastroenteritis, have undergone clinical testing
      with some success. The other approach to minimizing toxicity is to minimize the volume and/or
      dose of radiation delivered to the small bowel. Simple mechanical devices, such as the "belly
      board" or a mesh sling, have had some success. With new techniques in intensity-modulated
      radiotherapy, it may be possible to avoid much of the bowel, or significantly reduce the dose
      delivered to the bowel, without mechanical intervention or compromising tumour doses. The aim
      of this trial is to test whether a new and highly sophisticated form of intensity modulated
      radiotherapy called helical tomotherapy can safely be used to deliver radiotherapy to the
      abdomen and pelvis. It will also establish whether this treatment modality will allow a
      reduction in the radiation dose to normal structures and the incidence of radiation-induced
      bowel injury. Helical tomotherapy is a new form of radiation treatment delivery which will be
      introduced at the Cross Cancer Institute in late 2001 or early 2002. Unlike standard
      radiotherapy, in which treatment is delivered through one or a few separate beams, helical
      tomotherapy delivers treatment with a rotating, intensity-modulated fan beam. The patient is
      translated through the ring of the gantry while the beam is rotated around, so that the
      treatment beam forms a helical shape in a similar manner to that of computed tomography (CT)
      scans. The ring gantry provides a stable platform to perform tomographic verification of both
      setup and delivered dose. Helical tomotherapy is similar to the NOMOS PeacockTM system
      currently in clinical use. The PeacockTM system also uses an intensity-modulated fan beam,
      but because it is an attachment to a standard C-arm linear accelerator, it delivers treatment
      by a "translate then rotate" method rather than a continuous spiral delivery. Because of the
      complete freedom of helical tomotherapy to deliver treatment from all angles around the
      patient and with intensity modulation and inverse treatment planning, it is possible to treat
      highly complex and irregular target volumes while giving a low radiation dose to surrounding
      normal structures. This study, along with a parallel study involving the treatment of bone
      metastases, will involve the first patients to be treated with helical tomotherapy at the
      Cross Cancer Institute. It will be an important first step in understanding the processes and
      capabilities of helical tomotherapy in delivering accurate image-guided therapy. It is
      designed to provide the framework for the next generation of clinical trials using helical
      tomotherapy in the adjuvant and radical setting. The objectives of the study are as follows:

        -  To assess whether is is feasible to deliver daily fractionated radiotherapy with helical
           tomotherapy;

        -  To assess the acute toxicity associated with the treatment of pelvic and abdominal
           metastases with helical tomotherapy;

        -  To test the accuracy of the daily setup verification process inherent in the helical
           tomotherapy system;

        -  To perform in vivo dosimetry, where possible;

        -  To analyze the dose distributions possible with helical tomotherapy planning, and
           compare to plans obtained using conventional linear accelerator systems.

      To accomplish these objectives, the investigators will recruit 20 patients for treatment with
      helical tomotherapy. Patients with solid malignancy of any primary site with proven or
      suspected metastatic disease involving the abdomen, pelvis, or bones of the lumbar spine or
      pelvis will be eligible, provided they are over 18 years of age; signed informed consent is
      obtained; and there are no contraindications for radiotherapy. The investigators will select
      patients for enrollment who have a high likelihood (>50%) of suffering from grade 2 or higher
      acute GI toxicity if standard radiotherapy techniques were used. Treatment will be delivered
      with the helical tomotherapy system, with the dose plan designed to treat the target volume
      to a homogeneous dose, while minimizing dose to normal structures including the small bowel.
      The first 10 patients will be treated with a dose of 2500 cGy in 10 fractions, and the second
      cohort of 10 patients to 3000 cGy in 10 fractions. The slightly lower than normal dose used
      for the first cohort is designed to provide an extra margin of safety.

      Statistical Considerations: With the doses of radiation used in the current study, the risk
      of grade 4-5 toxicity using standard treatment techniques is very low. The investigators
      will, therefore, use observed grade 4-5 acute toxicity as an early stopping rule to monitor
      the safety of helical tomotherapy. Patients will be accrued onto treatment sequentially, with
      no more than 3 patients on treatment or within 1 week of completing treatment at any time. If
      a patient develops a grade 4 toxicity during or shortly after treatment, further accrual will
      be suspended until such time as the cause of the severe treatment toxicity can be
      established, and it is determined that treatment to subsequent patients can proceed safely.
      If a second severe toxicity is observed the trial will close to accrual. For the purposes of
      the study the risk of grade 4-5 radiation enteritis (using standard radiotherapy techniques)
      is assumed to be 2% or less. Thus the probability of stopping accrual before trial completion
      is 0.16 if there is no reduction in toxicity rate with helical tomotherapy (according to
      binomial probabilities). If the true rate is 1% then the probability of rejecting treatment
      is 0.01. The acute side effects of treatment will be monitored with the use of a patient
      symptom questionnaire and physician assessment with history and physical examination. These
      will be performed pre-treatment, weekly during treatment, and at 1 and 4 weeks post
      treatment. A secondary endpoint of the study is to test the setup verification process of the
      helical tomotherapy system. It is designed to automatically detect whether patients are set
      up accurately for treatment, and to adjust the treatment for day-to-day changes in patient
      position. For the first 10 patients, the investigators will compare the tomotherapy-derived
      setup error to the error manually computed by studying the CT image sets. If the computer
      derived setup error is accurate when compared to the manual evaluation (within 5 mm for at
      least 80% of measurements), then the automated setup verification process will be utilized
      for the second cohort of 10 patients. It is estimated that this study will take 3-6 months to
      complete.
    
  