
    
      These study aims to evaluate the application of an assistance programme to:

        1. Perform a systematic screening of oropharyngeal dysphagia in older hospitalized patients
           (≥70 yr) admitted to internal medicine and geriatric unit of Hospital de Mataró.

        2. Offer a minimal-massive treatment to older patients with OD based on, rheological
           adaptation of fluids (volume and viscosity), nutritional support based on traditional
           diet and oral hygiene treatment.

        3. To give education and knowledge about the diagnose and treatment of OD to the medical
           staff, caregivers and relatives of the patients to improve their management.

      Study design:

      Experimental pre-post interventional study with 1 year follow-up and 4 control points at 3,
      6, 9 and 12 months after discharge. Pre-interventional evaluations will be done on admission
      and at discharge; post-interventional evaluations will be performed at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months
      after discharge. In every evaluation point the investigators will obtain data about OD
      (efficacy and safety of swallow with the Volume-Viscosity Swallowing Test (V-VST)), health
      status of the patients (comorbidities, functionality, frailty, anthropometric measurements,
      illnesses and medication), nutritional status (MNA-sf and Bioimpedance), oral hygiene (dental
      evaluation with the Simplified Oral Hygiene Index (OHI-S)) and respiratory infections and
      pneumonia rates. In addition during the follow-up period the investigators will collect
      readmissions incidence (all readmissions, respiratory infections and pneumonia),
      institutionalization and death. Data collected will be compared with the previous year of the
      same patient and with a historical control group of untreated older patients with OD that
      will be matched for age, sex, comorbidities and functionality.

      The intervention will consist on adaptation of fluids (volume and viscosity) in accordance
      with V-VST results, nutritional supplementation with traditional food (based on MNA-sf and
      bioimpedance results) and recommendation of good oral hygiene practices (based on dental
      evaluation). In every point of the follow-up period, recommendations will be given to
      patients.

      Objectives:

        -  The primary objective is to launch and evaluate the effect of the minimal-massive
           program in hospitalized older patients with OD.

        -  To evaluate the effect of the intervention on the signs and symptoms of OD, nutritional
           status, oral hygiene, functional status and quality of life of patients included at the
           program at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after discharge.

        -  To describe readmission rates for any reason, readmission rates for pneumonia,
           institutionalization rate and mortality rate in the study population compared to an
           historical control group of older patients with OD and no intervention.
    
  