
    
      This is a prospective randomised phase 3 study comparing a novel treatment protocol of
      Rituximab with a present first line disease modifying drug regarding both clinical,
      radiological and biochemical parameters. This will be measured via clinical investigations,
      MRI and Cerebrospinal fluid analyses. Each patient will have one treating physician
      responsible for all ongoing medical questions and decisions regarding continuation in the
      study and one examining physician performing the blinded Expanded Disability Status Scale
      examination and assessments of exacerbations. The coordinating nurse will administer the
      study-related tests and administer the rituximab infusions. In order to keep the examining
      physician blinded the patients receiving disease modifying drug will receive infusions with
      sodium chloride solution at the same interval as the rituximab arm is receiving. In both
      instances an opaque cover bag will shield the content of the infusion solution. In this case
      the examining physician will not be able to identify rituximab patients in case of accidental
      meetings on the neurology unit.

      Randomisation will be performed via a randomisation module in the national Swedish MS
      registry. The patients will be randomised in a 1:1 ratio and receive their treatments in
      accordance with clinical practice. Thus, the study will mimic the real-life situation in
      which the treatments will be administered which involves both positive and negative
      consequences. As positive consequence the result of the study will have a high degree of
      validity in relation to expected outcome in clinical practice. As negative consequence there
      may be psychological effects of knowing which medication one is receiving. Since both drugs
      probably are perceived as positive treatment options in MS today it is unlikely that there
      will be a predominant placebo effect of either of the treatment options.
    
  