
    
      Gait stability is reduced as early as from age 40 to 50. Gait stability can be improved in
      patients with neurological diseases or in healthy elderly persons with exercises.

      There is evidence that mental practice, also called motor imagery, the imagination of
      performing a movement, can also improve an activity or balance. The effective performance and
      the imagination of a task activates some overlapping central areas and neural networks, which
      might explain the improvements after motor imagery.

      These "non-physical kind of training" modalities could be used in patients who are
      immobilized temporarily (bedridden because of non-chronic disease, infection etc.), or in
      those who are not allowed to charge their leg normally (e.g. postoperative phase of joint
      replacement or fractures), or it can be used in combination with physical exercises, or in
      the preparation of the physical exercise training (either skilling up phase or as a
      preparation to increase safety of physical exercises). In persons above 40 years of age,
      motor imagery could provide a sound exercise modality for tasks that are not easy to perform
      with real performance. For example, walking on slippery underground such as ice, walking on a
      small trail in some altitude, avoiding running dogs or cats on a sidewalk, or catching up
      after stumbling can be either difficult to exercise in reality or might be too dangerous in
      reality. Imaging one's performance in such difficult environments or situations might lead to
      better gait stability, improved reactions in these situations and thus probably to reduced
      falls frequency.

      Gait stability can be estimated with the local dynamic stability, which is based on chaos
      theory, i.e. the maximal Lyapunov exponent, is strongly influenced by the sensorimotor
      balance system and is widely used for measuring gait stability.

      In the future, the investigators plan a large scale randomized open label cross-over study to
      test whether nine sessions of motor imagery improve walking stability, measured with the
      Lyapunov Exponent.

      To prepare this future study, the investigators set out to test the feasibility of such a
      study with a feasibility study using an open label randomized cross-over trial including 32
      persons aged 40 years or more. The primary aim is to evaluate whether the instructions are
      clear, the intervention and the study procedures are acceptable and to assess the proportion
      of participants withdraw from the study (drop outs). Secondary aims are the assessment of
      between group differences in the changes of the gait stability.
    
  