
    
      The Study Scans and Tests:

      IMRT is a type of 3-dimensional (3-D) radiation therapy that can focus radiation beams
      directly on the tumor itself. In this study, the IMRT is given using a standard radiation
      machine (ExaCT™ machine) that has a CT scanner attached to it. This machine is commonly used
      in patients with head and neck cancer. It gives the same radiation treatment as most of the
      other machines at M. D. Anderson. However, in addition to giving radiation treatments, it can
      also perform CT scans while the patient is in the same position on the treatment table,
      before the radiation therapy is given.

      For this study, your standard of care daily CT scans will be used to help researchers adjust
      participants' radiation therapy, if necessary, on a weekly basis. In particular, the changes
      in normal tissue that are being studied are any changes in the salivary glands. An additional
      research related MRI scan will also be performed in this study, but the MRI scan will not be
      used to adjust participants' therapy. Researchers want to learn if MRI scanning may be able
      to help doctors in the future to adjust someone's treatment based on changes in a tumor (its
      features and size) in response to radiation.

      Enrollment in the Study:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will receive IMRT according to the standard
      schedule (over 6 - 7 weeks). You will sign a separate consent form for the IMRT, and the
      procedure and its risks will be explained to you at that time.

      CT Scans:

      During this study, you will have a standard of care CT scan right before each IMRT treatment
      (over a 6-7 week period of time, depending on the exact schedule your doctor decides would be
      best for your treatment). These CT scans are standard of care, are used to make sure your
      treatment is being aimed properly, and would be performed whether you are participating on
      this trial or not. Once you are set up on the treatment table and are ready for radiation
      therapy, the table will be turned around and the CT scan will be performed. After the CT
      scan, which should take about 5-8 minutes, the table will be turned back around to the
      original position and the radiation treatment will be given to you. In total, about 30-33 CT
      scans will be performed for this study, depending on the exact number of treatments the
      doctor decides would be best for your therapy.

      Routine MRI Scans:

      Routine MRI scans of your head and neck will be performed before treatment (at Week 1) and
      after treatment (sometime during Weeks 12-14). These scans may be used for routine treatment
      planning and checking the status of the disease.

      Study-Related MRI Scan:

      An additional MRI scan will be done halfway through treatment (during Week 3). This MRI scan
      will be used to help researchers see if MRI scanning may be able to help doctors in the
      future to adjust someone's treatment based on changes in a tumor (its features and size) in
      response to radiation. In 15 participants, a repeat baseline study-related MRI scan will be
      done 48 hours to 1 week following the first routine MRI scan.

      Modified Barium Swallow:

      Your swallowing function will be tested with a special type of x-ray called a modified barium
      swallow (MBS). During the test, you will eat and drink foods and liquids mixed with a
      "contrast" chemical called barium that will make your throat more visible in the x-rays. A
      special x-ray tube will be connected to a television screen to allow the doctor to watch the
      foods and liquids pass from your mouth and down your throat.

      MBS will be performed before you start radiation therapy, 4-6 months after the end of
      radiation therapy, and during your routine follow-up visits, 12 months (plus or minus 2
      months), and 24 months (plus or minus 3 months).

      Saliva Testing:

      One reason IMRT is being used is to try to protect your parotid glands (the largest of the
      salivary glands) from receiving too much radiation. To check this, a study-related saliva
      test will be done. For this test, the amount of saliva your parotid glands create will be
      measured before treatment (within 7 days before Week 1) and at the last week of treatment
      (during Week 6 or 7). Do not eat or drink anything, or put anything in your mouth, for 1 hour
      before the saliva collections. You will be asked to let your saliva collect in your mouth for
      5 minutes and then spit into a cup. After that, you will be given a mild citric acid solution
      (like lemon juice) to put in your mouth. You will let the saliva collect in your mouth for 5
      minutes and then spit in a cup. Saliva testing will be performed under a separate protocol
      (LAB07-0050).

      Length of Study:

      If the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur, you will be taken off this
      study.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      At some time between Weeks 22 and 24, then every 3-4 months for up to 2 years after the last
      IMRT, you will return for follow-up visits. The amount of saliva your parotid glands create
      will be measured 6 weeks after radiation therapy, 4-6 months after radiation therapy, 1 year
      (plus or minus 2 months) after radiation therapy, and 2 years (plus or minus 3 months) after
      radiation therapy.

      This is an investigational study. The ExaCT™ machine is FDA approved for use in IMRT in
      patients with head and neck cancer. Researchers are using this standard of care CT Scan for
      routine quality assurance to make sure your treatment is given correctly. Up to 45 patients
      will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  