
    
      Preschool is a critical period during which children develop fundamental motor skills, build
      confidence in their movement, and start a physical activity trajectory that follows through
      adolescence and beyond. Unfortunately, few sustainable interventions have succeeded in
      increasing preschool children's physical activity, and subsequently children are developing
      obesity at alarming rates. A simple, low-cost strategy is the addition of colorful markings
      (i.e. hopscotch, foursquare, fun trails) to existing playgrounds or open spaces. These
      "painted playgrounds" have been shown to be effective to increase physical activity in older
      school-aged children but remain understudied in preschool children. The proposed project will
      examine the physical activity environment of licensed childcare centers before and after the
      implementation of a promising (cost-effective, easily scalable) playground stenciling
      intervention.

      The project aim will be achieved through a prospective observational epidemiological approach
      before and after a stenciling intervention is implemented. Among 4 childcare centers licensed
      in East Baton Rouge Parish (EBR), the investigators will first observe the playground
      environment to assess the equipment, space, ground material, etc. to provide a baseline
      measure of the physical activity environment prior to stenciling and ensure that intervention
      and control centers have similar playground environments. A modified behavioral observation
      method, the System for Observing Play and Leisure Activity in Youth (SOPLAY), will be used
      during recess to identify changes in physical activity after the stencils are added and which
      stencils are generating the biggest changes in physical activity. Surveys will be
      administered to center directors to further understand the physical activity environment
      (i.e. policies, additional PA support, etc.) in each center. This project will examine how a
      promising (cost-effective, easily scalable) playground stenciling intervention changes the
      physical activity landscape of childcare centers in order to provide evidence for the need
      for dissemination to numerous childcare centers across Louisiana. Ultimately, this pilot may
      launch an innovative strategy that has the potential to disrupt negative trends in obesity
      and sedentary behavior among Louisiana preschoolers.
    
  