
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety and feasibility of autologous peripheral blood stem cell
           transplantation in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia treated with
           cyclophosphamide and total-body irradiation.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the safety, feasibility, and efficacy of combination therapy comprising
           dexamethasone, carmustine, cytarabine, etoposide, and melphalan (Dexa-BEAM) and
           filgrastim (G-CSF) mobilization in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the efficacy of ex-vivo graft purging in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence of complete clinical and molecular remissions in patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open-label, nonrandomized study.

        -  Cytoreductive treatment: Patients undergo 2-4 courses of cytoreductive treatment,
           preferably following the fludarabine and cyclophosphamide (FC) protocol.

        -  Stem cell mobilization: Patients achieving a complete remission (CR) or partial
           remission (PR) and stable blood counts undergo stem cell mobilization comprising
           dexamethasone, carmustine, cytarabine, etoposide, melphalan (Dexa-BEAM), and filgrastim
           (G-CSF). Patients with an adequate number of mobilized cells undergo stem cell
           collection. Patients with CR or very good PR proceed to myeloablative therapy.

        -  Myeloablative therapy: Patients undergo total-body irradiation on day -4 and receive
           cyclophosphamide IV on days -4 and -3.

        -  Autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT): Patients undergo
           autologous PBSCT on day 0.

      After completion of study, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 150 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  