
    
      As part of our inpatient sleep testing program, high-risk HF patients (BMI>30 kg/m2 ) undergo
      Type III sleep testing (Nihon Kohden速) set up by sleep laboratory technicians. Our inpatient
      sleep service also has a clinical nurse who works with patients on CPAP education, set up and
      assists with post hospital sleep care. If a titration study is needed, it is generally
      arranged 1-2 weeks post discharge. All inpatient sleep studies are scored by three registered
      polysomnographic technologists and I review and finalize these studies (current clinical flow
      as the primary physician leading the inpatient service, which will be augmented for this
      clinical trial). A research coordinator and I will approach those with REI>5 who meet
      eligibility per screening in Epic速, to discuss sleep study results, confirm eligibility,
      invite the patient to participate, and if interested, will obtain written informed consent.
      Consent: Consent form will explain in a lay person' terminology the nature of all procedures.
      It will be stressed that participation is voluntary. The research coordinator and the PI will
      be available to answer questions. All activities will be compliant with local IRB and HIPPA
      guidelines.

      All participants will obtain Auto-CPAP from two manufacturers (Philips Respironics 速 or
      ResMed 速) delivered by the same homecare health before discharge. PAP pressures will be set
      at 5-15 cmH2O, heated humification, and expiratory pressure relief according to comfort. A
      modem will be attached to the PAP device to extract adherence data remotely (SD card for
      those without wireless capability). All patients will receive a standardized 20-minute
      educational session about PAP therapy before discharge and will be advised to use their
      device every night during sleep by our clinical nurse. Patients will also be fitted for a
      mask fitted homecare health. If participants have mask or pressure intolerance issues, they
      will be a direct provided a phone number to our research coordinator. All baseline
      questionnaires will be sent via REDcap link to the patient's e-mail or completed in paper
      form before discharge and during their visit (or paper if electronic not feasible). The
      coordinator will ensure all questionnaires are completed before discharge and will instruct
      patients to complete follow-up questionnaires. Patients will be randomized (REDCap algorithm)
      1:1 to TIME versus standard of care. Blocks will be of random size blinded to study
      investigators. Although it will not be feasible to blind the research team and participants
      to the intervention, the standard of care group will also receive sleep hygiene education so
      that there is perception of some level of intervention to try to address placebo effect.
      During follow up visits (2 weeks and 2 months for the TIME group and 2 months standard of
      care group) with sleep medicine, the first 15 minutes will be focused on OSA and
      troubleshooting problems for both groups as this is standard clinical care provided at our
      Sleep Disorders Center. These 15 minutes will be followed by 30 minutes of ME in the
      intervention group and 10 minutes of sleep hygiene education in the control group. Outcomes
      will be measured at 3 months and 6 months for both groups. Both groups will receive a booster
      phone call at 4 months. The intervention group will receive a 30 minutes booster ME session
      and the control group will receive 10 minutes of sleep hygiene.
    
  