
    
      This study seeks to assess the effectiveness of the QuitTXT program, a text message cessation
      intervention designed for young adult smokers ages 18-29. The QuitTXT program is a component
      of a larger web-based tobacco cessation intervention resource provided by the National Cancer
      Institute. The program focuses on providing actionable strategies and fact based information,
      serving as an engagement tool delivering two-way communication, and delivering intra- and
      extra-treatment support. The structure of the QuitTXT program is designed as a 14-day
      countdown to quit date with subsequent six weeks of messages. Throughout the program, users
      will receive texts that cover a variety of content areas including tips, informational
      content, motivational messaging, and keyword responses.

      The study seeks to recruit a large sample of young adult smokers ages 18-29 to examine how
      exposure to the QuitTXT program affects participants.

      There will be 3-arms to the study:

      Participants in Arm 1, the control group of the study, will only receive the weekly
      assessments asking them of their smoking status.

      Participants in Arm 2 will receive a texting program that consists of up to two weeks of
      countdown to quit messaging plus assessments messages that all groups receive for a total of
      8 weeks.

      Participants in Arm 3 will receive the full text messaging program.

      All groups will be able to select a quit date within a 7-day window (between 2 and 3 weeks
      after they complete the baseline survey). Participants in Arm 3 will receive
      motivational/informational messages while participants in group 1 will receive only
      assessment messages. Participants in Arm 2 will receive the countdown messages to their quit
      date, but not the motivational messaging after their quit date. Like Arm 1, they will only
      receive assessment messages after their quit date.

      This study will add unique value to the existing literature by teasing out the effect of some
      messages vs. frequent, motivational/informational messaging on quit rates and intent to quit
      among young adults.
    
  