
    
      Procalcitonin (PCT) has been widely studied to guide antibiotic use in critically ill septic
      patients. Using an algorithm for antibiotic de-escalation guided by PCT levels in septic
      patients with respiratory tract infections was associated with lower antibiotics exposure
      without increasing mortality or treatment failure. Furthermore, the current Surviving Sepsis
      Guidelines suggest that PCT levels may help clinicians in their decision of empiric
      antibiotics discontinuation especially in patients with suspected sepsis and low PCT values
      with no other evidence of infection (low level of evidence, GRADE 2C).

      Reducing the use of antibiotics is a global health care priority. Using a PCT-guided
      algorithm in combination with clinical judgment was associated with reduced antibiotic use
      without increasing morbidity or mortality. Though PCT has been widely studied as a
      diagnostic, prognostic, and theragnostic inflammatory marker in patients with sepsis, there
      are limited studies that evaluated PCT in patients with cancer and many of the currently
      available studies have excluded immune-compromised patients. Furthermore, studies have
      reported elevated inflammatory markers, including PCT, in patients with cancer as a result of
      the malignancy itself or treatment complications. This may suggest that PCT alone may
      possibly be less useful for differentiating infectious from non-infectious sources of fever
      in cancer patients. However, serial PCT levels may be more useful in cancer patients,
      compared to a single level.

      Sepsis is common in cancer patients; however, there are limited studies evaluating the
      clinical impact of obtaining PCT levels in this patient population. Therefore, this study
      will evaluate the impact of obtaining serial PCT levels on the number of antibiotic days in
      cancer patients with sepsis. In addition, the study aims to evaluate the predictive value of
      PCT for predicting mortality and positive cultures.

      Study Objectives The main objective of this study is to evaluate the impact of a PCT-guided
      algorithm on the duration of antimicrobial therapy in critically ill cancer patients with
      sepsis. The main research question being asked is whether providing the clinical team with
      daily PCT levels, along with a PCT-based algorithm to guide antimicrobial management, would
      have an impact on the duration of antibiotic therapy. In addition, the study intends to
      assess the role of PCT in predicting mortality and positive cultures in the cancer septic
      patient population.
    
  