
    
      Approximately 2 billion people worldwide are infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis (TB),
      with 90% of individuals having latent infection (LTBI). The control of TB requires clearly
      delineated helper T cell (Th) 1 responses and, to a lesser extent, Th17 responses, which both
      play important roles in the induction and maintenance of protective immune responses in mouse
      models of TB infection and in the prevention of active disease, as seen in LTBI. During
      latency, M. tuberculosis is contained in localized granulomas. Mycobacteria-specific T cells
      mediate delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions to purified protein derivative (PPD), and
      this reaction is generally considered to indicate an LTBI status in the absence of
      demonstrable active infection.

      Among the various risk factors that are known to play a role in promoting active TB, HIV is
      the most well studied and described. However, in low-HIV-endemic countries like India, other
      risk factors might play a more prominent role in active TB pathogenesis. These include
      malnutrition, diabetes mellitus (DM), and helminth infections. LTBI individuals with these
      comorbidities or coinfections could be at a higher risk for developing active TB than their
      healthy LTBI counterparts without these comorbidities. Thus, it is imperative to study the
      pathogenesis of TB infection and disease in these at-risk populations.

      In this study, we will estimate the prevalence of severe to moderate malnutrition,
      uncontrolled DM, and helminth infections in LTBI-positive individuals. We will collect
      samples from a cohort of individuals with LTBI, those with LTBI and coexistent malnutrition,
      DM, or helminth coinfection, and those without any of these conditions. Individual
      participation may last up to 6 months. The main objective of the study is to estimate the
      prevalence of malnutrition, DM, and helminth infections in LTBI individuals.

      Simultaneously, we will perform transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic assays, including
      profiles in serum and urine, to determine the biosignature portfolio of these individuals. In
      addition, immunological assays examining cytokine/chemokine signatures as well as other
      immune parameters related to innate and adaptive responses will be performed to enhance the
      understanding of the immunological cross-talk between LTBI and malnutrition, DM, and helminth
      infections.
    
  