
    
      Length of Study - The duration of the study is expected to be 8-12 months. Enrollment of
      study patients will cease when approximately 250 patients have been enrolled.

      Study Design- Design will be a multi-center, prospective, unblinded randomized control trial.
      Patients referred for either screening or surveillance colonoscopy will be included.

      Equipment: Aside from standard of care scope used, a second computer monitor that will stand
      behind the standard monitor used during colonoscopy. Additionally , a computer system unit
      with an operating system.

      Standard Clinical Procedure Typically, intravenous sedation using a combination of
      benzodiazepine and narcotic medications (with or without propofol under the supervision of a
      trained anesthesiologist) are used for colonoscopy. Continuous pulse oximetry and blood
      pressure monitoring is used throughout the procedure. Supplemental oxygen is used as needed.
      Patients are usually placed in the left lateral decubitus position and the colonoscope is
      introduced into the rectum. The colonoscope is advanced under direct visualization until the
      cecum and appendiceal orifice is reached. The colonoscope is usually retroflexed within the
      rectum. The colonoscopist carefully inspects each segment of colon during advancement and
      then again on withdrawal of the colonoscope. Any suspicious lesions encountered during
      insertion or withdrawal are inspected by the colonoscopist and a final determination is made
      by the clinician on whether or not to remove a given lesion. Any lesion that is deemed
      suspicious or polypoid is removed by en-bloc polypectomy, piecemeal polypectomy, or may be
      referred for endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) at a later date. After the procedure,
      patients recover in the post-procedural recovery room. After the procedure, results are
      discussed with the patient. The ability of colonoscopy to detect lesions is discussed with
      the patient as well as the fact that a small percentage of polyps and other lesions may be
      missed during the test.

      Study Procedure Patients will receive a colonoscopy with a gastroenterologist. During the
      standard clinical procedural protocol and for the study period, colonoscopists will have the
      benefit of a second monitor that will project the polyp detection algorithm in real-time over
      the video output of the colonoscopy. The algorithm will detect suspicious, polyp-like lesions
      within the lumen of the colon, and during the procedure a research assistant will view the
      second monitor at all times and record a time stamp for any potential polyps on an
      intra-procedural data collection sheet.

      Data Collection Variables collected and measured will include colonoscopist(s) performing the
      procedure, number of adenomas noted per procedure, adenoma detection rate for a given
      colonoscopist, number of polyps detected per procedure, polyp detection rate (the proportion
      of colonoscopic examinations performed that detect one or more polyps), cecal intubation
      rate, time needed to reach the cecum, time needed to withdraw colonoscope both when polyps
      are identified (and thus need to be removed) and on normal colonoscopy, level of sedation,
      and complications: Acute if within 48 hours of procedure & delayed if within 3-30 days after
      procedure.

      Data Analysis - Normally distributed continuous variables will be summarized using means and
      standard deviations while non-normally distributed continuous variables will be summarized
      using medians and ranges.
    
  