
    
      Taxanes are the most widely tested and effective chemotherapy drugs for hormone refractory
      prostate cancer. Weekly paclitaxel was reported to produce 25-39% PSA responses in first line
      and up to 33% in second line chemotherapy of patients with prostate cancer in early clinical
      trials (1, 2). Paclitaxel activity in prostate cancer is schedule dependent, and weekly
      paclitaxel was reported to produce highest response rates (1, 2). Docetaxel was recently
      approved by the Food and Drug Administration for treatment of hormone refractory metastatic
      prostate cancer, since it is the only chemotherapy drug with documented improvement in
      survival in this group of patients. Docetaxel was associated with 45.8% overall grade 3/4
      toxicities and it has to be given with steroid pre-medication. This regimen might be
      difficult to use in advanced prostate cancer patients that are often elderly and with
      multiple co-morbid conditions.

      ABI-007 [Abraxane™ (paclitaxel protein-bound particles for injectable suspension)
      (albumin-bound)] is the first in its class of biologically interactive albumin-bound forms of
      chemotherapy (3). This composition provides a novel approach of increasing intra-tumoral
      concentration of the drug by a receptor-mediated transport process allowing transcytosis
      across the endothelial cell wall, thereby breaching the blood/tumor interface. This
      albumin-specific receptor mediated process involves the binding of a specific receptor (gp60)
      on the endothelial cell wall, resulting in activation of a protein caveolin-1, which
      initiates an opening in the endothelial wall with formation of a little caves or caveolae,
      with transport of the albumin-bound chemotherapeutic complex via these caveolae to the
      underlying tumor interstitium (4). A protein specifically secreted by the tumor (SPARC) binds
      and entraps the albumin, allowing release of the hydrophobic drug to the tumor cell membrane.
      ABI-007 is the first biologically interactive albumin-bound chemotherapy agent leveraging
      this gp-60/caveolin-1/caveolae/Sparc pathway to increase intra-tumoral concentration of the
      drug and reduce the amount of the toxic chemotherapy in normal tissue.

      Preclinical studies comparing Abraxane to paclitaxel demonstrated lower toxicities, with a
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) approximately 50% higher for Abraxane (7) compared to paclitaxel
      (11). At equal doses there was less myelosuppression and improved efficacy than paclitaxel in
      a xenograft tumor model of human mammary adenocarcinoma. Clinical studies confirmed improved
      toxicity profile and higher response rates, in metastatic breast cancer, of Abraxane compared
      to cremophor EL paclitaxel (Taxol) (5, 8). The weekly regimen was shown to be active even in
      patients with cancers refractory to paclitaxel, docetaxel or when Abraxane was given after
      both agents (8).
    
  