
    
      This is a prospective observational multicenter cohort study of all patients with calcified
      coronary lesions undergoing RA in participating centres across Asia. Patients will be
      required to provide informed consent for data collection, including follow-up data and
      uploading of data on a web-based data collection platform (deidentified). Operators/
      institution coordinators will fill up hardcopy or electronic (web-based) forms including
      patient's baseline demographics, co-morbidities, clinical data, laboratory test results,
      echocardiography results, coronary angiography findings with subsequent interventions
      performed as well as follow-up clinical and laboratory results. Note that while detailed data
      for individual patients will only be collected if there is informed consent, data from each
      institution will also be collected for aggregate data regarding procedural volume (eg. total
      cases with debulking therapy and specifically for ROTABLATORTM). This will give a sense of
      representativeness of data collected. This screening data will also include the following
      fields: age, gender, ethnicity, comorbidities, target vessel, prior revascularization
      (PCI/CABG), clinical presentation, procedural urgency, angiographic procedural details (RA
      and PCI) and in-hospital complication and mortality. The use of this retrospective data will
      require appropriate approval and will only utilize anonymized data. Only in-hospital data
      will be obtained and no follow up data is required from these controls. Should these data not
      be available in any of the participating sites, a minimum baseline demographics, procedural
      and inpatient outcome data with reasons for non-participation in registry should be provided
      for records purposes. This shall be accepted as a limitation of the study. Sub-site analysis
      may be performed in centres with availability of all data in this group of patients to
      address generalisability of the data collected.
    
  