
    
      NutriQuébec is an open cohort with continuous and uninterrupted recruitment over the study
      duration, which is currently funded until 2022. The target sample size is 20,000 adults based
      on a non-probability sampling. A vast multimedia campaign will be deployed to reach the
      target population throughout the province of Québec. More specifically, television, radio and
      print interviews will be organized periodically. Key leading figures in the area of food and
      health will be solicited to promote the project on various media platforms. The project will
      also be publicized on social networks, including on the NutriQuébec Facebook page. The Québec
      Government and several of its community partners will be invited to promote NutriQuébec via
      their website, newsletters and/or the social networks they use. In addition, recruitment ads
      will be distributed through several channels, including: 1) email lists from partners and
      universities in Québec; and 2) public places such as community centers, health institutions
      and companies. All of the above-mentioned recruitment methods will invite individuals
      interested in the study to visit the NutriQuébec website for more information and to
      register.

      After having created an account on the secured PULSAR platform, each individual will be
      invited to provide informed consent to participate in the project.Their eligibility (age and
      address of residence) will be automatically verified at registration. Once registered and
      having consented, participants will be invited through email to complete the core
      questionnaires by logging into their personal and secured account.

      Core questionnaires will be completed on a yearly basis, based on the date of the
      participants' first registration. These core questionnaires assess lifestyle habits including
      eating habits, physical activity habits, sleep quality, tobacco, alcohol and drug habits as
      well as personal characteristics, food security and health status.
    
  