
    
      The trial is a randomized, explorative study. Patients undergoing examinations for suspicions
      of lung cancer (Stage I-III) are randomized to either standard diagnostic work-up for lung
      cancer (Arm A, n=75) or comprehensive diagnostic work-up (Arm B, n=75) with standard
      examinations plus endobronchial-screening for metastatic lymph nodes (EBUS-TBNA) and PET-MRI.

      All patients will undergo todays' standard examination for diagnosing and staging lung
      cancer. This will be individualized for each patient according to current guidelines. In
      addition to the standard diagnostic work-up, patients in the interventional group (ArmB) will
      undergo

      1) PET-MRI 2) systematic mediastinal and hilar lymph node mapping using EBUS-TBNA
      (endobronchial ultrasound transbronchial needle aspiration of lymph nodes)

        1. PET-MRI PET-MRI will be done immediate after the standard PET-CT using the same infusion
           of tracer (18-fluorodeoxyglucose, FDG). The sequence protocols used for MRI will be
           standardized for the study, according to each body compartment. Measurement of Standard
           Uptake Values (SUV) of the tracer (FDG) will be recorded in pathological lesions. In the
           mediastinum, each lymph node station will be evaluated with description of visible
           nodes.

        2. Systematic mediastinal mapping The EBUS-TBNA will be done at the initial bronchoscopy
           and using standard conscious sedation according to the local guidelines at St.Olavs
           Hospital. Each lymph node station (station 2, 4, 7, 10 and 11 bilateral) will be
           examined and all lymph nodes ≥ 0,5 cm in short diameter that is easily accessible will
           be punctured for rapid on-site cytological evaluation (ROSE).

      After the initial diagnostic work-up is completed, the patient will be given treatment
      according to existing guidelines for lung cancer based on the given clinical stage.

      For patients undergoing surgery all accessible lymph nodes will be resected according to
      standard practice. Every resected lymph node will be carefully named according to the
      standard lymph station for comparison with clinical findings.
    
  