
    
      Patients admitted to our transplant surgery inpatient floor for cadaveric kidney transplant
      surgery will be reviewed with the circle of care team and approached for consent if deemed
      suitable for this trial. A Nova Scotia Health Authority Research Ethics Board approved
      informed consent form will be utilized in the consent discussion and patients will be
      provided time to read the document in full before being asked for a decision on
      participation.

      Patients who give their consent for the study will be randomized to 'PICO' or 'Control'
      group. The randomization process will be held during the time period between the admission of
      the patient to the inpatient floor and referral of the patient to the operating room.
      Randomization process will be conducted by the transplant fellow or the research associate
      who will randomly pick an envelope from a box full of 60 same-sized, same-colored and closed
      envelopes each time a patient gives consent. Among those 60 envelopes 30 will have the 'PICO'
      card inside, while the remaining 30 envelopes will have 'control' card. Assignment process
      will be completed when 30 consecutive patients are included in each group. There will be 1
      control per case.

      For both patient groups the surgical wound closure procedure will be the same: At the end of
      each cadaveric kidney transplant procedure the wound edges will be approximated by means of
      running subcuticular suture with non-absorbable stitches (3/0 polypropylene/polyethylene).
      For patients randomized to the 'PICO' group, PICO will be applied in the operating room
      immediately after closure and the continuous negative pressure set at -80 mmHg.

      For patients randomized to the control group standard of care basic wound contact absorbent
      dressings will be applied in the operating room immediately after the closure of the surgical
      wound.

      Follow-up care:

      Control Group patients will have the surgical site dressing changed sterilely when too wet,
      and then removed after 48 hours post op. At this time the wound will be left exposed if no
      complications occur.

      PICO group patients will keep the device in place for 7 days, and then have it removed on
      post-operative day 7. PICO Dressing replacement will be performed in cases where the dressing
      becomes too wet before day 7.

      All patients will receive antibiotic prophylaxis 60 minutes before surgery as per our routine
      protocol: Cefazolin (1-2 gram) IV will be given as the first-choice antibiotic. Clindamycin
      (600-900 mg) IV will be given to penicillin-allergic patients.

      Data regarding following parameters will be collected for each recipient: Age at the time of
      transplant surgery, gender, diabetic status, pre-transplant dialysis status
      (preemptive/hemodialysis/peritoneal dialysis), body mass index/ pre-transplant weight,
      pre-operative serum albumin level, Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) mismatch status, panel
      reactive antibody (PRA) , functional status of the graft (immediate graft function / delayed
      graft function) and in-hospital stay.

      Following variables regarding KT surgery and allograft will be collected: Date of KT surgery,
      donor age, cadaveric donor type (brain death/cardiac death), cold ischemia time, warm
      ischemia time and operative time.

      SSE will be evaluated on post-operative days 3, 7 and 30. Data on minor and major wound
      complications (superficial wound dehiscence, evisceration, seromas, incisional hernias, wound
      infections and wound necrosis) collected over the first 30 postoperative days will be
      recorded on follow-up forms by the same researcher. These data will include information
      regarding the type of the wound complication, whether or not an intervention was required and
      type and number of the interventions (therapeutic vacuum-assisted closure, percutaneous
      drainage and re-operation).

      PICO and conventional dressing (control) groups will be compared in terms of afore-mentioned
      "wound complication risk factors" and descriptive "recipient, donor and allograft"
      parameters. Subsequently, investigators are planning to proceed with comparison of the
      outcomes among these two groups. Statistical analysis methods described below will be used
      for comparison of the groups in terms of the rates of wound complications and wound
      complication-related intervention and re-operation rates.

      8. STATISTICAL ANALYSIS A) Power calculation There will be 1 control assigned per case. Prior
      data indicate that the failure (wound complication) rate among controls is 0.25. Findings of
      the previous studies regarding preventive PICO application correspond to a true relative risk
      of 2.5. Relevant power calculation analysis suggests assignment of 26 experimental and 26
      control subjects ((to be able to reject the null hypothesis that relative risk equals 1 with
      probability (power) 0.8)).

      The Type I error probability associated with this test of this null hypothesis is 0.05. An
      uncorrected chi-squared statistic will be used to evaluate this null hypothesis.

      B) Analysis of data Results will be expressed as mean ± standard deviation. Categorical data
      will be compared using 2-tailed Fisher's exact test or Chi-squared test. Continuous variables
      will be compared using Mann-Whitney test. p < 0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant. Statistical analyses will be performed with computer software (SAS for Windows,
      version 9.2).
    
  