
    
      Although there have been major advances in developing evidence-based psychotherapies, the
      adoption of such treatments by community therapists has been slow. One of the problems is the
      difficulty therapists in practice have in learning how to conduct an evidence-based
      psychotherapy. Hence, this study will investigate two methods of teaching therapists
      interpersonal therapy (IPT), an evidence based treatment for eating disorders and depression,
      at 40 college or University counseling centers.

      Current approaches to training therapists to conduct new treatments typically consist of a
      one or two day workshop delivered by an expert and provision of a manual for the therapy in
      question. Recent reviews have concluded that while workshops increase therapists' knowledge,
      their impact on skills may be short-lived without further consultation. Thus, investigators
      will supplement IPT training manuals and workshops by offering monthly consultation calls to
      participating therapists for 12 months following the workshop. The consultation calls are not
      designed to be case supervision per se. Rather, they are to be seen as extended training on
      IPT. This training condition is referred to as expert consultation.

      The second training strategy, referred to as train-the-trainer, features expertise capacity
      building within each organization. There is a strong theoretical case for this implementation
      strategy as it is based on the principles of social cognitive theory, featuring active
      learning via modeling, feedback on performance, building self-efficacy, and supportive
      interactions among therapists developing IPT skills. This 'train-the-trainer' approach
      involves active learning which centers around development of an internal coach and champion,
      and has been recommended as the most effective means of changing actual therapist behaviors
      rather than just attitudes and self-reported proficiency. Roth et al. have made the case that
      effective implementation of evidence-based treatment in routine clinical services requires
      that the training approximate that which characterized the research context (e.g., continuing
      feedback and supervision and monitoring of treatment fidelity). Our train-the-trainer
      strategy offers a practical means of accomplishing this goal.
    
  