
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of G3139, doxorubicin and docetaxel in breast cancer
      patients receiving G3139/AT therapy. (Phase I) II. To determine the safety of bcl-2 antisense
      oligonucleotide G3139 (GenasenseTM) together with docetaxel plus doxorubicin (AT) in patients
      with metastatic and locally advanced breast cancer (LABC). (Phase I) III. To determine the
      therapeutic efficacy of neoadjuvant G3139 in combination with AT chemotherapy in patients
      with LABC. (Phase II) IV. To further evaluate the safety of bcl-2 antisense oligonucleotide
      G3139 (GenasenseTM) together with docetaxel plus doxorubicin (AT) in patients with locally
      advanced breast cancer (LABC). (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the clinical and imaging response to neoadjuvant G3139/AT in the breast and
      the axillary lymph nodes. (Phase II) II. To determine the disease-free survival of breast
      cancer patients treated with neoadjuvant G3139/AT. (Phase II) III. To further define the
      pharmacokinetics of G3139/AT. (Phase II) IV. To evaluate the role of Bcl-2 expression as a
      predictor of response to neoadjuvant G3139/AT therapy. (Phase II) V. To obtain serial breast
      cancer samples from patients treated with G3139. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, dose-escalation study of oblimersen.

      PHASE I (COMPLETED AS OF 8/16/04): Patients receive oblimersen IV continuously on days 1-6
      interrupted only to administer doxorubicin IV over 15 minutes and docetaxel IV over 60
      minutes on day 6. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) on days 7-13
      or pegfilgrastim SC on day 7. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of oblimersen until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients receive doxorubicin, docetaxel, G-CSF or pegfilgrastim, and oblimersen at
      the MTD as in phase I.

      Patients with resectable tumors after 6 courses undergo surgical resection.

      Patients are followed every 3-6 months for 5 years.
    
  