
    
      The patients will be treated by aspirin loading dose of 500mg and then 100 mg/day for other 4
      days. For patients that will be entrolled in the regular working hours, platelet aggregation
      test and cholesterol content in platelet membranes will be done at baseline.

      Blood tests for lipids, liver (ALT,AST,GGT,Alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin) and renal
      function tests (blood urea nitrogen and creatinine), complete blood count, general urine test
      and serum homocysteine will be done on the second day.

      On the fifth day optical platelet aggregation test, cholesterol content in platelet
      membranes, platelet function in the PFA-100 system and soluble p-selectin in the plasma will
      be done If the patient has aspirin resistance (platelet aggregation 20% with epinephrine or
      70% with ADP), LDL will be lowered in the plasma of 20 patients by hypolipidemic drugs
      (statin alone or combined with ezetimibe). Other 20 patients will continue to be treated by
      aspirin alone.

      One month later, blood tests for lipids, liver (ALT,AST,GGT,Alkaline phosphatase and
      bilirubin) and renal function tests (blood urea nitrogen and creatinine), complete blood
      count, general urine test and serum homocysteine will be done for the second time and
      platelet activity will be tested again for all patients.

      Platelet separation:

      For platelet studies, venous blood (30 ml) will be collected through siliconized syringes
      into acid citrate dextrose solution(1.4% citric acid, 2.5% sodium citrate, and 2% dextrose)
      at a ratio of 9:1 (v:v) for washed platelets (WP)preparation.WP will be prepared by
      centrifugation at 240g for 20 min. The platelet bellet will be washed twice in 5 mmol Hepes
      buffer, pH 7.4 (140 mmol NaCl, 2 mmol KCL, 1 mmol MgCl2, 5 mmol Hepes, 12 mmol NaHCO3 and 5.5
      mmol of glucose). For the preparation of WP suspension, 15 uL of acetic acid (1mmol) will be
      added to 1 ml of platelet suspension throughout WP preparation in order to ensure acidic
      conditions which are required for platelet resuspension. This procedure will reduce the
      medium pH to 6.5 and it does not influence the aggregation response of the WP.

      Platelet aggregation:

      Collagen (Nycomed, germany) will be used as the aggregating agent at a concentration of 4
      ug/ml (this concentration can cause up to 60% aggregation amplitude in WP). Platelet
      aggregation will be perfomed at 37ºC in aggregometer using hepes as a reference system.
      Results will be expressed as the extent of maximal aggregation (% of maximal amplitude) and
      also as the slope of the aggregation curve (cm/min).

      Cholesterol content in platelet membranes:

      Platelets will be washed three times with Hepes buffer, and then sonicated twice for 20
      seconds at 80 watt. Platelet lipids will be extracted with hexane:isopropanolol (3:2, v:v).
      The cholesterol content will be measured in the dried hexane phase by the method of Chiamori
      et al (12). Platelet protein will be determined using the method of Lowry (13).
    
  