
    
      This is a 24 weeks cluster randomized, single-blinded, controlled trial. Family physicians
      will be invited to participate in the project with patients from their lists, and can
      participate with 1-5 patients each. The investigators will carry out cluster randomization on
      physician level instead of individual randomization on patient level.

      The investigators suppose that such a comprehensive clinical evaluation and drug review that
      they will test, is most relevant for patients with relatively pronounced polypharmacy. It has
      previously been shown that conventionally used limits for polypharmacy, e.g. five drugs used
      regularly, identifies many patients without particular complex health states and without drug
      related problems. The investigators will therefore limit this project to patients using seven
      regular drugs or more, in order to increase the likelihood that they may benefit from a drug
      review.

      A major challenge when studying complex interventions is to describe the intervention with
      sufficient precision as to facilitate replication. Our main strategy for this will be to
      compensate for the necessary degree of pragmatism in the interventional approach with a
      detailed description of the interventions that were in fact carried out, in particular
      changes in the drug regimens of the individual patients.

      The intervention will consist of three main parts:

        1. Geriatric assessment: The patients will be seen by a physician trained in geriatric
           medicine. The physician will carry out a medical history and a physical examination, and
           relevant blood analyses and other supplementary test will be ordered if not already
           available. The geriatric work-up will be aimed at evaluating whether current medications
           are indicated, whether the relevant conditions are satisfactorily compensated, whether
           the dosages are appropriate, whether the patient has symptoms that may in reality be
           adverse drug effects, and whether drug-drug interactions or drug-disease interactions
           are likely to occur. Published tools like the START (Screening Tool of Older Persons'
           Prescriptions) criteria, Screening Tool to Alert doctors to Right Treatment (STOPP)
           criteria and The Norwegian General Practice (NORGEP) criteria will be used.

        2. Conference with common drug review: The main purpose of this conference is to combine
           the competence of the geriatrician and that of the family physician in a focused drug
           review. The two physicians will discuss the patient's drug list systematically. The
           geriatrician may suggest changes in the drug regimen, but the family physician retains
           the medical responsibility for the patient and is in charge of all ordinations and
           medication changes.

        3. Clinical follow-up: Depending on medication changes that have been done, the two
           physicians will arrange the necessary follow-up within the project period.

      The investigators will assess the outcomes at 16 and 24 weeks, counted from baseline, and
      will also assess baseline values for the outcomes in order to adjust for potential
      inequalities.
    
  