
    
      Per the EAST practice management guidelines, an open fracture is defined as one in which the
      fracture fragments communicate with the environment through a break in the skin. The presence
      of an open fracture, either isolated or as part of a multiple injury complex, increases the
      risk of infection and soft tissue complications. Open fractures are further classified into
      Grade I - Grade III fractures per the Gustilo Classification. Grade III fractures are those
      with the highest likelihood of contamination and infection with infection rates ranging from
      10% to 42%.

      EAST guidelines currently recommend systemic gram positive coverage for all open fractures
      with the addition of gram negative coverage for all Grade III fractures. Antibiotics should
      be initiated as soon as possible following the injury and should be continued for 72 hours
      after the injury or not greater than 24 hours after soft tissue coverage was obtained.
      Traditionally, patients received the combination of Cefazolin and Gentamicin as the preferred
      prophylactic antibiotic regimen, despite the need for multiple antibiotics and the risk of
      nephrotoxicity associated with aminoglycosides. Whether there is clinically a more ideal
      prophylactic antibiotic available remains to be seen. This proposed research initiative is
      intended to evaluate several antibiotic regimens with similar spectrums of activity to see if
      there is an equally effective single agent with minimal nephrotoxicity associated with its
      use. In selecting the study antibiotics to be utilized in the protocol, available information
      was obtained regarding timing of antibiotics, organisms identified by culture results, and
      any studies available on specific antibiotic regimens. In regards to timing, there is
      evidence to support that time to antibiotics and time to the operating room may be more
      important than the particular antibiotic itself. Additionally, a recent study from 2015
      looked at the organisms identified from culture results for Grade I through Grade III
      fractures in Germany. The vast majority of cultures obtained were gram positive organisms,
      even in the Grade III fractures, and included Staphylococcus epidermidis, Staphylococcus
      aureus, Staphylococcus capitis, various Streptococcus species, Enterococcus faecium and
      Corynebacterium. Interestingly, the only gram negative organism identified in the study was
      Escherichia coli. Lastly, when trying to identify antibiotic specific studies, a recent study
      was identified looking at Ceftriaxone as the agent of choice, while limiting the use of
      vancomycin and aminoglycosides. The conclusion of the study showed a significant decrease in
      vancomycin and aminoglycosides administered with no increase in infection rates.

      Here at St. Elizabeth Youngstown Hospital, the investigator's current trauma and orthopedics
      practice management guideline has been reviewed and changed multiple times in the past
      several years. For the vast majority of time, the recommendation has been to use the
      traditional cefazolin/gentamicin combination. However, several cases of nephrotoxicity led to
      some hesitation in utilizing this regimen. Therefore, for a short time period,
      piperacillin/tazobactam was being used for all Grade III fractures instead. At present
      however, due to conflicting concerns regarding antimicrobial stewardship with utilizing broad
      spectrum piperacillin/tazobactam with the nephrotoxicity concerns of gentamicin, the approved
      guideline utilizes cefazolin/gentamicin for patients under 65 years of age and
      piperacillin/tazobactam for all patients greater than or equal to 65 years of age. This study
      aims to evaluate non-inferiority of ampicillin/sulbactam, ceftriaxone, and
      piperacillin/tazobactam when compared to the traditional regimen of cefazolin/gentamicin for
      grade III open fractures.
    
  