
    
      Ethics and organization The study was designed in agreement with the Declaration of Nanjing,
      and the study protocol was approved by the local ethics committees. A written informed
      consent will be completed before inclusion. The trial was coordinated and monitored by the
      First Affiliated Hospital with Nanjing Medical University. An independent data and safety
      monitoring board, including of physicians independent of the trial sponsor and operational
      leadership, monitored the safety of the study.

      Study population From March 2017 to March 2019, 300 patients from department of cardiology
      (the First Affiliated Hospital with Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China) will be
      enrolled in this prospective, randomized, end point-blinded study to evaluate the local
      hypothermia as an adjunct therapy in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) eligible
      for primary percutaneous intervention (PPCI). Men and women ages 40 and 80 years presenting
      with anterior or non-anterior AMIs with ST-segment elevation>0.2 mV in 2 contiguous leads and
      a duration of symptoms<12h will be included. We will collect a second electrocardiogram in
      the catheterization laboratory before randomization to ensure persistent ST-segment
      elevation. We conduct the exclusive criterion, including patients with previous AMIs,
      previous PCI or coronary artery bypass grafting, congestive heart failure, end-stage kidney
      disease or hepatic failure, recent stroke, coagulopathy, pregnancy, cardiac arrest, or Killip
      class II to IV at presentation.

      Protocol. The AMI patients will be randomized 1:1 to hypothermia or standard of care before
      coronary angiography. Using varying block sizes and stratification, we generate the
      randomization list by computer. A standard working guide-wire, Runthrough NS (Terumo
      Corporation, Japan), is advanced into the distal part of the target coronary artery after
      determining of the criminal vessel by using angiography. Compared to the standard PPCI after
      the balloon expansion, the aspirated catheter (Diver C.E. MAX, Invatec S.p.A, Italy) is
      firstly placed at the location of the distal occlusion lesion to achieve local myocardial
      hypothermia by infusing the cold saline (4℃, 2.5ml/min, 5min). Then we retract the aspirated
      catheter, following the balloon expansion and the drug eluting stent implanting.
      Subsequently, the infusion catheter is tautologically placed at the location of the opened
      occlusion, within the stent, to persistently perfuse the infarct myocardium with cold saline
      (4℃, 2.5ml/min, 15min). Loading doses of 300 mg of aspirin, 180 mg ticagrelor and heparin
      (100u/kg) will be given to all patients before cardiac catheterization. Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa
      inhibitors, bivalirudin and sodium nitroprusside will be administered at the discretion of
      the treating physician.

      Measurements To analyze the ventricular dimensions, myocardium at risk (MaR) and infarct
      size, using postprocessing software, patients will be allocated to undergo cardiac magnetic
      resonance examinations at the core laboratory (the First Affiliated Hospital with Nanjing
      Medical University, Nanjing, China).

      Troponin T/I, myoglobin, and creatine kinase-MB will be sampled before randomization and at
      12 and 24 h after catheterization. We define the peak values as the highest measured values
      within 24 h by calculating under area of the curve from the measurements. N-terminal
      pro-brain natriuretic peptide will be sampled and dynamic electrocardiogram be performed at
      48h after admission.

      Clinical endpoints. Clinical events will be collected using a clinical report form during the
      index hospital stay, at 30±10 days, and at 12 months. Furthermore, adverse event and serious
      adverse event reporting will be collected as clinical endpoints. The independent monitors
      supervise hospital charts for all patients. All primary events (death, re-infarction, target
      lesion revascularization, major bleeding and heart failure) will be assessed independently by
      a blinded clinical events committee.

      Statistical analysis. Calculations and statistics will be performed by using the GraphPad
      Prism 5.0 software (GraphPad Software Inc, La Jolla, Calif). The Fisher exact test will be
      performed on categorical variables. Continuous variables will be tested using Mann-Whitney
      Utest with exact inference. Statistical significance will be conducted at P<0.05.
    
  