
    
      This is a descriptive study designed to assess the extent of burnout among Family Medicine
      resident physicians pre- and post-implementation of a Clinic First-inspired Family Medicine
      residency curriculum. The study will utilize the Maslach Burnout Inventory Human Services
      Survey for Medical Personnel (MBI-HSS (MP)). The MBI-HSS (MP) is a validated instrument that
      was designed to assess (1) emotional exhaustion, (2) depersonalization, and (3) personal
      accomplishment among medical personnel. The survey will be administered anonymously as a
      series of 3 surveys both prior to and following the implementation of a Clinic-First inspired
      curriculum.

      Survey Period #1: Baseline - within 3 months prior to Clinic First implementation Survey
      Period #2: Short Term - 3-6 months after Clinic First implementation Survey Period #3:
      Intermediate Term - 9-12 months after Clinic First implementation

      The MBI-HSS (MP) will be administered anonymously using printed paper copies to all eligible
      Family Medicine resident physicians who are in attendance at a Family Medicine residency
      didactics session within the respective survey period. An independent support staff member
      from the Clinical Investigations Facility (CIF) will introduce the research study to the
      resident physicians in attendance using a uniform script and administer the surveys. All
      Family Medicine resident physicians who meet the eligibility criteria and who are in
      attendance on the designated didactics day will be provided with a paper copy of the MBI-HSS
      (MP) and given ample time to complete the questionnaire. The eligible respondents will also
      be given a separate demographic questionnaire that was generated by the researchers and
      collects information on gender, age, ethnicity, and marital status. The completed surveys and
      demographic questionnaires will be collected by the CIF support staff member and
      de-identified using a using a 4 digit numerical code generated from randomizer.org. The code
      will be used to link future surveys that are answered by the same resident physician.

      For those resident physicians who are not in attendance at the designated didactics session,
      paper copies of the survey and demographic questionnaire will be placed in their personal
      mailboxes. An email (email address provided by investigators) will be sent to those resident
      physicians from a member of the CIF support staff informing them that they have 2 weeks to
      complete the survey and demographic questionnaire and instructing them to place completed
      surveys/questionnaires in a labeled manila envelope next to the personal mailboxes. The CIF
      support staff member will pick-up the labeled manila envelope at the end of the 2 week period
      and de-identify the surveys as described above. This process will be repeated for each survey
      period such that each eligible resident physician will complete 3 surveys. The MBI-HSS (MP)
      will be administered as similarly as possible for all participants both pre- and
      post-curricular transformation to avoid confounding factors.

      Responses to survey questions will be entered into an Excel spreadsheet by the CIF support
      staff to be readied for the statistician. Responses will be given numerical data values for
      analysis. Since all of the questions in the MBI-HSS (MP) have already been assigned numerical
      value, the responses will be coded accordingly. Descriptive statistics (e.g. frequencies and
      percentages) will be used to for analysis. For each participant, the level of burnout for
      each sub-section will be calculated using the MBI scoring results/interpretation, and will be
      compared across the three time points (ie, baseline, 3-6 months following implementation, and
      9-12 months after implementation).

      Demographic information will be collected to describe the sample.

      The investigators acknowledge that there may be missing data if resident physicians decline
      to complete the MBI-HSS (MP), decline to answer all of the questions within the MBI-HSS (MP),
      or fail to answer subsequent surveys after completing the baseline MBI-HSS (MP). A response
      rate for each question within each survey period will be calculated and reported. Incomplete
      surveys will still be reviewed and included in the final data.

      All analyses will be performed using STATA v.13.0 (College Station, TX).
    
  