
    
      After Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval, the Primary Investigator (PI) will make
      daily calls to the units to ascertain whether any newborns have been admitted with a positive
      drug screen. The researcher will go to the mother's private room after delivery to explain
      the study. Consents and demographic data will be acquired. The PI will make daily calls to
      the units to ascertain whether the consented newborns have started on treatment for signs of
      withdrawal. Before each intervention visit, the PI will call the unit to confirm the newborns
      feeding schedule with the assigned nurse and arrange for a convenient time to perform the
      intervention. The intervention will begin on day 1 of pharmacological treatment for
      withdrawal signs of NAS by the medical staff. The intervention will be provided six times
      over a 2-week period on day 1,3,5,7,9, and 11 of treatment as recommended by the consulting
      acupuncturist.

      On the day of the intervention the PI will arrive 45 minutes prior to the feeding to perform
      the following (1) scrub in, (2) set up the secluded area for treatment if infant is not in a
      private room, (3) transport the newborn to the private/secluded area in the nursery/Neonatal
      Intensive Care Unit (NICU) if with the mother or in one of the nurseries, (4) perform vital
      signs (about 3 minutes) and assess ears for any signs of redness or bruising, (5) implement
      the intervention (approximately 5 minutes), and (6) perform vital signs 5 minutes'
      post-intervention with post-assessment of ears for any signs of redness or bruising.

      Acupressure will be implemented by the PI, using a stainless steel spring-loaded probe to
      apply small amounts of pressure to the 5 points on the newborn's inner earlobe. The
      stainless-steel probe will be thoroughly cleaned with alcohol between each newborn. Pressure
      is given over a 30 second period for each site on the ear and then repeated on the opposite
      ear. The proposed study will include a fixed intervention as the same intervention will be
      given to all participants in the treatment group.

      The behaviors exhibited by the newborn during intervention will be recorded. Distress signs
      will be monitored. If they continue for greater than a minute or impede the successful
      implementation of the intervention, then the intervention will be stopped. The newborn will
      be soothed and comforted for no greater than ten minutes. If calm after soothing, then
      intervention will proceed. If the same distress signs are exhibited again, then the
      intervention will be stopped for the day.

      Five minutes' post-intervention the PI will reassess vital signs. The Modified Finnegan
      Scoring Scale (MFSS) will be taken from the chart for the assessment prior to the
      intervention and scores immediately post-intervention. Infants who were removed from the
      mother's room will be returned. Total time for intervention infants should be approximately
      35-40 minutes.
    
  