
    
      This trial is a two-part study (Part A and Part B) of adults with primary membranous
      nephropathy (MN), ages 18-75 inclusive. The study will be conducted at multiple sites in the
      United States and Canada.

      Part A: Open-label Phase

      Part A is an open-label, pharmacokinetics (PK) phase to compare belimumab exposure between
      participants who have "low" proteinuria (≥ 4 to < 8 g/day) and "high" proteinuria (≥ 8 g/day)
      at the Screening Visit, Visit-1.

      Part A will enroll 20 individuals with primary MN: 10 individuals with low proteinuria and 10
      individuals with high proteinuria. All Part A participants will receive 200 mg subcutaneous
      belimumab weekly for 52 doses (weeks 0-51), unless a dose increase is warranted by the PK
      analysis. Trough serum belimumab levels will be obtained weekly following the first 4 doses
      of belimumab. Participants will receive rituximab 1000 mg intravenously (IV) at weeks 4 and
      6.

      All participants will be followed after the 52 week treatment period on no study medication
      until week 156.

      Belimumab serum trough levels will be analyzed after all participants receive the first 4
      belimumab doses to compare belimumab exposure between the low and high proteinuria groups.
      Belimumab serum trough levels will also be analyzed to determine if a different proteinuria
      level (instead of 8 g/day) warrants increased belimumab dosing and should be used to define
      "high" proteinuria.

      Dose determinations for participants with high proteinuria in Parts A and B will be made by
      an adjudication committee.

      The study participation phase is 156 weeks (3 years), which includes a treatment phase of 52
      weeks and a post-treatment observation phase of 104 weeks.

      Part B: Randomized Phase

      Part B is a prospective, randomized, phase II, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter
      clinical trial in adults with primary MN. Part B will commence after the analysis of the PK
      data in Part A.

      A total of 104 participants will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion into two treatment arms.

      Randomization will be stratified by low and high proteinuria as determined by the identified
      threshold in Part A.

      Participants in both arms will receive rituximab 1000 mg IV at weeks 4 and 6. Participants
      randomized to the experimental arm will receive subcutaneous belimumab 200 mg weekly for 52
      doses (weeks 0-51), unless the results from Part A indicate that participants with high
      proteinuria should receive belimumab 400 mg weekly. If the participant's proteinuria
      subsequently decreases to below the high proteinuria threshold, the belimumab dose will be
      decreased to 200 mg weekly for the remainder of the treatment phase.

      Participants randomized to the comparator arm will receive subcutaneous belimumab placebo
      according to the same dose and schedule.

      The study participation phase is 156 weeks (3 years), which includes a treatment phase of 52
      weeks and a post-treatment observation phase of 104 weeks.
    
  