
    
      Rationale:

      Superficial dyspareunia, a frequent form of chronic genital pain, is associated with
      decreased sexual function for afflicted women, as well as impoverished sexual satisfaction
      for women and their partners. While recent research has showed that cognitive-behavioral
      therapy (CBT) interventions have effects in regards to reducing pain, enhancing sexual
      function and improving relational aspects, randomized controlled trials are still sparse.
      Despite recommendations in the literature to include the partner in the CBT treatment
      targeted at improving pain and sexuality outcomes, there are no published randomized CBT
      controlled trials incorporating the partner in the treatment.

      Primary objective: To evaluate whether the group program-plus improves pain during
      intercourse in women with superficial dyspareunia compared to women in a waiting-list control
      condition.

      Secondary Objective(s): are to evaluate a) women (and partners) sexuality (sexual function,
      distress & satisfaction), b) women's psychological adjustment (negative and positive
      penetration beliefs, pain/penetration coping behavior); c) relationship factors (partner
      responses and relationship satisfaction), and whether an improvement in pain during
      intercourse is moderated by pre-treatment patient characteristics, such as age, sexual
      functioning, relationship satisfaction, abuse history, and mediated by a) reduction of
      negative penetration beliefs, avoidance behavior and/or improvement in positive penetration
      beliefs and sexual function (i.e. sexual arousal).

      Study design:

      Eligible women and their partners in one of the participating centers (n=3, in two countries)
      will be randomized to either the CBT group program-plus or waiting-list control group (WLC),
      using a block randomization design stratified for each center. The waiting-list period of 6
      months is comparable to the period from the start of the active treatment until the
      post-treatment measurement. After the WLC, the patients from the WLC will receive the active
      treatment. Data of these participants will be included in the repeated measures analyses to
      test the temporal stability of treatment gains. Within-subjects repeated measures comparisons
      will be conducted for data of participants and their partners at pre-treatment,
      post-treatment, follow-up at 3 months and 6 months following treatment termination. In
      addition, participants complete monthly questionnaires at home during the first 6 months.
      Participants in the active treatment group will also complete weekly measures. These extra
      measurement are necessary for the mediation analyses. The total study duration (including
      follow-up) for the participants and their partners is 12-18 months.

      Intervention:

      The CBT group program-plus consists of 3 1-hr CBT couple sessions and 10 2-hr CBT group
      sessions over a period of 6 months. The manualized treatment comprise, pain- and sexual
      education, relaxation and gradual exposure exercises as well as sensate focus and sexual
      communication exercises for the couple. 6-8 women participate in each group. Two
      psychologists will conduct the couple and group sessions.
    
  