
    
      This study will serve as a pilot-study for a future randomized controlled trial. Adult
      patients with zone 2 flexor tendon lacerations of the hand (anatomically from the A1 pulley
      of the hand to the insertion of the flexor digitorum superficialis) who have presented to the
      emergency room acutely (within 1 week of injury) at the Health Sciences Center in Winnipeg
      will be asked for their participation in this study. Consent will be obtained by a plastic
      surgery resident either in the emergency room or in the plastic surgency emergency decanting
      clinic. The investigators will include twenty-four patients in the study, randomized into one
      of two treatment groups (groups A and B) by block randomization. Randomization will be done
      once patients agree to participate in the study. All patients will be booked for surgery on
      the emergency slate. Each treatment group will be treated by a single surgeon who is an
      expert at treatment of these injuries. Group A patients will have their laceration(s)
      repaired using a modified Becker repair technique using stainless steel suture in the
      operating room, and then will proceed to undergo an aggressive early active range of motion
      rehabilitation administered by the hand therapists at HSC. Group B patients will undergo a
      double-locking loop suture repair using polypropylene. They will then undergo a less
      aggressive active range of motion rehabilitation protocol which is currently offered to
      patients at our center. Follow-up will occur in plastic surgery outpatient clinic at
      post-operative weeks 1, 2, 4, 6 and 12. Follow-up with hand therapy will be at the discretion
      of the therapists. At each visit with hand therapy, joint range of motion will be assessed at
      the PIP and DIP joints in the affected fingers. Final range of motion will be assessed using
      the Strickland system for evaluating flexor tendon surgery outcomes, and will be done by a
      blinded hand therapist.
    
  