
    
      The study is a comparison of the use of intravenous antibiotics before and after the
      implementation of switch criteria. Switch is defined as a change in administration route from
      intravenous to oral.

      Patients administered to medical department at Sorlandet hospital in Kristiansand and Arendal
      are included if they are receiving intravenous antibiotics. Pediatric department is not
      included. Patients that are already hospitalized and given intravenous antibiotics are also
      included.

      Patients that are excluded are those with CNS-infection, endocarditis, bone/joint infection,
      deep undrainable abscesses and those with foreign body infection.

      Switch criteria are made from a thorough investigation on earlier switch studies. We have
      collected several studies on this topic, but none from the nordic countries.

      The intervention contributes the following: The implementation of a registration form where
      doctors are prone to answer six questions when they evaluate antibiotic administration form.

        1. Are there special iv-indications? (CNS-infection, endocarditis, bone/joint infection,
           deep undrainable abscesses or foreign body infection)

        2. Is the oral route compromized? (unconscious, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, dysphagia,
           lack of cooperativeness)

        3. Is the patients suffering from immunosuppression? (leukopenia, cytotoxic treatment,
           transplantation, steroids >10mg, TNF-alfa inhibitor treatment, unregulated diabetes
           mellitus (HbA1C >10), uremia (serum-creatinine > 300), HIV, AIDS, lymphoma, multiple
           myelomas, cystic fibrosis, asplenic)

        4. Is the systemic inflammatory response syndrome present?

        5. Is the preferred antibiotics only available in intravenous form?

        6. Are there any other special reasons for intravenous antibiotics?

      If the doctor can answer NO to all these questions, then the patient is a candidate for
      antibiotic switch from day three after hospitalization. This evaluation form follows the
      other medical registration forms from day to day.

      The intervention also includes

        -  A lecture by the study group to all our medical doctors.

        -  Information by e-mail to all our medical doctors

        -  Information by letters to all our medical doctors and chief nurses

      Registration of parameters used for evaluating antibiotic switch is done three times a week
      by the study group. We register date and patient information, if other medication is taken
      orally, heart rate, respiratory rate, temperature, biochemical parameters (CRP and
      leukocytes), diagnosis and antibiotic choice.
    
  