
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To select the better docetaxel-based experimental arm to improve disease-free survival
      (DFS) over the control arm of radiation and cisplatin. (Phase II) (COMPLETE AS OF
      20-MAR-2020) II. To determine if the combination of docetaxel-cetuximab and
      intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) is superior in terms of overall survival (OS)
      compared to standard cisplatin and IMRT in the adjuvant treatment of pathologic high risk,
      human papillomavirus (HPV)-negative head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). (Phase
      III) III. To determine if the combination of atezolizumab, cisplatin, and IMRT is superior in
      terms of OS compared to standard cisplatin and IMRT in the adjuvant treatment of pathologic
      high risk, HPV-negative HNSCC. (Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare disease-free survival (DFS) between each experimental arm and the control arm.
      (Phase III) II. To determine whether each experimental arm improves local-regional disease
      control and the rate of distant metastasis. (Phase III) III. To compare acute toxicity
      profiles between each experimental arm and the control arm. (Phase III) IV. To compare late
      toxicity profiles at 1, 3, and 5 years after treatment. (Phase III) V. To assess long term
      DFS and OS between each experimental arm and the control arm. (Phase III) VI. To compare
      symptom burden, as measured by the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory - Head and Neck (MDASI-HN)
      (primary patient reported outcome [PRO]), and quality of life, as measured by the Functional
      Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head and Neck (FACT-H&N) (secondary PRO), between each
      experimental arm and the control arm. (Phase III)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To collect blood and tissue specimens for future translational research. (Phase III)

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms - Phase II (Arms 1, 2 or 3) and for Phase III
      (Arms 1, 3 or 4).

      ARM 1: Patients undergo intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) once daily (QD) five
      days a week for 6 weeks and receive concurrent cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 1-2 hours
      once weekly for 6 weeks.

      ARM 2: Patients undergo IMRT as in Arm I and receive concurrent docetaxel IV over 60 minutes
      once weekly for 6 weeks. (CLOSED AS OF 20-MAR-2020)

      ARM 3: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 120 minutes on week 1 and over 60 minutes once
      weekly on weeks 2-7. Patients undergo IMRT as in Arm I and concurrently receive docetaxel
      once weekly for 6 weeks.

      ARM 4: Patients undergo IMRT QD five days a week for 6 weeks and receive concurrent cisplatin
      IV over 1-2 hours once weekly for 6 weeks. Starting 1 week before IMRT, patients also receive
      atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes every 3 weeks for up to 8 doses (weeks -1, 3, 6, 9, 12,
      15, 18, and 21) in the absence of disease progression and unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 and 3 months, every 3
      months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  