
    
      The study consists of two sub-studies: A a descriptive cross-sectional study "The prevalence
      of COPD in patients who are in the social nurses' target group" followed by study B a cohort
      study "The effect of opportunistic screening for COPD in patients who are in the social
      nurses' target group", based on a closed cohort.

      People in the lower social classes are at increased risk of developing COPD due to their
      lifelong accumulation of risk factors, such as smoking, passive smoking and the influence of
      lifestyle and the environment.

      In the group with the socially vulnerable individuals, 70% are smokers compared to 18% in the
      general Danish population. The socially vulnerable individuals are defined here as people
      affected by homelessness, drug abuse, harmful alcohol consumption, mental illness and
      poverty. Despite the socially vulnerable group having an over-consumption of general practice
      visits, 25% of the patients in the social nurses' target group state that they do not have
      contact with or use their own doctor.

      Our hypothesis is therefore that there will be a higher incidence of COPD among those
      patients with whom the social nurses have contact than in the general population.

      Purpose: To investigate and describe the prevalence of COPD in patients who are in the social
      nurses' target group and to investigate the effect of opportunistic screening for COPD in
      these vulnerable citizens.

      Data collection:

      Baseline data from the cross-sectional study are derived from lung function measurement and
      REDCap online-questionnaires completed on inclusion.

      The data from the cohort study regarding disease burden and hospital visits originates from
      the national patient registry (LPR) and mortality data is retrieved from the Danish Register
      of Causes of Death. Data regarding redeemed prescriptions for COPD medicine originates from
      the Prescription Database. The patients' connection to the job market and income status are
      based on extracts from RAS (Registry-based Labour Force Statistics), which is administered by
      Statistics Denmark. Data regarding the highest acquired education (HFAUDD) is from Statistics
      Denmark.

      Variables:

      There will be collected the following variables at inclusion: information on demographics,
      lung function, selv-reported information on: risk factors, socioeconomic variables and
      symptoms of lung disease. Moreover register data on socioeconomic status, morbidity, physical
      health by Charlson score, mortality, hospital visits and prescriptions for COPD Medicine will
      be retrieved after 5 years follow-up.

      Sample size:

      To detect a difference between the patient group and the Danish population of minimum 100% a
      total of 511 participants are needed in the study (power of 80%, p-values=0,05, an estimated
      COPD prevalence of 4,3% in the Danish population).

      The collected data will be kept in accordance to the Data Protection Agency guidelines. The
      studies are carried out in accordance with the principles of the Helsinki Declaration.
    
  