
    
      Vitamin K antagonists in general and Coumadin in particular remains the most common form of
      outpatient anticoagulation in patients today. Despite the therapeutic benefits of these
      agents, bleeding in general and intracranial bleeding in particular are significant risks
      associated with these medications. Intracranial bleeding on oral anticoagulation agents are
      associated with a 20% increase in 30 day mortality versus non-anticoagulated controls, and
      rapid reversal of vitamin K antagonists in this population has been shown to have survival
      benefits.

      Historically, vitamin K antagonists have been reversed using fresh frozen plasma (FFP)
      transfusions which, though effective, often incur delays due to the time required to obtain a
      type & screen, thaw the product, and administer the product to the patient. In 2013, the FDA
      approved 4-factor prothrombin complex (PCC), a concentrate of factors II, VII, IX, X, protein
      C and protein S for use as a method for correcting vitamin K antagonist related coagulopathy.
      Though large, prospective randomized control trials have demonstrated efficacy and safety in
      a general population of all-comers bleeding, there is very little literature regarding the
      benefits of PCC versus FFP in the traumatic and spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage
      population.

      Current standard of care in patients with traumatic and spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage
      who are on vitamin K antagonists is to reverse the effect of these agents with FFP or PCC.
      The choice of which agent to use is currently determined by both availability of each agent
      and surgeon preference. For this study, there will be an equal likelihood of either treatment
      being given.

      The goal of this study will be to determine whether PCC confers any benefits over FFP in
      traumatic and spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage with respect to multiple factors including
      time to correction, absolute international normalized ratio correction amount, cost, need for
      surgical intervention, and radiographic bleed expansion through a prospective, randomized
      control trial.
    
  