
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In 1985 when the study was initiated, there were surprisingly little data on the distribution
      of risk factors among subgroups of the population and the changes occurring over time. These
      issues assumed greater importance as the decline in coronary heart disease mortality focused
      interest on the role of primary prevention through alteration of risk factors. In review of
      the potential contributions to this decline, it was noted that cessation of cigarette
      smoking, better blood pressure control and decrease in total serum cholesterol may have
      accounted partially for the decline in coronary heart disease mortality. However, these
      observations overlooked the possibility that observations in the total population or confined
      to specific socioeconomic groups may fail to disclose differential changes in particular
      population segments. For example, Americans in the higher educational and income groups
      experienced rapid and marked changes in risk behaviors while less educated, lower income
      Americans or specific racial/ethnic groups experienced no beneficial changes. The majority of
      cohort studies followed rather select groups and most cross-sectional surveys also had little
      sociodemographic variability. However, focusing public health, educational and medical
      intervention efforts required that particular groups at greater risk or experiencing less
      beneficial secular change be identified and targeted for greater efforts.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Trends in blood pressure, serum lipids, and cigarette smoking were described in nationally
      representative samples of adolescents ages 12 to 17 and in young adults ages 18 to 24 using
      data from surveys conducted from 1960 to 1984 by the National Center for Health Statistics
      (NCHS). Trends in blood pressure, serum lipids, cigarette smoking, and obesity were described
      in nationally representative samples of older adults ages 35 to 75 using NCHS survey data.
      The national surveys used included National Health Examination Surveys (NHES-I and III), the
      National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (NHANES I and II) and Hispanic NHANES. The
      secular trends in these risk factors were contrasted by subgroupings of age, race, sex,
      family income, and education. The correlates of these risk factors were determined and
      secular changes over time were identified and quantified. Risk factor values and their
      correlates in the national population sample were contrasted with the three Hispanic
      populations surveyed in the Hispanic Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (HHANES).
      Statistical methodologies were refined including statistical software for the analysis of
      complete sample survey data, model fitting strategies to characterize the secular trends
      across four national surveys, and guidelines for the choice of analytical strategies.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  