
    
      Lichen planus is a chronic muco-cutaneous disorder of the stratified squamous epithelium that
      affects the oral and genital mucous membrane, skin, hair, nails and scalp.OLP is the mucosal
      counterpart of cutaneous lichen planus.The disease was first described by Erasmus Wilson in
      1866. The prevelance of disease in the Indian sub-continent is about 2.6%,with the mean age
      being 30-60 years and with a female predilection. The cutaneous form is more persistent and
      resistant to treatment while OLP is more frequent in occurrence.

      OLP is a potentially pre-malignant oral epithelial lesion. It is a T-cell mediated
      auto-immune disease in which the auto-cytotoxic CD8 + T cells trigger the apoptosis of the
      basal cells of oral epithelium.OLP is an idiopathic disease, although there are certain
      precipitating factors like HLA-A3, anxiety & stress, diabetes and hypertension.

      OLP occurs bilaterally, the most common sites being buccal mucosa, tongue, lips, gingiva,
      floor of mouth and palate. Wickham's striae are a pathogonomic feature. It has six clinical
      presentations- Reticular, Erosive, Atrophic, Plaque-like, Papular and Bullous.The reticular
      form is most common but its asymptomatic, while the erosive form is most severe with symptoms
      ranging from mild burning to severe pain. The range of MTR for OLP is about 0-5%, with the
      highest rate for erosive and atrophic types.Erosive OLP lesions arise as a complication of
      the atrophic process after trauma or ulceration. Appear as a central area of erosion with
      yellowish fibrinous exudate surrounded by erythema, with Wickham's striae in the periphery.
      Atrophic OLP lesions appear bright red due to loss of epithelium.

      A review study done on the recent concepts in the treatment of OLP concluded that
      corticosteroids (mostly topical, rarely systemic) continue to be the mainstay of management
      of OLP. However, there are some other drugs which have a significant contribution such as-
      Calcineurin inhibitors (cyclosporine, tacrolimus, pimecrolimus), Retinoids, Dapsone,
      Hydroxychloroquine, Mycophenolate mofetil and Enoxaprin. The non-pharmacological treatment
      modalities include PUVA therapy, photodynamic therapy and laser therapy.

      A recently conducted study found out that serum zinc levels were significantly decreased in
      patients with erosive OLP in comparison with patients of non-erosive OLP, which may be
      responsible for disintegration of epithelium in erosive OLP lesions.

      The association of OLP and zinc lies in the fact that zinc is associated with the
      regeneration of epithelium, enhancement of enzyme activity, contributes to protein structure,
      helps in wound healing as well as inhibition and stimulation of lymphocyte reaction.The
      deficiency of zinc also leads to compromised T-cell mediated immune defence.Zinc also has
      anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, which can decrease apoptosis and
      transformation to a malignant state.

      Thus, the present study intends to evaluate the role of oral zinc supplementation as an
      adjuvant to topical corticosteroid therapy on the treatment of oral lichen planus.
    
  