
    
      Retinal telangiectasis is a group of rare, idiopathic retinal vascular anomalies affecting
      the retinal capillaries in which irregular capillary dilation and incompetence occur in the
      macula. This is group 2 in the Gass classification of idiopathic juxtafoveal telangiectasia
      in which fluorescein angiography showed leakage with capillary dilation. These patients
      typically are diagnosed in their fifth or sixth decade of life. Both sexes may be affected.
      Minimal exudation, superficial retinal crystalline deposits, and right-angle venules
      characterize this disorder. As the disease progresses, intraretinal pigment plaques and
      intraretinal and eventually subretinal/choroidal neovascularization develop. The pathogenesis
      of the disease is unknown. Because of the leakage of the retinal vessels and also the finding
      of neovascularization, it is possible that vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) may be
      implicated in this disease.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the possible role of ranibizumab for the treatment
      of eight participants with macular telangiectasia with hyperfluorescence on fluorescein
      angiography, with vision better than 20/400, with neovascularization. The primary outcome of
      this study will be the proportion of participants that lose 15 letters or more in ETDRS BCVA
      at 12 months compared with baseline. The secondary outcomes measured at one year will include
      the proportion of participants who lose 10 letters or more, the change in central retinal
      thickness, the mean change in ETDRS BCVA, the extent of fluorescein leakage, the change in
      fundus autofluorescence change in size of neovascular membrane, and the change in central
      retinal sensitivity. This is a pilot study designed to evaluate the feasibility and potential
      efficacy of treating patients with macular telangiectasia in a larger, phase III study within
      the organization of the MAC TEL Research Group, sponsored by the Lowy Foundation. Currently,
      the research group is enrolling 200 patients affected with this condition for a natural
      history study in 22 international clinical centers.
    
  