
    
      Spasticity is defined as increased resistance tied to speed against passive movements and is
      related to hyperactive reflexes after upper motor neuron lesions. The hemiplegia table, which
      develops after subsiding, brings many problems along with it. Spasticity is one of these
      problems. Spasticity frequently leads to difficulty in the activities of daily life. It
      delays functional recovery, causes pain, and leads to secondary complications.

      The objective of spasticity treatment minimizes the negative effects of hypertension without
      endangering function. Systematic medication treatment (baclofen, diazepam, dantrolen, and
      tizanidine) or local treatment (botulinum toxin, phenyl injection) are administered in
      spasticity treatment. The botulinum toxin prevents the secretion of acetylcholine in nerve
      endings and creates a presynaptic neuromuscular block. There are numerous studies that show
      that botulinum toxin is effective in spasticity.

      Baclofen is a gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonist. It passes through the blood-brain
      barrier and binds to the GABAb receptors of the spinal cord. Baclofen decreases spasms,
      clonus, and resistance to germs.

      Various studies of electrophysiological reflexes are conducted to evaluate spasticity and to
      study neuronal circuits. The electrophysiological test is a tool used in studying the changes
      in spinal cord function and spinal reflexes in patients. The flexor reflex known as the
      recoil reflex is a polysynaptic and multisegmental reflex. It provides for avoidance and
      protection from internal and external stimulants that may be harmful for the body.

      The purpose of the study is to research the effect of oral baclofen treatment and botulinum
      toxin injection treatments over the electromyographic nociceptive flexor reflex (NFR)
      threshold in hemiplegic patients with spasticity.

      PURPOSE OF THE RESEARCH The purpose of this thesis is to research the effect of oral baclofen
      treatment and botulinum toxin injection treatments over the electromyographic nociceptive
      flexor reflex (NFR) threshold in hemiplegic patients with spasticity. The results of the
      study evaluated the Modified Ashworth Scale, joint range of motion, muscle strength,
      Brunnstrom stages, Barthel daily life activities index, electromyographic nociceptive flexor
      reflex (NFR) threshold
    
  