
    
      Background:

      Vaccination of infants and young children with a whole-cell pertussis (wP) vaccine
      dramatically decreased the mortality and morbidity due to B. pertussis. However, twenty-five
      years of "honeymoon" period, after the introduction of high vaccination coverage,
      reappearance of whooping cough cases in industrialized countries was observed in infants
      contaminated by adolescents and adults. This modification in transmission of the disease
      after the introduction of the wP vaccine indicated that the immunity provided by the vaccine
      is not lifelong, just like that provided by natural infection, and that it decreases7-9 years
      after the first vaccination and the first booster. Due to secondary effects, wP vaccines
      cannot be used for boosters. Moreover, the wP vaccines have been shown to be different in
      terms of efficacy (varying from 30 to 95%). Acellular pertussis (aP) vaccines consisting of
      purified and inactivated bacterial proteins, have therefore been developed and
      commercialized. These vaccines induce much fewer side effects and may therefore be used for
      primary-vaccination as well as for vaccine boosters. They are expensive but have more
      reproducible manufacturing. The humoral and long-term cell-mediated immunities granted by the
      aP vaccines have been shown to be comparable to the immunity granted by the wP vaccines,
      effective for 6-7 years after the booster vaccine in the second year of life, also inducing
      different cell immunity. Since 2007, the proportion of B. pertussis and B. parapertussis
      isolates no longer producing vaccine antigen(s) has increased in the industrialized countries
      that use aP vaccines. These isolates may decrease the efficacy of the aP vaccines. Does this
      type of isolates circulate in the Low income countries still using wP vaccines ? Does it
      reduce the efficacy of the wP vaccines? Moreover, the wP vaccines used in the Southern
      countries have not been assessed like the ones used in the Northern countries. In particular,
      the duration of protection after the primary-vaccination and a vaccine booster is not known.

      Rational:

      For various reasons, a large difference exits between the monitoring systems across the
      world: awareness of the disease is variable depending on the population; differences in the
      immunization coverage and strategies; diverse compositions of the vaccines used; but overall
      the large differences between the vaccines in terms of immunity against the disease,
      protection against infection and/or decrease in the transmission of the pathogen. The
      underestimation of pertussis is recognized by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the
      Global Pertussis Initiative (GPI) who highlight the problem of the reliability of the
      declared data.

      This situation is the result of i) limited use of biological diagnostics (problems in
      isolating the bacteria in the laboratories); ii) diagnostic errors due to the fact that
      diagnosis is mainly clinical ; iii) inadequate monitoring of the illness ; iv) a lack of
      awareness among physicians. Pertussis is not considered when it is comes to identifying the
      respiratory pathogen: most clinicians continue to consider it as only a child illness and
      ignore adult infections. The absence of an available tool allowing a reliable diagnostic to
      be made makes difficult to assess the real impact of this pathogen in child respiratory
      syndromes.

      Several studies have been performed on the duration of protection induced by the wP and aP
      vaccines in Australia, the USA and in Europe. However, few studies have been performed on the
      wP vaccines used in middle and low income countries and none in Ivory Coast.

      This study is part of a program entitled PERILIC which is currently conducted in Cambodia,
      Madagascar and Togo (NCT02983487). This research program will allow the vaccination strategy
      of each region concerned to be adapted when needed, as recommended by the WHO.

      Expected Outcomes:

      Impact on vaccination strategy:This study, as well as the analysis of data from other
      national programs for the surveillance of Pertussis, may raise public health authorities'
      awareness and help them adapting their assessment method for national vaccination programs by
      including the duration of protection induced by their national wP vaccine and their data on
      vaccine coverage, on the basis of the information in vaccination booklets, as recommended by
      WHO.

      Impact on the improvement the children's health: The results of our study should raise the
      public health authorities' awareness on vaccine-preventable diseases, especially whooping
      cough. This raising of awareness will focus on the surveillance/monitoring and diagnosis of
      this disease. Moreover, the development of reliable biological diagnostic tools for pertussis
      will help the clinicians to confirm pertussis diagnosis and to adapt the therapeutic approach
      accordingly, thus improving the care of the infected person and to stop transmission of the
      disease which is very contagious.

      Impact on the surveillance of the disease by developing an hospital-based surveillance
      Training, technology transfer and strengthening of the surveillance network: For the first
      time, the detection and identification techniques for the other species of Bordetella genus
      (i.e. B. parapertussis and B. holmesii) will be transferred to laboratories in Ivory Coast.
      The diagnosis of the different Bordetella species by real time PCR and the serological tests
      will be set up in the laboratories participating in this study. These laboratories could
      further be used by the national surveillance network and thus improve the quality of the data
      available for the local health authorities and for WHO. Thus, this study will allow the
      establishment of an effective monitoring of pertussis in Ivory Coast through the raising of
      the population's awareness, the training of local doctors on the clinical screening of this
      disease, and finally via the transfer of diagnostic techniques within the laboratories.
    
  