
    
      Stepped-Care Trauma-Focused Behavioral Cognitive Therapy (SC-TF-CBT) is a semi home-based
      treatment for children at risk of developing PTSD, where the child's caregiver takes on the
      role as helper under the guidance of a trained therapist. The treatment runs over a course of
      approximately 12-15 weeks and has two phases. In cases where symptom improvement is evident
      after 6-9 weeks, the following 6 weeks is a maintenance phase. In the maintenance phase, the
      child and caregiver will continue with some of the exercises found helpful and engage in
      pleasant activities together, while receiving follow-ups by the therapist.

      In cases where symptoms persist, however, the treatment is stepped up to TF-CBT. In the
      Norwegian context, in contrast to the US, stepping up will imply that responsibility for the
      treatment is transferred from the municipal service level to a Child and Youth Psychiatric
      Policlinic (BUP). In this particular way, the treatment scheme is adapted to the local
      context, while ensuring continuity as intended by the developers. Examining how this
      transition is experienced, how the transition is reasoned for and organized, and the
      transitions correspond with treatment needs are therefore important objectives.

      The first stage of this trial project involves providing SC-TF-CBT training to 45 therapists
      (primarily clinical psychologists with experience in trauma treatment and working with
      children/ families) in the 15 municipalities across Norway. Training is carried out by
      specialists in psychology at NKVTS in collaboration with the University of South Florida
      (USF). Following the training, the therapists will receive referrals as usual, but will be
      equipped with an additional treatment method.

      While protocols exist for two age categories (3-6 and 7-12), this project focuses on children
      between the ages of 7-12. In total, about 75 children (and caregivers) will participate in
      the study. This estimate takes into account a possible dropout rate of about 30 percent. In
      order to produce sufficiently strong analysis, including mediator analysis, the
      investigators' calculations indicate that the study requires 58 children to complete the
      SC-TF-CBT program.

      Caregivers and children participating in the study will be asked to provide information about
      symptoms and treatment experiences at several points throughout the treatment trajectory. The
      therapist will collect information by way of assessment forms available for completion on
      iPads. The therapists will also submit evaluations throughout the trajectory of each family
      by way of online assessment forms and 3 months after treatment completion. Audio recordings
      from treatment session will be used to determine fidelity.

      To attain data on entire trajectories, from pre-screening through completed treatments, the
      quantitative data will be supplemented by qualitative, semi-structured interviews with
      children, caregivers, and therapists. The interviews are to take place upon treatment
      completion, after approximately 12-15 weeks. A similar time-frame will be adopted for
      interviews with families transferred to the specialist service level, who will complete one
      interview after completion/interruption of Step 1, and then a short second interview 12 weeks
      after starting treatment in specialist health services, to explore the experiences with the
      transition. Additionally, to assess the long-term effects of the treatment, the investigators
      will invite a sample of children and caregivers for follow-up interviews 3-4 months after
      completion.
    
  