
    
      This clinical trial is a multicenter, cohort, with one arm to study the SLP to 18 months of
      Velcadito scheme (velcade 1.0 mg / m2 administered over two days with melphalan and
      prednisone) in patients with MM diagnosis again higher 75. After completion of the protocol
      patients were still approximately every two months, in clinical practice, to observe the
      survival and answers to other treatments. All the scans are part of the normal routine. The
      realization of diagnostic tests and drug treatment will be performed regardless of the
      patient's participation in the study as part of routine clinical practice All patients who
      meet criteria. The incidence of MM age-adjusted to cover the participating hospitals is
      estimated in 44 patients.

      Clinical Study Materials:

        -  Melphalan is presented for oral administration of 2 mg tablets.

        -  Prednisone is presented for oral administration in tablets 50, 30, 10, 5 and 2.5 mg to
           set the correct dose to be administered.

        -  Velcade.- (Bortezomib) for subcutaneous administration. All study drugs will be
           administered to patients under the prescription of the investigator or sub-investigators
           identified and in the case of Velcade dispensed in hospital Pharmacy Service Patients
           will receive a course of 4 weeks duration of Melphalan / Prednisone / Velcade consist in
           Melphalan, 9 mg / m2 orally daily 1-4 and Prednisone 60 mg / m2 orally on days 1 to 4,
           in combination Velcade with a dose of 1.3 mg / m2 sc twice weekly (days 1, 4, 8, 11),
           followed by 2 weeks of rest (cycle duration of 4 weeks) and seven four-week cycles
           duration of melphalan / prednisone / Velcade consist in Melphalan, 9 mg / m2 orally on
           days 1 to 4 and prednisone, 60 mg / m2 orally on days 1 to 4, in combination with
           Velcade, at doses of 1, 0 mg / m2 sc (days 1, 4).

      Melphalan and Prednisone will be dispensed for oral administration. The Melphalan should be
      administered in a single two hours separately taking any food and prednisone be taken in the
      morning with or immediately after a meal. The amount in mg will be calculated based on the
      body surface, to be calculated on day 1 of each cycle. Velcade for administration, calculated
      on day 1 of the cycle will be the same dose throughout the entire cycle. If a patient
      experiences a gain or loss of remarkable weight within the cycle, the dose to be administered
      will be recalculated based on the new body surface. The appropriate amount of Velcadeserá
      dispensed in a sc injection. Velcade dose between two leave at least 72 hours
    
  