
    
      A prospective randomized double-blind clinical trial design was used in a cohort of ninety
      patients of both genders, physical status American Society of Anaesthesiologist (ASA) I and
      II who will undergo lower limb orthopedic surgery, will be enrolled into the present study.

      Patients will divided randomly into two equal groups: Epidural Bupivacain-clonidine and
      fentanyl (BF) Group and Bupivacain-clonidine and meperdine (BM) Group, comprising of 45
      patients each. Randomization will be performed by random numbers using sealed envelopes
      without sex stratification. Sealed envelopes indicate the group of assignment. An independent
      anesthesiologist, who did not participate in the study or data collection, will read the
      number contained in the envelope and made group assignments. Patients will be blindly
      randomized to the two groups; the process of inclusion into the study will go on until the
      requested number of patients will be reached.

      Patients will be excluded from the study if their preoperative medication included opioid or
      non-opioid analgesics, corticosteroids, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Coagulation
      disorders, pregnancy, age less than 18 year, patient refusal, and emergency re-operation
      within the first 24hours also were exclusion criteria.

      Under full aseptic conditions, the epidural space was identified at the L 2-3 or L 3-4 lumbar
      interspace using the loss-of-resistance to saline technique using 16-gauge Tuohy needle. An
      injection of 2 ml of hyperbaric bupivacaine will be injected into the subarachnoid space
      through 25 gauge spinal needle, then 15ml 0.5% bupivacaine, 25 micrograms of fentanyl and 1
      ml of clonidine will be injected epidurally in fentanyl (F) Group, while 15ml 0.5%
      bupivacaine,25 mg of meperdine and 1 ml of clonidine will be injected epidurally in meperdine
      (M) Group.

      The injection will be given with unlabelled syringes prepared by independent anaesthologist
      not involved in the patients care or in pain assessment. The specific treatment given is
      unknown to the patient, anesthesiologist, surgeon, or nurses in charge of pain assessment.
      All patients and personnel involved in patient management and data collection are unaware of
      the group to which the patient will be assigned.

      On the evening before surgery, patients will be instructed about the use of a 10-cm visual
      analog scale (VAS) (0 = no pain to 10 = worst possible pain).

      Postoperative pain will be assessed by independent physicians who will completely blinded to
      patients group assignment not sharing in the study design or data collection, visual analogue
      scale (VAS) ranging from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst imaginable pain). Pain level will be
      recorded at PACU every 3 h for the first 24h. All patients received 15 mg/kg i.v.
      acetaminophen every 6 h; the first dose will be given 40 min before the end of surgery.
      Supplementary doses of acetaminophen i.v. will be given to patients with a VAS higher than 4.
      Any episodes of bradycardia (HR< 50 beats/min), hypotension (SBP< 90 mmHg), nausea, vomiting,
      and excessive sedation were recorded.

      The primary outcome is the degree of postoperative pain score using VAS in the two groups.
      The secondary outcomes measures are analgesic requirement of the two groups during the first
      24 h after surgery. All adverse events related to surgery and the regional anesthetic
      technique will be recorded.
    
  