
    
      Depression affects 350 million people worldwide. In the light of the global disease burden
      statistics, the efficacy of current treatments for depression appears insufficient. Thus,
      research on novel treatment interventions and predictors for good treatment response are
      warranted. Earlier prospective follow-up studies and intervention studies suggest that
      several bio-psychosocial factors, including high serum concentrations of vitamin D, are
      related to better treatment outcomes.

      In this follow-up study with randomized clinical vitamin D supplementation trial on patients
      with depression, the investigators aim to

        1. clarify how a six-month intervention with vitamin D supplementation affects treatment
           response, recovery, and the biological pathways related to depression. This aims to
           finding potential sub-groups getting benefits from vitamin D supplementation. In
           addition, the investigators want to

        2. investigate and characterize factors related to recovery from depression and working
           ability in depression patients in the long-term. The investigators are especially
           interested in the bio-psychosocial factors and the aims include examining both the
           individual's positive resources.

      The trial will start with a six-month double-blinded randomized controlled trial with vitamin
      D supplementation. The aim is to recruit altogether 3028 patients with non-psychotic,
      unipolar depression, aged 18-65 years, who are referred to the recruitment sites for
      treatment for depression. The participants will be randomized to low (10 µg/day) or high (100
      µg/day) vitamin D supplementation group. Clinically necessary antidepressant treatments will
      continue during the intervention as needed. After six months of intervention, the
      participants will be followed up at 18 months and at 5 years.

      Several measurements will be conducted during the intervention and follow-up period.
      Participants will fill a variety of clinical questionnaires and questionnaires with
      background information. All participants give blood samples for biomarker analyses at time
      points 3, 6, 18 months and 5 years. Clinical interviews of mental disorders (e.g. SCID) and
      anthropometric measurements (e.g. weight, height, blood pressure) will be carried out.
    
  