
    
      This study consists of one study visit. Subjects will be recruited using the clinic's
      relevant patient population. A "Study Recruitment Flyer" will also be posted in various
      clinic locations (Attachment BBD0111-1). Interested volunteers will participate in an initial
      screening, which may be done by telephone or in person that will be conducted by the clinic's
      research staff. Upon preliminary confirmation that the subject meets all inclusion criteria
      and does not meet any exclusion criteria, an appointment will be scheduled for the study
      visit.

      At the study visit, study will be explained in detail. Adults will be asked to provide
      written informed consent, parents/guardians of individuals <18 year old will provide written
      informed consent and minor individual's will provide written assent, prior to any study
      procedure being performed.

      Following consent, a medical history, including current medications the subject is taking,
      will be obtained. Subjects will complete standard self assessment questionnaires to screen
      for presence of mental health issues including ADHD, anxiety disorder, depressive disorder or
      bipolar disorder using the ADHD Self Rating Scale (ASRS), Zung Self-Rated Anxiety Scale
      (SAS), Zung Self-Rated Depression Scale (SDS), and Mood Disorder Questionnaire (MDQ).

      Subjects will not be excluded from the study based on responses to the mental health
      questionnaires, but results will be considered in the analysis of results.

      The subjects will take the 20-minute Quotient® ADHD System Test for Adolescent and Adult
      assessment.

      Subject's assessed to be Non-ADHD will be eligible to have their Quotient tests added to the
      Quotient Adolescent and Adult Normative Database.

      Study Enrollment:

      200 Normal control subjects with oversampling of 10%. Total enrollment is expected to be 220.

      Study Population:

      Male and female subjects from age 15 through 55 years of age. Optimally, there will be
      approximately 25 subjects per age and gender category but enrollment will not be restricted
      or limited to these desired categorical goals.

      Age Ranges Males Females 15-25 25 25 26-35 25 25 36-45 25 25 46-55 25 25
    
  