
    
      Methods

      The study will be conducted using randomized controlled trial.

      Sampling

      The subjects will be the patients with Tenckhoff Catheter recruited from the renal team in a
      regional acute hospital and a satellite dialysis centre. The sampling method will be
      convenience sampling. The subjects will be recruited sequentially after the insertion of
      Tenckhoff Catheter.

      Inclusion criteria

        -  Patient with established Tenckhoff Catheter for at least 3 months

        -  Patient with skin condition healed satisfactorily

      Exclusion criteria

        -  Patient presents with signs and symptoms of exit site infection e.g. purulent discharge,
           pain, and swab of exit cultured with positive growth.

        -  Patient with unhealed exit site.

        -  Patient currently requires antibiotics

        -  Patient shows sensitive to JUC Spray Dressing or 0.05% Chlorhexidine solution

      (A) Control group Care of Tenckhoff catheter exit site using 0.05% Chlorhexidine solution
      (Guidelines on the care of peritoneal catheter exit site, Renal Unit, QEH). The detailed
      procedures will be introduced by the nurse according to the protocol of the unit. Please
      refer to Appendix II for details.

      Skin test with 0.05% Chlorhexidine will be carried out prior to the usage of Chlorhexidine
      solution for caring the exit site. For the first three days after patient has been
      discharged, study team members will perform telephone follow up. Patients are reminded to
      report for signs and symptoms of infection or physical damage of catheter noted. A routine
      follow up at the Renal Unit will be arranged at eight weeks intervals.

      (B) Intervention group Care of peritoneal catheter exit site using spray dressing. The
      detailed procedures will be introduced by the nurse according to the protocol of the unit.
      Please refer to Appendix III for details.

      Data collection

      Quantitative data collection such as demographic data, time of insertion of Peritoneal
      Catheter, history of allergy would be collected from patient's record. The condition of the
      exit site will be monitored daily by patient / carer. They are taught to report to the nurses
      for any abnormality noted such as signs and symptoms of infection, skin allergy and damage of
      the catheter. A comprehensive nursing assessment will be carried out at 8 weeks interval
      monthly for 6 months.

      Data analysis

      The data will be analyzed using PASW. The demographic data will be reported using means and
      standard deviation. Independent sample t-test will be used to compare the differences between
      groups. P<0.05 will be set as significant difference.

      Ethical Considerations

      All patients participate this study are on voluntary base. Before launching of the study,
      ethical approval from the Research Ethical Committee, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
      and Ethical Committee, Kowloon Central Cluster will be obtained. A detailed explanation of
      the research objectives and different interventions will be provided to the patients verbally
      and in the information sheet. After passing the skin test on allergy reactions, patients
      agree to participate will need to sign the consent form.

      During data collection, the research code will be assigned to each subject and the name will
      not be appeared on any research documentation to ensure confidentiality. The data will only
      be accessed by the research team members . Furthermore, the Research Ethical Committee (REC)
      and the Regulatory Authority of the study hospital will be granted direct access to the
      subject's study data for data verification. The Research Ethical Committee will spot check
      the clinical area during the study period to ensure research ethics are adhered and good
      clinical practices are maintained throughout the study.
    
  