
    
      Chronic kidney disease (CKD), a progressive decline in kidney function, is a growing health
      problem: 13% of adults in the US have CKD. Among patients with CKD, the risk of progression
      to irreversible loss of kidney function (end-stage renal disease, ESRD) is about 1% per year.
      In addition, adjusted mortality is approximately four times greater among those with CKD
      compared to those without. For ESRD, apart from dialysis and kidney transplant, no treatment
      exists. CKD increases urea levels in bodily fluids leading to a dominance of
      urease-containing bacteria in the gut. Such dysbiosis results in decreased production of the
      short chain fatty acid, butyrate and decreased health of the colonic epithelial barrier.
      Consequently, bacterial toxins translocate into the bloodstream, promoting inflammation.
      Moreover, production of uremic toxins such as indoxyl and p-cresyl sulfates are also
      increased, resulting in further kidney injury.

      CKD patients are prescribed a diet low in protein, fiber and symbiotic organisms, which
      reduces complications like hyperkalemia, but also contributes to the dysbiosis.
      Re-formulating the CKD diet may improve the clinical management of CKD. The investigators's
      overall hypothesis is that changes in the microbial diversity, xeno-proteins and
      xeno-metabolites correlate with CKD progression, and microbiome-directed therapies can be
      used to slow the disease. In this study, the investigators will determine the tolerability of
      supplemental resistant starch (RS). Secondary aims are to determine if a diet high in
      resistant starch changes fecal butyrate concentrations, the make-up of the gut microbiome and
      the concentrations in the blood of uremic toxins produced by the gut microbiome. This study
      will help in the design of a future study with the aim of understanding if a high resistant
      starch diet can slow the progression of chronic kidney disease.
    
  