
    
      Acute ischemic stroke is caused by blockage of blood vessels in the brain. This obstruction
      may be due to the presence of a blood clot, which prevents the passage of blood. Because the
      brain is under-irrigated, nerve cells lack oxygen and nutrients and can die, which can lead
      to brain function disorder.

      Blood vessels can be obstructed by several different mechanisms and identification of this
      cause is essential to minimize the risk of recurrence. For instance, it may be a blood clot
      that originally formed in the heart, which breaks off and is carried away by the blood flow
      into an artery of the brain, which it blocks. The formation of such a clot can be caused by a
      heart attack, as a heart attack causes reduced mobility of certain parts of the heart, which
      greatly increases the risk of clot formation. At the same time, a stroke can also induce
      cardiac changes, for example because of the production of stress hormones secreted during a
      stroke. These cardiac changes due to stress hormones can greatly look like cardiac changes
      caused by a heart attack.

      As a consequence, when a stroke is caused by a heart attack, it is often very difficult to
      correctly diagnose the heart attack and therefore treat patients properly. Indeed, symptoms
      and effects of a stroke and a heart attack may be similar, although these are two completely
      different medical problems. In order to gain additional knowledge, the investigators aim with
      this study to make the diagnosis of a heart attack more precise in patients suffering from a
      stroke.

      Hypothesis, primary and secondary objectives:

      The investigators postulate that the combination of laboratory, clinical, radiological,
      echocardiographic and electrophysiological assessments in a predictive score can distinguish
      myocardial infarction (MI) and neurogenic stunned myocardium (NSM) in stroke patients (MI and
      NSM defined by cardiac MRI and coronary angiography).

      Primary objectives: The primary objective is to assess the prevalence of MI and NSM, with or
      without wall motion abnormalities, in stroke patients.

      Secondary objectives: Secondary objectives aim to develop a predictive score out of
      laboratory, clinical, radiological (brain MRI), echocardiographic and electrophysiological
      parameters to identify stroke patients with MI and to distinguish them from patients with
      NSM.

      The project will add important information to the pathogenesis of NSM, the importance of MI
      in stroke and the clinically relevant question of the management of stroke patients with
      hsTnT elevations. On one hand, the project offers the chance to improve the identification of
      patients with relevant coronary sclerosis. The investigators postulate that most of these
      patients are not identified by current practice. An early identification of these patients is
      necessary for early treatment and prevention of cardiac events.

      On the other hand, the project offers the chance to improve the identification of patients
      with NSM and to deliver information on clinical relevance of NSM including arrhythmias and
      wall motion abnormalities. Given the negative association of NSM with outcome after stroke,
      the identification of NSM patients is the necessary condition for a treatment trial.
      Beta-blockers could for instance be beneficial for stroke patients with NSM and such a
      project could have far-reaching consequences on the management of many acute stroke patients
      in the near future.
    
  