
    
      Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, inflammatory disease characterized by demyelination,
      myelin damage, axonal loss and gliosis in the Central Nervous System (CNS). MS symptoms vary
      according to the size of the lesion and its location in the CNS. Clinical symptoms are
      generally: spasticity, fatigue, muscle weakness, tremor, pain, sensory disturbances, bladder
      bowel problems, cognitive disorders, depression and sleep disorders. With the progression of
      the disease, the performance in daily living activities gradually decreases, affecting the
      quality of life negatively. Maintaining aerobic capacity in chronic diseases such as MS is
      very important for independence in daily living activities. Functional exercise capacity of
      MS patients decreases with the effect of symptoms and sedentary lifestyle. The decrease in
      aerobic capacity can manifest itself with a decrease in walking distance or speed, or a
      limitation in daily living activities. Decline in aerobic capacity is also associated with
      many factors such as increased risk of cardiovascular disease, decreased cognitive functions
      and health-related quality of life. Therefore, aerobic capacity measurement is one of the
      important physiological measurements in terms of evaluating the existing functional status of
      individuals and preparing rehabilitation programs appropriately for individuals.

      Cardiopulmonary exercise tests (CPET) are accepted as the gold standard in the evaluation of
      aerobic capacity. These measurements have some limitations that limit their use, such as the
      high cost of equipment and the need for a well trained team. Today, submaximal tests,
      questionnaires or scales are widely used as an alternative to CPET in evaluating functional
      exercise capacity. Since most daily life activities are at the submaximal level, submaximal
      tests can better determine the functional levels of individuals in daily living activities.

      In order to evaluate functional capacity in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD),
      activities similar to daily life activities were selected and the Glittre Daily Living
      Activities (ADL) Test was developed. It has been shown that the Glittre ADL Test is reliable
      and valid in evaluating functional exercise capacity in COPD, as well as reflecting the
      performance in daily living activities for this disease group. The activities in the Glittre
      ADL Test are those that require the use of both the lower and upper extremities. An important
      advantage of the test is that the test can reflect functional capacity as well as providing
      information about performance in daily life activities and that the use of all extremities
      can be observed during the test.

      In this study, the reliability and validity of the Glittre ADL Test in MS patients was
      investigated. For the criterion validity of the Glittre ADL Test, the correlation with the
      6-minute walk test (6MWT) was examined. Patient and control groups were compared for known
      group validity. Test-retest method was used to determine the reliability of Glittre ADL Test.
      Intra-observer reliability was evaluated by intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). The
      relationship between Glittre ADL Test scores and lower extremity muscle strength, limitation
      of daily living activities, balance, quality of life, fatigue and disease severity was
      investigated. Correlations between the time to complete the Glittre ADL Test and the 5
      Repetition Sit To Stand Test completion time, Nottingham Extended Activities of Daily Living
      Scale, Mini Balance Evulation Systems Test, Multiple Sclerosis Quality of Life 54 scale,
      Fatigue Severity Scale and Expanded Disability Status Scale scores were examined.
    
  