
    
      First part:

      To investigate the reliability study of water displacement and circumference measurement and
      the change in thickness of subcutaneous space measured by sonography and blood flow measured
      by DRT4 in normal subjects after applying K-tape.

      Second part:

      The incidence of breast carcinoma is in the second place in women in Taiwan. Lymphedema is a
      common complication after treatment of breast carcinoma; it will lead not only to cosmetic
      problems but is also uncomfortable, and causes functional limitation for patients. The common
      management for lymphedema is decongestive lymphatic therapy (DLT) including skin care, manual
      lymph drainage, remedial exercises and compression therapies. At present, all possible
      compression therapies for lymphedema have limitations. Patients have poor compliance in using
      short-stretch bandage and compression garments due to the climate in Taiwan. Applying kinesio
      tape (K-tape) became a new treatment method in physical therapy; the inventor Dr. Kase
      claimed that the K-tape can improve circulation and remove congestion. Besides, it
      demonstrated good therapeutic effects in clinical application. However, there are few studies
      to show the clinical effects of K-tape. This restricts the further application of K-tape.
      Following the previous study, the purpose is to compare the effects among traditional DLT,
      modified DLT which replaces bandage with K-tape, and DLT combined K-tape in patients with
      lymphedema.

      A randomized control study will be executed. Sixty patients with post-mastectomy lymphedema
      will be randomly grouped into taping, bandage and mixed groups. Each subject will go through
      4 weeks of a control period, 4 weeks of an intervention period, and followed by 3 months of
      an observation period. The evaluation items include physical therapy assessment, the severity
      of swelling, such as arm circumference, volume of water displacement, related symptoms, the
      upper extremity function and quality of life. The evaluation will be executed 4 weeks before
      the interventions (start of control period), before the intervention (start of intervention
      period), after a 4 week intervention and 3 months after the intervention to compare the
      effects among 3 kinds of treatment. Subjects in each group will receive treatments including
      skin care, manual lymphatic drainage, pneumatic compression therapy and exercise during the
      intervention period; the taping group's patients will receive additional K-tape treatment;
      the mixed group's patients will receive K-tape combined bandage treatment. Each group will be
      treated 2 hours/time, 5 times/week; the entire course will take 4 weeks.
    
  