
    
      Pedophilia is an important motivation for sexual offenses involving children, including child
      pornography and sexual contacts with children (henceforth, pedosexual behavior). Indeed,
      approximately half of individuals convicted for sexual offenses against children have a
      Pedophilic disorder and offenders with a Pedophilic disorder are much more likely to sexually
      reoffend.

      A promising line of research has examined the neurocognitive basis of pedophilia. Pedophilic
      individuals display altered activity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) when
      attending to child-related stimuli. This brain area is involved in the cognitive control of
      sexual arousal. Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) has been examined as a
      non-invasive method to increase activity in the dlPCF, ultimately increasing inhibitory
      control over impulses. Accumulating evidence also shows that individuals have an attentional
      bias towards sexually preferred stimuli. These attentional processes can be investigated by
      recording eye movements. Early automatic eye movements are particularly relevant in
      discriminating individuals with pedophilia from those without pedophilia.

      The proposed study will examine the effects of tDCS over the dlPFC of pedophilic individuals
      and healthy controls, while they complete a task requiring controlled attention to virtual
      (computer-generated) images of children and adults. In two separate sessions, participants
      will be randomly assigned to an active and a placebo (sham) tDCS condition. Eye movements
      will be recorded during the task.

      The investigators expect to observe a conflict between automatic and controlled attention
      when participants are presented with their sexually preferred stimuli. Specifically, the
      investigators expect pedophiles to show an attentional bias towards virtual child stimuli.
      The investigators predict that the attentional conflict will be reduced when tDCS is applied,
      compared to the sham condition. If the attentional bias is a key cognitive feature of sexual
      interest, the investigators expect to measure changes in reported or indirectly assessed
      sexual preferences.
    
  