
    
      The validation of device is conducted to 43 confirmed COVID-19 patients and 40 confirmed
      COVID-19 negative patients from Bhayangkara Hospital, RSLKC Bambalipuro in Yogyakarta Special
      Region, Indonesia.

      Afterwards, patients with symptoms suggesting COVID-19 will be recruited using multicentre
      consecutive sampling. The minimum number of participants required is 1460 subjects. The study
      use a triple-blind design where the research subjects, breath sample takers, and sample
      examiners did not know the results of each sampling that had been done. The final data
      processor was also blinded to the results of nose and throat swabs. The breath sampling data
      is saved in graphic form which interpretation will be carried out later by the data processor
      at the final stage.

      This study population involve children and adults who come to the COVID-19 outpatient clinic
      in each participating hospital with a diagnosis of suspected COVID-19 infection. All patients
      remain in the setting under medical service in accordance with the standard operating
      procedure (SOP) and clinical practice guidelines (CPG) protocols for handling patients with
      suspected COVID-19. The patients underwent nasal and oropharyngeal swabs according to the
      COVID-19 outpatient CPG.

      The participants will be asked about symptoms that they have, such as fever, fatigue, dry
      cough, stuffy/ runny nose, sore throat, myalgia, shortness of breath, and diarrhea.
      Afterwards, they will be asked to breathe normally using a mask for 2 times, then inhale and
      exhale in a forced expiratory volume to an air collecting bag that later is connected to the
      e-nose machine via a HEPA-filter. The performance of breath test will be compared with the
      performance of symptoms with the reference of RT-PCR results. In addition, participants'
      demographic and clinical data will be collected.
    
  