
    
      In the first session, each individual will be asked to fill out a questionnaire to regarding
      cycling experience, prior bike fits (with data sheets when available), and injury history.
      Maximal aerobic capacity (VO2max) will be determined. During the test, subjects will be asked
      rate exertion. Before testing, the system will be calibrated with known oxygen and carbon
      dioxide concentrations. During the test, subjects will be asked to breathe normally through a
      low dead space bidirectional turbine. Inspired and expired gases will be analyzed for
      concentrations of O2 and CO2, to determine alveolar gas exchange. Total ventilation (VE),
      respiratory rate, oxygen consumption (VO2), carbon dioxide (VCO2) will be measured, and
      respiratory exchange ratio (RER; VCO2/VO2) will be calculated continuously during the test
      and expressed as a 30-second rolling average.

      Participants will return 48 hours later, at which time EOC will be determined after a
      moderate intensity prolonged cycling exercise (PCE) at seven different cadences. Cadences
      from 50rpm to 110rpm will be randomly generated and introduced every 3 minutes, followed by a
      3 minute cool down at FCC at 40% PP (Figure Subjects will then be pair matched by gender and
      randomized into control (FCC) or EOC modulation groups.

      48 hours following EOC testing, subject will return for a second progressive maximal cycling
      test performed at FCC or EOC based on group assignment.

      Subjects will then participate in a 6 week high intensity training (HIIT) indoor cycling
      program at their prescribed cadence (FCC or EOC), using cadence meters. Training will consist
      of three non-consecutive days each week for 60 min, and alternate between two HIIT workouts.
      Resistance will be increased to meet the HIIT requirement, while cadence will remain at FCC
      or EOC. Subjects will be asked to warm-up at a light (3/10) workload for 10 minutes, followed
      by HIIT consisting of 4 minutes at an intensity of 8/10 on the modified Borg, and 90 seconds
      recovery (2/10). This will be repeated 8 times, followed by 10 minutes of cool down. The
      alternating HIIT workout will include a 10 minute warm up, followed by 12 intervals lasting 2
      minutes at an RPE of 9/10 and 3 minutes of recovery. The session will conclude with a 10
      minute cool down.

      Within one week of completing their training program, subjects will return for their fourth
      and final study visit, at which time a VO2max test and kinematic data collection will be
      repeated at FCC or EOC.
    
  