
    
      Smoking cessation is one of the most cost-effective health interventions, which can add up to
      10 years of life expectancy (Jha et al., 2013). However, it is very difficult to quit smoking
      because of the addictive effect of nicotine presents in tobacco products, and smokers
      typically make multiple attempts before successfully quit smoking. Providing evidence-based
      treatment could substantially increase the chance of successful quitting.

      The Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) provided new opportunities and challenges in
      promoting smoking cessation. A growing literature has shown that smoking is linked to poor
      progression of COVID-19 (Patanavanich & Glantz, 2020), which can be a new warning for
      motivating smokers to quit smoking. However, social distancing measures and increased stress
      and anxiety related to fear of contracting COVID-19 may increase the risk of smoking relapse
      in people who recently quit smoking (Patwardhan, 2020). There are also misinformation or
      unproven claims that smoking can protect against COVID-19. The social distancing measures
      also become a barrier for smokers who are interested in quitting to receive treatment from
      smoking cessation clinics. Therefore, implementing new interventions that can address the
      challenges in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic is needed.

      Advance in mobile technologies provides a new avenue for delivering smoking cessation
      support. A qualitative interview of 21 current smokers in Hong Kong has found that mobile
      instant messaging app (e.g., WhatsApp) is an acceptable and feasible platform for providing
      chat support for smoking cessation (Luk et al., 2019). Chat-based support allows a registered
      nurse or trained counsellor to interact with a smoker individually through mobile instant
      messaging apps (e.g., WhatsApp and WeChat) and provide real-time, continuous, and
      personalized smoking cessation information and advice. A randomised trial of 1185 smokers
      found that the chat-based intervention integrated with brief intervention was effective in
      increasing smoking cessation (Wang et al., 2019). The trial also provided initial evidence
      that the intervention can be delivered as a stand-alone treatment or in combination with use
      of existing cessation treatment, to increase the chance of successful quitting. This study
      aims to adapt the chat intervention for smoking relapse prevention and evaluate its
      feasibility and effectiveness in recent tobacco abstainers enrolled in a clinic-based smoking
      cessation service in Hong Kong.
    
  