
    
      AIM:

      The aim of the DETO2X-AMI trial is to evaluate the role of supplemental oxygen delivery in
      the setting of acute coronary syndrome myocardial infarction including ST-segment elevation
      myocardial infarction (STEMI), non ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) and
      unstable angina (UA).

      DESIGN:

      DETO2X-AMI is a multicentre, interventional, controlled, randomized registry based clinical
      trial (RRCT) recruiting 6600 patients at cardiac care facilities which report into the
      SWEDEHEART registry throughout the whole of Sweden.

      The SWEDEHEART (Swedish Web-system for Enhancement and Development of Evidence-based care in
      Heart disease Evaluated According to Recommended Therapies) registry is a nationwide used
      platform allowing a broad population of all-comers access to the broad registry network which
      includes:

        -  RIKS-HIA (nationwide registry where all ischemia cases treated on cardiac intensive care
           units are registered),

        -  SCAAR (Swedish Coronary Angiography and Angioplasty Registry where nationwide all
           coronary angiography and percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) procedures are
           registered))

        -  SEPHIA (nationwide registry for all post AMI follow-up in patients below 75 years of
           age).

      All follow-up will be carried out in SWEDEHEART and other national registries such as the
      national cause of death register (dödsorsaksregister) or the national patient register
      (slutenvårdsregister). A similar set-up has been successfully used for the TASTE (Thrombus
      Aspiration in ST-Elevation myocardial infarction in Scandinavia) trial.

      MATERIAL and METHODS:

      Patients with normal oxygen saturation (≥90% on pulse oximeter) presenting to the ambulance
      service or the emergency department (ED) with classical symptoms suggestive of acute coronary
      syndrome (ACS) and significant ECG changes or elevated cardiac biomarkers (ED) are evaluated
      for inclusion. If eligible, oral informed consent is obtained by EMD or ED personnel prior to
      inclusion. Randomization is carried out on the cardiac intensive care unit using a web-based
      tool as part of registration directly into the national SWEDEHEART registry.

      Patients are randomized to either supplemental oxygen delivered by oxymask® (6 L/min) for 12
      hours (min 6 hours) or no supplemental O₂. All patients receive standard care according to
      international ACS guidelines including acute coronary intervention.

      EFFICACY OUTCOMES:

      Primary efficacy outcome

      All-cause mortality at one year in all patients with suspected AMI (ITT).

      Secondary efficacy outcomes

      In the ITT population and AMI cohort:

        -  MACE 1: composite of all-cause mortality or rehospitalization with heart failure*

        -  MACE 2: composite of all-cause mortality or rehospitalization with heart failure or
           readmission with myocardial infarction

        -  rehospitalization with heart failure

        -  rehospitalization with AMI

        -  rehospitalization with shock (Kilip ≥3)*

        -  cardiovascular death *

        -  health economy

      In the STEMI cohort: MACE as a composite of all-cause death, rehospitalization with MI,
      cardiogenic shock, or stent thrombosis* plus as above.

      *These outcomes were specified after the trial had started, but before any treatment
      comparisons were available.

      Primary and secondary outcomes will be assessed at 30 days and one year of follow up.
      Supplementary per-protocol analysis will be performed.

      Subgroup analyses consist of predefined subgroups including gender, age, AMI/Non-AMI, Type-I
      AMI ( STEMI/NSTEMI), smokers, Hb, oxygen saturation levels, patients with chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease, chronic kidney disease and diabetes mellitus.

      Two main sub studies will be performed:

      DETO2X-Biomarkers, a multicenter sub study to the DETO2X-AMI trial assessing if oxygen
      treatment enhances oxidative stress, systemic inflammation, and markers of apoptosis and MMPs
      in ACS patients, thereby potentially increasing myocardial damage and cell death, and
      potentially the prognosis (see separate trial protocol or clinicaltrials.gov NCT02290080 for
      details).

      DETO2X-OXYPAIN 2, a multicenter sub study to the DETO2X-AMI trial at centers with catheter
      laboratories evaluating a possible analgesic effect of oxygen in using visual-analog scale
      (VAS).

      Follow-up is carried out according to clinical post AMI routine which includes a standardized
      registration in the SWEDEHEART registry. Mortality data is obtained from the national cause
      of death register which is linked to SWEDEHEART.

      CONCLUSION:

      There is no conclusive evidence from adequately designed and powered trials supporting the
      routine administration of supplemental oxygen in the setting of suspected AMI. The DETO2X-AMI
      trial is designed to shed light on this important issue and give guidance to future
      recommendations.
    
  