
    
      Participants would be recruited through three midwifery practices: 1) The Hamilton Midwives;
      2) Burlington & Area Midwives Inc.; and 3) Community Midwives of Halton. Women in the third
      trimester of their first pregnancy, presenting at these sites will be invited to participate.
      The goal is to enrol a heterogeneous sample of pregnant women in the Hamilton-Halton region.

      A two-step strategy will be used to recruit study participants. First, recruiting sites will
      attend an information session related to the study. Recruitment posters with tear-off tabs
      containing the study email (iballstudy@gmail.com) will be posted at the sites. Interested
      participants will contact the study co-ordinator. Over the phone, the study co-ordinator will
      determine that the patient is eligible, review the letter of information with the patient,
      and schedule them for a baseline assessment at approximately 6-weeks post-partum. The letter
      of information will be emailed to the patient so that they may follow along during the
      review. All Internet transmission will be performed on campus through MacSecure, or performed
      off campus through a Virtual Private Network (VPN) provided by McMaster University.

      The patient will provide informed, written consent at the baseline appointment and prior to
      the assessment.

      The study compares a 16-week iball pelvic floor training protocol to a 16-week standard care
      regimen. Sixty participants will be recruited and randomly assigned to the standard care
      (control) group or the iball intervention group. All participants will meet with an assessor
      (Dr. Sinead Dufour or Dr. Donna Fedorkow) to undergo a pre-and a post-intervention
      assessment. Each assessment (30min) will consist of a (15min) internal pelvic exam, following
      the PERFECT criteria, and two (15min) self-report questionnaires, the Urogenital Distress
      Inventory-Short Form (UDI-6) and the Incontinence Impact Questionnaire-Short Form (IIQ-7).
      The pre-study assessment will take place approximately 6 weeks post-partum. The post-study
      assessment will take place at the end of the 16-week study period. At 8 weeks, midway through
      the intervention period, all participants will be emailed by the study co-ordinator as a
      means to provide any support that might be needed.

      At the pre-study assessment, the standard care group will receive instructions on how to
      perform a correct pelvic floor contraction through a digital pelvic examination. In addition
      to receiving the same standard care instructions, the iball intervention group will undergo a
      training session (15min) on how to use the iball device and app with the research
      co-ordinator.

      The post-study assessment will require additional time from both groups. The standard care
      group will answer three self-administered close-ended questions (5min). In addition to
      answering two of the three close-ended questions (5min), the intervention group will also
      participate in a semi-structured interview (30min) with the research assistant either
      in-person or over the phone, depending on the participant's preference.
    
  