
    
      Background: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in
      the CF trans-membrane conductance regulator protein. Despite substantial progress achieved in
      the understanding of the molecular basis and physiopathology of CF, a cure is not available.
      Mutation specific therapy is a novel approach to overcome the molecular defect in CF. We have
      previously shown that gentamicin and PTC 124 can induce read-through of nonsense CFTR
      mutations, and lead to functional CFTR. In addition we have shown that in vitro treatment
      with (-)epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) and or Tocotrienol of cells harboring splicing
      mutations can augment production of full-length transcripts of affected proteins.

      Working hypothesis and aims: EGCG and tocotrienol can act as genetic modifiers and increase
      the level of correctly spliced CFTR transcripts. Aim: To determine in CF patients if oral
      administration of EGCG and/or Tocotrienol, will modify CFTR splicing, as assessed by (1)
      Transepithelial Potential Difference (TEPD) as a measurement of ion channel activity, (2)
      levels of correctly spliced CFTR mRNA in nasal mucosa, (3) cytokine levels in sputum and (4)
      pulmonary function (FEV1).

      Methods: Patients with CF carrying splicing mutations will be treated with EGCG 200 mg/day,
      Tocotrienol 600mg/day or both for 28 day cycles. Clinical parameters (TEPD, FEV1 and cytokine
      levels in sputum) and molecular parameters (mRNA levels,) will be analyzed to determine the
      effectiveness of the treatment.

      Expected results: In vitro studies with cell cultures derived from CF patients have shown
      positive results; therefore an improvement in TEPD will be an indication for CFTR expression.
      An increase in mRNA levels and changes in FEV1, and cytokine levels will confirm the results.

      Importance: Genetic therapy has encountered many technical difficulties. It is therefore of
      importance to develop alternative molecular strategies that will lead to an improvement or to
      a cure of genetic diseases.

      Probable implications to Medicine: Alternative splicing mechanisms are a common cause of
      genetic disease as ~15% of all known human mutations result in defective pre-mRNA splicing.
      Therapies based on augmenting the levels of full length or fully functioning proteins may
      have a substantial impact on the treatment of patients with genetic diseases.
    
  