
    
      Rationale: Sixty-five percent of cancer patients with terminal illness have bone metastases,
      with debilitating pain as devastating consequence. The spine is the most common location for
      bone metastases. Spinal cord compression is present in 10% of patients with vertebral
      metastases and aggravates pain and performance status even further. Standard treatment of
      unstable vertebral metastases consists of stabilizing surgery, followed by external beam
      radiotherapy (8 Gy) after two weeks. Although this approach is effective in 60-70% of
      patients, it is has several downsides. Firstly, because of the two weeks interval between
      surgery and external beam radiotherapy, necessary for sufficient wound healing, it takes a
      long time before radiotherapy induced pain relief is achieved. Scatter artifacts on planning
      computed tomography images caused by surgical implants prohibit high-resolution imaging and
      accurate targeting of the lesion. Multiple hospital visits (+/- 10) are needed for
      administration of external beam irradiation, and in about 30-40% of patients no adequate pain
      response is achieved. An alternative treatment strategy, which would lead to faster pain
      relief in a higher proportion of patients with less hospital visits, would be highly
      desirable from the patient's perspective.

      Objective: To assess the feasibility and safety of combining stereotactic body radiotherapy
      (SBRT) and pedicle screw fixation in a 48-hour window for the treatment of painful unstable
      metastases of the thoracic and/or lumbar spine.

      Study design: Prospective case series (13), first in man study, Phase I and II a study
      according to the IDEAL recommendations

      Study population: All patients, male and female, with impending spinal stability requiring
      radiation therapy and surgical intervention at the University Medical Center Utrecht

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main outcome of this study is safety of the combined
      procedure, defined as grade 3 or higher treatment-induced toxicity according to common
      terminology criteria for adverse events (CTC-AE) 4.0 as a result of the procedure within 60
      days after the surgery.
    
  