
    
      Purpose:

      To assess the use of IN-dex as a sole agent in aiding the successful completion of a MRI scan
      in children.

      Hypothesis:

      We hypothesize that the optimal dose for IN-dex to produce appropriate sedation for MRI will
      be between 1 and 3 mcg/kg. We also hypothesize that this dose will be lower in the older age
      group.

      Justification:

      The dose required for IN-dex to enable safe sedation for MRI scanning as a sole agent is
      undetermined at present. This study will enable us to find the optimal dose for effective
      sedation for MRI scanning in a range of age groups. This will avoid the need for propofol and
      remifentanil general anesthesia (that is the current standard of care) in this group of
      patients. Our motivation for avoiding general anesthesia is that there is ongoing concern
      that general anesthesia causes long term neurocognitive effects in children. Finally,
      identifying a safe yet effective dose of IN-dex, which can be nurse-administered, will also
      allow us to improve access to MRI scans that are limited by the access to general anesthesia.

      Objectives:

        1. To determine the dose of IN-dex that, when used as a sole agent, produces minimal to
           moderate sedation that is adequate for successful completion of MRI in children with
           >90% effectiveness.

        2. To explore the logistics of a nurse-administered sedation protocol to increase access to
           the MRI.

      Research Design:

      We propose a dose finding study of IN-dex using the biased coin design (BCD) method in three
      different age groups (3 to <8 years, 8 to <12 years, 12 to <19 years). The study specific
      interventions will include identification of children appropriate for the study following
      detailed assessment using a scoring system developed by our Child Life specialists for use at
      their MRI preparation session.

      Statistical Analysis:

      The dose of IN-Dex that produces mild to moderate sedation in 90% of subjects will be
      calculated using the pooled adjacent violators algorithm (PAVA) and bootstrap methods will be
      used to calculate the 95% confidence limits.
    
  