
    
      The potential to harness the propagating power of social networks for chronic disease
      treatment and management, such as for diabetes and obesity, is an emerging area in
      epidemiology and clinical research. Social induction for disease management has been
      effectively leveraged for disease management, but we have not carefully disaggregated of
      different layers and modalities of social network effects in this context. This study will
      test and demonstrate this through a novel randomized trial.

      The randomized design is comprised of 2 arms. 1) Intervention Group: This arm takes part in a
      10-month (9-month for Phase 2, cycles 1 and 2) diabetes, weight, and cardiovascular disease
      education and management program in combination with the microclinic social support model. A
      microclinic is a support group of 2-6 individuals from the same social network who learn how
      to manage their disease together. 2) Control Group: This is a control arm with observational
      parallel assessments of metabolic and lifestyle risk factors alone (implemented in Phase 1
      and 2, cycles 1 and 2). Each arm will take part in a 6-month follow-up. The investigators
      also aim to study the intervention effects of social networks in improving lifestyle risk
      factors on a small sample of Phase 1 controls in a repeated measures design. Observational
      controls with 7 repeated measures in Phase 1 (pre-intervention) will receive the 9-month
      diabetes, weight, and cardiovascular disease education and management program with
      microclinic social support model condensed in a 4-6 months program. The controls in this
      cycle will also receive 17 medical screenings during the intervention, and 6-month follow-up
      (post-intervention).

      Aim 1- (Phase 1 and 2, Cycles 1 & 2)

      To evaluate the efficacy of the microclinic intervention group versus observational control
      in improving lifestyle factors and metabolic outcome.

      Aim 2- (Phase 2, Cycle 3)

      To examine the effect of the microclinic intervention by comparing pre- and post measures
      among those who were first controls in Phase 1 and then participated in the microclinic
      intervention Phase 2, Cycle 3.

      AIM 3- (Phases 1 & 2, cycles 1, 2, and 3)

      To differentiate the modalities of social network effects: direct causal induction versus
      homophilly, and to determine the extent of long-term temporal cross-propagating effects
      between-persons in a microclinic group.
    
  