
    
      This natural history study of patients with EYS mutations will accelerate the development of
      outcome measures for clinical trials. Sensitive, reliable outcome measures of retinal
      degeneration will greatly facilitate development of treatments for retinitis pigmentosa due
      to EYS mutations. Together these approaches are expected to have an impact on understanding
      EYS-related retinal degeneration, developing experimental treatment protocols, and assessing
      their effectiveness.

      The goals and expected impact of this natural history study are to:

        1. Describe the natural history of retinal degeneration in patients with biallelic
           mutations in the EYS gene

        2. Identify sensitive structural and functional outcome measures to use for future
           multicenter clinical trials in EYS-related retinal degeneration

        3. Identify well-defined subpopulations for future clinical trials of investigative
           treatments for EYS-related retinal degeneration

      Study Objectives

      The primary objectives of the natural history study are to:

        1. Characterize the natural history of retinal degeneration associated with biallelic
           pathogenic mutations in the EYS gene over 4 years, as measured using functional,
           structural, and patient-reported outcome measures

        2. Investigate whether structural outcome measures can be validated as surrogates for
           functional outcomes in individuals with biallelic pathogenic mutations in the EYS gene

        3. Evaluate possible risk factors (genotype, phenotype, environmental, and comorbidities)
           for progression of the outcome measures at 4 years in individual with biallelic
           pathogenic mutations in the EYS gene

        4. Evaluate variability and symmetry of left and right eye outcomes over 4 years in
           individuals with biallelic pathogenic mutations in the EYS gene
    
  