
    
      Methodology:

      V1 inclusion visit (D1):

      The subjects will be screened during a consultation carried out as part of the treatment in
      the participating dentistry departments. The inclusion and non-inclusion criteria for
      participants will be verified and the study will be offered to eligible patients and
      controls. The research briefing note will be given and the non-objection of the participants
      (adults and representative (s) of parental authority) will be collected. The investigator
      will then take the photographs and spectrophotometer shots (at least 2 teeth per
      participant).

      V2 follow-up visit (within 2 months of the inclusion visit (D2 to M2)):

      The patients will be reviewed in consultation as part of the treatment for selective grinding
      for dental restoration or extraction (if the tooth (s) is (are) no longer storable). The
      teeth or pathological enamel samples will be recovered and centralized at the Laboratory of
      Oral Molecular Physiopathology.

      Biological, structural and physico-chemical analyzes will be carried out from these samples.

      In order to ensure follow-up of participants, the principal investigator of each center will
      maintain a correspondence table including the participant's identity and his research
      identification number. He will also keep a register of oppositions up to date.

      The subject's opposition or participation will be notified in his medical file. A copy of the
      briefing notes and non-objection forms signed by the dentist will be kept on site with the
      research documents. Minors who become adults during their participation will benefit from
      appropriate information and their non-objection will be collected.

      Primary endpoint Analysis, using the spectrophotometer, of the numerical values of the color
      of the teeth in each of the populations studied (Hereditary amelogenesis imperfecta (AIH),
      dental fluorosis (FD), Hypomineralization Incisors and Molar (MIH) and control).

      For each pathology, the values of these parameters will be compared. Secondary endpoints

        -  Intra-pathology classification according to the severity of each pathology.

        -  Characterization and biological, structural and physicochemical analysis of these
           different pathologies from extracted teeth or enamel biopsy to be ground to achieve a
           restoration.

      Sample analysis The teeth samples will be stored at room temperature in the Oral Molecular
      Physiopathology laboratory in the Research Center.

      During the research, biological, structural and physicochemical analyzes will be carried out
      at the laboratory or in another laboratory in France or abroad. A contract will be
      established upstream of these analyzes with the partner laboratory.

      At the end of the research, samples not destroyed by destructive analysis techniques will be
      embedded in the resin and stored for 10 years before being destroyed. These samples can be
      used for additional analyzes (biological, structural and physico-chemical) according to the
      request of the references for the publication process.
    
  