
    
      Background:

      The search for biomarkers to enhance and improve diagnosis of PA is ongoing, mainly focused
      on markers detected in the blood and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluids. In this study, the
      investigators will investigate whether exhaled breath condensate is a useful source for
      diagnosis of PA either by existing methods (i.e. polymerase chain reaction (PCR) detection of
      Aspergillus DNA) or by analysis of the proteome. However, extraction of Aspergillus DNA has
      never been done in the EBC before. In this pilot study the investigators will investigate
      whether it is possible to purify DNA from pneumocystis from EBC of patients with proven
      pneumocystis pneumonia both because the diagnostic test for pneumocystis pneumonia is more
      sensitive and specific and also due to the fact that pneumocystis pneumonia is more common
      than PA. The investigators will spare the EBC samples from patients PA for the protein
      analysis in this study.

      No previous studies have investigated the potential of EBC protein analysis as a diagnostic
      tool in PA infections. In this pilot study, the investigators will test whether Aspergillus
      proteins are present in the EBC from patients with proven/probable/possible PA.

      Methods:

      The study will compare the protein profiles of exhaled breath condensate (EBC) collected from
      patients with proven, probable or possible pulmonary aspergillus (PA) infection and patients
      with suspected PA infection where routine diagnostic workup ruled out PA, and negative
      controls, i.e. patients who undergo diagnostic workup for benign/indolent conditions and
      without suspected PA, with same age (within a range of 10 years) and gender from the
      outpatient clinic at department of hematology, department of infectious diseases, department
      of respiratory diseases and department of cardiothoracic surgery at Aalborg University
      Hospital. The main-outcome, i.e. means of the relative amounts of specific proteins in the
      EBC samples, will be compared by unpaired t-tests after assessment of normality and standard
      deviations within the two groups in the following comparisons: proven/probable/possible PA
      vs. patients where PA was ruled out and proven/probable/possible PA vs. negative controls. In
      case three groups are compared, the one-way analysis of variance will be applied, but this is
      not within the main scope of our study.

      In a sub-study, the investigators will collect EBC from patients with suspected Pneumocystis
      jirovecii pneumonia and healthy controls, i.e. patients who undergo diagnostic workup for
      benign/indolent conditions and without suspected pneumocystis pneumonia. Diagnostic tests for
      pneumocystis pneumonia are highly specific and sensitive. The investigators will test whether
      pneumocystis DNA is detectable in the EBC from these patients and learn how DNA should be
      extracted from the EBC samples. DNA extraction and analysis will be done locally. The
      investigators will use the experiences and results from this sub-study in the design of
      further studies of detection of Aspergillus in the EBC after this pilot study, if relevant.
      The investigators will include four patients with confirmed pneumocystis pneumonia and four
      healthy controls. Oral washes pneumocystis tests will be collected immediately before the EBC
      is collected for both cases and healthy controls. If the diagnosis of pneumocystis pneumonia
      is not confirmed in a patient with suspected pneumocystis pneumonia, the patient will be
      included as negative control.

      Blood samples (i.e. excess plasma/serum from routine blood samples drawn as a part of routine
      diagnostic work-up) from the study participants (both PA-patients, healthy controls, and
      pneumocystis pneumonia patients) will be stored for standardization and verification and
      supplementing analysis of possible findings in the EBC. Plasma is the part of a blood sample
      that is left after centrifugation when an anticoagulant agent is added upon drawing of the
      blood sample. Hence, for some of the samples (citrate, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid
      (EDTA), heparin coated tubes), the investigators will store plasma (i.e. cell-free part of
      the blood with coagulation factors) and for the blood sample that was allowed to coagulate in
      the tube, the stored material will be serum (i.e. cell-free part of the blood without
      coagulation factors). In order to qualify the most suitable markers and substrates for
      standardization, the analysis of the EBC samples must be completed before the blood samples
      can be analyzed. Only biochemical, no genetic analysis will be conducted. For the healthy PA
      controls, the investigators will ask for an extra blood sample for detection of aspergillus
      galactomannan. For the healthy pneumocystis pneumonia controls, the investigators will ask
      for a pneumocystis oral wash for test of pneumocystis.
    
  