
    
      The purpose of this study is to learn as much as possible about Smith-Lemli-Opitz Syndrome
      (SLOS) by following a large group of individuals with SLOS over a period of time. We plan to
      measure cholesterol and other sterol levels, perform clinical observations, whole body
      testing and imaging studies (brain MRIs), to learn more about disease mechanisms and
      progression, variations in the clinical features among individuals with SLOS, and evaluate
      the effect of cholesterol supplementation in this condition.

      Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS) is a disorder of cholesterol synthesis, or production. It
      is caused by mutations in the DHCR7 gene which encodes for 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase, an
      enzyme necessary for the production of cholesterol in the body. Affected individuals exhibit
      multiple malformations and mental retardation. The features of SLOS are thought to be
      primarily related to cholesterol deficiency and accumulation of cholesterol precursors.
      However, the clinical phenotype is not well characterized, the biochemical pathogenesis is
      incompletely understood, and there is no proven therapy for this devastating condition. Thus
      our primary objective is to better define the clinical and biochemical phenotypes of the
      disease using a natural history study design. The study will contribute to creating a
      comprehensive SLOS patient registry, identify biomarkers that can be used for diagnostic
      testing, screening and outcome measures in future therapeutic trials. All patients with SLOS
      receive dietary cholesterol supplementation with the hope that cholesterol supplementation
      will improve the clinical manifestation of the disease. However, there is no evidence
      supporting a clinical benefit of cholesterol supplementation. Thus a secondary objective of
      the study is to determine if cholesterol intake correlates with changes in whole body
      cholesterol homeostasis and clinical end-points.
    
  