
    
      APROMISS is a phase 3 study evaluating the safety and efficacy of AL3818 (anlotinib)
      hydrochloride in the treatment of metastatic or advanced alveolar soft part sarcoma (ASPS),
      leiomyosarcoma (LMS), and synovial sarcoma (SS). Population pharmacokinetics and exploratory
      exposure-response analyses will also be conducted in subjects receiving AL3818.

      Indication A: 56 subjects with metastatic or advanced ASPS not amenable to surgical resection
      will receive open-label AL3818 at a dose of 12 mg once daily in 21-day cycles (14 days on
      treatment, 7 days off treatment) until disease progression (defined by RECIST version 1.1) ot
      unacceptable toxicity. The primary endpoint is objective response rate (ORR), secondary
      endpoint is duration of response (DOR). - OPEN

      Indication B: 68 subjects with metastatic or advanced LMS who have failed at least one prior
      line of approved therapy will be enrolled and randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive either
      AL3818 (12 mg once daily in 21-day cycles) or IV dacarbazine until disease progression
      (defined by RECIST version 1.1) or unacceptable toxicity. Subjects randomized to dacarbazine
      will have the option to crossover and receive AL3818 at the time of documented disease
      progression. The primary endpoint is progression free survival (PFS), the secondary endpoint
      is objective response rate (ORR). - CLOSED

      Indication C: 95 subjects with with metastatic or advanced SS who have failed at least one
      prior line of approved therapy, including first-line anthracycline-containing chemotherapy,
      will be enrolled and randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive either AL3818 (12 mg once daily in
      21-day cycles) or IV dacarbazine until disease progression (defined by RECIST version 1.1) or
      unacceptable toxicity. Subjects randomized to dacarbazine will have the option to crossover
      and receive AL3818 at the time of documented disease progression. The primary endpoint is
      progression free survival (PFS), the secondary endpoint is objective response rate (ORR). -
      CLOSED

      Indication D - LMS: 106 subjects with histologically proven, unresectable, recurrent, locally
      advanced or metastatic leiomyosarcoma (of soft tissue, cutaneous origin, and vascular origin
      who have failed at least one prior line of standard therapy (including anthracycline-based
      therapy) and are ineligible for or refuse standard second-line therapy or are suitable for
      third- and further-line treatment will be enrolled. Subjects will be randomized with a 2:1
      ratio to receive either blinded AL3818 or placebo with approximately 71 subjects in the
      AL3818 group and 35 subjects in the placebo group until disease progression (defined by
      RECIST version 1.1) or unacceptable toxicity. Subjects randomized to placebo will have the
      option to crossover and receive AL3818 at the time of documented disease progression (and
      after crossover unblinding). The primary endpoint is progression free survival (PFS), the
      secondary endpoint is objective response rate (ORR). - OPEN
    
  