
    
      1. INTRODUCTION Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder
      characterized by deficits of social and communicative skills, restricted set of interests,
      activities and/or repetitive behaviours that are typically observed in early childhood. The
      prevalence of ASD is about 1 in 68 children and it is the fastest growing developmental
      disability. The cost of diagnosing and treating ASD is estimated to be around $236-262
      billion annually.

      Plasticity broadly refers to the susceptibility of an organism to change. The human brain
      shows incredible plastic capacity. Multiple neuronal networks can sustain the same cognitive
      function (a mental ability) with different systems supporting the same function in different
      individuals. This "many-to-one" structure-function relationship is one form of plasticity.
      Examining neural networks responsible for a cognitive process in different individuals can
      provide insight into the plastic capacity of that process.

      Cognitive training is centered on the notion of plasticity. It entails the repeated exercise
      of a specific cognitive process (or multiple processes) over several weeks, after which
      performance gains are expected on the trained task as well as various untrained tasks that
      directly or indirectly involve the targeted cognitive process(s). The generalization of
      performance gains to untrained tasks is termed "transfer" and is essential to the efficacy of
      the training. Cognitive training has been used to remediate deficits in adults with strokes,
      multiple sclerosis, Schizophrenia, children with working memory deficits , children with
      attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), healthy pre-kindergarten children, as well
      as to enhance cognitive performance in healthy young adults, and healthy older adults. Yet,
      the benefits of this intervention for children with ASD have received relatively little
      attention.

      Recent research indicates that disrupted patterns of cortical development in ASD may lead to
      its clinical manifestation. More specifically earlier reports have shown a pattern of reduced
      long-range cortical connectivity and increased localized functional connectivity in ASD. This
      pattern has been recently verified using highly stringent imaging analysis methods. This
      altered functional connectivity may be especially disruptive to cognitive functions that
      demand integrative information processing such as executive functioning (higher order
      cognitive functions that control other cognitive processes eg. Conscious control of thought
      and action), theory of mind, face processing, language and communication, all of which have
      been previously established as impaired processes in ASD.

      Moreover, approximately 50-70% of children with ASD are diagnosed with intellectual
      disability, which manifests as cognitive impairments. Intellectual disability has been shown
      to place children with ASD at risk for a "low functioning" trajectory throughout life and at
      risk for having more severe symptoms. Cognitive training has been shown to enhance executive
      functions underlying intellectual capacity such as working memory, fluid intelligence,
      executive attention as well as academic achievement . Cognitive training delivered at an
      early age may strengthen the processes that are important for intellectual capacity and
      therefore improve the clinical trajectory of ASD.

      Although these recent theories of ASD point to deficits of executive functions, this field is
      currently lacking an evidence-based intervention, which directly tackles deficits of
      executive functions. The existing interventions for ASD (mainly consisting of behavioural
      skills development) are complex in administration and require highly trained staff. As a
      result, these approaches have placed an extremely high demand on clinics and practitioners
      creating long wait lists. These approaches have poor accessibility for many families and
      schools. The most striking and consistent limitation of the existing interventions is an
      apparent lack of transfer of learned skills to other conditions and contexts. Meaning, new
      learned behaviours are limited to the specific context in which they are trained.
      Generalization to other tasks and contexts is a distinguishing strength of cognitive
      training, this approach can be used at home via a personal computer providing more
      accessibility, and it can be used in conjunction with the behavioral skills development to
      improve the child's receptiveness to learning. Thus, cognitive training may have the
      potential to provide promising results in the areas where the existing treatments have shown
      limitations.

      The present project intends to first develop a software based cognitive training program
      tailored to cognitive needs of children with ASD (Cognitive Assessment and Video-game
      Intervention Solutions, CAVINS)(phase 1) and then examine the program's efficacy through
      clinical trials and imaging of the brain (Clinical Trials and Imaging Phases). The imaging
      component will provide the opportunity to learn about the neural framework of some of the
      targeted cognitive processes as well as training-induced changes in each process. This
      intervention will target several functions implicated in ASD such as the ability to shift
      attention to a different aspect of the task, inhibitory control, working memory, planning,
      reasoning, selective attention, and face processing. During the imaging phase, as our first
      step, the investigators will use functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) to identify
      training-induced changes in the brain associated with set-shifting and response inhibition.

      Response inhibition consists of two distinct forms, the restraint of a response and the
      cancellation of a response. Preventing a response from being initiated characterizes the
      restraint process whereas termination of a response that is already underway represents the
      cancellation process. Additionally the ability to monitor, detect and adjust behaviour
      following an erroneous response represents error processing and is an inherent component of
      response inhibition. Difficulties of response inhibition have been hypothesized to be
      responsible for the stereotyped and repetitive behaviour observed in ASD, predictive of
      "theory of mind" performances in preschoolers, and associated with altered connectivity
      between the frontal cortex and the striatal and parietal regions as well as volume
      differences and altered development of the striatum. Similarly, lower accuracy on
      set-shifting tasks is associated with reduced activation in frontal, striatal, and parietal
      cortexes and is hypothesized to be responsible for mental inflexibility, restricted and
      repetitive behaviours observed in ASD.

      Several imaging studies have demonstrated modifications in the underlying neural network
      following completion of cognitive training in healthy adults. However, similar studies in
      children are very scarce. Currently, there are no studies that have examined training-induced
      changes within the brain in children with ASD. Findings from the present project will reveal
      benefits of cognitive training in ASD, generalization and persistence of potential benefits,
      identify biological changes associated with training, and provide much needed insight into
      the plasticity of the systems supporting two cognitive functions implicated in ASD.
    
  