
    
      Positive treatment effects of HBOT have been reported in a number of studies, while others
      have found no demonstrable effect. Studies to date have evaluated effects on a variety of
      conditions, and utilized diverse research methods and generally await replication. Despite
      its increasing usage in children with autism, and the preliminary anecdotal reports
      indicating positive outcome, there is a paucity of well-controlled studies of HBOT in this
      population, which precludes clinicians from recommending and/or implementing it as an
      evidence-based treatment. It is clearly important therefore, to evaluate carefully the
      treatment effects of HBOT using robust research designs in this population.

      Hypotheses

        -  Hyperbaric Oxygenation Therapy will be associated with a positive effect on symptoms of
           autism.

        -  Treatment gains obtained from Hyperbaric Oxygenation Therapy will be maintained at
           follow-up.

      Specific Aims

        -  Evaluate the effects of Hyperbaric Oxygenation Therapy on behavioral and cognitive
           symptoms of autism before, during, and after treatment.

        -  Determine the percentage of children with autism who respond positively to 80 HBOT
           treatment cycles and the extent to which they do so.

        -  Determine the extent to which any observed treatment effects are maintained up to three
           months after HBOT.

      Study duration: Two weeks baseline, 10-15 week acute phase, with 1- and 3-month follow-ups.

      All participants will spend one hour per session in hyperbaric oxygen chambers, for a minimum
      of 6 and a maximum of 10 sessions per week. A total of 80 cycles of one hour compressions
      must be completed within 15 weeks for all participants

      Treatment Group: Pressure and Frequency

        -  1.3 atmosphere absolute (ATA)

        -  24% oxygen

        -  One session = 1 hour

        -  Total of 80 cycles of one hour compressions must be completed within 15 weeks.

      Placebo Group: Pressure and Frequency

        -  Close to ambient air pressure, but the chamber needs enough pressure to inflate: 1.05 to
           1.1 atmosphere absolute (ATA)

        -  Room Air

        -  One session = 1 hour

        -  Total of 80 cycles of one hour compressions must be completed within 15 weeks.
    
  