
    
      Overactive bladder (OAB) is the most common voiding dysfunction in children1. While many
      children may outgrow these issues, for some these symptoms persists and can lead to
      emotional, social, behavioral and physical problems. Multiple treatments exist for OAB but
      rarely is there guaranteed success. Many behavioral and lifestyle treatments involve a
      significant time investment and office visits on the part of the patient and family.
      Furthermore, medication therapy is often associated with bothersome side effects and is
      discontinued, even despite efficacy2. As such, treatments with potentially less adverse
      effects, often used in adult urology, are making their way into the pediatric urology
      practice. These include intravesical botulinum toxin injections, sacral nerve stimulation
      (SNS) and percutaneous tibial nerve stimulation (PTNS).

      PTNS, first cleared by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2011 for adult
      use, has evolved into transcutaneous nerve stimulation in the pediatric population; obviating
      the need for needles during treatment. Studies suggest mixed efficacy in electric nerve
      stimulation for overactive bladder in the pediatric population, owing largely to the marked
      heterogeneity in treatment protocols. While some researchers follow the traditional tibial
      nerve pathway, others take a cue from SNS and target the parasacral area, while still others
      rely on signaling from even further peripheral nerves to modulate bladder overactivity 3-5.
      Perhaps further contributing to the disparate data is the varying treatment schedules used.
      Some centers perform treatments daily, others weekly, others twice or thrice a week.
      Similarly, some physicians recommend twenty-minute treatments, while others thirty or even
      sixty minutes. The majority of studies rely on an office-based treatment model, while a few
      have explored in home treatments 3-5. In the United States, there has been no study examining
      the feasibility or efficacy of home parasacral transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation
      (PTENS) on pediatric voiding dysfunction.
    
  