
    
      This is a single-center intermediate expanded access program to provide access to the
      investigational product, CNM-Au8, up to thirty (30) participants diagnosed with ALS.

      Safety, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of CNM-Au8 treatment in ALS participants will
      be evaluated. Visits will occur at MGH, remotely over telephone, or via tele-visit.
      Collection of samples for pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic analysis may not be feasible
      for visits completed remotely. Participants will be screened over up to a 4-week period prior
      to treatment initiation. Participants who meet the inclusion criteria and none of the
      exclusionary criteria may be enrolled into the EAP. Participants may initiate treatment on
      the same day as the Screening visit, provided all inclusion and exclusion criteria have been
      fulfilled prior to treatment initiation.

      There will be four study periods:

        1. A screening period over up to four (4) weeks (Screening Period);

        2. Initial treatment period of twenty-four (24) weeks (Treatment Period 1);

        3. Up to three consecutive optional follow-on treatment periods of twenty-four (24) week
           duration:

             1. Treatment Period 2,

             2. Treatment Period 3,

             3. Treatment Period 4;

        4. A four (4) week safety follow-up period (End-of-Study [EOS] Assessment).

      Per protocol all participants will receive open-label oral treatment daily up to 24-weeks
      during Treatment Period 1. Participants may optionally continue on open-label therapy for up
      to three additional consecutive 24-week treatment periods (e.g., Treatment Period 2,
      Treatment Period 3, Treatment Period 4) up to a maximum duration of ninety-six (96) weeks.

      At treatment discontinuation or following the end of the participant's final Treatment
      Period, participants will complete an end of study (EOS) assessment 4-weeks following
      discontinuation of the investigational drug product. Select visit assessments may be
      collected remotely, via tele-visit with site staff.
    
  