
    
      The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of maintaining methadone treatment
      during short-term incarceration vs. methadone detoxification on continuing treatment post
      release, relapse, reducing HIV risk behaviors and reincarceration. Persons who inject opiates
      are at increased risk for HIV through both injection and sexual practices. A substantial
      proportion of opiate addicted persons are incarcerated and a majority of the nearly 8 million
      individuals released from a correctional setting each year have a history of addiction. The
      period immediately after release from incarceration is a particularly high-risk time for HIV
      and other problems including drug relapse and overdose. Methadone is the most widely used
      opiate replacement therapy in the United States. Despite its demonstrated benefit in
      decreasing drug use, criminal activity, and recidivism, some individuals on methadone
      treatment are reincarcerated each year. More than 75% of those individuals are incarcerated
      for less than six months. A program that maintains these individuals at a therapeutic dose
      increases the likelihood that they will successfully return to treatment upon release.

      The following primary specific aims will drive this research:

        1. To determine the effect of maintaining methadone treatment during short-term
           incarceration vs. methadone detoxification on the time-to-post-release methadone
           treatment re-entry and relapse.

        2. To determine whether maintaining methadone treatment during short-term incarceration is
           more effective in reducing HIV risk behaviors (both injecting and sexual) than methadone
           detoxification upon community re-entry.

        3. To determine whether maintaining methadone treatment during short-term incarceration is
           more effective in reducing reincarceration than methadone detoxification.

        4. To determine the impact on cost of the first three specific aims.

      Secondary aims will include determining the effect of methadone maintenance during short-term
      incarceration versus methadone detoxification on:

        -  retention in community based methadone treatment;

        -  the number of fatal and nonfatal overdoses; and

        -  criminal behavior

      The targeted population will be 300 recently incarcerated inmates enrolled in community
      methadone treatment at the time of incarceration. Follow-up interviews will occur 1-month
      post release from incarceration and 6, and 12 months from baseline at an independent study
      site. Both groups will receive a risk behavior reduction counseling intervention and linkage
      to community methadone treatment upon release. If this project is able to demonstrate that
      maintaining inmates on methadone for short-term incarcerations is effective, then this can
      influence correctional policy to work more collaboratively with community substance use
      treatment providers and to minimize disruption of treatment.
    
  