
    
      This is a multi-center, open-label study of MN-166 (ibudilast) in subjects with ALS. To be
      eligible subjects must meet the El Escorial criteria of possible, laboratory-supported
      probable, probable, or definite criteria for a diagnosis of ALS. Safety, tolerability, blood,
      neuro-imaging biomarkers, and clinical outcomes will be collected on all subjects. Subjects
      will receive study drug for 36 weeks.

      The study will consist of a Screening Phase (up to 6 weeks), an Open-Label Treatment Phase
      (36 weeks) and a Off-Treatment Follow-up Phase (4 Weeks).

      During the Screening Phase, eligible ALS subjects will sign an informed consent form and the
      following screening assessments will be performed: review of inclusion/exclusion criteria: El
      Escorial ALS Diagnostic criteria, medical history and demographics, ALS diagnosis history,
      physical and neurological examination, U. Penn upper motor Neuron Burden (UMNB), pulmonary
      function tests, vital signs including height and weight, blood for safety labs including TSPO
      affinity test, ECG and review and documentation of concomitant medications and therapies.

      Screening Phase (up to 6 weeks) The Treatment Phase will consist of a Baseline visit and 3
      subsequent clinic visits at Weeks 4, 12, 24, and 36. Telephone follow-ups will occur at Weeks
      1, 2, 8, 16, 20, 28, and 32.

      Open-Label Treatment Phase (36 weeks) At the Baseline visit, subjects will return to the
      clinic and the following assessments will be performed/administered: review of inclusion and
      exclusion criteria for continued eligibility, vital signs, blood for safety labs and
      biomarkers, ECG, ALSFRS-R questionnaire, slow vital capacity (SVC), baseline strength as
      measured by hand held dynamometry (HHD), and Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS).
      At this visit, study drug will be dispensed, and adverse events, concomitant medications and
      therapies will be assessed and documented. At subsequent visits during the Treatment Phase,
      similar assessments will be performed.

      In addition, a [11C]PBR28-PET scan will be performed once between the Screening and Baseline
      visit, and once between the Week 20 and Week 28 phone calls. The ALSFRS-R, SVC and U Penn
      Upper Motor Neuron Burden will be repeated on the same day as the PET scans.

      The follow-up visit will consist of a telephone call to document adverse events and
      concomitant therapies
    
  