
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare endometrial pathologic diagnoses (proliferative changes, simple or cystic
           hyperplasia, complex adenomatous hyperplasia, hyperplasia with atypia, and carcinoma) in
           postmenopausal women with breast carcinoma treated with adjuvant tamoxifen who are
           randomly assigned to medroxyprogesterone acetate (MA) vs observation.

        -  Compare endometrial pathologic diagnoses (persistent endometrial hyperplasia, atypia, or
           carcinoma) resulting in tamoxifen discontinuation and intermittent bleeding in patients
           treated with these regimens.

        -  Characterize the incidence of spontaneous regression and progression of simple or cystic
           hyperplasia in these patients.

        -  Characterize endometrial biopsy results using different endometrial stripe width cut-off
           points, for cases in which the width is at least 5 mm by endovaginal ultrasound in
           patients receiving tamoxifen.

        -  Compare changes over time in endometrial oncogene expression (e.g., c-fos, c-jun, p53,
           IGF1) and receptor status in patients receiving tamoxifen with or without prior
           chemotherapy who are randomly assigned to MA vs observation.

        -  Describe the associations among change in gene expression, receptor status, endometrial
           abnormality, length of tamoxifen exposure, and prior chemotherapy in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      adjuvant chemotherapy (yes vs no), number of positive nodes (0-3 vs at least 4), and
      endovaginal sonogram endometrial stripe (less than 5 mm vs at least 5 mm). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      All patients receive adjuvant oral tamoxifen daily for five years.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo observation.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral medroxyprogesterone acetate on days 1-14. Treatment
           repeats every 3 months for 5 years.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 330 patients (165 per arm) will be accrued for this study.
    
  