
    
      Overview:

      We will screen 500 patients from the Shock Trauma Center to recruit a total of 159 (53 per
      arm) to participate in a pilot study aimed at reducing use of opioids. Participants will meet
      all of the eligibility criteria and none of the exclusion criteria. After enrollment,
      participants will be blindly allocated to one of three randomization arms by means of
      de-identified Study IDs corresponding to treatment arms. Study IDs will be generated by the
      pharmacy and blinding will be ensured by creating study drugs that look, smell, and taste
      identical. The pharmacy will create and dispense identical study drugs in terms of
      appearance, smell, and taste. Only the blinding coordinator will know the identity of
      patients in each treatment arm. Arm 1 will be a Full Dose (FD) group, which will receive
      Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs), dosed in accordance with the University of
      Maryland Shock Trauma Center (STC) Guidelines for NSAIDs and Oxycodone (5mg). Arm 2 will be a
      Partial Reinforcement (PR) group, which will receive NSAIDs, Oxycodone (5mg), and placebos to
      reach a 50% reduction of the total intake of opioids. Finally, Arm 3 will be a Control (C)
      group receiving NSAIDs and placebos. Patients will be assigned to one of these three arms
      according to a 1:1:1 schedule of randomization. The patient will start receiving study
      medication as part of his or her pain management as soon as possible after admission to the
      hospital and enrollment in the study (ideally as their first dose of pain-management
      medication). Rescue therapy will be provided as needed.

      All enrolled patients will receive an Adult Pain Management Service (APMS) consult. APMS will
      work with the study and clinical teams to ensure that all treatment protocols are met, and be
      available to address any issues that may arise. The APMS provider will work with the primary
      service to determine the most effective NSAID as described in their guidelines.

      Other than the study medication (Oxycodone and placebo), all participants will be treated in
      accordance with the current standard of care at the University of Maryland Shock Trauma
      Center. This includes intravenous Toradol every 8 hours for 24 hours followed by oral NSAIDs
      round the clock until pain is minimal. The timing of administration will be the same for
      participants in all three arms - they will receive their arm's treatment (Oxycodone,
      Oxycodone alternating with placebo, or no additional medication beyond standard of care
      NSAIDs) round the clock for the first 24 hours followed by every hours for the remainder of
      hospitalization. All patients will receive intravenous Dilaudid every hour for rescue or
      break through pain. In addition, all patients will be discharged on Oxycodone tablets (5mg)
      every 3 hours as needed.

      In Arm 2, the first four doses of study drug will be Oxycodone (5mg) to condition them to its
      effects. Afterwards, they will receive alternating Oxycodone (5mg) and placebo according to
      one of four repeating sequences. During data analysis, we will test whether the sequence of
      administration has an effect on outcomes. Participants in Arm 2 will never receive more than
      2 doses of placebo in a row. This administration schedule will be repeated for the remainder
      of hospitalization.

      Prior to patients' enrollment:

      The intent of this study is to enroll 159 patients with trauma into this study to compare
      strategies to reduce opioid use during the management of acute pain. Patients will be
      screened on admission to the Shock Trauma Center. Eligible patients will meet all of the
      inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria. Patients with trauma will be
      considered for enrollment and be flagged for screening. A plan by the primary service to
      adhere to The Shock Trauma Protocol for NSAID use is also a requirement for enrollment.
      Eligible participants will be informed and have the opportunity to discuss the nature of the
      study, potential for treatment allocation, and risk/benefits. For those who agree to
      participate, the approved Informed Consent Form and HIPAA authorization form will be signed.
      The research staff will explain to the participant what tasks they are expected to complete
      during this study, answer any questions they may have, and ensure comprehension by completing
      the Informed Consent Checklist, which asks participants to verbally report their
      understanding of the study purpose and procedures, among other key points.

      Allocation to treatment group:

      After the participant discusses and signs the consent form, a staff member will call the
      pharmacy to inform them of the participant's de-identified Screening number. The pharmacy
      will then randomly assign that participant a Study ID corresponding randomly to one of the
      three treatment groups and handle drug logistics (sourcing, processing, and administration)
      for the remainder of Phase I. The patient will start receiving the study drug within 24 hours
      of being able to take narcotics, ideally as his/her first narcotic medication. All staff
      involved with the protocol will be fully trained on it and will be given study team member
      emergency contacts in case of incident.

      Blinding:

      Oxycodone and Placebo will be identical in terms of appearance, taste, and smell so as to
      keep both the investigators and participants blind to their treatment allocation. Oxycodone
      and placebo oral suspensions will be manufactured by the IDS. Oxycodone solution will be made
      from tablets to ensure blinding. In this way, both Oxycodone and placebo will look identical
      for taste, color, and smell. This will help not only to blind the study, but also facilitate
      study drug administration given that patients may be intubated. All research personnel, aside
      from the pharmacists and team members responsible for final review and write-up of the study,
      will be blinded to participants' treatment groups. The pharmacy will dispense medications for
      each participant that will correspond with their allocated treatment group. For participants
      in the Partial Reduction group (Arm 2), the pharmacy will dispense the study drug. In
      summary, participants in Arm 2 will receive four doses of Oxycodone (5mg) followed by one of
      four repeating schedules of administration alternating between Oxycodone (5mg) and placebo.

      Hospitalization window (Enrollment - End of Hospitalization):

      Pain ratings will be recorded as usual within 20 to 90 minutes after each study drug
      administration. Also, participants will be given the option to complete a set of
      psychological questionnaires during the time in the hospital or by the time of their first
      follow-up visit. Questionnaires unrelated to pain will be optional. Although we cannot change
      the wording of our validated pain questionnaires, staff will be trained to use the phrasing
      such as "how well they are able to perform their daily activities, how well they are able to
      interact with visitors/family, and how well they are sleeping" whenever possible, and that
      surveys andquestions during the follow-up phase will also take this non-pain-centric
      approach.

      Discharge:

      Participants will be monitored for subsequent use of opioids at the first post-discharge
      visit (at approximately 2 weeks) and within month 1, 3, and 6 for follow-ups. The research
      team via calls, letters, emails, or texts. REDCap, Qualtrics / MetricWire will be used to
      facilitate the communication via text and emails. The team member will ask the participant
      questions about their health and medication use. In addition, a phone application may be
      developed or the data collection system Qualtrics used to gather information about
      participants' medication use and health during the follow-up period. Although the wording of
      the validated Pain Questionnaires we will use during hospitalization cannot be changed,
      during the follow-up phase we will aim to frame questions about pain intensity and
      interference with function in such a way as to avoid nocebo effects (i.e. asking how well
      they are able to perform their daily activities, how well they are able to interact with
      visitors/family, and how well they are sleeping instead of how much pain are they
      experiencing).

      Duration of the clinical trial:

      Hospitalization window (starting as soon after admission as possible for a projected minimum
      of 2 days), with follow-up at approximately 2 weeks (coinciding with their first
      post-discharge visit with their clinician), and months 1, 3, and 6.

      Rescue plan:

      All patients will have the same rescue medicine available for break through pain; intravenous
      Dilaudid every hour.

      Participants in each of the three randomization arms will have access to opioid rescue
      medication (Dilaudid) as needed via a standing order for breakthrough pain rated as Severe.
      The rate of use pf rescue therapy will be evaluated as a primary endpoints. Participants who
      request more than 3 doses of rescue medication in a row will be withdrawn from the study and
      referred to APMS for further pain management.

      Primary and secondary outcomes. To be measured daily during hospitalization

      1.) Acute clinical and functional pain / acute pain improvement; opioid intake; rate of
      request of rescue therapies.

      Primary and secondary outcomes. To be measured daily during the follow-up.

        1. Use (frequency and intensity) of opioid prescriptions

        2. Development of dependence and/or addiction problems
    
  