
    
      Men who have sex with men (MSM) have emerged as one of the fastest growing HIV risk
      populations in China, the world's most populous country. Studies in China report that MSM
      have low rates of HIV testing, low use of HIV prevention services, and high levels of
      unprotected sex with both male and female partners. Stigma presents one of the critical
      barriers to engaging MSM in HIV testing and prevention interventions, as many MSM in China
      avoid health service facilities that require face-to-face disclosure of their same-sex
      behaviors. Because HIV testing is a crucial opportunity for HIV prevention and represents the
      first step on the continuum of care, efforts to improve rates of HIV testing among MSM in
      China can contribute to reduced risk for HIV transmission and enhanced public health outcomes
      in this population.

      For high-risk MSM in China, HIV self-testing (HST) offers a compelling strategy for achieving
      higher levels of HIV testing, due to the removal of barriers associated with traditional
      forms of in-person, clinic-based HIV testing. HST allows individuals to self-administer the
      HIV rapid diagnostic test in a private setting, which can detect for the presence of HIV-1/2
      antibodies. The overarching goal of this research investigation is to improve the
      implementation science of HIV self-testing (HST) as a public health strategy to increase HIV
      testing among populations with low testing rates.

      The investigators propose using a mHealth approach to support the implementation of HST.
      Specifically, the investigators hypothesize that incorporating mobile application- or
      "app"-based behavioral risk reduction messages with HST can preserve the privacy and comfort
      associated with self-administered testing, while also allowing for individuals to receive
      timely information and motivational cues to take the crucial next steps following their HST
      results - i.e., to test repeatedly, to reduce their behavioral risks for HIV transmission,
      and to seek appropriate referral services as needed.

      This research will examine the acceptability and preliminary effects of HST linked with
      app-based behavioral risk reduction messages in a sample of high-risk MSM in China. In this
      pilot study, the investigators will test the primary hypothesis that the combination of HST
      plus mobile app-based risk reduction messaging compared to HST alone will increase HST
      re-testing and reduce sexual risk behavior in the next 6 months.
    
  