
    
      Epithelial ovarian cancer is the fifth leading cause of female cancer and the leading cause
      of death among gynecological cancers (Alberts et al, 2002). The treatment of advanced ovarian
      cancer is based on the combination of chemotherapy based on platinum salt and surgery whose
      quality is the major prognostic factor.

      A meta-analysis of retrospective series had shown that for every 10% increase in the complete
      cytoreduction rates were increased by 5.5% overall survival time (Markman et al, 2001).
      Currently, it is recognized that the best chance of survival conferred to patients whose
      initial surgical residue is zero (Harter et al, 2009).

      However, even if macroscopically complete surgery and whatever the type of systemic
      chemotherapy, peritoneal recurrence remains high for more than 75%.

      To reducing it of recurrence, a therapeutic approach is to administer chemotherapy
      intraperitoneally.

      The intraperitoneal chemotherapy consists to administer the drug directly into the peritoneal
      cavity at a frequency that is related to systemic chemotherapy (every 3 weeks).

      Alberts et al, 1996 and Armstrong et al, 2006 compared the efficacy in terms of survival of
      an intraperitoneal chemotherapy according to this method with a conventional systemic
      chemotherapy. Alberts reported a significant improvement in the median overall survival (49
      vs 41 months). Armstrong shows in addition a decreased risk of recurrence.

      It must be remembered that:

        -  The establishment of an intra-abdominal catheter does not always ensure complete flow of
           drugs into the peritoneal cavity (major postoperative adhesions).

        -  There may be problems of catheters becoming blocked and requiring local treatment; these
           problems can cause abdominal pain whose care is difficult. Thus almost half of patients
           fail to get all six courses of intraperitoneal chemotherapy.

      Thus, the investigators propose to estimate the flow of intraperitoneal chemotherapy with IP
      peritoneal scintigraphy, using a radiotracer (nanocis®). The investigators hypothesize that
      the movement of colloids in peritoneal cavity is similar to the circulation of chemotherapy
      within the peritoneal cavity (From Forni et al, 1993, Varia et al, 2003, Young et al, 2003,
      Dawson et al, 2011). The accumulation of radiotracer will be more correlated with abdominal
      pain sites described by the patient as well as peritoneal recurrence sites found during
      monitoring.
    
  