
    
      Our study defines "terminal delirium" as an episode of delirium that occurs during the dying
      phase, usually 72 hours before death. Episodes of delirium in the dying phase may be
      described as "terminal restlessness" or "terminal delirium". The use of the label "terminal"
      implies a causal relationship between the dying phase and the delirium, although the
      aetiology is often multi-factorial.

      A prospective, open-label, randomized controlled trial was designed. When a home hospice
      clinician identifies a patient who meets inclusion criteria, their proxy (i.e. family
      caregivers) will be approached by the study team and invited to participate in the study.
      Patients will be randomly assigned to one of two groups as part of follow-up management: (i)
      Oral Transmucosal Haloperidol or (ii) Oral Transmucosal Olanzapine.

      After commencement of the first dose of medication, each patient will be observed by their
      family caregiver and the attending clinician over 72 hours (less if the patient dies
      earlier). Time-points for data collection will be at 24 hours, 48 hours, and 72 hours after
      first commencement of medication.

      This study compares two common treatments in clinical practice, both of which have
      demonstrated efficacy greater than placebo. Since all participants will receive treatment
      that is no different from accepted practice, a placebo group was deemed unnecessary and
      unethical, thus it was not included.

      Proxy consent is a method for collecting informed consent, where the proxy (or person
      responsible) for the potential participant is approached to provide consent on behalf of the
      prospective participant. Proxy consent was suggested as a suitable method for consent
      collection, given the patient's absent or fluctuating capacity to consent. It was
      successfully used in dementia and delirium research, and was reported to have been acceptable
      to patients and their caregivers.

      The clinical staff of the hospice service will be briefed about the study and will assist in
      recruitment. As they provide standard palliative care to the patient, the clinical staff will
      (i) identify patients who meet inclusion criteria and share preliminary information with
      caregivers, (ii) confirm the diagnosis of delirium, and (iii) advise caregivers on
      appropriate non-pharmacological management.

      The primary caregiver (i.e. proxy) will be approached by a study team member who is
      independent from the management of the patient. They will provide more detailed information
      about the study to the primary caregiver. If agreeable, the proxy will sign the informed
      consent form and the dyad is assigned a participant ID number. Basic demographic information,
      including patient's age, sex, primary diagnosis and co-morbidities will be collected.

      Patients may withdraw from the study anytime, without compromising further treatment using
      other drugs or alternative dosage regimen.

      Randomization sequence is created using Microsoft Excel 2016 with 1:1 allocation using random
      block sizes of 2 and 4. As each participant joins, they are dispensed either haloperidol or
      olanzapine according to the generated randomization list.

      After obtaining consent, the participant-caregiver pair will be randomized into either the
      Haloperidol or Olanzapine group. Instructions on how to administer the medication will be
      provided. Caregivers will be advised to serve breakthrough doses of the assigned
      anti-psychotic drug as needed.

      A daily pack of medication will be prepared for the caregiver during daily clinical reviews
      at home. The pack will have the correct dosages of medication prepared. Subcutaneous (SC)
      Midazolam is prepared as rescue medication in the event delirium symptoms remain uncontrolled
      and distressing after the trial medication are depleted.

      Per clinical practice, the first dose of medication will be given under the supervision of
      the study team. The caregiver will be instructed how to rate the patient using the RASS and
      will provide the baseline RASS rating. The study team will assess the patient's baseline
      symptom severity with the MDAS.

      Alongside drug therapy, usual non-pharmacological interventions will be provided to all
      patients. These interventions include: (i) regularly orientating the patient, (ii) keeping
      the room bright during the day, (iii) minimizing the use of tubes, catheters, physical
      restraints or other immobilizing devices, and (iv) minimizing unnecessary disturbances to the
      patient.

      Every six hours, caregivers will chart the patient's agitation using the RASS. Additionally,
      if breakthrough medication is required, the time of administration will be documented.

      To conduct assessments as well as to ensure patient's safety, the study team will make
      regular home visits to review the patient 24-hours, 48-hours, and 72-hours after first dose.
      During each review, the study team will document their assessments of patients' symptom
      severity (MDAS) and observe for adverse events (NCI CTCAE). The researchers will take
      appropriate action to ensure patient's safety during the trial, up to and including
      recommending the termination of the trial.

      The trial will be conducted for up to 72 hours after recruitment or until patient's death. If
      the patient completes the trial and survives, the family will continue to receive support
      from their primary nurse and attending physician. Patients who survive beyond seven days
      after recruitment will be excluded from per-protocol analysis, as they no longer fit the
      inclusion criteria for the study.

      The study may be terminated at any point during the trial. In that event, the caregivers will
      cease assessment using the RASS, while the clinicians will record the reason for cessation,
      and make a final MDAS and NCI CTC assessment, where applicable. The family will continue to
      receive support from their primary nurse and attending physician.

      The proxy may choose to decline from having the patient participate in the trial. They may
      also choose to withdraw the patient from the study at any point during the trial. The patient
      and the family will continue to receive service support from their primary nurse and
      attending physician thereafter. They will advise how persisting symptoms should be managed,
      outside of the study. The study team will assure the proxy of this fact before informed
      consent is collected.

      SC Midazolam is prepared as rescue medication in the event the symptoms of delirium remain
      uncontrolled and distressing. Rescue medications will be used in any one of the following
      situations:

        1. Within 24 hours, the total doses for Haloperidol or Olanzapine reach more than 10mg or
           20mg respectively and patient remains unsettled (i.e. all prepared medication are
           finished any time before the next clinical review).

        2. Patient is unable to tolerate Oral Transmucosal medication.

        3. Patient experiences serious adverse effects from trial medication.

      The study will be terminated for that patient in any one of the following situations:

        1. Rescue medication is used.

        2. Adverse events related to the trial medication were observed to be intolerable.

        3. Caregiver asks to withdraw the patient from the study.

        4. Patient is admitted to hospital.

      Changes to the severity of delirium are analysed with scores from MDAS. Repeated-measures,
      between-factors ANOVA will be employed to analyse differences in MDAS scores over time.

      If a statistically significant difference is found between medications, post-hoc analysis
      will be conducted to analyse the change in MDAS scores at each time-point.

      Changes in the patient's agitation will be trended using the RASS score. The RASS scores from
      Baseline, 6 hours, 12 hours, and 24 hours will be analysed. Moreover, an average of the RASS
      scores for the second day and the third day will be calculated and trended.

      Secondary outcomes are possible adverse effects due to the medication, which is measured
      using NCI CTCAE. For each group, the toxicities (Akathasia, Extrapyramidal disorder, and
      spasticity) for each group will be compared.

      Based on validation studies by Breitbart et al. (1997) and Lawlor et al. (2000), the mean
      MDAS scores for patients with delirium is roughly 18 (SD = 7.64). Jain et al. (2018) reported
      that using either Haloperidol or Olanzapine led to nearly 55% reduction in patients' MDAS
      score (7-8 points). 2 points was estimated to be the minimal important difference between
      Haloperidol and Olanzapine.

      Assuming a data collection period of 27 months and a target recruitment size of 80
      participants, the study must successfully recruit 3 - 4 participants per month.

      A review of HCA Hospice Care's medical notes from January 2020 to August 2020 found that 250
      patients exhibited symptoms of confusion, agitation, or delirium while in an unstable or
      deteriorating state (approximately 30 patients per month). The duration between the date of
      these case notes and the date of patient's death ranged 0 days to 17 days; 187 patients died
      within 7 days. Hence, an average of 23 potential patients per month would be recruited for
      the study.
    
  