
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the objective tumor response (proportion of objective response by Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] 1.1 criteria) of the combination of
      pembrolizumab (MK-3475 [pembrolizumab]) and epacadostat in patients with recurrent or
      persistent clear cell carcinoma of the ovary.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) + epacadostat as
      assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) in patients with recurrent
      or persistent clear cell carcinoma of the ovary.

      II. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in patients
      treated with combination of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) and epacadostat.

      EXPLORATORY TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether the ratio of plasma tryptophan to kynurenine (T:K) correlates with
      response to MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) + epacadostat, by evaluating plasma T:K pre-treatment,
      during treatment, and at disease progression.

      II. Determine whether the presence of PD-L1, IDO-1, tumor-infiltrating regulatory T cells
      (Tregs), CD8 tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I
      in the tumor microenvironment at baseline correlates with objective response to MK-3475
      (pembrolizumab) + epacadostat.

      III. Determine whether soluble PD-L1 (sPD-L1) levels in plasma are correlated with response
      to MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) + epacadostat, by evaluating sPD-L1 concentrations pre-treatment,
      during treatment, and at disease progression.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive epacadostat orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and pembrolizumab intravenously
      (IV) over 30 minutes once every 3 weeks (Q3W). Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      then every 6 months for 3 years, and annually thereafter.
    
  