
    
      The annual burden of acute gastroenteritis in the United States includes 17 million related
      episodes and 473,832 hospitalizations. Although oral-rehydration therapy is recommended for
      children with mild-to-moderate dehydration, it has historically been underused with emergency
      department (ED) clinicians being more likely to choose intravenous over oral rehydration
      especially when vomiting is a major symptom. In fact, nearly 95% of children undergoing oral
      rehydration in Canadian EDs present with recent vomiting. To address this issue, the
      investigators conducted both a landmark clinical trial and a recent meta-analysis that have
      demonstrated that the ED use of ondansetron, an anti-emetic, leads to reductions in
      intravenous rehydration and hospitalization and is cost-effective. However, the available
      data revealed some associations with increased diarrhea and no evidence of benefits
      associated with ongoing ondansetron use following ED discharge. Despite the lack of available
      data, the provision of multiple doses of ondansetron for home use has become routine in many
      EDs across North America. The literature has differing opinions on the topic of ongoing
      ondansetron use after ED discharge and given the limited evidence supporting its use, the
      potential side effects and additional cost, there is an urgent need to definitively evaluate
      the effect of multiple doses of ondansetron in children, focusing on family-centred,
      post-index visit outcomes.

      A phase III, double-blind, parallel-design, randomized, placebo controlled trial to compare
      multi-dose oral Ondansetron with placebo as treatment for vomiting secondary to acute
      gastroenteritis (AGE), after Emergency Department discharge will be conducted. Children and
      youth, age 6 months to 17.99 years will be enrolled at six (6) Canadian Emergency
      Departments. The total number of participants recruited will be 1030. Participants will be
      enrolled at six (6) pediatric emergency departments across Canada.

      Children who are provided a minimum of one dose of ondansetron as part of their routine
      clinical care AND meet other eligibility criteria will be randomized to receive an at-home
      kit with six (6) doses of Ondansetron Hydrochloride Dihydrate Oral Solution (4mg/5mL
      solution; dosed at 0.15mg/kg to a maximum single dose of 8mg) or equivalent volume in a
      Placebo Oral Solution to be administered no sooner than 8 hours after the initial clinical
      dose was provided by the ED physician. Over the subsequent 48 hours, the study intervention
      will be administered at a rate of 1 dose every 8 hours (q8h) to a maximum of 3 doses a day
      (in a 24 hour period (TID)) at the caregiver's discretion. Two (2) additional doses will be
      provided to the caregiver in case the child vomits a dose.
    
  