
    
      1.0 Background

      Worldwide, 70 million women in the reproductive age have diabetes or impaired glucose
      tolerance placing them at risk of complications of hyperglycemia in pregnancy. The global
      prevalence rates of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) vary from between 12% and 14%
      depending on the population studied.(1,2) The estimated prevalence of GDM has been reported
      in Western (11.6%) and South Africa (3.8% - 8.8%) but because of the lack of published
      results and consistency in diagnosis, treatment, and outcomes in Eastern Africa, the extent
      of the problem of GDM is unknown in Kenya.(2) Estimates from these studies in sub-Saharan
      Africa (SSA) reveal a widely variable prevalence ranging from 2.4% to 14% with different
      methodologies and populations of different risk categories. This lack of focused
      investigation on GDM in Kenya is of concern as preliminary,unpublished data from the Kenyan
      Global Network Study on birth outcomes suggests that 5.5 % of birth weights in Western Kenya
      are greater than 4000g, suggesting a substantial potential burden of diabetes mellitus (DM)
      or GDM in this population.(3) Maternal hyperglycemia during pregancy predisposes the
      offspring to glucose intolerance in the future by fetal programming. (1,4,5) This vicious
      cycle can influence and perpetuate the incidence and prevalence of diabetes in any
      population. Infants born to mothers with diabetes experience double the risk of serious
      injury at birth, triple the likelihood of caeserean delivery and quadruple the incidence of
      newborn intensive care unit admissions.(6-8) These maternal, fetal, and neonatal morbidities
      attributable to diabetes in pregnancy can be prevented with early diagnosis of DM and
      effective treatment. Within the landscape of care in Western Kenya, pregnancy may be the only
      time a woman presents for medical care. Therefore, pregnancy is an opportune time to have a
      receptive audience to screen for possible pregestational diabetes, promote health education,
      and diagnose glucose intolerance as the woman transitions beyond the postnatal period.

      MTRH is the second largest referral hospital in Kenya and serves as a referral center for the
      whole of Western Kenya. Although access to healthcare is limited in rural areas of Kenya, the
      Antenatal Clinic at the hospital serves up to 12,000 new mothers annually. Screening for GDM
      in the antenatal clinic at MTRH is currently limited to a routine urinalysis for glucosuria.
      Sutherland and colleagues found that 11% of an unselected obstetric population of 1418 women
      had random glucosuria. However, only 1% of those with glucosuria had an abnormal glucose
      tolerance test.9 Glucosuria is common in pregnancy and has not been shown to correlate with
      the diagnosis of GDM.

      2.0 Rationale and Specific Aims

      The use of a routine urinalysis as a screening strategy for GDM is not consistent with any
      national or international guidelines.(10-13) There is currently no consensus on the best
      method to screen for GDM in rural settings lacking infrastructure for venous testing. There
      are a variety of testing strategies which have been predominantly tested in resource-rich
      settings and are now used as the standard of care worldwide. Unfortunately, these testing
      strategies have not been validated or implemented in resource-constrained settings like those
      existing in Western Kenya.(2) In the United Kingdom, there is a general lack of consensus;
      most centers employ the 75g glucose tolerance test (Sensitivity 29% and Specificity 96% -
      these values are for the 75g 2hr postprandial random blood sugar and not the glucose
      tolerance test), others adopt a two-stage protocol, starting with 50g screen, to be followed,
      if abnormal, with 75-g glucose tolerance test. Also, according to the WHO criteria and ADA
      guidelines for GDM diagnosis, a random blood sugar >11mmol/L (198 mg/dL) or a fasting blood
      sugar >7.0mmol/L (126 mg/dL) meets the threshold for diagnosis of GDM.(12) Because of this
      uncertainty, the International Association of Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups (IADPSG)
      has recently helped provide greater clarity to this issue by issuing suggested guidelines for
      diagnosing both gestational diabetes and overt diabetes in pregnancy. They recommend the 75gm
      oral glucose tolerance test and the cutpoints derived from the Hyperglycemia and Adverse
      Pregnancy Outcomes (HAPO) study for all patients receiving GDM screening.

      As suggested in the IADPSG guidelines and an emerging body of literature, there is growing
      support for the utilization of the glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) in diagnosing diabetes.
      (16) Lipska and colleagues report that women and people of African-American ethnicity are
      more likely to be identified with dysglycemia using HgbA1c than by fasting blood glucose. A
      notable weakness of this study is that it was performed in adults age 70-79 and thus it is
      unlcear whether HbAIC can be used as a diagnostic tool in pregnancy. None of the currently
      available studies evaluating the use of A1c's for GDM have included African women.(17-20)
      Several studies have also raised concerns about the accuracy of HbA1c in African populations
      as the HbA1c results tend to be higher than those seen in other populations.(21-23) Because
      of the various approaches that are currently being proposed by the IADPSG guidelines, there
      is still considerable debate over the appropriate test to employ as they recommend performing
      a fasting blood sugar, HbA1c, or random plasma glucose on all women during their first
      prenatal visit. If a diagnosis of diabetes is not made during this assessment, it is
      recommended that a 75g oral glucose tolerance test is performed during the 24th to 28th week
      of the pregnancy to test for GDM. By combining the results of several studies they have also
      analyzed the additive benefits of combining different strategies. Through this investigation
      they have concluded that analyzing fasting blood sugars alone enabled them to identify 8.3%
      of the evaluable population, while the 1 hour glucose measurement identified another 5.7%,
      and 2 hour glucose measurement identified an additional 2.1%. One major limitation of this
      investigation, however, was that the cohort did not include patients reflective of the rural
      SSA population the investigators on this trial serve in Western Kenya. This theme is
      illustrated throughout this background as there is a deficiency of published results
      regarding GDM in SSA populations.(10) The IADPSG diagnosis approach also assumes that the
      vast majority of expectant mothers will have frequent contacts with the healthcare system
      including early prenatal visits and subsequent visits throughout the pregnancy. This trend is
      not commonly seen in SSA as a large proportion of expectant mothers deliver at home or have
      only minimal contact with the healthcare system.(2) Because of these dynamics, there is a
      clear need to simplify the diagnostic approach for GDM while also assessing the relative
      utility of each of the testing strategies (ie. random blood sugar, fasting blood sugar, 1
      hr/2hr glucose tolerance test, and HbA1c).

      Through this proposal, the investigators hope to take the first step towards addressing GDM
      in this setting by assessing the relative effectiveness of point of care testing strategies,
      in comparison to the gold standard approach of using the 75gm oral glucose tolerance test in
      a representative understudied population.
    
  