
    
      A total of 60 individuals will be recruited from the OU Medicine Radiation Oncology Clinic
      (radiation clinic). All participants will be adults who are beginning radiation treatments
      for breast, gynecological, and head and neck cancers. Eligible participants include adult
      males and females 18+ who are: 1) community dwelling, 2) diagnosed with a primary breast or
      gynecological or head and neck cancer, 3) ordered to receive radiation treatments during a
      minimum of 6 consecutive weeks, and 4) able to read at the 7th grade level, speak, and write
      English. Exclusion criteria include: 1) radiation treatment with primary palliative intent,
      2) radiation treatment protocol occurring in a time period of less than 6 weeks, 3) severe
      visual impairment that limits mobile technology use (e.g, partial or full blindness), and 4)
      history of dementia or other major neurocognitive disorder. Potential participants will be
      referred to this study for screening from multiple sources including from radiation clinic
      staff and self-referral. Eligible participants will be identified by radiation oncologists
      and other radiation clinic staff during initial consult visit, who will alert study staff of
      potential participants. Flyers will also be used to advertise the study to potential study
      participants, who can discuss enrollment with radiation oncologists. Those interested in
      participating in this study will complete the informed consent process. Those who meet the
      study inclusion criteria will be randomized into the assessment only group (n=30) or the
      assessment + intervention group (n=30). All participants will complete a baseline assessment
      visit which includes completion of study questionnaires, downloading the study smartphone app
      onto personal or study provided smartphones, and training to complete the phone based surveys
      (EMAs). Consent, baseline assessment, and mobile health training will take place in a private
      or semi-private space in the radiation clinic and is estimated to take 60-90 minutes to
      complete. Radiation oncology providers will be blinded to patient group assignment, which
      will occur during the baseline visit. Participants will complete EMAs for 8 weeks. At the end
      of the 8-week data collection period, participants will complete a final study survey using
      the study smartphone application and participate in a telephone interview.
    
  