
    
      Acute pancreatitis is a multi-system disease with an unpredictable clinical course and
      significant morbidity and mortality (Wilmer, 2004). Approximately 20% of patients develop
      multi-organ failure requiring management within a critical care environment (Dambrauskas et
      al., 2009). However much of the pathophysiology of the disease, particularly understanding
      why some patients develop life-threatening disease whilst others have a relatively benign
      course, remains unclear.

      Many predictive scales have resulted from attempts to predict which patients are likely to
      develop severe disease (Imrie, Ranson, APACHE-II etc.) (Barreto & Rodriguez, 2007). However
      none of these scoring systems actually correlate clinical findings with the pathophysiology
      of the disease process, making comprehension of the rationale for the prognostic value which
      these scales have been shown to have difficult. This has lead latterly to interest in
      measurement of intra-abdominal pressures (IAP) as a potential novel method to predict outcome
      in acute pancreatitis (Buter et al., 2002) since intra-abdominal hypertension can be
      explained by the disease processes in acute pancreatitis.

      It well recognised that intra-abdominal hypertension (IAH) is a cause for organ dysfunction
      in critically ill patients and is associated with higher morbidity and mortality rates
      (Sugrue et al., 1999). Abdominal compartment syndrome (defined as an increase in IAP >20mmHg)
      is associated with new organ failure (Malbrain et al., 2006). The mechanisms believed to
      contribute to IAH in acute pancreatitis include increased capillary permeability,
      hypoalbuminaemia and volume overload ("third space losses"), producing retroperitoneal and
      visceral oedema (Dambrauskas et al., 2009).

      Several small studies have recently described the link between intra-abdominal hypertension
      and adverse outcome in acute pancreatitis ( Dambrauskas et al., 2009; de Waele et al., 2005),
      however none of the authors appreciate the potential predictive value of there conclusions or
      the potential as a target for therapeutic intervention to alter the disease course.

      This study aims to study the natural history of intra-abdominal pressures in acute
      pancreatitis and determine whether they truly do have a predictive value or whether they are
      simply another marker of organ failure in a multi-system disease with notoriously poor
      outcome.
    
  