
    
      United States military Veterans from recent conflicts are coping with symptoms related to
      mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI), persistent post concussive (PPC) symptoms, and
      posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Many Veterans are resistant to conventional health and
      mental health interventions (e.g., medication, psychotherapy), and often symptoms are not
      significantly improved by traditional treatments. Moreover, there are limited treatments for
      symptoms associated with both conditions, which frequently co-occur. Alternative treatment
      methods are needed. One potential common underlying feature of both mTBI and PTSD is
      exaggerated inflammation, both peripherally and in the central nervous system, which is
      thought to play an important role in the vulnerability to, aggravation of, and perpetuation
      of adverse consequences of these often co-occurring conditions. Therefore, a novel
      intervention strategy would be the use of immunoregulatory/anti-inflammatory probiotics to
      reduce inflammation. In this study, the investigators will investigate the effects of an
      immunoregulatory probiotic on both biological signatures of systemic inflammatory processes
      and proximal signatures of probiotic administration. Lactobacillus reuteri (L. reuteri), a
      commensal organism that colonizes the human gut mucosa, suppresses mucosal inflammation via
      inhibition of the production of proinflammatory cytokines, and is the probiotic of interest.
      Specific aims of the study are to determine the: 1) effects of L. reuteri on biological
      signatures of gut microbiota, gut permeability, systemic inflammation processes, and stress
      responses; 2) feasibility of L. reuteri supplementation; 3) acceptability of L. reuteri
      supplementation; and 4) tolerability and safety of L. reuteri supplementation. Project aims
      will be assessed using a longitudinal, double blind, randomized placebo-controlled design.
      Participants will be Veterans with PPC symptoms, PTSD, and evidence of elevated systemic
      inflammation (based on high baseline plasma C-reactive protein [CRP] concentrations). After
      initial evaluation procedures, 20 participants will be randomized to probiotic
      supplementation and 20 will be randomized to placebo supplementation. The proposed line of
      research addresses the Office of Rehabilitation Research and Development (RR&D) Service's
      goal of identifying means of intervening to increase function among those with mTBI and
      co-occurring psychiatric conditions. Long-term, this study may lead to a paradigm shift in
      the manner by which the investigators target clinical symptoms associated with PPC and PTSD
      symptoms, by beginning the process of supporting a multitargeted, neuroprotective approach.
    
  