
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Project HeartBeat! was uniquely designed to investigate the course of change in
      cardiovascular disease risk factors and several categories of covariates, including the
      anthropometric indicators addressed in this study. The data pertained to the 678 participants
      who entered the Project in 1991-93 at ages 8, 11 or 14 years of age, of whom 49.1 percent
      were female and 20.1 percent were black. Of the 395 participants who became eligible for 10
      or more 4-monthly examinations, 349 (88.4 percent) completed at least 10 occasions; 538
      participants of 556 who were eligible for seven or more examinations (96.8 percent) completed
      at least seven. Multi-level (MLn) analytic methods previously tested with other data were
      utilized for this analysis.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Data from Project Heartbeat were analyzed. Hypotheses tested included: (1) the time patterns
      of change in several indicators of body size, composition and configuration over the period
      of observation; (2) the relations between the time patterns of change in these indicators and
      the corresponding patterns for change in selected endocrine factors; and (3) the explanatory
      contributions of energy intake and expenditure to variation between individuals in their
      observed time patterns of change in these indicators. The anthropometric indicators addressed
      were: weight (total mass), height, body mass index (BMI, wt/ht2), fat-free mass, fat mass,
      per cent body fat, and fat distribution (waist/hip ratio). Each of these indicators were
      examined first separately and then in relation to selected endocrinologic measures
      (testosterone, estradiol, and DHEAS) and to energy intake and expenditure (from interview
      histories of diet and physical activity). Existing data from up to twelve 4-monthly
      examinations over the age range from 8-17 years conducted in Project HeartBeat! were
      analyzed.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  