
    
      International multicentre prospective observational study.

      Prediction of an ACS within 15 days after admission by the PRESEV2 score at arrival.

      Validation of a Predictive Score of Acute Chest Syndrome (Presev2) associates a categorical
      pain score of the spine /or pelvis and 3 biological parameters: Reticulocytes, Leucocytes and
      Hemoglobin.

      ACS is defined by crepitant or bronchial breathing or the association of new radiologic
      infiltrate and chest pain

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Children (>2 years) and adults

        -  Male and Female

        -  Homozygous SCD patients

        -  The patient can only be included once

        -  VOC admitted at the emergency unit (a severe VOC is defined as pain or tenderness
           affecting at least one part of the body (e.g. limbs, ribs, sternum, head (skull), spine
           and/or pelvis) that required hospitalization and opioids (level 3), and is not
           attributable to other causes.

        -  Patient has health care insurance (in Europe)

        -  Written consent given after being informed of the purpose, progress and potential risks

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  No inaugural Acute Chest Syndrome

        -  Homeless patients

        -  Deprived of their liberty by a court or administrative order or under guardianship

        -  Unable to understand the purpose and conditions of carrying out the study, unable to
           give consent

      STUDY SCHEDULE Screening and inclusion once patients are admitted at the accident and
      emergency department or medical day unit.

      Inclusion visit (day 1) Once admitted at the accident and emergency department, the patient
      will be informed about the protocol and asked to participate in the study. Informed consent
      will be obtained according to local regulations by signing the informed consent form. The
      inclusion and non-inclusion criteria will be verified.

      Demographic data, current and previous treatments taken within one month, and medical history
      will be recorded.

      The following parameters of the score will be collected:

      Reticulocytes and/or leucocytes counts, urea (mmol/L) and Categorical pain score.

      The Score is adjusted with Hydroxyurea treatment (Yes/No) and Hb level (g/dL). Plasmodium
      falciparum test will be performed only in Africa. Hemoculture if fever (>38°C) is recorded
      within the 2 first days after admission.

      Temperature, Blood pressure, Oxygen saturation, Respiratory rate, Visual analogue score will
      be recorded.

      STUDY DURATION Inclusion period: 2 years Per patient: 15 days Total duration of the study: 2
      years
    
  