
    
      The emergence of early psychosis intervention (EPI) programs has provided tremendous hope for
      individuals experiencing psychosis by providing early intervention. Work by the team shows
      that youth who access an EPI program in Ontario, Canada receive faster psychiatric follow-up,
      better coordination of care between inpatient and outpatient services, reduced burden on the
      emergency department, and reduced all-cause mortality. The team's system-level data support
      EPI programs as a critical life-saving intervention. Internationally, EPI has demonstrated
      significant benefits compared to treatment as usual with respect to engagement, service
      utilization, and suicide.

      Despite the initial life-saving benefits of EPI services, provincial, national and
      international data show that consistent delivery of high-quality, evidence-based care in EPI
      programs is a major challenge. Recovery rates in EPI programs remain low, and associated
      disability has not improved under routine clinical care. One explanation for these
      disappointing facts is that a low proportion of patients receive recovery-based services,
      namely, case management including individualized psychosocial interventions, family education
      and intervention, and supported education and employment. Even in clinical service delivery
      trials, recovery-based service is received by 15-56% of patients, with only 18% receiving
      comprehensive EPI services. While EPI standards across jurisdictions recommend coordinated
      and comprehensive recovery-based care, effective implementation and sustainability of such
      care in real-world settings remains poor.

      The team's work in Ontario has uncovered a startling gap between the evidence-based standard
      of care, and real-world delivery of care, even in a jurisdiction (Ontario) that has
      prioritized EPI services. The results of the team's Ontario survey were mirrored in a
      national survey of 11 Canadian EPI programs. This study is designed to improve the delivery
      of recovery-oriented evidence-based EPI care in Ontario, and improve person-, system-, and
      economic-level outcomes for youth and emerging adults (YEA) suffering from a first episode
      psychosis (FEP), offering a potential roadmap for the rest of Canada.

      In 2004, the province of Ontario allocated funding for EPI programs based on early evidence
      of efficacy. Between 2005 and 2007, this funding led to a major EPI program expansion in
      Ontario, but the absence of provincial standards led to program development in an ad-hoc
      manner, drawing upon general service delivery experience and advice from established
      programmes. Concomitantly, the Early Psychosis Intervention Ontario Network (EPION) was
      established, which has now grown to 52 EPI sites. The establishment of EPI program standards
      in Ontario in 2011, informed by existing international and national standards, but also by
      input from clinicians, patients, family-members, and policy makers was a crucial first step
      toward standardizing care. However, the release of standards alone is not sufficient to
      ensure effective implementation, practice change, and ongoing quality practice.

      Key findings from the first survey by the Ontario Standards Implementation Steering Committee
      (SISC) of 52 EPI program sites in Ontario (92% participation) demonstrated important
      challenges in delivering evidence-based EPI care. A follow-up survey also identified
      opportunities for addressing these challenges. Building on the two surveys, the investigators
      conducted a study to measure fidelity to current EPI standards using the First Episode
      Psychosis Service - Fidelity Scale. The most notable finding was lack of delivery of
      consistent recovery-oriented care, with no structured or manualized process for these
      elements of care. Through site visits, and in-person interviews with nine Ontario EPI
      programs, the investigators obtained a richer and clearer picture of the current state,
      creating an opportunity to implement solutions that can address the major challenges
      identified in the fidelity study.

      The investigators want to address these challenges in Ontario EPI settings by implementing
      NAVIGATE, a coordinated and comprehensive multidisciplinary treatment program for FEP that is
      deliverable in community mental health settings. NAVIGATE is manualized and
      measurement-based. To maximize affordability, adaptability, spread, and sustainability, the
      investigators will utilize the already-established EPION community of practice, the
      implementation science expertise of PSSP (Provincial System Support Program), and the
      sustainability and capacity building approach of The Extension of Community Health Outcomes
      (ECHO) Ontario Mental Health at CAMH and the University of Toronto (ECHO-ONMH).

      NAVIGATE was developed in consultation with clinical and research experts, biostatisticians,
      health economists, consumers, family members, advocacy groups, and government officials. It
      is a form of coordinated specialty care for FEP consisting of 4 key intervention components:
      (i) individualized medication management using a decision support tool, (ii) a package of
      psychoeducation and a blend of evidence-based psychotherapies called "individual resiliency
      training" (IRT); (iii) supported employment and education (SEE); and (iv) a family education
      program. NAVIGATE was evaluated from 2009-2014 in a cluster randomized controlled trial
      involving 404 individuals with an FEP in 34 community mental health centers across the United
      States. Notably, it was delivered by re-allocating existing community mental health resources
      with no new funding for clinical care. Compared to usual care, NAVIGATE treatment provided
      greater improvement in symptoms, but more importantly, as prioritized by patients,
      significantly greater improvement in real-world functioning, including social functioning and
      engagement in educational and vocational training. NAVIGATE was also readily implementable
      across a broad range of community-based mental health settings, with enhanced engagement and
      delivery of multidisciplinary care to YEA presenting with psychosis and their families
      compared to standard care, and with longer and more consistent receipt of mental health
      services. A recent economic analysis revealed that NAVIGATE treatment was more cost-effective
      compared to standard community care, driven by the anticipated enhanced health benefits and
      improvements in quality of life. NAVIGATE implementation addresses the major challenges
      identified in the previously mentioned SISC fidelity study, as follows:

      Challenge 1: NAVIGATE operationalizes current EPI standards using manualized protocols,
      ensuring consistency and reducing variability in care. The four NAVIGATE components
      (individualized medication management, IRT, SEE, and family education program) are
      systematically applied in collaboration with the patient. There is an overarching emphasis on
      the coordinated delivery of these elements of care. Every patient is offered these elements
      of care, and modules are completed in a systematic time-oriented fashion that reduces
      variability in care among sites and team-members within a site. At each patient visit, a
      contact/progress note is completed, including the modules delivered, that the team reviews to
      assess patient progress, fidelity, and determine need for adjustments.

      Challenge 2. Ontario EPI sites have learned about NAVIGATE through didactic sessions and
      conferences offered through EPION. Because translation and implementation of evidence-based
      practice remains a challenge, training, implementation expertise, and other resources are
      required. The mandate of the CAMH PSSP is to support system change in Ontario by providing
      implementation, evaluation, knowledge exchange, engagement and information management
      expertise to organizations and networks across the province. PSSP operates regional offices
      throughout Ontario and their implementation teams work closely with local communities and key
      partners to implement and sustain system improvements. For this project, regional PSSP teams
      will support implementation and work closely with NAVIGATE content experts from the Slaight
      Centre (CAMH's EPI program), and community site leads, who are members of EPION.

      Challenge 3. EPION has identified use of technology to transfer knowledge, and equitable
      application of the provincial standards as key priorities. ECHO consists of specialist hubs
      that connect with multiple learner teams in remote areas through televideo-conferencing
      technology, and thus can bridge the geographic gap required to bolster the Ontario EPI
      community of practice. The goal of ECHO clinics is to extend the reach of best practices in
      academic settings to the chronic and complex illnesses seen in local settings, thereby
      reducing variation, increasing access to specialist mentoring and services, and monitoring
      and improving patient outcomes. Initial evaluation data in Ontario has shown high provider
      satisfaction and engagement with ECHO, and increased knowledge and self-efficacy in managing
      mental health and addictions in rural and remote settings.

      How is this Study Further Enhanced?

      i) This project includes Patient and Family Engagement. In the direct planning and design of
      the present study, one of the team's Principal Investigators with lived experience was
      present at each team meeting, and was an equal partner in decisions regarding all of the
      outcome measures. A co-applicant family member (her son experienced an FEP) also joined the
      team, and she provided input, further refining the research objectives. The Advisory
      Committees will grow to include patient/family representation from each site, and will
      provide ongoing guidance to the research team in implementation, evaluation, analyses, and
      dissemination. The investigators will also continue qualitative work with patients and
      families to further evaluate NAVIGATE at the participating sites.

      ii) Using data from ICES, which captures all physician and hospital-provided insured services
      in Ontario, the investigators will compare population-based outcomes (hospitalizations,
      emergency department visits, suicide attempts and mortality) with two comparison groups: 1)
      all EPI program FEP patients who have not been part of the NAVIGATE trial; and 2) all FEP
      patients who are not attached to EPI programs. All EPI programs in Ontario report their
      service utilization data through the Ontario Common Assessment of Need (OCAN) dataset (OCAN
      is linked to ICES data). The investigators can accurately ascertain the initiation date of
      all EPI patients by sex within Ontario through ICES linkage. The ability to link NAVIGATE's
      primary clinical and implementation data with ICES data, and the capacity to identify all FEP
      patients in Ontario (whether treated in EPI programs or not) allows for a meaningful, valid,
      and highly generalizable comparison of outcomes. The use of propensity score methods will
      address confounding associated with observational studies, and mimics some of the
      characteristics of a randomized controlled trial.

      Primary Study Hypotheses:

        1. Following the implementation of NAVIGATE, program fidelity to the Ontario EPI standard
           will improve.

        2. Compared to patients not receiving NAVIGATE, those who receive NAVIGATE through this
           implementation study will have fewer days in hospital, fewer ED visits, fewer suicide
           attempts, lower mortality, and lower costs.

        3. Improvements in functioning and symptoms will be comparable to the RAISE study;
           improvement may be influenced by demographic, socio-economic, geographic, and clinical
           factors.

        4. The project's engagement approach will demonstrate that the investigators used the full
           range of patient engagement based on objectively assessed engagement metrics.
    
  