
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the progression-free survival (PFS) rate in patients with recurrent, metastatic,
      or primary unresectable adrenocortical carcinoma treated with mitotane with vs without
      anti-IGF-1R recombinant monoclonal antibody IMC-A12 (IMC-A12).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the response rates in these patients using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumor (RECIST) criteria.

      II. Compare the change in tumor size from baseline to 12 weeks in these patients.

      III. Compare the overall trajectories in tumor growth in these patients.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Define predictive markers of response or insensitivity to IMC-A12. II. Define
      pharmacodynamic markers of IMC-A12. III. Determine whether tumor expression of IGF-IR and
      activation of downstream signaling in archival tumor tissue samples predict efficacy of
      IMC-A12.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study that includes a single-arm safety evaluation phase
      followed by a randomized phase. Initially, patients are enrolled in the safety evaluation
      phase. If ≤ 6 of 20 patients experience a dose-limiting toxicity, then the study may proceed
      to the randomized phase.

      SAFETY EVALUATION PHASE: Patients receive oral mitotane once or twice daily and anti-IGF-1R
      recombinant monoclonal antibody IMC-A12 IV over 1 hour once every 2 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      RANDOMIZED PHASE: Patients are stratified according to participating center. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive oral mitotane once or twice daily in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with documented disease progression may cross
      over and receive treatment on arm II.

      ARM II: Patients receive mitotane as in arm I and anti-IGF-1R recombinant monoclonal antibody
      IMC-A12 IV over 1 hour once every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Archival frozen tissue blocks, unstained tumor tissue slides from archival paraffin blocks,
      plasma samples, and urine samples may be collected and stored for future correlative
      biomarker studies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up for 6 months.

      NOTE: The study was terminated after the safety evaluation phase (i.e., before the
      randomization phase) due to futility concerns. Thus, patients were only enrolled into ARM II
      (i.e., mitotate + IMC-A12). Results presented in this report are only given for the safety
      evaluation phase.
    
  