
    
      Obesity is a major public health concern in the United States, with over two-thirds of the
      adult population classified as overweight or obese. Obesity is characterized by low-grade
      chronic inflammation that, in part, is mediated by metabolic endotoxemia. Metabolic
      endotoxemia describes increased circulating levels of gut-derived endotoxin (a bacterial
      product derived from Gram-negative bacteria in the intestines) that results from gut barrier
      dysfunction, a phenomenon that is common in obesity. Studies in rodents models have shown
      that dietary supplementation with green tea extract (GTE) reduces metabolic endotoxemia in
      association with improved gut health. This clinical trial will therefore investigate the
      extent to which a green tea confection snack food can alleviate metabolic endotoxemia and
      restore gut health in obese humans. It is hypothesized that 4-week daily ingestion of a green
      tea extract (GTE)-rich confection will limit metabolic endotoxemia by decreasing gut barrier
      permeability. This study will address the following objectives: 1) define alterations in
      catechin pharmacokinetics in obese compared with healthy adults, 2) demonstrate improvements
      in gut barrier function by GTE, and 3) demonstrate GTE-mediated amelioration of microbial
      dysbiosis. To test the hypothesis, all participants will complete a 12-h pharmacokinetics
      study to define the influence of obesity on catechin bioavailability and metabolism. They
      will then complete a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial where they will
      receive a GTE-rich or placebo confection for 4 weeks. Prior to and upon completing the
      intervention, participants will undergo a gut permeability test, fecal samples will be
      collected for microbiota composition analysis, and blood samples will be collected to assess
      endotoxin and inflammatory biomarkers. Upon successfully completing this study, it is
      anticipated that chronic consumption of a green tea confection will be demonstrated to be an
      effective dietary strategy to reduce metabolic endotoxemia and improve gut health.
    
  