
    
      This is a prospectively designed, multicenter, open-label, two-cohort, phase II study to
      evaluate the intracranial efficacy of single agent capmatinib in participants with MET exon
      14 mutated NSCLC and BM. Participants can be treatment naïve or pretreated with one or two
      prior lines of systemic therapies for advanced stage (stage IIIb - IV) NSCLC.

      Approximately 60 participants will be enrolled globally and allocated to one of two cohorts:

      Cohort 1 will enroll approximately 40 participants who are asymptomatic and without prior
      brain therapy.

      Cohort 2 will enroll approximately 20 participants who are symptomatic with or without prior
      brain therapy or asymptomatic with prior brain therapy or with leptomeningeal disease.

      All participants will be pre-screened for MET mutation and presence of BM will be documented
      at baseline by a radiologist/neuroradiologist.

      Intracranial disease will be assessed and response to treatment will be evaluated using the
      Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology Brain Metastases (RANO-BM) criteria every 8 weeks.
      Extracranial and whole body disease will be assessed and response to treatment will be
      evaluated using RECIST 1.1 every 8 weeks.

      Participants will receive capmatinib 400 mg b.i.d. until they experience any of the
      following: documented disease progression by RANO-BM criteria and/or RECIST 1.1 (as assessed
      by the investigator and confirmed by BIRC), withdrawal of consent, pregnancy, lost to
      follow-up, or death.

      For all participants, treatment with capmatinib may be continued beyond initial progression
      disease (PD) as per RANO-BM criteria and/or RECIST 1.1 (as assessed by the investigator and
      confirmed by BIRC) if, in the judgment of the investigator, there is evidence of clinical
      benefit, and the participant wishes to continue on the study treatment.

      After treatment discontinuation, all participants will be followed for safety evaluations
      during the safety follow-up period, and the participant's status will be collected every 12
      weeks as part of the survival follow-up.
    
  