
    
      In 2015, Congress provided funding for grants to provide healthy marriage and relationship
      services to help interested couples enhance or improve adult and family relationships. The
      Administration for Children and Families (ACF), within the Department of Health and Human
      Services (HHS), oversees these grants and provides supports to assist grantees in meeting
      their goals and objectives. To learn about the implementation and effects of these programs,
      Dr. Francesca Adler-Baeder at Auburn University was awarded a contract to conduct a local
      impact evaluation study. The evaluation includes impact and process studies for couples
      education curricula.

      Couples who are eligible for the programs and agree to be in the study are randomly assigned
      to either one of two program groups (Elevate or Couples Connecting Mindfully) or a no-program
      control group. Program group members are offered program services; control group members are
      not offered those services. The impact study will examine whether the programs improve
      outcomes for individuals in couples and the children of the participants in the program group
      compared to outcomes of those in the control group. Members of both program and control
      groups are surveyed five times over 2 years: before they are randomly assigned, immediately
      after the curricula have been implemented (approximately 8 weeks later), and 6 months, 1
      year, and 2 years after baseline. All surveys are administered via an online survey system,
      Qualtrics. The survey covers a range of questions related to couple relationships and
      interactions, individual functioning, parent-child interactions, co-parenting quality, and
      economic stability. The process aspect of the study will examine multiple aspects of the
      implementation and operation of the programs. Specifically, program attendance or dose,
      participant characteristics, facilitator-participant relationship, attitudes towards the
      program, and mechanisms of change will be considered in the process evaluation. Information
      for the process evaluation is obtained through the respondents' online surveys and
      facilitator/educator surveys.
    
  