
    
      The goal of this study is to compare the effectiveness of an existing evidence-based dementia
      family caregiver intervention, the New York University Caregiver Intervention (NYUCI), to
      community-based case management using community health workers (CHWs) in Hispanic caregivers
      in Northern Manhattan. The investigators will randomize 160 relative caregivers of persons
      with dementia to case management alone or NYUCI in addition to case management. The total
      duration of followup will be 6 months. We will call this project the Northern Manhattan
      Caregiver Intervention Project (NOCIP).

      The primary aim is to compare changes from baseline to 6 months in caregiver depressive
      symptoms, measured with the geriatric depression scale (GDS), and in caregiver burden using
      the Zarit caregiver burden interview (ZBI), between the randomization arms using an Intent to
      treat approach. The investigators hypothesize that depressive symptoms and caregiver burden
      will improve or deteriorate less in the NYUCI arm compared to the case management arm at 6
      months.

      This project addresses one of the priority areas for comparative effectiveness research (CER)
      from the Institute of Medicine, "interventions for caregivers of persons with dementia". It
      also addresses 2 priority conditions from the Agency for Health Care Research and Quality
      (AHRQ): Dementia and Depression. Dementia caregiver burden is a major source of disparities
      in Northern Manhattan. The prevalence of dementia in Hispanics is twice that of Non-Hispanic
      Whites. In addition, Hispanic families tend to be reluctant to delegate the care of their
      relatives with dementia and consider it a family affair. Thus, the burden of care-giving for
      persons with dementia is much higher in Hispanic families. NOCIP will be the first study to
      test the effectiveness of an existing caregiver intervention, the New York University
      Caregiver Intervention, in the Hispanic community of Northern Manhattan. In addition, the
      NYUCI has been tested in spouse caregivers, and NOCIP will be the first randomized clinical
      trial to include non-spouse caregivers.
    
  