
    
      Rationale:

      The rationale for creating this multi-center clinical database is to optimally collect
      clinical and pathological data on patients with neoplasms in order to facilitate future
      clinical observational and outcomes-based research.

      Inclusion Criteria

      Patients will be considered eligible for inclusion into the database if they meet the
      following eligibility criteria:

      Evidence/suspicion of Pancreatic neoplasm ≥ 18 years of age

      Exclusion Criteria Patients will be considered ineligible for inclusion into the database if
      they are not able to give consent.

      Inclusion of Women, Minorities and Vulnerable Subjects This protocol will include women and
      minority populations. Vulnerable subjects (prisoners, children, mentally disabled persons)
      will not be included in the study population.

      Primary Study Objective(s):

      To provide insight in treatment selection and treatment outcome of Pancreatic IRE in order to
      develop an evidence base such that physicians can provide the best possible care to patients
      with Pancreatic cancer requiring surgical intervention.

      Secondary Study Objective(s):

      To provide data on adverse events and complications related to IRE treatment.

      The AHPBA will be responsible for data collection and will periodically audit the data for
      quality assurance purposes. The AHPBA will review outcomes reported by each participating
      Research Institution and if outcomes are in the lower percentile, the investigators will be
      offered support to analyze the reasons for the suboptimal outcomes and may seek support to
      improve outcomes. The participating Research Institutions will receive a certificate annually
      that acknowledges their participation in the Research Project.

      Goal and Aims of Registry?

      The Specific Aims are:

        -  Gain a better understanding of the uses of ablation in the treatment of unresectable
           soft tissue pancreatic tumors

        -  Understand the limitations, concerns, and complications that earlier users of ablation
           in the treatment of unresectable soft tissue pancreatic tumors have

      Create a multi-institutional group that will both enroll in this registry study, but more
      importantly enroll in future, prospective ablation in the treatments of unresectable soft
      tissue pancreatic tumors studies. Any patient undergoing a soft tissue ablation may be
      included in this study. To confirm, you will always own your data and the registry will be
      used as data storage until you release your data for evaluation on a project-by-project
      basis.

      What Patients are Eligible?

      • Any patient to which the treating physician believes that ablation of their soft tissue
      would be feasible in the care of their disease.

      Patients who can be followed and can provide outcome data to achieve the Goals and Aims of
      the Registry.

      To participate, the only thing we need to obtain from your site is a regulatory approval
      letter stating that it is acceptable to collaborate with your patients de-identified data
      (sample data collection protocol is attached) and that you will be consenting your patients
      to this data collaboration (The Registry).

      Case report forms/ data collection sheets are attached The data entry will be web based. All
      treatments must be entered-not just the first treatment. All follow up-up to 2 years or until
      death of patient-must be entered. Common follow up is every 3-4 months for first year and
      every 6 months for second year. In order to ensure data accuracy we require that, for the
      first 5 patients entered, the data sheets and their supporting documentation (de-identified
      labs, treatment dictation, etc.) be sent to us so we can make sure the data entry is correct
      and complete (e.g., lesion dimensions, measures of response or progression, etc.).
    
  