
    
      The Our Family Our Future Program is a preventive intervention program designed to prevent or
      reduce adolescent sexual risk behavior and to increase mental health resilience against
      depression onset among adolescents (13-15 years of age). The intervention takes a family
      approach and addresses HIV risk and depression in an integrated model. HIV and depression are
      the leading causes of global burden of disease in low and middle income countries. The
      intervention is being tested in South Africa, the country confronting the largest HIV
      epidemic in the world and because preliminary studies with South African families identified
      poor mental health and sexual risk behavior as priority areas for preventive intervention
      development and testing.

      This study is a randomized pilot design, where 152 adolescents and parents will be randomly
      assigned to an intervention condition or a standard usual care condition and then offered the
      experimental intervention as on a wait-list. Families will be recruited and screened for
      eligibility based on systematic house-to-house recruitment in the community. Eligibility is
      based on dyadic eligibility and includes age criteria, consistent presence in the household,
      depressive symptoms that fall below clinically significant threshold criteria, and ability to
      provide informed consent and assent. Eligible families will be randomized and offered a
      preventive intervention program in a group format, led by program facilitators in a community
      setting. The intervention program consists of 3 sessions plus an individualized family
      meeting. In some modules parents/guardians/caregivers and adolescents will have content
      delivered together and in some modules parents/guardians/caregivers and adolescents will
      break out to adult-only or adolescent-only groups.

      The overall objective of study is to assess the following study questions:

      Question 1: Is this study feasible? Question 2: Is this intervention acceptable to the target
      population? Question 3: Is there preliminary evidence of hypothesized effects of the
      intervention, that the intervention will reduce or maintaining symptoms that fall below the
      clinically significant range for depression and reduce or delay actual or intended sexual
      risk behavior in adolescents?

      The study takes a single blind, randomized pilot trial. The study takes a secondary
      prevention approach. The investigators collect three sets of data. First, the investigators
      assess feasibility by examining recruitment rates, attendance, completion, and drop-out
      rates, and fidelity. Second, the investigators assess acceptability by examining satisfaction
      data. Third, as a secondary aim, the investigators use pilot data to assess hypothesized
      intervention effects by examining outcomes at baseline, immediately post-intervention (2-4
      weeks after the last intervention session is completed), and at four months.
    
  