
    
      Within the Veteran's Health Administration (VHA), primary care (PC) patients with PTSD have
      low rates of engagement in evidence-based psychotherapy (EBP) for PTSD. Low engagement rates
      are due to a variety of patient-level (e.g., belief that treatment will not be helpful,
      stigma) and system-level barriers (e.g., lack of tracking of referral process, knowledge gaps
      on how to manage PTSD). We propose to conduct a pilot hybrid effectiveness- implementation
      study to implement an evidence-based Referral Management System (RMS) that will address
      patient and system-level barriers to the uptake of EBP for PTSD by VHA primary care patients.
      RMS will address patient-level barriers with the delivery of a 1-session cognitive behavioral
      therapy (CBT) intervention to identify and change treatment seeking beliefs that serve as an
      barrier to treatment engagement, including specific negative beliefs about EBP (e.g., talking
      about past trauma will be too difficult for me"). This CBT intervention has been previously
      found to be effective for increasing treatment engagement with Veterans with PTSD. Depending
      on Veteran preference, it will be delivered by the PC-MHI provider within the PC clinic or a
      Behavioral Health Lab (BHL) care manager by phone. RMS will be initiated by PACT staff and
      will address system-level barriers by having a BHL technician track the progress of RMS
      referrals and contact Veterans who have not followed thought on their chosen referral
      options. PACT staff will also be trained with simple scripts on how to address PTSD symptoms
      and make appropriate referrals based on VA/DoD Clinical Practice Guidelines for PTSD. Our
      aims, implementation strategy, data collection, and analyses will be guided by established
      strategies. The Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR) will identify
      organization variables. RE-AIM will investigate program uptake and patient/ system-level
      impact. An Implementation Mapping approach will guide our implementation strategy. We propose
      to conduct this study in 3 phases. Phase 1 includes interviews with PC and MH leadership
      about the relevance of CFIR constructs to RMS implementation and a meeting with PACT staff to
      train them on RMS and gather their input on how RMS should be adapted to their clinic. A PC
      medical provider will serve as a clinical champion who is knowledgeable, communicative, and a
      leader in promoting RMS among his/her peers. Phase 2 consists of implementing RMS for 6
      months in one Syracuse PC clinic and then measuring RE-AIM outcomes. Some RE-AIM outcomes
      compared participants who received RMS to those who did not receive RMS in a historical
      control group. Phase 3 involves meeting with PACT and MH Leadership and PACT staff to share a
      formal report of study results and gather information about potential barriers and
      facilitators to long-term maintenance and future expansion of RMS within the CFIR framework.
      An expert national stakeholder panel will also be convened to guide development of a SDP that
      will investigate multi-VISN implementation.

      Our long-term aim of this line of research is to increase implementation of evidence-based
      psychotherapy for PTSD by getting more primary care patients with PTSD to engage in
      treatment.

      Our Specific Aims for this Rapid Response Project are to:

      1. Assess and improve the feasibility of implementing RMS in PC-MHI/PACT settings

      1A. Diagnose organizational and staff-level barriers and facilitators to implementing RMS.

      1B. Adapt RMS for the local context based on information gathered about barriers and
      facilitators.

      2. Evaluate initial impact of implementing RMS in PC-MHI/PACT settings. Assess impact of RMS
      on RE-AIM measures of Reach, Efficacy/Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation and Maintenance
      3. Refine implementation strategy based on study findings for planned efforts to spread RMS
      to additional VISNs in a QUERI Phase 2 Service-Directed Project (SDP) to follow.
    
  