
    
      For non infected sockets, a 15c blade (Stoma, Storz am Mark GmbH, Emmingen-Liptingen Germany)
      was used to cut a 1-cm long vestibular access incision , 3-4 mm apical to the mucogingival
      junction of the involved tooth. The socket orifice and the vestibular access incision were
      connected by a subperiosteal tunnel that was created using a periotome and a micro-periosteal
      elevator (Stoma, Storz am Mark GmbH, Emmingen-Liptingen Germany). Implants, (Biohorizons,
      Birmingham, Al, USA) , were installed using a 3D printed surgical guide (Surgical Guide
      Resin, Form 2, Formlabs). A flexible cortical membrane shield (OsteoBiol® Lamina, Tecnoss®,
      Torino, Italy) of heterologous origin, 0.6 mm in thickness was prepared by hydrating and
      trimming it. It was then tucked through the vestibular access incision, till it extended 1 mm
      below the socket orifice, and stabilized using a membrane tack (AutoTac System Kit,
      Biohorizons Implant Systems, Birmingham, Alabama Inc, USA) to the apical bone. The gap
      between the implant and the shield/the labial plate was then filled with particulate bone
      graft [75% autogenous bone chips harvested form local surgical sites and 25% inorganic bovine
      bone mineral matrix (MinerOss X , Biohorizons, Birmingham, Al, USA)]. For the infected
      sockets, the 6-day protocol was implemented. Atraumatic extraction of the infected tooth by
      the periotome was followed by curettage, mechanical debridement and chemical irrigation using
      metronidazole irrigation solution (500mg/100ml, Amrizole, Amria Pharma, Alexandria, Egypt).
      The root of the involved tooth was cleaned with an ultrasonic cleaner, cut to its apical
      third, reimplanted into the socket and maintained there for 6 days by bonding its crown to
      the adjacent teeth using composite resin. Implant and crown placement were done as described
      above for the non-infected socket group.
    
  