
    
      ESTEEM is a multi-center randomized trial of 472 women with MUI who have elected to undergo
      surgical treatment for SUI. Participants will be randomized to a peri-operative BPTx
      program+MUS versus MUS alone. The purpose is to compare combined MUS+BPTx versus MUS alone
      (control) on improving MUI symptoms at 1 year.

      Patients will be assigned to one of the two treatment groups. Randomization will be
      stratified by clinical site and by UUI "severity," which will be defined by the number of
      urgency urinary IEs on diary.

      The primary outcome for this study is the mean change from baseline in UDI-total score at 1
      year postoperative. The UDI is a validated, disease-specific, patient-reported outcome (PRO)
      measure.

      Secondary outcomes UUI/OAB outcomes will be measured using the UDI-irritative subscale that
      measures symptom burden, impact, and changes related to OAB. It is highly responsive to
      treatment-related change and is able to discriminate among levels of change in all bladder
      diary variables (urinary urgency, frequency and urge incontinence) and patient ratings of
      treatment benefit that will characterize how MUS may affect all OAB symptoms individually and
      as a whole. SUI symptom outcomes will be measured using the UDI-stress subscale to compare
      SUI outcomes between women randomized to MUS + BPTx versus MUS alone.

      Other UUI/OAB outcomes that will be compared between groups include 1) the change in IE
      frequency and type, number of urgency episodes, urgency severity with voids, number of
      diurnal voids, and number of nocturnal voids using a bladder diary; 2) patient satisfaction
      with treatment using the OAB-SAT-q; 3) bother and heal related quality of life using the
      OAB-q subscale

      For analyzing time to failure, "failure" will be defined as initiation of any additional
      treatment for either SUI or UUI/OAB symptoms during the follow-up period. Subjects lost to
      follow up will be censored at the time of their last visit.

      Quality of life/global impression will be assessed be compared between treatment groups using
      the a) Incontinence Impact Questionnaire (IIQ), Pelvic Organ Prolapse/Urinary Incontinence
      Sexual Questionnaire (PISQ), c) European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D), d) Adaptation
      Index and e) Patient Global Impression of Improvement (PGI-I) and Patient Global Impression
      of Severity (PGI-S).

      Safety/additional treatments will be characterized as a) additional re-treatments for SUI or
      UUI within 12 months of treatment, and type of re-treatment and b) return to OR for sling
      revision due to worsened OAB symptoms.

      To evaluate the association between PFM strength and improvements in UI symptoms, we will
      objectively assess PFM strength changes using the Peritron Perineometer, and instrument
      specifically designed for pelvic floor assessment.
    
  