
    
      Chronic PTSD in older adults leads to increased risk of mortality from cardiovascular
      disease, metabolic syndrome, diabetes mellitus, and ulcerative gastrointestinal disease. PTSD
      appears to promote aging-associated syndromes such as frailty, and older patients with PTSD
      exhibit faster cognitive decline and have twice the risk of dementia compared to individuals
      without PTSD. In addition, laboratory studies report accelerated biological signatures of
      aging in PTSD patients, including shortened leukocyte telomere length, increases in
      pro-inflammatory cytokines, and increased oxidative stress. PTSD is associated with similar
      anatomical brain changes to those occurring with cognitive aging, including bilateral
      hippocampal volume reductions, specifically affecting the dentate gyrus (DG) and CA3
      subregion, and increased microvascular lesions (white matter hyperintensities [WMH]). These
      observations suggest that the adverse health and functional outcomes associated with chronic
      PTSD in older patients may be explained by a deleterious interaction between pathophysiologic
      changes underlying PTSD and the biology of aging, the end result of which is to accelerate
      senescence throughout the body and particularly in the brain. However, no prior study has
      explicitly tested this hypothesis by examining indices of aging in older adults with and
      without PTSD. In our ongoing IRB #7489, The investigator hypothesize that chronic PTSD, over
      and above other contributing factors, accelerates biological aging in the brain and body,
      leading to adverse behavioral consequences such as frailty and cognitive decline. To test
      these hypotheses, 150 individuals are being recruited who are aged≥50and diagnosed with PTSD.
      A control group of 150 age-, sex-, and trauma exposure-matched subjects without PTSD are
      being recruited and assessed. Included subjects undergo comprehensive neuropsychological
      assessment and cerebral blood volume functional magnetic resonance imaging (CBV-fMRI) to
      assess regional hippocampal metabolic activity and function. Structural MRI is performed to
      quantify WMH, regional brain volume, and cortical thickness while resting-state fMRI measures
      functional connectivity within hippocampal networks. PTSD subjects and controls are compared
      on measures of aging within the following domains: neural (DG CBV, WMH, morphology),
      cognitive (processing speed, memory, executive function, pattern separation), somatic
      (peripheral inflammatory markers, leukocyte telomere length, and measures of oxidative
      stress), and behavioral (grip strength, gait speed, fatigue levels). By elucidating the
      interaction of chronic PTSD with aging processes, data from this project may contribute to
      the development of rationally designed, personalized, and age-appropriate novel treatments.

      Interim analyses of PTSD subjects in this study demonstrate a high degree of comorbidity with
      MDD. Among participants with PTSD enrolled to date, 67.1% meet the criteria for MDD and the
      mean Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD) is 18.1. The most prominent cognitive
      differences observed to date in our study between PTSD and TEHC subjects is executive
      dysfunction, which is common in late-life depression.

      PTSD subjects have dramatically increased fatigability and prevalence of frailty criteria
      compared to TEHCs, abnormalities which are also frequently seen in our older MDD samples.
      Yet, the investigator has found that less than 25% of these individuals are currently
      receiving an adequate dose and duration of first-line pharmacotherapy for MDD, while only
      one-third report any past medication treatment. These data raise the question of whether
      patients with combined PTSD/MDD could benefit from adequate antidepressant medication
      treatment and to what degree their cognitive and physical function deficits would be
      reversible with this therapy.
    
  