
    
      Many patients diagnosed with a vestibular schwannoma (also called acoustic neuroma)
      eventually lose hearing in the afflicted ear. Improvements in magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI) have led to tumors being diagnosed at smaller sizes, however, this has not changed the
      eventual demise in hearing for most patients. Hearing loss leads to tinnitus, poor sound
      localization, difficulty hearing in background noise, and imbalance all of which contribute
      to the decreased quality of life associated with a vestibular schwannoma diagnosis.

      Some tumors may be resected while maintaining the integrity of the auditory nerve. When a
      patient has hearing, the health of the auditory nerve can be monitored during the surgery
      through auditory-evoked (sound) measurements. When a patient has already lost their hearing
      or the surgical approach sacrifices all residual hearing, then auditory-evoked measurements
      can no longer be used and there is no way to monitor the auditory nerve aside from visual
      inspection.

      The Auditory Nerve Test System (ANTS) is a novel device designed to facilitate
      electrically-evoked auditory nerve monitoring. The ANTS is comprised of three parts: a test
      electrode, connector cable, and stimulator box. The test electrode functions like a
      mini-cochlear implant placed within the cochlea during a translabyrinthine surgery. During
      tumor resection the test electrode electrically stimulates the auditory nerve allowing
      surgeons to monitor electrophysiologic data on the health of the auditory nerve. The primary
      goal of this study is to assess the ANTS during translabyrinthine vestibular schwannoma
      resections.

      If patient are able to maintain an intact auditory nerve following vestibular schwannoma
      resection then a cochlear implant will be placed during the same surgery. Secondary outcomes
      measures will investigate cochlear implant outcomes and patient quality of life following
      this procedure and over the first year of using their cochlear implant. These secondary
      outcomes will be measured at 3-months, 6-months, and 12-months following cochlear implant
      activation. The test will assess how well the cochlear implant is working, the cochlear
      implant's impact on sound localization and hearing in background noise, and finally various
      aspects relevant to the patient's quality of life (tinnitus, balance, hearing, and overall
      quality of life).
    
  