
    
      Patients with malignancies are at increased risks of venous thromboembolism (VTE). The annual
      incidence of VTE in cancer patients is 0.5%, which is 5-fold more than the general population
      . Low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) has been the standard treatment for
      malignancy-associated VTE. This recommendation follows the results of the Randomized
      Comparison of Low-Molecular-Weight Heparin versus Oral Anticoagulant Therapy for the
      Prevention of Recurrent VenousThromboembolism in Patients with Cancer (CLOT) trial, which
      showed superiority of Low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) over warfarin in cancer patients
      with VTE .

      Low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) has a number of inherent advantages over warfarin. It
      does not interact with chemotherapeutic agents, and dose titration is not necessary.
      Furthermore, the risks of both bleeding and breakthrough VTE are also lower with LMWH.
      However, the requirement of daily subcutaneous injection makes LWMH inconvenient to use. Most
      patients have difficulties continuing daily injection, partly owing to compliance issues, but
      also because an emaciated state in some patients makes subcutaneous injection painful. As the
      life expectancy of solid cancer patients is improved with novel treatment options, the choice
      of anticoagulation has become a major issue in the management of VTE in this patient
      population.

      The main reason underlying the inferior performance of warfarin in oncology patients is
      difficult dose titration. Drug interaction and hepatic dysfunction are common in patients on
      chemotherapy. Frequent interruptions of warfarin for invasive procedures and
      chemotherapy-induced-thrombocytopenia also lead to fluctuations in anticoagulation level. As
      a result, highs risk of recurrence of VTE and bleeding were observed in cancer patients
      taking warfarin. Direct-acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs), on the other hand, may be an
      attractive alternative treatment to LMWH. They are administered at a fixed dose with
      predictable pharmacokinetics, so that therapeutic monitoring is not required. There is
      minimal food and drug interaction. They have been shown to be effective in the treatment of
      VTE in several pivotal randomized controlled trials in comparison with warfarin . However,
      their role in malignancy associated VTE is yet to be determined, because cancer patients were
      either excluded or very much underrepresented in these VTE treatment trials. Moreover, the
      non-inferiority of DOACs in VTE treatment was only demonstrated against warfarin, which is
      already shown to be suboptimal in oncology patients. A trial directly comparing DOACs with
      LMWH in malignancy associated VTE is therefore needed.

      Dabigatran etexilate is an oral thrombin inhibitor. It was shown in the RECOVER study to be
      effective in treatment of VTE and it has a lower bleeding risk than warfarin. It is not
      metabolized by cytochrome P450 system and therefore, in contrast to other DOACs, concomitant
      administration of CYP3A4 inducers or inhibitors is not a concern.

      We propose this prospective single armed trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of
      dabigatran in the treatment of malignancy associated VTE. We will compare the result with our
      historical control who were treated with LMWH.
    
  