
    
      Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is a life threatening genetic disorder resulting from mutations found in
      the gene known as the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). Defects in
      this gene prevent correct chloride transport in and out of cells. It has become increasingly
      important to develop new in vitro model systems capable of predicting in vivo clinical
      effectiveness of modulator therapy among patients with CF. This objective represents a
      significant and unmet need for advancing personalized therapeutics in the disease. The
      current trial is intended to show for the first time that primary iPS cells differentiated to
      an airway epithelial phenotype can be used to predict in vivo clinical response for rare CF
      patient populations - with the long-term goal of facilitating drug access for individuals
      with unusual (or even private) CF variants.

      Trikafta is currently approved for patients with CF carrying at least one copy of the common
      F508del variant. This study is a clinical study of 22 subjects without the F508del mutation,
      carrying partial function mutations not approved for Trikafta, and who are not expected to be
      approved for CFTR modulator treatment in the immediate future.

      Each participant will have clinical and/or preclinical evidence that Trikafta should offer
      benefit, and each will be given Trikafta for approximately four weeks. The researchers will
      monitor clinical endpoints that include FEV1, sweat chloride, and nasal potential difference.
      The study will differentiate iPS cells from each subject to generate airway epithelial
      monolayers that can be tested for response to Trikafta. In this way, this study will evaluate
      an emerging and readily accessible in vitro surrogate endpoint as a predictor of clinical
      response. This trial will also serve as a pilot/test case for other clinical protocols
      relevant to patients with rare CFTR variants and evidence of residual function who do not
      have an approved modulator therapy-due to rarity of their mutation. It is hypothesized that a
      robust correlation will be established between in vitro Trikafta responsiveness of iPS cells
      and in vivo benefit (FEV1) in patients, and provide a powerful tool for utilizing iPS cells
      to identify rare CF patient populations most suitable for cystic fibrosis modulator therapy.
    
  