
    
      The following information from the literature was obtained by searching through the MEDLAR
      and PUBMED using the key words 'TAPP', 'TEP', 'Laparoscopy' and 'Inguinal hernia'.

      Application of laparoscopic techniques has revolutionized the field of surgery. General
      surgeons have accepted laparoscopic surgery unequivocally. Few would dispute the tremendous
      success and the impact that laparoscopic cholecystectomy had on the management of gallstone.1
      Laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair (LIHR) was introduced following the success of
      laparoscopic cholecystectomy on the premise that there would be less post-operative
      discomfort and pain, repair of recurrent hernias would be easier and bilateral hernia can be
      treated concurrently with improved cosmesis. Ger and Associates2 reported first laparoscopic
      inguinal hernia repair. Schultz et al3 were the first to report the use of prosthetic
      material during laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair.

      LIHR has got comparable results in comparison to tension free open hernia repair (OHR). Many
      studies have shown that LIHR gives similar results in terms of recurrence as compared with
      OHR but with the added advantage of less chances of post operative, pain, wound infection and
      early return to activity4-6.

      Laparoscopic inguinal human repair has undergone tremendous change since its introduction in
      1990 by Ger et al3. LIHR was started using the transabdominal preperitoneal (TAPP) approach.
      TAPP repair involves formation of a peritoneal flap and placement of a mesh in the
      preperitoneal space. The mesh is then held in place using a tacker. Initially, TAPP became
      the commonly performed laparoscopic procedure and a number of studies demonstrated the
      efficacy of TAPP and its comparable results with tension free OHR4-7. Arvidasson D et al8
      compared 5 years recurrence rates of laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair Vs. Shouldice repair
      of primary inguinal hernia which is considered the gold standard for open non-mesh repair of
      hernia. The cumulative recurrence rate after 5 years was 6.6% in the TAPP group and 6.7% in
      the Shouldice group. Thus, the TAPP operation represents an excellent alternative to primary
      inguinal repair.

      Wara et al9 have demonstrated that laparoscopic repair compared favourably with Lichteinstein
      repair for primary indirect and direct hernias, unilateral and bilateral hernias, and
      recurrent hernias but was inferior for primary bilateral hernias.

      Another technique of LIHR that has evolved is totally extra peritoneal (TEP) repair. As the
      name suggests, the peritoneum is not breached in this technique. Another advantage of TEP
      repair is that it is not essential to fix the mesh thus avoiding the need for a tacker and
      bringing down the cost.

      There have been 4 non randomized comparative studies that have compared the 2 techniques i.e.
      TAPP vs TEP (4,10,-12). The results of these comparative trials have shown that the 2
      techniques are comparable with regard to the complications such as vascular and visceral
      injury. However, the port site recurrence was shown to be higher in the TAPP compared with
      TEP technique. The operating time and the cost of the procedure were not compared in any of
      the trials.

      In a comparative trial of 491 consecutive herniorraphies by Kald et al12, TAPP was compared
      with TEP. Hernia recurrence was shown to be higher in the TAPP group (7/339 vs 0/87) after a
      mean follow up of 23(9) and 7(4) months respectively. Other complications were similar with
      both the techniques (table). However, serious intraabdominal complications occurred in the
      TAPP group - 2 patients with bowel obstruction and one with severe neuralgion. These
      complications were not seen with a completely preperitoneal TEP approach. Although the TEP
      method is technically more difficult, the mean operative time in TAPP (339 patients) and TEP
      (87 patients) groups were similar {80(32) minutes vs 80 (41) minutes; p = 0.9}. The mean
      hospital stay and the times to full recovery were also similar in the TAPP and TEP groups.
      The authors concluded that high quality hernia surgery can be performed with both the TAPP
      and TEP techniques, but the potential danger of transabdominal route suggests that the TEP
      operation may be the procedure of choice in laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair.

      There is only one randomized controlled trial comparing TAPP with TEP repair13. In this RCT,
      52 patients were randomized to either TAPP or TEP. The study showed that the 2 techniques
      were similar with regard to the complications, time to return to activities and hernia
      recurrence. However, the length of stay was shorter in the TAPP group (3.7 vs 4.4 days;
      p=0.03).

      TEP repair is preferred for laparoscopic hernia repair because it preserves the peritoneal
      integrity. However, TEP repair has been associated with a steep learning curve. It's a
      technically demanding procedure because of the unfamiliar anatomy and requires lot of
      training and laparoscopic experience. The efficacy of TEP repair as compared to tension free
      OHR has been studied. It has been found that TEP repair has comparable or even better results
      than OHR7,14 A gradual shift towards TEP has been observed worldwide because of is advantages
      such as reduced risk of bowel injury, bowel adhesions and incisional hernia formation.

      However, since there is only one RCT involving only 52 patients, the Cochrane database review
      200511 has concluded that there are insufficient data comparing TAPP and TEP techniques of
      laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair.

      Therefore, we have designed the present study to compare the transabdominal preperitoneal
      (TAPP) technique with totally extra peritoneal (TEP) technique of laparoscopic inguinal
      hernia repair. We will be using a modified technique of TEP repair where we will not use
      tacker to fix the mesh reduce the cost of the procedure. There is no such comparative study
      reported in the literature.

      We have been performing both TAPP and TEP procedures for hernia repair in the department.
      Both these procedures are well standardized.

      PATIENTS AND METHODS

      Study Design: Prospective randomized controlled trial. Selection of cases and inclusion
      criteria: All consecutive patients with uncomplicated symptomatic inguinal hernia attending
      the out patient department of surgery at AIIMS will be included in the study. The diagnosis
      of inguinal hernia will be made clinically.

      Exclusion criteria: Patients will be excluded if there is - (i) Co-morbid conditions making
      the patients unfit for general anesthesia (ii) Complicated hernia. (iii) Uncorrectable
      coagulopathy (iv) Morbid obesity (Body Mass Index > 30) (v) Suspected intra-abdominal or
      pelvic malignancy.

      METHODS: All patients with uncomplicated inguinal hernia planned for laparoscopic inguinal
      hernia repair will be randomized to receive either TAPP or TEP technique for hernia repair.
      Randomization will be done by using random number table.

      Pre-operative Preparation: Single dose of injection Amoxycillin 1000mg + Clavulinic acid
      250mg AST i.v. will be given as prophylaxis preoperatively. Part will be shaved and cleaned
      properly. Patient will be catheterized before the start of the procedure.

      Operative Procedure

      General Anesthesia- Patient will be placed in supine position with both upper limbs by the
      side of the patient. Induction will be done by propofol and maintenance by O2+N2O+Isoflurane
      and vecuronium. Patients will be kept on intermittent positive pressure ventilation during
      the procedure.

      Technique of TAPP repair:

      Pneumoperitoneum upto 14 mmHg will be created with CO2 using Veress needle at umbilicus. A
      standard 10 mm trocar will be placed 1 cm below the umbilicus for insertion of laparoscope.
      Two additional 5 mm trocars will be placed at the same level approximately 5-6 cm on either
      side of the umbilicus. The contents of the inguinal hernia (if any) will be pulled back into
      the abdomen. A short curved incision will be made lateral to the inguinal ring extending
      transversely below the semilunar line, to enable the formation of a peritoneal flap until the
      identification of the inferior epigastric vessels medially. The rectus muscle will be used to
      identify the pubic tubercle and Cooper's ligament.

      After the dissection, a rolled piece of polypropylene mesh (10x15 cm) will be introduced via
      umbilical port into the abdomen. After unrolling the mesh, it will cover the entire inguinal
      area on the affected side. No tacker will be used to fix the mesh. The peritoneal flaps will
      be closed back to cover the mesh completely using absorbable suture 2-0 polydiaoxanon (PDS);
      this is to prevent adhesions between mesh and intestine. The CO2 will be released, the
      midline trocar fascia will be closed, and then the other trocar sites will be closed with
      simple suture using 3-0 nylon.

      Technique of TEP Procedure:

      All three ports will be made in the midline. A 10 mm port just below the umbilicus will be
      made for telescope. The rectus muscle will be retracted laterally after incising the rectus
      sheath and a blunt dissection done using the balloon dissector or telescope to create
      preperitoneal space until the pubis is felt. Two 5 mm ports will be made, one just above the
      pubis and the other in the midline between 10 mm port and 5 mm pubis port. The entire
      posterior floor will be dissected and the anatomical landmarks recognized. A single sheet of
      mesh will be introduced. It the peritoneum or hernial sac gets inadvertently opened during
      dissection, it will be sutured or ligated with a chromic endoloop, if possible. The mesh will
      be left in the preperitoneal space adequately covering the deep inguinal ring, Hasselback's
      triangle and femoral hernia site. No tacker will be used to fix the mesh. The CO2 will be
      released. The 10 mm port fascia will be closed using 1-0 vicryl, and then the 5mm port sites
      will be closed with simple suture using 3-0 nylon.

      Any intra-operative complications like vascular, nerve or vas injury, peritoneal breach and
      serious visceral injuries will be recorded. The operative time will be recorded as the time
      from the incision until the last skin stitch. Any conversions from totally extra peritoneal
      technique to transabdominal preperitoneal technique and from laparoscopic to open repair will
      be recorded with the specific reason for conversion. The ease of operation will be graded as
      - easy / moderately difficult / difficult.

      Bleeding will be recorded as mild if no suction irrigation is required, moderate if suction
      is required at the end of the procedure or if suction is required to improve vision, and
      severe if blood transfusion is required.

      For postoperative pain relief, injection diclofenac sodium 75 mg i.m. and for vomiting
      injection ondansetron 8 mg i.v. will be given post-operatively in the recovery room to all
      patients. Pain will be recorded at 1, 6, 24 hours after operation, at the time of discharge
      and during follow up on a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) with end points labeled as no pain and
      worst possible pain on a scale of 10.

      Visual analogue scale No pain Worst possible pain

      0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10

      _____________________________________________________________

      Extra analgesic and antiemetic requirements, post-operative time to resume feeding, return of
      bowel activity, total hospital stay, any urinary retention will be the other variables
      measured post-operatively.

      Complications including haematoma / seroma formation and wound infections will be recorded.
      The port site wound infections will be classified according to the CDC classification for
      surgical site infection15 :

        1. Superficial incisional - involving only skin and superficial tissue i.e. subcutaneous
           tissue.

        2. Deep incisional - involving fascial and muscle layer.

        3. Organ/space infection - involving any part of anatomy, other than incision which is
           opened or manipulated e.g. post-operative intraabdominal abscess.

      Recurrence and cosmesis will be recorded during follow-up. Cosmesis will be analyzed by
      patient's satisfaction score on surgery and on scar, which will be labeled on verbal rating
      scale (VRS) with score of:

      0 = Not satisfied

        1. = Partially satisfied

        2. = Satisfied

        3. = Very satisfied
    
  