
    
      Questionnaires:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be asked to complete the MDASI-GI
      questionnaire on Day 1. It asks about any symptoms you may be experiencing, and how those
      symptoms may be interfering with your daily life. You will also complete two questionnaires
      that ask about the overall quality of your life. In total, these questionnaires should take
      about 20 minutes to complete.

      You will then complete a questionnaire that asks for demographic information such as your age
      and marital status. It should take about 5 minutes.

      You will receive another copy of the MDAS-GI questionnaire and the quality-of-life
      questionnaire to take home and complete 1 week later. The research staff will call you to
      remind you when it is time to complete this questionnaires. You should mail it back to the
      study staff in a stamped, pre-addressed envelope that will be provided to you.

      Evaluation of Questionnaires:

      Also on Day 1, a small group of participants (25 out of the 185 total participants) will
      complete an additional questionnaire called a "cognitive debriefing" questionnaire. These 25
      participants will be the first 5 participants to join this study who have 1 of the 5 types of
      cancer being studied.

      The questionnaire asks questions related to how easy it was for you to answer the questions
      on the MDASI-GI questionnaire, whether the questions relate to the symptoms you may be
      experiencing, and whether any other questions should be added. This questionnaire should take
      about 10 minutes to complete.

      Interview:

      Another small group of participants (a different 25 out of the 185 total) will have a
      one-on-one interview with a member of the study staff. During the interview, you will be
      asked to further describe the symptoms you may have experienced. This interview will be
      scheduled for a day when you are going to be at M. D. Anderson for a routine clinic visit. It
      should take about 30 minutes to complete.

      You and the interviewer will be the only ones in the room during the interview, and the
      information collected will be kept confidential. The interview will be tape-recorded.

      Questionnaire and Interview Content:

      Your responses will not be shared with your doctor. If you feel you need a doctor's opinion
      about anything that is asked about, please contact your doctor.

      Information Collection:

      As part of this research study, the research staff will collect information from your medical
      record one time. This will include data about the cancer, cancer treatment, and routine test
      results.

      Length of Study Participation:

      After you mail back the questionnaire at Week 1 (or complete it by phone interview with
      research staff), or after the interview if you have one, your active participation in this
      study will be over.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 185 patients will take part in this study. All will
      be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  