
    
      This is a randomized prospective study evaluating the hemodynamic response in adult
      participants greater than or equal to 18 years of age undergoing RSI in the pre-hospital or
      emergency department setting. Hemodynamic response is the cardiology response of the
      circulatory system. The investigators will compare the drugs Ketamine and Etomidate in
      participants having RSI. Ketamine and Etomidate are immediately available for RSI in both
      settings as both are currently standards of care for RSI.

      Research thus far demonstrates that both Etomidate and ketamine are safe and effective for
      RSI. Despite the reported safety of Ketamine, Etomidate usage continues to far surpass that
      of ketamine. Both Etomidate and Ketamine are FDA-approved for induction of anesthesia. They
      are both ideal drugs for intubation due to their pharmacokinetic properties including a quick
      onset of less than 60 seconds, a short duration of about 10 minutes, and the minimal effect
      they have on the cardiovascular system. The neutral effect on the cardiovascular system is
      particularly important in the acute and traumatic setting when patients are often
      hypotensive.

      However, there are some differences and disadvantages in the two medications. Due to these
      factors and limited data to support Ketamine as an equal or superior alternative to
      Etomidate, it has been difficult to clearly recommend one agent over the other for RSI.

      Data will be analyzed using SPSS with a p-value of less than 0.05 being considered
      significant. The PI will consider a 20% decrease in systolic BP from a participant baseline
      as significant, and will compare the incidence of post RSI hypotension between the two
      groups. Several a priori subgroups will be evaluated to include patients greater than 70
      years of age, trauma participants requiring RSI, and those participants whose shock index is
      less than 0.9 versus those whose shock index is greater than 0.9.

      To maintain 80% power with a probability of 0.05, 200 participants will be needed in each arm
      to detect at 25% difference in SBP (baseline to post drug administration effects)
    
  