
    
      This randomized sham-controlled trial is to determine whether ESWT is effective in the
      treatment of PD. Patients are randomly divided into 3 groups: 1. ESWT treatment during PD
      (n=15）; 2. ESWT treatment before PD（n=15）; 3. abdominal hot paste during PD without
      ESWT（n=15）.

      Exclusion criteria: secondary PD, concomitant chronic disease (epilepsy, gastrointestinal,
      cardiovascular and renal diseases), taken oral contraceptives or vitamin/ mineral supplements
      in the past 3 months, taking part in other clinical trials.

      Medical history will be recorded before the treatment. A questionnaire will be filled by the
      participant. Blood samples will be collected before and after the treatment. Participants
      will be followed up closely by a professional nurse. Participants in group 1 will receive
      ESWT treatment on day1 and day 3 of each menstrual cycle. Participants in group 2 will
      receive twice ESWT treatment one week before the estimated first day of the menstrual cycle.
      Participants in group 3 will receive hot compress paste on their belly 2 inches under the
      navel whenever they feel painful during the menstrual cycle. Patients with PD are treated for
      three menstrual cycles and followed by three menstrual cycles. Evaluation time point will be
      one-menstrual cycle baseline, third-menstrual cycle treatment, and third-menstrual cycle
      follow-up period. The investigators will inform participants to keep warm, avoid cold drink
      and have a healthy lifestyle via telephone communication each week during the trial.

      The plasma concentrations of prostaglandin F2a metabolite, PGE2, visual analogue scale (VAS),
      and pictorial blood loss assessment chart (PBLA), total pain relief over 4 consecutive hours
      (TOPAR4), Self-Rating Anxiety Scale (SAS) and other questionnaires about menstrual pain will
      be recorded and evaluated before and after treatment.
    
  