
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take SB1518 by mouth 1
      time every day. You can take it with or without food, and it should be taken at the same time
      every day.

      You will receive your monthly supply of SB1518 during your clinic visit. The capsules should
      not be opened or crushed. Do not touch the powder in the capsules. If you do, wash effected
      areas thoroughly with water.

      Each study cycle is 28 days.

      Study Visits:

      At every study visit, you will be asked about any drugs you may be taking, and any side
      effects you have had.

      One (1) time a week during Cycle 1, blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine
      tests.

      On Day 1 of Cycles 2 and beyond, blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be collected for routine
      tests.

      On Day 28 of each cycle, you will have a bone marrow aspirate and/or biopsy to check the
      status of the disease. If the screening bone marrow test showed unusual genetic test results,
      these samples will be used for cytogenetic testing. If you have a response to therapy, you
      will have a bone marrow aspirate and/or biopsy every 3 cycles, if your doctor thinks it
      needed.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drug for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drug if the disease gets worse, if
      intolerable side effects occur, you are able to undergo allogeneic bone marrow
      transplantation, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the end-of-treatment
      visit.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      At 30 days after your last dose of study drug, you will have an end-of-treatment visit.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking, and any side effects you have had.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a bone marrow aspirate and/or biopsy to check the status of the disease,
           if your doctor thinks it is needed.

      This is an investigational study. SB1518 is not FDA approved or commercially available. It is
      currently being used for research purposes only.

      Up to 40 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  