
    
      Background:

      One area of therapeutic advancement in immunotherapy has been to identify autologous
      tumor-reactive T-cells and expand them in vitro, and administer them in adoptive transfer
      back to patients. These T-cells have been obtained either from tumor infiltrating lymphocytes
      (TIL) which appear enriched for tumor-reactive T-cells or by in vitro stimulation of
      peripheral blood T-cells from cancer patients. Recent success in patients with melanoma has
      in large part been due to a T-cell expansion protocol described by Riddell et al. using
      anti-CD3 (cluster of differentiation 3) and irradiated allogeneic feeder cells and the use of
      conditioning chemotherapy prior to cell transfer. This current study uses the results of
      these Surgery Branch adoptive cell therapy trials to study their potential in patients with
      metastatic renal cell cancer.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective will be to determine whether adoptive lymphocyte transfer in
      conjunction with preparative lympho-depletion chemotherapy and interleukin-2 (IL-2) may
      result in clinical tumor regression in patients with metastatic renal cancer.

      Eligibility:

      Patients with metastatic renal cell cancer who have failed conventional therapy with
      interleukin-2, from whom tumor-reactive lymphocytes (from either peripheral blood, lymph
      nodes or tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes) can be obtained and expanded in vitro.

      Patients must meet specific safety laboratory criteria, be able to tolerate interleukin 2
      (IL-2), and have no concurrent major medical illnesses or symptomatic brain metastases.

      Design:

      All patients will receive a non-myeloablative lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen of
      cyclophosphamide (60 mg/kg/day intravenous (IV)) on days -7 and -6 and fludarabine (25
      mg/m^2/day intravenous (IV)) on days -5 through -1. On day 0 patients will receive an
      infusion of their own tumor-reactive T cells grown in vitro (greater than or equal to 5x10^8
      cells for a cycle) and then begin high-dose IL-2 (720,000 IU/kg intravenous (IV) every 8
      hours for up to 15 doses).

      Clinical and Immunologic response will be evaluated about 3 to 5 weeks after the treatment
      regimen.

      This trial will be conducted as a phase II trial using a two-stage MinMax design which will
      try to determine whether intravenous (IV) cell administration can produce a modest response
      rate targeted to be greater than or equal to 35 % (p1=0.35) as opposed to an undesirably low
      response rate of less than 15% (p0=0.15). If at least 3 patients of 15 have an objective
      response (partial response (PR) or complete response (CR)) accrual will proceed to 28
      patients, with a projected accrual over three years.
    
  