
    
      All subjects (sixty men) will perform spirometry, measure of inspiratory capacity (IC) and
      maximal inspiratory and expiratory pressures (MIP and MEP). Baseline blood pressure (BP),
      respiratory rate (RR), heart rate (HR), sensation of dyspnea (Borg Scale) and oxygen
      saturation (pulse oximetry, SpO2) will be collected prior to the performance of pulmonary
      function tests.

      The electrical activity of the scalene (ESC), sternocleidomastoid (SCM) and external
      intercostal muscles (INTER) will be measured by surface electromyography (sEMG) at rest and
      during the maneuvers of IC, MIP and MEP.

      Control group: The control group will perform isotonic concentric contraction of the biceps
      (two sets of five push-ups elbow in both arms) with the individual sitting in a chair with
      back support.

      Intervention group: The contract-relax method of proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation
      (PNF) technique will be used for stretching of ESC, ECM and external intercostals muscles.
      The contraction of agonist muscles against the resistance imposed by the physiotherapist
      (isometric contraction) is maintained for 6 seconds. After that, the patient will be asked to
      relax the muscles for 6 seconds without losing range of motion, and then the muscle will be
      lengthened. This procedure is repeated until the maximum amplitude of motion of the neck and
      upper limb is reached. The stretching will be performed on the right and left sides of the
      body.

      Statistical analysis will be carried out with the Statistical Package for the Social
      Sciences, version 18.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). Normality of data distribution will be
      assessed by the Shapiro-Wilk test.

      Values will be presented as mean ± standard deviation (SD) or median (25-75%). To compare the
      differences between the baseline characteristics between the groups the t test for
      independent samples will be used. The effect of the intervention will be evaluated by paired
      t test. For the analysis of the electromyographic signal will be use the Wilcoxon T test.
      Statistical significance is accepted at p < 0.05.
    
  