
    
      During 3 months duration ( the treatment course duration) , Optical coherence tomography
      angiography (OCT-A) will be performed to 30 eyes of 30 patients with a documented diagnosis
      of chronic hepatitis C before and after receiving dual-therapy planning (Daclatasvir -
      Sofosbuvir (Sovaldi)) , normal renal functions And Rheumatoid factor tests , will undergo a
      comprehensive ophthalmic examination including:

        -  Manifest refraction

        -  Corrected distance visual acuity

        -  Anterior segment examination using slit lamp and tear film breakup time test

        -  Fundus examination

      Recent Optical coherence tomography angiography (OCT-A) will be performed to all patients
      before Treatment Administration.

      Examination will be performed using "Optovue AngioVue®" "Optovue, Inc., Fremont, CA", which
      uses split-spectrum amplitude-decorrelation angiography algorithm, which minimizes motion
      noise. This system also allows quantitative analysis, since it provides numerical data about
      flow area and flow density maps.

      The patient will be examined before and after finishing the treatment course

      * Optical coherence tomography angiography (OCT-A) image acquisition OCT-A will be done for
      all patients who are instructed to focus on a fixation target. OCTA images are obtained using
      the "RTVue XR Avanti (AngioVue; Optovue Inc, Fremont, California, USA)" machine and the
      incorporated "AngioVue OCT-A" system. Algorithm used is Split-Spectrum Amplitude
      Decorrelation Algorithm (SSADA). The scans which will be included in the study are of high
      signal strength more than 0.7 and they will be carefully inspected for motion artifacts.
      Automatic segmentation of intraretinal layers will be done using the automated software of
      the machine (version 2016.2.0; Optovue Inc). Angio-retina scan sizes in this study will be 6
      X 6 mm for all eyes. Assessment of the macular vessel density will be done for superficial
      vascular layer, capillary plexus, deep capillary plexus and all retinal plexuses). Assessment
      of the foveal avascular zone on both superficial vascular layer (SVL) and deep capillary
      plexuses (DCP); including its size, perimeter and circularity (regularity) index. Circularity
      index is a measure of compactness of a shape relative to a circle. The circularity index of a
      circle is 1.0. Thus, a ratio closer to 0 indicates an irregular shape, and that closer to 1.0
      indicates a circular shape.

      All results will be in numerical values (percentage) to compare retinal vascularity before
      and after using the drug. Best corrected visual acuity (in values from o.o5 to 1.0) , dryness
      (in seconds) will be also measured before and after drug administration and it will be
      compared .
    
  