
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the toxicity profile and maximum tolerated dose of radiotherapy when given in
           combination with gefitinib in patients with previously untreated, medically inoperable
           stage I or II non-small cell lung cancer. (Phase I)

        -  Determine the efficacy of gefitinib when given for 6 weeks prior to and concurrent with
           radiotherapy, in terms of objective response rate (partial and complete response), in
           these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the 3-month tumor response (complete and partial response) in patients treated
           with this regimen.

        -  Determine the 6-week response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the local disease control rate (complete and partial response, stable disease)
           in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the local progression-free survival and disease-specific survival (cancer vs
           co-morbid disease) of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the pattern of failure (e.g., local, regional, or distant metastasis) in
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the acute and late radiation toxic effects to organs at risk in patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the safety profile of gefitinib in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study of radiotherapy.

        -  Patients receive oral gefitinib once daily for 13 weeks. Patients also undergo
           radiotherapy 5 days a week for 7 weeks beginning at week 7. Patients continue to receive
           gefitinib alone after completion of radiotherapy in the absence of disease progression
           or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 6-10 patients receive escalating doses of radiotherapy until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 3 of 6
      patients experience acute dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive oral gefitinib as in phase I and radiotherapy at the MTD
           determined in phase I. After the completion of radiotherapy, patients continue to
           receive gefitinib in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 37 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  