
    
      Providing patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) access to remote monitoring, for example
      by telephone or telemonitoring using wireless technology, reduces deaths and hospitalisations
      and may provide benefits on health care costs and quality of life. Remote monitoring of
      patients can reduce pressure on resources, particularly for conditions like chronic heart
      failure, which exert a large burden on health services. These are conclusions of a Cochrane
      Systematic Review.

      In Norway the costs for treatment of chronic heart failure are vast, both concerning hospital
      treatment, daily use of medication over years, and loss of quality of life for patients and
      their family caregivers. Generally there is little knowledge about what is gained for the
      billions used. In Norway no telemonitoring services are established and hence no
      investigations have yet been published. Thus it seems that current evidence of effectiveness
      and quality is insufficient to recommend usage. The structure and funding streams in
      Norwegian health services are different from other countries and the conventional services
      that the intervention has been compared to in previous studies, are most likely
      heterogeneous. It is thus important to investigate Norwegian conditions.

      Advanced telemonitoring technology with electronic transfer of physiological data such as
      blood pressure and weight is currently being used in research and established routine
      services in several countries in Europe, amongst them the Netherlands, Germany and the United
      Kingdom.

      The proposed project intends to introduce such a strategy as an avenue for exploring
      promising new services that would not otherwise be available in Norway. The service consists
      of daily monitoring the patients' weight and blood pressure directly from their home;
      automatically and securely transmit the values to a server at UNN; and monitor the values by
      a trained nurse at the Heart polyclinic.

      The primary objective of this study is thus to explore whether, as compared to current care
      from the heart polyclinic, the introduction of home telemonitoring will reduce hospital
      readmissions and will, in addition, be cost-effective. This is in line with the recent
      directions of European telemonitoring programmes for patients with chronic heart failure.
      This result may define if the telemonitoring of heart failure patients is feasible for Norway
      or not at all.

      Identifying successful innovations to be introduced into the Norwegian health care services
      is a condition for more cost effectiveness and better treatment quality.
    
  