
    
      1.0 Purpose:

      To perform a randomized controlled trial to determine if topical tacrolimus ointment reduces
      incidence or severity of post-operative facial edema and malar bags after elective
      blepharoplasty and/or facelift.

      2.0 Hypothesis:

      Topical tacrolimus will reduce the incidence and severity of post-operative facial edema
      presenting as malar bags after blepharoplasty and/or facelift.

      3.0 Justification:

      Elective blepharoplasty is the fourth most common cosmetic procedures performed in North
      America. According to a report published by the American Society of Plastic Surgery, eye lid
      surgery accounted for 209,000 out of the 1.7 million cosmetic surgical procedures performed
      in 2016. Additionally, the number of eye lid surgeries rose 2% in 2016 compared to 2015 [ref
      1].

      Recurrent or worsened malar bags is a common complication of lower lid surgery. Studies
      suggest that post-operative lymphedema is a possible cause of these malar bags. Recent
      research into lymphedema pathophysiology shows that post-operative lymphedema is not simply a
      result of direct lymphatic injury, but rather a complex fibroproliferative inflammatory
      process.

      Topical tacrolimus has long been used to treat various inflammatory skin disorders such as
      atopic dermatitis and psoriasis safely and effectively. By combining our knowledge of
      lymphedema pathophysiology and tacrolimus mechanism of action, we can hypothesize that it can
      be effectively used as a treatment to prevent post-operative malar bags as a result of
      lymphedema.

      4.0 Objectives:

      4.1. To apply topical tacrolimus ointment to a randomized cheek in sequential patients
      undergoing lower lid blepharoplasty, facelift or both and compare to the contralateral
      control cheek.

      4.2. To determine if topical tacrolimus affects the incidence and severity of post-operative
      malar edema compared to the self-matched contralateral control cheek.

      5.0 Research Design:

      This is a double blinded randomized controlled trial involving an initial surgery followed by
      random topical drug treatment that is self matched to a contralateral control side. There
      will be 3 follow up visits for analysis.

      6.0 Statistical Analysis:

      6.1 Statistical Considerations

      The primary endpoint is post operative malar edema which typically occurs 10-20% of the time
      following lower lid blepharoplasty and/or facelift procedures. If we expect to reduce the
      occurrence to 1-5% the number of patients required to achieve a significant result (α = 0.05
      (2-sided), β = 0.20) is 40-100.

      No increase in sample size has been made to account for losses to follow-up. In our practice
      over the past 10 years we have found that less than 1% of patients do not return for a
      follow-up visit.

      6.2 Outcome Measures

      A custom four point scale will be used to record the outcomes for each cheek:

      I: No post operative edema. II: Mild post operative edema. III: Moderate post operative
      edema. IV: Severe post operative edema.

      Example photographs will be provided to the blinded rater for each category.

      6.3 Data Collection

      Outcome measurements will be performed by a single observer who will be blinded to the
      contents of the containers and which cheek either was applied to. Data will be collected on
      study specific data collection forms.

      7.0 Procedure

      7.1 Surgical Procedure

      The lower lid blepharoplasty and facelift procedures will be performed by Dr. Richard Warren
      in the usual fashion based on the patient's presenting problem. Specific differences in
      technique such as skin only excision vs fat transposition and ORL (Orbicularis Retaining
      Legament) division will be recorded and analyzed separately.

      7.2 Tacrolimus Application

      Patients will be given two containers labelled with "Right" and "Left" to be applied to their
      right and left cheeks respectively. The patients will apply the ointment once daily for 4
      weeks post operatively. The contents of the containers will be randomized to either the
      treatment tacrolimus ointment or the control ointment which will be matched in colour and
      consistency to the tacrolimus ointment. They will be given instructions on applying the
      ointments based on FDA recommendations.

      7.3 Choice of Tacrolimus Dose

      The treatment containers will contain 0.1% tacrolimus ointment (marketed as PROTOPIC) based
      on FDA recommendations for adult patients. This dose of the drug is known to be sufficiently
      absorbed by inflamed skin reaching peak concentrations of 0.05-0.25ng/ml 3-6 hours after
      application. This is significantly lower than the accepted safe level of 5-20ng/ml
      established based on transplant research. [ref 16,17]

      7.4 Post-operative Treatment

      Patients will be followed post operatively in the office at 1 week, 4 weeks, and 6 months.
      Degree of post operative malar edema will be assessed by a single blinded observer. This will
      be recorded using a four point scale. Any side effects or adverse events will also be
      recorded.
    
  