
    
      Background: With the existing biopsy instruments for flexible endoscopy it's only possible to
      achieve superficial biopsies comprising the mucosa and very seldom some small fragments of
      the submucosa. It is, however, increasingly important to get biopsies from the submucous
      tissues because the tumors that are on the increase more than any other in the stomach is the
      GIST (GastroIntestinal Stroma Tumours) that grows in the submucosa. Cytology is not enough
      for a reliable diagnosis and to often not representative. Furthermore there is a well-known
      risk for tract seeding when sampling through the abdominal wall with a fine needle
      instrument.

      The investigators have invented a new biopsy instrument for flexible endoscopy that is a
      drill within a cylinder that can be used for biopsies of the submucous tissues, for instance
      GIST-tumours, see www.BIBBInstruments.com.

      Hypothesis: Will it be possible to achieve representative submucous tissue from the
      gastrointestinal tract with the newly constructed drill biopsy instrument for flexible
      endoscopy. The investigators hypothesize that the amount of tissue harvested with the new
      drill biopsy instrument will give significantly more amount of tissue to evaluate for the
      pathologist than the existing biopsy forceps.

      Method: Ten patients with tumours in the submucosa of the stomach are examined with a
      gastroscope. The investigator decides where the first biopsy should be taken and randomly the
      investigator blindly get the new drill instrument or the conventional biopsy forceps and take
      the biopsy on the decided localization. The next site of the tumour is decided and again
      blindly the investigator get one of the two biopsy instruments according to a previously
      decided scheme. Six biopsies (three with each of the two biopsy tools) in every patient are
      harvested in ten patients. With altogether 30 specimen for each biopsy instrument and a
      difference of 1/3 which is a low calculated difference 10 patients as above will give a 80 %
      Power (Chi-2 = 5.40, p = 0.02*). The amount of submucous tissue harvested with the two biopsy
      instruments are measured in microgram and as percentage of all the biopsy and compared. The
      quality of the specimens are also calculated.
    
  