
    
      The primary outcome was the difference in mean 24-hour blood pressure variation between the
      two groups after the intervention. The difference in mean of blood pressure during daytime
      and nighttime in 24h ambulatory blood pressure monitory, as well as the office BP and
      laboratory differences were considered secondary outcomes.

      This randomized, double-blind parallel study was conducted in the Hypertension Clinic of the
      Department of Cardiology, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre (Porto Alegre, Brazil).

      We selected hypertensive individuals (controlled or not) without diabetes aged 18-70 years.

      Exclusion criteria: metformin intolerance, creatinine > 1,5 mg/dl Risks: adverse effects
      related to metformin use, mainly diarrhea and nausea Benefits: possible lower effect on
      arterial pressure Statistical analysis: sample size was calculated on the basis of a standard
      deviation of 8 mm Hg and effect size of 5 mm Hg in 24-h systolic ABPM and a two-sided
      significance level of 5%. A sample size of 42 patients per group was estimated to provide a
      power of 80% to reject the null hypothesis. Considering possible 10% of losses, the final
      calculated sample was 92 patients.

      The baseline comparison between groups was performed using the Student t test for continuous
      variables and x2 for categorical variables. In each group, the change in BP by ABPM -24 h,
      daytime and nighttime, and laboratory tests was calculated by subtracting baseline values
      measured after the intervention period. The difference between groups was calculated by
      subtracting the variation observed between them (δ-values). The differences in BP variation
      and laboratory tests were analyzed by analysis of variance for repeated measures (MANOVA).
      For differences in pressure variation adjustment was considered for the baseline BP values
      (analysis of covariance). All tests were two-tailed and significance level was 5%. Data were
      analyzed using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) version 13.0.
    
  