
    
      Traumatic brain injury (TBI) represents a major health problem in United States military
      service members. Mild traumatic brain injury, also called "concussion", accounts for
      approximately 90% of the overall cases of TBI. Mild TBI (mTBI) is associated with various
      debilitating symptoms, such as headache, mood disorders, and sleep alterations. A high
      percentage of service members and veterans with suspected or confirmed mTBI are also
      diagnosed with insomnia or other sleep disorders.

      In-person cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) has been documented as an
      effective therapy for treating insomnia. However, implementation within the Military
      Healthcare System (MHS) has been lacking due to lack of appropriately trained practitioners.
      Additionally, patients may overlook in-person therapy due to significant time commitment.

      This study is a double-blind, randomized, controlled clinical trial to assess internet-guided
      CBT-I in military service members with insomnia and mTBI. The primary outcome measure for
      efficacy is the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) with secondary cross-validation using the
      Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). Approximately 200 participants will be randomized to
      treatment or control groups. Participants receiving active CBT-I will follow a 9-week
      internet-guided program requiring daily follow-up through an online portal that may be
      accessed via computer or phone. Participants in the control group will also receive access to
      an online portal for 9 weeks.

      Primary analysis is percent improvement in severity symptoms assessed pre- and
      post-treatment. Secondary analysis is percent retained improvement in severity of symptoms
      assessed post-treatment and long-term follow-up at 6 months.

      Secondary outcome measures will capture a variety of known and suspected insomnia precursors,
      predictors, or correlates and functional outcomes.
    
  