
    
      Heart failure (HF) is a costly, chronic, and complex condition that impacts veterans' quality
      of life, morbidity, and mortality. In the VA population up to 20% of patients are readmitted
      for HF within 30 days. Non-adherence to prescribed medication and self-care regimens in
      patients with HF is known to lead to increased morbidity, including readmissions. Cognitive
      impairment (CI) has been shown to predict nonadherence in elderly people without HF, however,
      this link has not been studied in HF populations. In the non-veteran population, HF patients
      are known to have an increased prevalence of cognitive impairment (CI), however, no existing
      study has determined the extent and type of CI in veterans with HF.

      This pilot study was designed as a descriptive cross-sectional study as a pre-implementation
      effort with following goals: (1) determine the prevalence of CI in veterans with all-cause HF
      in an outpatient setting; (2) quantitatively describe the extent of CI in this population;
      (3) qualitatively describe neuropsychological domains affected by CI; (4) evaluate the
      association of CI with medication adherence and other clinical variables.

      All consenting eligible outpatients in our VA HF clinic underwent a simple screening test for
      CI (Saint Louis University Mental Status Exam). Demographic and clinical variables were
      collected by patient interviews and chartg reviews, and included Geriatric Depression Scale
      and questionnaires about medication-taking behaviors. All subjects were invited back for
      30-day direct pill count of all their routinely prescribed medications. Subjects who screened
      positive for CI were invited back for a modified battery of neuropsychological tests to
      determine the cognitive domains affected. Subjects will also be followed after the 12-month
      study period to collect data on hospital readmissions.
    
  