
    
      This is a single-center, open-label, controlled mechanistic study before-and-after allergen
      instillation study that uses each subject as his/her own control. Reliability of study
      measurements of expression is accomplished by comparing repeated measurements. Additional
      controls are provided by measuring the expression of markers known to have stable expression,
      including cell structural proteins and chemokine markers that the investigators know are
      induced in this experimental paradigm from our previous studies. This is an investigational
      study. Subjects will receive an investigational product, either Standardized Cat Allergen
      Extract or Standardized Dust Mite Allergen (Dermatophagoides farinae or D. pteronyssinus). No
      subject will be given a placebo. There are 2 cohorts, allergic asthmatics (AA) and healthy
      controls (HC). The main comparisons will be measurement of primary and secondary outcome
      measures in: (1) diluent versus allergen-challenged segments of the lung in each asthmatic
      subject and (2) comparison of these responses in allergic asthmatics (AA) and healthy
      controls (HC).

      The investigators will enroll 20 AA subjects (10 in Track 1 & 10 in Track 2) and 10 HC
      subjects (Track 1). There will be no randomization. The choice of allergen will be determined
      by allergy skin testing. When a subject is allergic to both cat and dust mite, one will be
      selected with a goal of having a representative sample of cat and dust mite challenges in
      each cohort. The 10 allergic asthmatic (AA) subjects and HC subjects in Track 1 will undergo
      preliminary screening tests and provide 200 ml of blood for DC and T cell studies on one
      occasion. Track 1 subjects will not undergo bronchoscopy, bronchoalveolar lavage, or
      segmental allergen challenge. The 10 allergic asthmatic (AA) subjects in Track 2 will undergo
      SAC with either standardized cat or mite allergen. These subjects will also donate 200 ml of
      blood on two occasions separated by a minimum of 4 weeks and not more than 12 weeks.
    
  