
    
      From November 2013 to November 2014, 336 patients fitted our inclusion criteria underwent
      transrectal ultrasound-guided prostate biopsy (TRUSPB).

      Informed consent was obtained from all patients after detail description of the study.

      Bowel preparation with cleansing enema (a sodium phosphate and dibasic sodium phosphate
      enema) and antibiotic prophylaxis with Levofloxacin 500 mg. was prescribed.

      Patients were randomized into three equal groups where Group I: to receive intravenous
      diazepam 5 mg slowly just before probe insertion Group II: received 10 cc of 1% Lidocaine
      injected into the periprostatic nerve plexus bilaterally under ultrasound guidance using a 22
      gauge 7 inch needle , prior to injection caution was taken to aspirate before injection to
      avoid accidental intravascular injection of lidocaine, proper needle placement and injection
      of lidocaine a sonographic hypoechogenicity is created between the rectal wall and the base
      of the seminal vesicles causing the seminal vesicles to separate from the rectal wall and
      appear to be raised (fig.1) prostate biopsies had begun 2 to 3 minutes after lidocaine
      injection. Group III: intravenous diazepam 5 mg slowly just before probe insertion and 10 cc
      of 1% Lidocaine injected into the periprostatic nerve plexus bilaterally under ultrasound
      guidance.

      Prostatic biopsies was performed in combined directed and random technique or extended random
      technique in absence of focal abnormality with mean number of biopsies 10 biopsies (9 to 12
      biopsy) were done per patient.

      The sedation scale were evaluated according to sedation scale. After the procedure,
      discomfort and pain experienced during performing the biopsy technique were graded using a
      10-point linear visual analog pain scale.

      All patients were monitored during and after the procedure for possible complications,
      patients were also questioned regarding any adverse effect at one week duration (at the time
      of receiving the histopathological results).
    
  