
    
      This is a single center, prospective, randomized phase II study with a phase I safety lead
      in. Patients in this study will undergo radiation therapy alone or in combination with
      durvalumab (MEDI 4736). Patients eligible for treatment must be diagnosed with node negative,
      non-metastatic, biopsy- proven early-stage NSCLC and be ineligible for surgical resection or
      refuse surgical resection.

      Enrollment will begin with a phase I lead in evaluating radiation therapy with durvalumab
      (MEDI 4736). (Regimen A) to ensure general safety of this combination and specifically
      relating to pulmonary toxicity (pneumonitis), cardiac toxicity (pericarditis) and
      gastrointestinal toxicity (esophagitis, gastritis, enterocolitis). Following initial
      demonstration of safety, enrollment to the phase II component with 1:1 randomization to
      radiation therapy and durvalumab (MEDI 4736), (Regimen A) or radiation therapy alone (Regimen
      B) will be performed with stratification only based on T-stage (Tumor) (T1 versus T2). A
      total of 90 patients will be randomized in the phase II component.

      Regimen A:

      Durvalumab (MEDI 4736), at 1500 mg via IV infusion will be delivered on day -5 of therapy.
      Radiation therapy will start on Day 0 ±5 from the first infusion of durvalumab (MEDI 4736)
      and patients will receive 3, 4, or 10 fractions of radiation therapy to a total dose of 54
      Grays (Gy), 50Gy, or 65Gy, respectively.

      Starting on day 23 (28 days post first durvalumab (MEDI 4736), infusion), durvalumab (MEDI
      4736), 1500mg IV q4weeks will be delivered for up to 4 additional cycles or until
      progression, toxicity or withdrawal from study.

      Regimen B:

      Patients will receive radiation therapy alone of 3, 4, or 10 fractions to a total dose of
      54Gy, 50Gy, or 65Gy, respectively. Regimen B patients will not receive durvalumab (MEDI 4736)
      and will only receive radiation therapy.

      Safety review will continue to occur on an ongoing basis. Should the rates of grade 3
      treatment-related pulmonary toxicity (defined as pneumonitis), cardiac toxicity (defined as
      pericarditis) or gastrointestinal toxicity (defined as esophagitis, gastritis or enter
      colitis) be observed at a frequency greater than 15%, accrual will be halted and study will
      be re-evaluated. Should any patient have ≥ grade 4 treatment-related adverse effects, accrual
      will be halted and study will be re-evaluated Follow-up Routine surveillance computerized
      axial tomography (CT) imaging of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis will be performed starting at
      12 weeks after completion of radiation in both treatment groups to allow for primary endpoint
      assessment. Routine CT imaging surveillance will continue per standard of care. Patients will
      also be followed clinically with history and physical examinations, vitals signs, and
      laboratory examinations as indicated.
    
  