
    
      The melanoma diagnosis represents a patchwork of transitions for the family with the
      opportunity to promote early detection in the first-degree relatives of melanoma patients.
      While family communication is a promising way to promote risk awareness and provide skills
      training in skin self-examination (SSE), knowing about a family member with a history of
      melanoma is no guarantee that a relative will accept their risk or act to minimize their risk
      by performing SSE. Indeed performance of SSE by people at-risk to develop melanoma ranges
      from 39% to 50%. Family separation by distance can now be overcome with technology (Skype,
      Facetime), but support for melanoma patients, who frame the risk of developing melanoma for
      their relatives, does not exist. The melanoma patient needs to be a) confident in their
      ability to communicate with at-risk relatives, b) able to reassure their loved one(s) that
      they can learn to do a skin check and perform it well, and c) supported in their decisions
      about pigmented lesions (moles) by ready access to a physician. The tools to learn how to
      check for melanoma with the assistance of a partner to see locations that are difficult for a
      person to see on their own body, e.g. the back and tops of the ears have been developed and
      validated by Robinson et al. Now, we will use of informatics technology of the proven
      physician-to-physician consultation of the Vibrent Mobile Telederm system to provide
      first-degree relatives of melanoma patients with education about their risk of developing
      melanoma and the importance of early detection, teach the skills to perform SSE, provide
      diaries for home use and access to a dermatologist. The first-degree relative will download
      the Eviderma Smart Phone Teledermatology Application (Eviderma), learn how to perform SSE,
      and self-report their adherence to their care plan by reporting their SSE results, and send
      the dermatologist a picture of one pigmented lesion (mole) each month with scores of the
      features and a decision about whether it is concerning, and the dermatologist will recommend
      next steps. The first-degree relative will benefit from automated self-service supported via
      tailored content and evidence-based health literacy and educational content. This program
      gives the first-degree relative of the melanoma patient the right information at the right
      time to learn the skills needed to detect concerning lesions without unnecessary visits to
      the doctor, thus, saving cost.

      The study aims are as follows:

        1. To expand the uptake of an efficacious evidence-based SSE training program to
           first-degree relatives with the Eviderma program.

             -  Eviderma develops materials for the first-degree relatives of melanoma patients,
                and improves their education and awareness of the risk of developing melanoma.

             -  Assess engagement of first-degree relatives within the Eviderma program.

        2. To assess the efficacy of the Eviderma program for melanoma patients' first-degree
           relatives.

             -  A randomized controlled trial with the first-degree relatives of melanoma patients
                diagnosed with Stage 0-IIIA within the last five years

             -  Assess change from baseline to 4 months in: a) knowledge about melanoma b)
                perception of risk of developing melanoma and importance of early detection b) SSE
                skills c) SSE performance, d) physician visits

        3. To examine for whom the Eviderma program works best/least by assessing baseline
           perceived risk, importance of melanoma and its early detection, SSE self-efficacy and
           sex moderate SSE performance.

        4. Assess health care expenditures of first-degree relatives using the Eviderma program in
           comparison with controls for the cost of visits with the primary care physician and
           dermatologist, including biopsy of lesions and their pathology
    
  