
    
      This randomized clinical trial aims to compare the effectiveness of three topical fluoride
      application protocols, namely three applications of a 30% SDF solution at yearly or weekly
      interval and three applications of a 5% NaF varnish at weekly interval, in arresting dental
      caries in the primary teeth of preschool children over 30 months.

      Preschool children attending the first year of the kindergartens will be invited to join this
      study. An invitation letter will be sent to the parents explaining the purpose and procedures
      of this study. Parental consent will be sought. Generally healthy children who have at least
      one tooth with untreated caries into dentine will be invited to participate and they will be
      followed for 30 months.

      Dental clinical examination of the children will be conducted by a calibrated dentist in the
      kindergarten. Tooth and oral hygiene condition will be recorded. A parental questionnaire
      will be administered at baseline and at the 30-month follow-up visits regarding their
      children's socio-economic background and oral health related behaviours. The questionnaire
      will also assess parental satisfaction with their child's oral health and dental aesthetics.

      All active dental caries lesions of the participant children will be treated if possible. The
      children will be categorized as having a high or a low caries rate. They will then be
      allocated by a stratified randomization method to one of the three study groups:

      Group A - 3 applications of a 30% SDF solution at yearly interval Group B - 3 applications of
      a 30% SDF solution at weekly interval Group C - 3 applications of a 5% NaF varnish at weekly
      interval

      A dental operator who is not involved in the examination of the child will apply the fluoride
      agents. Follow-up oral examinations will be conducted every 6 months in the kindergartens for
      30 months. The status of the treated teeth and any possible side/adverse effects will be
      recorded in the follow-up examinations.
    
  