
    
      After general anesthesia, almost 90% patients have lung atelectasis. The lung atelectasis
      persisted even after the surgery, and caused post operative complication, for example: fever,
      pleural effusion, hypoxemia, pneumonia, and respiratory failure. So, how to improve lung
      function after the surgery is a important issue. High-flow nasal cannula oxygen therapy
      delivers adequately heated and humidified medical gas at up to 60 L/min of flow. It provides
      respiratory support: 1. Reduction of dead Space by clearance of expired air in the upper
      airways. 2. Delivering positive airway pressure. 3. delivering optimal humidity, which helps
      maintain function of the mucociliary transport system, clearing secretions and reducing the
      risk of infections. Many reports suggest that high-flow nasal cannula decreases breathing
      frequency and work of breathing and reduces intubation rate in critical ill patients.
      Although high-flow nasal cannula was used widely in intensive care unit (ICU) , there are no
      enough evidence in patients under general anesthesia. The hypothesis of this study is that
      using high-flow nasal oxygen in intravenous general anesthesia could improve lung function
      and prevent lung atelectasis. Liver tumor radiofrequency ablation was performed sometimes in
      patients under general anesthesia. Intravenous general anesthesia is one of the anesthesia
      choice. Oxygen mask is the traditional oxygen delivery system. Apnea, hypoxemia, and CO2
      retention are common situation in intravenous general anesthesia. So high-flow nasal oxygen
      is an ideal oxygen delivery system in intravenous general anesthesia. This randomized control
      study will enroll patients receiving CT guided liver tumor radiofrequency ablation under
      general anesthesia. One group will receive high-flow nasal oxygen, the other group will
      receive traditional oxygen mask. The primary outcome is lung atelectasis area in CT scan. The
      secondary outcome is respiratory function (for example: arterial blood gas, lung injury
      biomarkers, saturation, postoperative pulmonary complication)
    
  