
    
      This is a three-arm prospective double-blinded randomized comparative trial. Experienced
      interventional radiologists and anesthetists at the MUHC and study affiliated centers will
      carry out all interventions.

        -  72 consecutive subjects meeting the eligibility criteria, considered for knee
           replacement in the future.

        -  Patients will be referred for consideration for the study by specialized arthroplasty
           orthopedic surgeons from their osteoarthritis clinic at St-Mary's hospital.

        -  Prospective patients interested will be referred to the interventional radiology clinic
           at the MUHC for discussion of the procedures and of the study and recruitment.

        -  Consent will be obtained from all patients.

        -  Patients who accept to participate and fit the criteria will be randomized to receive
           either the embolization procedure, the nerve ablation procedure or a sham procedure.
           They will fill out the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (WOMAC)
           and osteoarthritis knee and hip quality of life questionnaire (OAKHQOL) questionnaires
           as well the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) for pain which will serve as baseline.

        -  They will then be contacted by the appropriate service to schedule the procedure.

        -  All embolization or nerve ablation procedures will be performed by either a qualified
           interventional radiologist or anesthetist.

      Patients will be informed that they will not know which procedure they will receive. A
      barrier will be placed to shield them from visualizing the procedure and, for both procedures
      and sham procedure, skin freezing, and post-procedural bandages will be applied to the groin
      and in the skin around the knee. The patients will be informed that the procedures can take
      similar time between 15 minutes and 1 hr and that timing is variable between patients. They
      will also be informed that pain sensation around the knee can be similar between procedures.
      For all procedures, a written scenario (words and manipulations of the skin) will be followed
      such that all patients have the impression they are getting the same thing despite some
      having only the sham, others the embolization, and others the denervation. At the end of all
      procedures, patients will be transferred to the recovery room as per routine for
      interventional radiology procedures. Recovery room nurses will not know which of the
      procedures the patient had. They will be informed to look out for possible complications from
      either procedure. Patients will be informed that they must remain with their legs still for
      3hrs after the procedure to prevent bleeding from the possible puncture in the artery that is
      necessary for the embolization procedure. No procedure specific technical discussion
      regarding the procedure will occur during the procedures to suggest what was done, only the
      common scenario will be followed. All this will be done in an attempt to blind the patient as
      much as possible. Blinding will be lifted for once the patient has completed the study. There
      is a final questionnaire to be filled out by the patient and physician at which point the
      patient will be informed of what procedure they received.

        -  The patients will be offered IV analgesia using midazolam and fentanyl during the
           procedure at regular intervals and the patients will be left to decide if they think it
           is necessary or not.

        -  Analgesics will be provided as per set orders during the recovery period in the
           post-procedural recovery room. Pain scales and medications provided are routinely
           registered in Post-Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU) documents and this data will be collected

        -  The patient will be discharged home with standard prescriptions for 2-3 days of
           post-procedural home analgesics and then will restart their routine pain control regimen
           they have been using.

        -  After the procedure, while at home, the patient will fill out paper or on-line
           confidential surveys (only study number on the survey, no patient identifying
           information) of routine medications used, WOMAC questionnaires and a VAS at regular
           interval (1d, 1wk, 2wks, 1m, 2m, 3m, 6m, 9m, 12m and if the patient has surgery at 1wk,
           2wk, 1m, 2m, and 3m post-surgery). In addition, the OAKHQOL questionnaire will be filled
           out at 1m, 6m, and 12m and if the patient has surgery a 3m after surgery. The patients
           will be contacted by phone to make sure they remember to fill these out at the correct
           intervals. If they have chosen to use the paper forms, they will be collected in a
           pre-stamped envelope to send back to us at the 12m mark.

        -  A patient will be considered to have completed the study after 12m without knee surgery
           or 3m after a knee replacement surgery, whichever occurs first.

        -  Data will be gathered, stored, and analyzed.

        -  Data collected will include demographics, relevant medical history, vital signs, which
           procedure was performed, as well as the use of IV and oral analgesics, visual analog
           pain scores (VAS), WOMAC, and OAKHQOL questionnaires, X-rays performed during routine
           follow-ups at the orthopedic surgery clinic will be graded as per International Knee
           Documentation Committee (IKDC) grading system.

        -  Other than the initial visit aimed at getting consent and randomizing the patients and
           the procedures themselves, any research specific patient encounters scheduled in this
           study will be done by phone, unless the patient requests otherwise.
    
  