
    
      Cesarean delivery is the most commonly performed surgical procedure in the United States
      today, with over 1.2 million cases performed in 2005. One of the most important aspects of
      cesarean delivery is the provision of safe, effective postoperative analgesia for the mother,
      while simultaneously ensuring minimal side effects for both the mother and neonate. Studies
      have suggested that a multimodal approach to post-cesarean pain utilizing both intravenous,
      oral, and neuraxial opioids and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs is highly effective in
      providing effective analgesia.

      A significant component of post-cesarean pain is incisional pain from the Pfannenstiel
      incision on the anterior abdominal wall. The sensory supply to the skin, muscles, and
      parietal peritoneum of the anterior abdominal wall is derived from the anterior rami of
      T7-L1. After exiting the spinal column, these nerves proceed through the lateral abdominal
      wall within the transversus abdominal fascial plane, terminating in the anterior abdominal
      wall.

      Recent studies have suggested that blocking these afferent sensory nerves with local
      anesthetics, as part of a multimodal postoperative pain regimen, provides superior pain
      relief in terms of decreased pain scores and morphine consumption for up to 48 hours
      postoperatively. The technique utilized for these studies employed a surface anatomical
      approach to the transversus abdominal fascial plane via the lumbar triangle of Petit, a
      technique validated in both cadaveric and radiologic studies. However, as ultrasonography has
      emerged as the "gold standard" for initiating many nerve blocks, reports have described the
      successful use of ultrasound imaging for initiation of transversus abdominis plane (TAP)
      blocks for both abdominal surgeries and cesarean deliveries.

      In the published studies investigating the use of the TAP block for post-operative analgesia,
      either ropivacaine or bupivacaine was utilized in concentrations of 0.75% and 0.375%,
      respectively. Studies comparing ropivacaine with bupivacaine for use in interscalene,
      femoral, or sciatic nerve blocks have found no difference in terms of potency, time to onset
      or duration of postoperative analgesia between the two local anesthetics. Although no similar
      studies have been done with TAP blocks, one can assume that utilization of ropivacaine for
      this nerve block would yield similar results in terms postoperative analgesia. Moreover, the
      cardiotoxicity of ropivacaine has been shown to be significantly less than bupivacaine,
      making it a safer alternative for use in nerve blocks when used in high doses.

      Risk factors for respiratory depression after the administration of neuraxial opioids in the
      non-obstetric population include morbid obesity and obstructive sleep apnea. For the
      obstetric population, a study of 856 patients revealed that all 8 patients who experienced
      respiratory depression after intrathecal morphine for cesarean delivery were markedly obese.
      Furthermore, the onset of respiratory depression after intrathecal morphine can occur up to
      12 hours after administration, a time period when the patient is not being as closely
      monitored as she is during the 1:1 nursing care in the recovery room. Therefore, it is the
      investigators policy on the Labor and Delivery unit to not administer intrathecal morphine to
      any parturient with a history of obstructive sleep apnea or a BMI > 40 kg/m2. These patients
      often require intravenous opioid patient-controlled analgesia postoperatively, which has been
      shown to provide inferior pain relief and greater opioid consumption than neuraxial opioids.
      The current clinical standard is to administer the TAP block to those patients who have not
      received morphine in their neuraxial anesthetic. The TAP block offers a novel addition to the
      management of post-cesarean pain for this patient population.
    
  