
    
      Patients with heart failure (HF) need multiple guideline-directed medications to control the
      systolic and/or diastolic ventricular dysfunction. To support clinical decision and to guide
      treatment at every stage of HF, the measurement of the biomarker NT-proBNP (N-terminal pro-B
      type natriuretic peptide) has been recommended.

      Many patients (including HF patients) do not follow therapeutic recommendations.
      Non-adherence to treatment can lead to acute decompensation that often requires urgent
      hospitalisation. Electronic monitoring of medication intake gives precise information over
      time and is the gold standard to unveil inappropriate behaviour. We developed Time4MedTM, a
      small device that records date and time of medication intake. The recorded electronic data
      are visualized in a scatter diagram and several adherence estimates can be calculated such as
      days with missed doses, taking adherence or timing adherence. Electronic Health Records (EHR)
      are repository of patient health data in digital format and are mostly locally configured in
      medical practices.

      We aim to transmit laboratory results of NT-proBNP and estimates of medication adherence into
      the EHR system of primary care providers, with the objective to guide treatment and dose
      adjustment of multiple medications in patients with HF. Our project is *not* to develop a
      telemonitoring system.

      This is a prospective, observational, feasibility study one medical practice in Basel-Stadt,
      one dedicated laboratory, and one community pharmacy as study centre.

      Physicians will order NT-proBNP measurement and electronic adherence monitoring to patients
      with diagnosis New York Heart Association (NYHA) stage II-III, who are under
      guidelines-recommended multiple medications and whose clinical and/or biomedical targeted
      values are unmet (inadequate control). Laboratory and adherence reports will be generated in
      similar encrypted format and transferred via secured platform into physician's EHR.

      We expect to show that electronic adherence reports can be gathered and electronically
      transferred by pharmacists into medical EHR in the same way as laboratory reports. The joint
      availability of medication adherence estimates and laboratory values in the EHR can guide
      physicians in the management and therapy of patients with HF.
    
  