
    
      The phase I portion of the study is a standard dose-escalation schemed designed to determine
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of bortezomib, cladribine, and rituximab
      therapy. The MTD is defined as the dose level in which ≤1 out of 6 patients have
      dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). Three patients are enrolled on a dose level. If 0 out of 3
      patients have DLT, then the next set of 3 patients are enrolled at the next highest dose
      level. If ≥2 out of 3 patients have DLT, then the MTD will have been exceeded and dose
      escalation will cease. Three additional patients will be enrolled at the next lowest dose
      level if only 3 were treated previously at that level. If 1 out of 3 patients have DLT, then
      the next set of 3 patients will be treated at the same dose level. If ≤1 out of 6 patients
      treated at that dose level have DLT, then the next set of patients will be treated at the
      next higher dose level. If ≥2 out of 6 patients treated at that dose level have DLT, then the
      MTD will have been exceeded and dose escalation will cease. Three additional patients will be
      treated at the next lowest dose level if only 3 were treated previously at that level. This
      phase I study will use 3 dose levels of cladribine (3 mg/m2, 4 mg/m2, and 5 mg/m2), with 3
      mg/m2 being the starting dose level. DLTs will be assessed at the completion of the first 2
      cycles of cladribine and rituximab.

      Phase II Design: The phase II portion of the study is a two-arm, single-stage design with no
      interim analysis. One arm will accrue newly diagnosed patients, and one arm will accrue
      relapsed patients. In each arm, the progression-free survival rate at 2 years will be used as
      the primary endpoint for determining whether the treatment is sufficiently active in each
      arm. No comparisons will be made between the arms.

      Due to difficulties with enrollment, this trial will not move into the intended Phase II of
      the proposed Phase I/II study. This study will only be Phase I.
    
  