
    
      Background: Worldwide more than 230 million surgical operations are performed each year.
      Despite advances in all fields of medicine, there is still a significant risk of death
      related to major non-cardiac surgical procedures. The observed 30-day mortality depends on
      patient- as well as procedural factors and ranges between 1% and 10%. Cardiovascular
      complications, particularly perioperative myocardial injury/infarction (PMI) seem to be major
      contributors to about a third of all deaths. PMI may differ from spontaneous acute myocardial
      infarction (AMI). The vast majority of patients experiencing PMI do NOT have acute chest pain
      or other symptoms typical for AMI likely because they are narcotized or sedated and random
      ECGs are often not informative. Accordingly, most patients with PMI are currently not
      detected in routine clinical practice. Missed diagnosis is invariably associated with missed
      opportunity for the initiation of treatment. As most patients with PMI are missed in routine
      clinical care, the true incidence of and outcome after PMI are largely unknown. Prior studies
      have often not obtained a baseline sample and thus have suggested that all cTn elevations are
      likely due to AMI which may exaggerate the numbers. In addition, usually conventional less
      sensitive assays have been used. Further, the predominant pathophysiology of PMI is currently
      unknown. It has been suggested that type II MI characterized by coronary perfusion pressure
      mismatch and not type I MI characterized by acute thrombotic coronary occlusion is the
      predominate mechanism. However, autopsy data suggest that plaque rupture is more common.
      Thus, it may be that type 2 AMI is more common but that the modest incidence of type 1 AMI is
      not dangerous prognostically.

      Aim: To explore the incidence, patient characteristics, pathophysiology, potential prevention
      and therapy strategies and long-term outcome of PMI after major non-cardiac surgery

      Methodology: Consecutive high-risk patients undergoing major non-cardiac surgery will be
      included and followed for one year for the occurrence of all-cause death and other major
      adverse cardiac events. Patients receive a standardized assessment of cardiovascular status
      and systematic perioperative screening for PMI using high sensitivity cardiac troponin T
      (hs-cTnT) at baseline prior to surgery, as well as on day 1 and day 2 after surgery. Acute
      cardiac injury will be defined as an absolute increase in h/s-cTn of the 99th percentile of
      healthy individuals for the respective assay above baseline cTn-value or between two
      postoperative values if the preoperative value is missing. A search for possible alternative
      causes for hs-cTnT elevations will be aggressively sought if a rising pattern of values is
      detected. Two independent experts will adjudicate the most likely cause of PMI using all
      clinical information pertaining to the individual patient including the 12-lead ECG, peak
      hs-cTnT blood concentrations, coronary angiography and myocardial perfusion scanning.
      Influence of PMI on occurrence of all-cause death will be assessed using multivariate
      Cox-proportional hazards analysis. Further, pre-operative and post-operative prediction
      models for death, major adverse cardiac events, and PMI shall be derived using a
      derivation-validation design.

      Potential Significance: This study will generate scientific data that have major scientific
      implications by contributing to closing current knowledge gaps concerning the influence of
      PMI on long-term mortality as well as the incidence, patient characteristics, and
      pathophysiology of PMI after non-cardiac surgery. This knowledge will have immediate clinical
      implications as it could e.g. lead to major changes in perioperative management with
      reconsiderations of the necessary target blood pressure to avoid coronary perfusion mismatch
      and consecutive cardiac injury.
    
  