
    
      HIV is a virus that can lead to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), a disease that
      breaks down the immune system and allows for entry of life-threatening secondary infections.
      HIV is a major global health concern, with countries in Africa undergoing a severe HIV/AIDS
      crisis. The number of new cases of HIV infection in Africa continues to rise, making disease
      prevention methods imperative. Important to the prevention process are early testing,
      educational counseling on HIV and how to reduce sexual-risk behavior, and connecting people
      with HIV infection to services that offer medical treatment and social support. However, the
      most effective strategy for fully integrating HIV counseling, testing, and medical care
      access is not known. This study will compare the effectiveness of brief versus detailed HIV
      counseling sessions, paired with either referrals to HIV-specific medical care or usual care,
      in reducing HIV risk behavior and in increasing treatment adherence in Uganda.

      Participation in this study will last 12 months. All participants will undergo an initial
      interview to obtain basic information on previous HIV testing and status. Participants will
      then be assigned randomly to receive a brief or more detailed counseling session given before
      and after HIV testing. Participants assigned to the brief counseling session will receive 10
      to 15 minutes of pretest counseling on the importance of HIV testing and available services
      for people infected with HIV. Participants assigned to the detailed counseling session will
      receive 45 to 60 minutes of pretest counseling on general HIV/AIDS information and testing
      for HIV. After pretest counseling, participants in both groups will undergo a blood draw for
      HIV testing. All participants will receive test results and additional counseling 1 hour
      after the blood sample is drawn.

      Participants who are found to be infected with HIV will be assigned randomly to receive
      enhanced referrals to HIV-specific medical care or referrals to usual care. Participants
      receiving the enhanced referrals will be provided with more detailed counseling on how to
      access HIV services, will be introduced to a specific HIV clinic, and will be given a list of
      other HIV services available in the area. After leaving the hospital, participants will
      receive reminder telephone calls 1 week before their first scheduled visits at the HIV
      clinics. Participants receiving referrals to usual care will be provided with information on
      the importance of receiving HIV care and will be given a list of available HIV area services.
      At Months 3, 6, 9, and 12, participants in both groups will be interviewed about contact
      information, overall health, current medications, sexual history, health services utilized,
      and any repeat HIV tests. Participants who are not infected with HIV may be randomly selected
      to undergo the same follow-up interviews as the HIV infected participants.
    
  