
    
      Respiratory syncytial virus associated bronchiolitis is a leading cause of global infant
      morbidity and mortality [1], yet care remains largely supportive. Several recent studies show
      that a helium-oxygen gas mixture (heliox) improves outcomes in children with moderate to
      severe bronchiolitis [2-5, 7]. Heliox is a safe, inert gas with no biological effects and
      very low density [6]. By improving laminar flow, heliox improves gas exchange in conditions
      where airway resistance is increased, such as asthma, croup and bronchiolitis [6].

      Recent data shows that infants with moderate to severe bronchiolitis have a reduced length of
      hospital stay when heliox is delivered via facemask or CPAP, as compared to heliox via nasal
      cannula [2]. Limitations to this study include the small number of patients (84/319 [26%])
      who tolerated the facemask therapy and the fact that nasal cannula heliox was delivered at
      low flows (3 LPM). Oxygen is increasingly being delivered with a heated, humidified, high
      flow nasal cannula (HFNC) system to infants with moderate to severe bronchiolitis in our
      PICU. To date, there are no definitive randomized controlled trials that show the HFNC system
      is an effective treatment in bronchiolitis. However, there are several retrospective,
      prospective and pilot interventional studies showing clinical improvement in this patient
      population treated with the HFNC system [8-11]. We hypothesize that delivering heliox via a
      heated, humidified, high flow nasal cannula will be well tolerated, safe and effective.

      Specific Aim #1: The aim of this prospective pilot study is to determine the effect of heliox
      delivered via a proprietary calibrated heated and humidified high flow nasal cannula (HFNC)
      system (Vapotherm Precision Flow Heliox) in children ages 0-24 months with severe
      bronchiolitis.

      Hypothesis #1: Clinical and physiologic markers of respiratory distress will be improved in
      patients receiving heliox via HFNC compared to standard therapy following separation from
      mechanical ventilation.
    
  