
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the time to progressive disease in patients with recurrent ovarian epithelial,
           fallopian tube, or extraovarian peritoneal cancer treated with carboplatin and
           ifosfamide with or without whole body hyperthermia.

        -  Compare the response rate, duration of response, and survival time of patients treated
           with these regimens.

        -  Compare the effect on the presence of disseminated tumor cells in bone marrow in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Assess quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase II safety and efficacy study followed by a phase III randomized,
      open-label, multicenter study.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive ifosfamide IV over 1 hour and carboplatin IV over 20 minutes
           on day 1. Patients also undergo whole body hyperthermia for at least 1 hour on day 1.
           Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Phase III (after successful treatment of 15 patients in phase II): Patients are
           stratified according to disease-free interval (6-12 months vs more than 12 months),
           measurable disease (bidimensionally measurable vs measurable by other clinical means),
           and disease recurrence (first recurrence vs second or greater recurrence). Patients are
           randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive ifosfamide, carboplatin, and whole body hyperthermia as in
                phase II.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive ifosfamide and carboplatin as in arm I.

             -  In both arms, treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 courses in the absence of
                disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed before each course, 4 weeks after the last course, and then every
      3 months for 2 years.

      Patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 3 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15 patients will be accrued for phase II of this study. A total
      of 226 patients (113 per treatment arm) will be accrued for phase III of this study within 2
      years.
    
  