
    
      This is a multi-center, open-label (doctors and patients know which drug is being
      administered), Phase IIIb clinical trial to evaluate differences in effectiveness, safety,
      and tolerability of darunavir/ritonavir by sex and/or race over a 48-week treatment period.
      This study will be conducted in HIV positive women and men who have been treated previously
      with antiretroviral therapy. This study will enroll 70% women and will be conducted in the
      U.S., Puerto Rico, Mexico and Canada in approximately 420 patients who will receive darunavir
      600 mg and ritonavir 100 mg twice daily. The primary objective of this study is to determine
      the percentage of patients who achieve virologic response, defined as a viral load (VL) of
      <50 copies/mL at week 48. Secondary study objectives include comparisons of endpoints between
      women and men as well as race across multiple parameters including but not limited to change
      in CD4 count from baseline to week 48, time to loss of virologic response (TLOVR), changes in
      metabolic parameters (blood chemistry), etc.

      Within 4 weeks after the Screening Visit (initial visit with investigator to determine
      eligibility), the Investigator should have received all data required to determine the
      patient's eligibility and will construct the individual Optimized Background Regimen (OBR)
      that will be used during the treatment period in combination with darunavir/ritonavir for
      those patients enrolled in the study. The OBR will consist of additional antiretroviral (ARV)
      agents that will also be administered during the study chosen by the Investigator and based
      on resistance testing and prior treatment history. The study Sponsor will provide the
      following ARV agents, that may be used as options for the OBR: TMC 125 (investigational
      non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor; NNRTI); Truvada (tenofovir/emtricitabine);
      Viread (tenofovir); Emtriva (emtricitabine); Zidovudine. Other NRTIs (nucleoside reverse
      transcriptase inhibitors) or NNRTIs may be used at the discretion of the Investigator, but
      will not be provided by the Sponsor. The Baseline Visit (Day 1) will be followed by a 48-week
      treatment period during which patients will be evaluated at Weeks 4, 8, 12, 16, 24, 36, 48
      and at a final Follow-Up Visit during Week 52. (total of 10 visits from Screening to final
      visit). At a number of visits throughout the study, blood samples will be obtained to assess
      defined laboratory values, safety parameters and to determine concentrations of study drugs
      darunavir, TMC125 (if applicable) and ritonavir). Patients will be assessed for change in CD4
      count and HIV-RNA throughout the study. At each visit, vital signs will be assessed and
      patients will be asked about any untoward medical occurrences and these will be recorded as
      adverse events (AEs) and/or HIV-related events. Detailed definitions and reporting procedures
      for AEs will be provided as part of the protocol. Study patients will receive PREZISTA
      (darunavir) 600 mg boosted with 100 mg of ritonavir orally (by mouth) twice a day in
      combination with other antiretroviral drugs for 48 weeks.
    
  