
    
      Study Focus and Design:

      Breast cancer is one of the leading cancers among white and African American women; its
      incidence has increased from one in 20 in 1960 to one in eight today ARMSTRONG 2000. In
      Canada alone, approximately 22,000 women are diagnosed each year with breast cancer and over
      5,000 die from it VERMA 2007. Surgery, radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy are the most
      commonly used treatment options. Anthracyclines, especially doxorubicin, are a class of
      chemotherapeutic agents with efficacy against a variety of solid tumors, including breast
      cancer. Unfortunately, cardiotoxic effects occur with cumulative doses and limit the clinical
      use of doxorubicin. The incidence of heart failure is less than 5% at doses below 500 mg/m2,
      but increases to 18% with doses of 500 - 550 mg/m2 and exceeds 30% at doses of more than 600
      mg/m2 1-5. Although several mechanism have been proposed for the cardiotoxic effects, little
      is known about prevention and effective treatment of this drug-induced cardiomyopathy.

      The human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER-2), also known as ErbB2, is a member of the
      group of transmembrane tyrosine kinases and is involved in the regulation of cell
      proliferation GSCHWIND2004. In mice with genetic defects in ErbB2, the ventricle fails to
      undergo trabeculation CRONE 2002; mice with reduced expression of HER-2 develop a dilated
      cardiomyopathy.

      Approximately one quarter of patients with breast cancer have increased expression of HER-2,
      which is associated with a poorer prognosis including positive lymph nodes, decreased hormone
      receptor expression and high proliferative rates.

      Trastuzumab (Herceptin) is a monoclonal antibody against the extracellular domain of HER-2
      CARTER1992 and was approved for treatment of patients with HER-2 positive metastatic breast
      cancer in the 1990´s VOGEL 2002. Later, trastuzumab was approved for the use following
      anthracycline-based chemotherapies to decrease disease progression and to improve survival.
      The combination of anthracyclines and trastuzumab in the adjuvant setting reduced the risk of
      breast cancer relapse by 50% and the risk of death from breast cancer by 33% PICCARD 2005 und
      ROMOND 2005.

      Despite the proven therapeutic benefits, trastuzumab shows cardiotoxic side effects in up to
      25% of treated patients, especially if used in combination with doxorubicin. Approximately
      5-10% of all patients treated with trastuzumab in the adjuvant setting develop (mostly
      asymptomatic) cardiac dysfunction and 1-3% develops severe and highly symptomatic heart
      failure with NYHA functional class III - IV CHIEN 2006. While both early (peaking 4 months
      post chemotherapy) and late (up to several years post exposure) cardiac toxicities leading to
      congestive heart failure have been described following administration of anthracycline-based
      chemotherapy, the pathophysiology of this toxicity, particularly in the late phase remains
      incompletely understood and several mechanism have been proposed; the interruption of the
      HER-2 signaling pathway in the heart seems to affect the ability of cardiomyocytes to grow,
      repair and survive. Studies in HER-2 knock-out mice have shown that a dilated cardiomyopathy
      develops following cardiac stress with anthracycline administration OZCELIK 2002. A direct
      toxic effect of the HER-2 blockade on the myocardial tissue level has been discussed, too
      OZCELIK 2002, trastuzumab seems to block anti-apoptotic signaling pathways, leading to
      cardiac dysfunction OZCELIK 2002.

      An autopsy series of cancer patients having received anthracyclines demonstrated that 65% of
      patients with clinical CHF had microscopic evidence of drug toxicity, but that 35% did not 6.
      It may be difficult to distinguish anthracycline cardiac toxicity (ACT) from other causes
      using other currently available non-invasive modalities 3.

      The trastuzumab-induced left ventricular dysfunction seems to reversible in the majority of
      cases, but little is known on the real-world effects of anthracyclines and trastuzumab on
      cardiac function during chemotherapy and shortly after.

      CMR is the non-invasive gold standard in cardiac imaging for the assessment of cardiac
      function and also for the characterization of the myocardium and is used for the assessment
      of other acquired myocardial changes as myocarditis 7 and non-ischemic cardiomyopathies.
      Pilot studies have shown that CMR can detect even sub-clinical cardiotoxic effects in
      patients after anthracycline chemotherapy 8.

      Our suggested study will prospectively include patients with a first diagnosis of breast
      cancer undergoing potentially cardiotoxic chemotherapy to identify the predictive value of
      several CMR-derived identifiers for cardiotoxicity and to evaluate an individually adjusted
      follow-up by cardiologists during and after the chemotherapy.
    
  