
    
      There is evidently great potential in implementing workplace health promotion programs, but
      more randomized trials are needed to determine which interventions are worksite-effective in
      helping to decrease inactive behaviors and increase engagement in healthy lifestyle
      activities. For employers, it could mean improving the health and productivity of employees.
      For workers, especially those in physically and/or psychologically demanding positions, it
      could mean developing strength, muscular endurance and agility to reduce musculoskeletal pain
      while developing the stress reduction skills that reduce long-term sickness and absenteeism
      risks. While changing behavior in a complex workplace is, as seen in multiple studies,
      difficult due to the need to change workplace and organizational culture between employers
      and employees, this study aims to identify the effectiveness of workplace interventions in
      relation to counseling for university employees to increase overall work fitness without
      affecting any hierarchal interactions at the work site. Simply put, the investigators will
      examine the benefits of a workplace exercise and mindfulness (two-prong) intervention (in
      combination) vs. a group who just receive a workplace exercise intervention. Both
      interventions will be guided by health coaches. Given the limited research with health
      coaching and workplace interventions for university workers, the aim is to contribute to a
      developing research literature. This study is geared to engage university employees at their
      workplace over a 3 month period. Participants will be assessed through pre and post physical
      and psychological measures and will also undergo semi-structured interviews (SSI). The
      investigators hypothesize that making available these various fitness and well-being programs
      for university employees will effectively improve their overall fitness (peak VO2) and
      psychological health (stress, depression, anxiety, work satisfaction), making them more
      efficient, positive and work-productive. Specifically, the investigators hypothesize that the
      exercise and mindfulness meditation group will demonstrate significant improvements when
      compared to the group solely receiving exercise-oriented health coaching. Improvements will
      be seen across all measures of physical (such as VO2 peak and BMI) and psychological (such as
      depression, stress, anxiety, work-life balance) function and will be sustained at 3 month
      follow-up, indicating a more effective means of initiating fitness at the workplace
    
  