
    
      Sleep is a physiological function that plays an essential role in many somatic, cognitive and
      psychological processes. Although there are many criteria for the effectiveness of sleep, its
      quantity is unanimously recognized as a major determinant of health. Too little sleep is
      associated with an increase in metabolic, cardiovascular and accidental morbidity and
      mortality caused by drowsiness while traveling or at work.

      Today, the time devoted to sleep is in competition with the time devoted to work, transport
      or new technologies, in a professional or recreational context. Faced with the public health
      issues thus raised, research has highlighted the interest of studying the relationships
      between sleep time and socio-demographic factors, beyond the mere involvement of sleep
      pathologies. However, among these pathologies, the role of insomnia is not negligible: it is
      in fact the most frequent sleep disorder (16% of French people in 2010) and represents an
      important source of involuntary reduction in sleep time, likely to increase inappropriate
      sleepiness during periods of wakefulness, in the context of activities sometimes involving
      safety.

      Flight crews are exposed to specific operational constraints, both in civilian and military
      environments, which may compromise the sleep recovery function (operational fatigue, extended
      work amplitudes, repetition of jet lag, etc.). These constraints, which are conducive to
      compromising the required levels of alertness and cognitive performance, are also at risk of
      cardiometabolic complications. They therefore raise the issue of risk control and maintenance
      of air safety.

      The issue of fatigue in pilots remains an essential issue for the safety of flight
      operations. Several determinants of operational fatigue in air transport have been
      identified, such as irregular sleep schedules, large, irregular, and sometimes unpredictable
      activity amplitudes, sleep debt, night flying, and circadian disruptions related to multiple
      and repeated time zone changes. While these factors have to deal with rules within airlines
      that are more often based on "work/rest" than "sleep/wake", current legislation and
      regulations in the aviation industry are now moving towards scientific approaches to fatigue
      management in commercial aviation, emphasizing the importance of sleep and taking circadian
      rhythms into account.

      Currently, the vast majority of studies devoted to the sleep of aviation flight crews is
      therefore limited to commercial airline pilots. They have established that most flights,
      especially on long-haul sectors, involve circadian rhythm disturbances, sleep fragmentation
      and sleep restriction that are deleterious to cognitive performance and the risk of
      accidents. Most of the publications have sought associations between sleep measures and
      performance in operational contexts. Some have shown that conventional methods of assessing
      sleep in flight (actimetric readings, sleep diaries or subjective self-reporting) were
      correlated with reference data obtained by polysomnography, strongly for sleep duration but
      moderately to weakly for its effectiveness. In the specific case of sleep duration,
      self-report questionnaires have been shown to be a reliable alternative to in-flight
      actimetric measurements.

      The majority of studies have been designed with pilot sleep as a determinant of in-flight
      performance, especially during long (12 to 16 hours) and very long (more than 16 hours)
      flights. On the other hand, consideration of the consequences of aeronautical activity on
      pilot sleep is relatively rare in the scientific literature. Thus, most "ecological" studies,
      known as field studies, generally focus on specific flights with restricted time slots and
      small sample sizes, limiting the scope of the results regarding the effects of flights on
      sleep. Currently, the main focus is still on pilot sleep immediately before, during, and
      after duty, but without characterizing the baseline sleep observed during off-duty periods.

      In this perspective, one study looked at the baseline sleep of airline pilots, making
      comparisons to samples of the general North American population [28]. Out of a total of 332
      long-haul pilots, actimetric data revealed longer sleep times during rest periods,
      highlighting the influence of environmental constraints considered to be a health risk.
      Furthermore, the influence of socio-demographic and occupational parameters was reported in a
      study of 435 pilots. The high prevalence of sleep disorders, drowsiness and fatigue were
      documented, as well as an increased risk of fatigue for aircrew engaged on short and
      medium-haul flights, in connection with work schedule amplitudes and repetition of rotations.

      In the wake of recent work carried out in the general French population, the conduct of a
      specific study on sleep time, prevalence and factors associated with chronic insomnia and the
      complaint of drowsiness among aircrew appears relevant. Due to the specific operational
      constraints mentioned above, chronic insomnia and sleep debt can be assumed to be more
      frequent among sailors than in the general population. A better consideration of certain
      sleep disorders in professional aircrew could allow the adaptation of prevention strategies
      or countermeasures aimed at optimizing the control of risks with regard to flight safety.
    
  