
    
      Forty six American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) class I or II patients between the ages
      of 2 and 10 years undergoing reduction of supracondylar humerus fractures will be enrolled in
      the study. From mid-May to the beginning of August, Lurie Children's (formerly Children's
      Memorial Hospital)historically has 50-70 supracondylar humerus fractures in children, and we
      expect an 80% recruitment rate for the study. A power analysis estimated that a sample size
      of 46 patients would have an 80% power at the 0.05 level of significance to detect a 50%
      reduction in the number of patients requiring rescue medication when comparing intravenous
      opioids and the ultrasound-guided supraclavicular nerve block (from approximately 80% to
      40%).

      After obtaining informed consent, the patients will be taken to the operating room where the
      procedure will be performed. Intraoperatively, patients will be randomly assigned to be in
      one of two groups. Randomization will be determined by block allocation with a 1:1 ratio with
      permuted, mixed blocks of 4 and 6 created randomly using a computer based randomization
      table. Randomization will be performed by one of the co-investigators. Preoperatively,
      patients will be assessed for neurovascular status by testing the patient's ability to make
      three movements: thumb extension (radial nerve), proximal interphalangeal joint (PIP) flexion
      (median nerve), and interossei function (ulnar nerve). Patients may be removed from the study
      after consent is given if removal of the cast prior to surgery reveals excessive swelling in
      the elbow, indicating an increased likelihood for development of compartment syndrome
      postoperatively. This determination will be made by the attending orthopaedic surgeon
      performing the procedure. Patients with an increased likelihood of developing compartment
      syndrome will be given narcotics to treat pain.

      All patients will undergo a general anesthetic for the surgical procedure. Surgical
      anesthesia will be maintained using volatile anesthetics. Intraoperatively, while still under
      general anesthesia, Groups 1 and 2 will receive a standardized intravenous dose of 0.05 mg/kg
      of morphine in a total volume of 1 ml. Following injection of morphine, an ultrasound-guided
      supraclavicular nerve catheter (Angiocath) will be placed in Group 2. All catheters will be
      placed by one of the anesthesiologist trained in regional pain control using a 25 mm linear
      US probe in a sterile fashion.

      Patients will be taken to the postoperative recovery room (PACU) area where they will be
      tested for nerve function after emergence from anesthesia. If the examination is unchanged
      from preoperative assessment, an injection block using 5 ml of 0.25% bupivacaine with
      1:200,000 epinephrine will be administered. Bupivacaine is a long acting local anesthetic
      that prevents nerve conduction and action potential initiation by decreasing the permeability
      of the neuronal membrane to sodium. We use a maximum dose of 5 mL of 0.25% bupivacaine, and
      we usually base the dose on a ml/kg (0.2 ml/kg) with a maximum dose not to exceed 2.5 mg/kg.
      This will be well below toxic levels. A band-aid will be placed on all patients where a
      supraclavicular nerve block would have been inserted, and parents will be asked to leave the
      band-aid on for 3 days to maintain the blindness to the treatment type by the patient.

      In the PACU, the patient will be evaluated for pain and discomfort by a member of the
      research team using the "Faces Pain Scale-Revised (FPS-R)" Other side effects such as nausea,
      vomiting, somnolence and respiratory depression will be noted. Any incidence of nausea and/or
      vomiting will be treated with 0.1 mg/kg (up to 4 mg) of ondansetron given intravenously.

      The postoperative care unit staff is well versed in keeping children calm after anesthesia.
      There is a chance that the child may know which group they are in. However, due to the age of
      these children and the fact that they are just coming out of anesthesia, it is more likely
      that they will not understand what is happening and the implications of the interventions. It
      is also unlikely that it will affect the outcomes of requiring additional medication for pain
      in the PACU or at home. Likewise, it is unlikely that knowing the group would affect the
      range of motion outcome.

      Families will be randomly contacted 7 times in the 36 hours approximately after the operation
      by nurses from the Collaborative Research Unit (CRU) to record a patient's pain score. Data
      will be analyzed using a time series analysis. Patients will be discharged with a
      standardized 5/325 mg dose of Norco to be taken every 4-6 hours. Patients are typically
      discharged the same day or after a brief overnight stay. Patients typically follow up in 1
      week for a radiograph with the treating orthopaedic surgeon followed by pin removal at 3-4
      weeks post-surgery. PT will begin if there is less than a 100 degree arc of motion at 6 weeks
      after pin removal and will involve ROM exercises per the PT discretion. A binary outcome will
      be recorded as to whether PT is necessary 6 weeks after the cast and pins are removed.
      Functional recovery will be measured 6 weeks after pin removal through ROM measurements. A
      pain score will also be taken at the follow-up visit 6 weeks after pin removal to measure
      long-term pain. Parents will be given a questionnaire before their child is discharged from
      the hospital. Part of the questionnaire is filled out while the child is still at the
      hospital. The rest of the questionnaire will be sent home with the parents to be filled out
      throughout the week following the operation. The contents of the questionnaire will be
      explained to the parents at the time that the questionnaire is handed out to ensure that they
      understand the questions. Parents will return the questionnaire at the 1 week follow up visit
      to give feedback data on any postoperative discomfort, any additional pain medications and
      also the overall satisfaction with the study design. All data obtained will be entered in an
      Excel® database. Statistical analysis will be carried out using the SPSS software®
      (Statistical Program for the Social Sciences), and a t-test will be performed with the data
      obtained. Primary outcome data will be the use of rescue medication in the immediate
      postoperative period. Secondary outcomes include pain scores, use of additional medication
      after leaving the hospital and range of motion at 9-10 weeks postoperatively. Analyzed data
      will include the duration of pain relief and retention of nerve functionality. We will also
      record and analyze the incidence of postoperative vomiting and respiratory distress in either
      group. We will carefully monitor and record for the development of compartment syndrome.
    
  