
    
      IL-2 therapy regimans are expected to restore the immune response or to change the
      immunologic status,thus allowing the host to more efficiently contain and eradicate immune
      responses, primarily those against cancers and infectious diseases.To address this, we
      performed a prospective randomized controlled multicenter cohort study of 8-month adjunctive
      immunotherapy with rhIL-2 for MDR-TB patients compared with the standard chemotherapy.

      This multicenter prospective clinical study was conducted at 13 tuberculosis centers
      (coordinating hospital specialized in tuberculosis) across Jiangsu province, China. Joined by
      the network system of The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University and CDC of
      Jiangsu province, participants were enrolled from 2009 to 2018. This study protocol was
      approved by the ethics committee of the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical
      University and was performed adhering to the ethical principles of the Declaration of
      Helsinki. All patients provided written informed consent before enrollment. The independent
      data and safety of the study were monitored by the hospital monitoring committee.

      Patients enrollment

      Eligible MDR-TB participants were identified by triplicate-spot sputum smears that were
      positive for acid-fast bacilli and a positive sputum culture with resistance to both
      isoniazid and rifampin, as determined by susceptibility tests and rapid screening tests . The
      results of these assays were confirmed using an L-G medium base modified in the Jiangsu
      province Centers for Disease Control and Prevention（CDC）.

      Treatment plan for the two cohorts: The patients in rhIL-2 group were given consisted of four
      courses of low-dose rhIL-2 (500，000 U/m) given subcutaneously (SC) once every other day
      (q.o.d.) for 30 days. Four courses were carried out separately during months 1, 3, 5, and 7.
      All enrolled patients with pulmonary MDR-TB received a 24-month standard anti-MDR-TB
      chemotherapy regimen:6-month Z+KM/AM or CM + PAS/(Pa) + PTO +LFX as an intensive phase
      treatment, followed by an 18-month Z + LFX + PTO + PAS/(Pa) as a consolidation phase
      treatment.

      (Z: Pyrazinamide; KM: Kanamycin; AM: Amikacin; CM: Capreomycin; LFX: Levofloxacin; PTO:
      Prothionamide; PAS: Para-aminosalicylicacid; Pa:Pasiniazid); After finishing treatment
      regimen patients were followed up for a minimum of 36- months or until discontinuation of
      regimen, withdrawal of consent, loss to follow-up, death, or end of study.

      For all of the participants demographic measurements were recorded on the first clinical
      visit. Patient data were collected at enrollment and quarterly intervals. Sputum smear
      conversion, sputum culture conversion and chest CT scan improvement were followed up at 3, 6,
      12, 18, and 24 months for bacteriological and imaging data collected. Cure rates analysed and
      compared in both groups.

      The proportions of MDR-TB patients in the two groups achieving sputum smear/culture
      conversion, lung lesions absorption were assessed and compared.

      Safety assessment included clinical symptom observation, Incidences of adverse event （AE ）in
      two groups were assessed and compared. blood routine test, hematologic profile, blood
      biochemical examination including hepatic aminotransferase and blood ureantrogen/creatinine,
      blood electrolyte test (potassium, magnesium, calcium), serum thyroid stimulating
      hormone(TSH), audiology examinations, visual field and color examination.

      Cure rate was defined as first outcome. Sputum conversion rate was defined as second outcome.
    
  