
    
      Late life depression and cardiovascular autonomic function: Major depressive disorder in the
      elderly (in those >60 years of age), also known as late life depression (LLD), is common,
      disabling and associated with a high mortality rate caused by suicide as well as
      cardiovascular events compelling appropriate treatment. Research shows that in a naturalistic
      setting response rate to at least one antidepressant trial of adequate dose and duration
      alone is around 30-40%thereby necessitating usage of additional interventions. Such therapies
      include psychological therapies, and, recently, various forms of treatments loosely defined
      as mind-body therapies such as biofeedback, energy healing, meditation, guided imagery, and
      yoga. Mind-body therapies are being increasingly embraced by patients as they have negligible
      side effects, are easy to administer and display beneficial effects on the quality of life as
      well as comorbid anxiety. There is increasing research on the mechanisms and benefits of such
      therapies, however, good quality trial data is scant. It is well established that
      antidepressants work by mostly modifying neurotransmitter levels in the brain. On the other
      hand, some mind-body therapies target multiple organ systems and hence could offer
      neurobiological advantages as depression is now recognised as a multi-system disorder. This
      is particularly relevant to the LLD population where there is increased prevalence of
      comorbid cardiovascular disorders . Hence, some mind body therapies when offered in
      combination with antidepressants might have a beneficial effect on both depression and the
      cardiovascular system.

      One of the ways of assessing the cardiovascular system is through measurement of various
      autonomic parameters i.e. heart rate, blood pressure and heart rate variability. The most
      commonly reported is heart rate variability (HRV) which is a manifestation of the interplay
      of the central nervous system and the autonomic nervous system on a beat-by-beat basis. One
      of the ways of its estimation is by calculating the elapsed time between two consecutive
      waves, called R waves, on a person's electrocardiogram (ECG). A consistent finding has been
      that there is reduced HRV in people who have suffered a myocardial infarction (MI), and this
      phenomena is a predictor of subsequent cardiac arrhythmia and even death. In addition,
      through previous work the PI has found that in LLD there are significant cardiovascular
      autonomic disturbances compared to age matched controls after controlling for various risk
      factors. Other studies conducted in depression across the human life span have found similar
      results. Hence, if there is a mind-body treatment that specifically targets autonomic
      dysfunction and has a positive benefit on depressive symptoms, it would be valuable to asses.
      The investigators would like to investigate such a therapy which has been selected based on
      previous reports of beneficial effects but has not been evaluated in a randomised controlled
      trial of LLD patients.

      Automatic self-transcending meditation (ASTM). ASTM is a class of meditation that helps quiet
      the mind and induces physiological and mental relaxation whilst the eyes are shut. It
      utilizes a specific sound value (mantra) to draw attention inward and permit the mind to
      experience a restful but alert state of consciousness. Research suggests that ASTM is easier
      to learn and to teach in comparison to other meditation techniques including mindfulness.
      Studies of adult and elderly ASTM practitioners have documented reductions in depressive
      symptoms, as well as improvements in cardiovascular function among elderly with and without
      cardiovascular disease. A study of adults with CVD further demonstrated improvements in HRV.
      Research further suggests ASTM may be particularly well suited to elderly populations. In a
      randomized controlled trial of elderly retirement home residents which evaluated ASTM with
      two other meditative techniques and treatment as usual, ASTM produced significantly greater
      improvements in cognitive function, cardiovascular function and quality of life than all
      other treatment conditions. A subsequent meta-analysis of all-cause mortality rates among
      hypertensive elderly who had participated in stress reduction interventions found that ASTM
      practitioners had a 30% lower cardiovascular mortality rate than four other meditative or
      relaxation interventions20.

      The investigators predict that ASTM augmentation is an effective intervention that
      ameliorates the autonomic disturbance associated with LLD, and possibly has beneficial
      effects on depressive symptoms as compared to a control treatment as usual (TAU) group.

      Primary hypothesis: The investigators hypothesise that in patients with LLD, ASTM+TAU will
      lead to a significant increase in HRV from baseline to end of study period as compared to
      TAU.

      Secondary hypotheses: The investigators hypothesise that ASTM+TAU will cause a) significant
      fall in depression scores b) significant improvement in other autonomic parameters including
      heart rate and blood pressure changes in presence of a physiological stress test (hand grip)
      c) significant improvement in depression related symptom pathologies including impaired
      quality of life and anxiety; compared to TAU.
    
  