
    
      The clinician training courses are open to all interested authorised back pain clinicians
      practicing in Denmark. The study evaluates courses conducted in 2018 which involves one or
      two courses for clinicians in each of five Danish regions.

      The adoption of GLA:D Back is investigated by measuring the extent to which clinicians who
      have participated in the GLA:D Back course conduct the program in their clinics. Reach of the
      patient target group is determined by asking clinicians about the degree to which patients
      offered the treatment accept this. Fidelity with the program is investigated quantitatively
      by asking about treatment content and recall of key messages via patient questionnaires, and
      by ensuring that patients' individual goals are registered. The quality of care in terms of
      delivering the key elements of the intervention will be further explored qualitatively.

      The profile of patients enrolled in the GLA:D Back programme will be compared between clinics
      and administrative regions.

      Clinician level effects are investigated in an observational longitudinal design with
      clinician reported data collected before the clinician training course, immediately after the
      course and 4 months later, and with patient-reported information on delivery collected at
      their three-months follow up. Indicators of implementation are registration of patients in
      the GLA:D Back registry and that patients report receiving the educational components of care
      and supervised exercises. Orientation towards treatment of LBP and confidence in managing
      patients with LBP are evaluated by clinicians' answers to standardised questionnaires.

      Patient level outcomes are aimed at investigating changes in knowledge, beliefs and skills
      related to the LBP condition which is hypothesized to lead to improved self-efficacy. The
      initial measures are related to knowledge skills, beliefs and performance, the next line of
      outcomes to self-efficacy, then daily activities and quality of life and last health care
      utilisation and work ability.

      The compliance with the program is evaluated by patient report of the number of patient
      education sessions and exercise sessions attended.

      The registry is delivered by Odense Patient data Explorative Network (OPEN) at University of
      Southern Denmark and uses REDCap (Vanderbilt University) as the platform for data collection.
      Clinicians are registered when signing up for the GLA:D Back course and agreeing to
      participate in research. Patients are registered by the clinician and have links to patient
      questionnaires sent to their email before beginning the GLA:D Back program and after 3, 6 and
      12 months if consenting to their data being used for research.

      Rather than testing effects on one primary outcome, the study evaluates the implementation
      process and a number of outcomes based on a logical model of change.
    
  