
    
      Study Drug Administration (Lock Solution):

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, the infection will be treated
      with antibiotics according to the standard of care. You will also receive the antimicrobial
      catheter lock solution through the CVC 2 hours per day for at least 5 days within the first
      week. In addition, you will receive the lock therapy for 2 additional days that could either
      be given on the following next 2 days or within the next 2 weeks. After locking the catheter
      for 2 hours, the HEAL lock will be cleared out, and the catheter will be flushed with normal
      saline and then locked with heparin or normal saline until the next time it needs to be used.

      Study Visits:

      On the first day after you receive the antimicrobial catheter lock solution, you will be
      checked for side effects such as pain, burning, discomfort, drowsiness, headache, facial
      redness, shortness of breath, and/or irregular heartbeat . After the last dose of receiving
      the catheter lock solution, you will be asked if you have experienced any side effects after
      receiving the catheter lock solution.

      One (1) time each day while you are in the hospital, you will be checked for signs of
      infection and your vital signs (heart rate, breathing rate, blood pressure, and temperature)
      will be measured.

      Every 2 days, blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn to check for infection. This will
      continue until the blood draws no longer show signs of infection.

      Every week, blood (about one teaspoon) will be drawn to check that your liver is function
      well.

      Length of Study Participation:

      You may receive the antimicrobial catheter lock solution for up to 7 days (over the course of
      3 weeks). You will no longer be able to receive it if intolerable side effects occur or the
      infection does not go away after 7 days.

      End of Treatment Visit:

        -  You will need to return to MD Anderson for your end of treatment visit within 7 days
           (+/- 3 days) after your last dose of study drug.

        -  At this visit, you will be asked about any symptoms or illnesses that you may have had
           since your last visit. You will be checked for signs of infection and your vital signs
           will be measured.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn to check for infection. You will be asked
           about any antimicrobial drugs or therapies that you may be taking until the end of your
           treatment.

      Follow-Up Visit:

      You will have a follow-up visit about 1 month after receiving the last dose of antimicrobial
      catheter lock solution. At this visit, you will be checked for signs of infection and your
      vital signs will be measured. If the doctor thinks it is needed, blood (about 2 tablespoons)
      will be drawn to check for infection. You will be asked about any antimicrobial drugs that
      you may be taking until the end of your treatment.

      This is an investigational study. The study lock solution is made up of minocycline, disodium
      ethylenediaminetetraacetate, and ethanol. Each of these are commercially available and FDA
      approved for other uses:

        -  Minocycline - for the treatment of cellulitis, acne, respiratory and urinary tract
           infections, gonococcal, chlamydial or ureaplasma urealyticum infections, cutaneous
           nocardiosis, and syphilis.

        -  Disodium ethylenediaminetetraacetate - for the treatment of lead poisoning

        -  Ethanol - for cleaning your hands

      It is investigational to give minocycline, disodium ethylenediaminetetraacetate, and ethanol
      in combination as an antimicrobial lock solution.

      Up to 30 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  