
    
      Introduction Many individuals after stroke continue to cope with residual physical
      impairments after discharge from hospital. One of the major problems encountered by people
      after stroke is community reintegration. Functional community ambulation not only requires a
      critical level of postural control and walking skills, but also the ability to engage in
      cognitive tasks while walking (i.e., dual-task walking) and adapt to the constantly-changing
      environmental contexts. There has been an increasing awareness of the importance of dual-task
      gait performance in community-dwelling individuals with stroke in the past few years.

      There is evidence showed that dual-task balance and gait performance is significantly
      impaired after stroke. Increasing evidence also suggests that dual-task balance and gait
      performance is useful for predicting falls among individuals with stroke. Considering the
      high clinical relevance of dual-task balance and gait performance, it is essential that
      stroke rehabilitation adequately addresses dual-task deficits. Developing specific dual-task
      balance and gait training to enhance dual-task performance is thus necessary to promote
      community ambulation and reintegration.

      Study Aim The aim of this study is to examine the efficacy of a dual-task exercise program on
      cognitive-motor interference in balance and walking tasks, balance self-efficacy,
      participation in everyday activities, community reintegration and incidence of falls among
      individuals with chronic stroke.

      Study design

      This will be a single-blinded randomized controlled trial (RCT). After baseline evaluation,
      subjects will be randomly allocated to one of the three groups: (1) dual-task training group,
      (2) single-task training group, (3) strengthening and flexibility exercise group (controls),
      using a 1:1:1 randomization sequence.

      Measurements Outcomes will be used to compare the therapeutic effects of the 3 treatment
      groups. The outcome measurements (except data on incidence of falls) will take place at 3
      time points: (1) within one week before initiation of intervention (baseline), (2) within one
      week after completion of training, (3) 8 weeks after completion of training. The fall data
      will be collected on a monthly basis until 6 months after termination of the intervention
      period. All assessments will be performed by a researcher who is blinded to group allocation.
    
  