
    
      The study was a branch of our PM2.5 observational study (Acute Effects of Particulate Matter
      on Pulmonary Diseases) and mainly focus on lipid biomarker for the target diseases. Lower
      respiratory tract infections are the most frequent infectious cause of death worldwide[1] and
      impose a considerable burden on healthcare resources. Despite the advancement in treatment
      and diagnostic technique, the overall 30-day mortality rate of community-acquired pneumonia
      (CAP) is as high as 12.1% for patients who aged 65 years and older admitted to hospital[2].
      Obstructive lung diseases (COPD and Asthma) are increasingly important causes of morbidity
      and mortality worldwide. The patients with CAP, and acute exacerbations of obstructive lung
      diseases commonly present with similar signs and symptoms.

      The use of conventional diagnostic markers, such as complete blood count (CBC) with
      differential and C-reactive protein is the current mainstream method for differentiating
      clinically relevant to bacterial lower respiratory tract infections from other mimics.
      However, for patients with a clinical suspicion of infection, those conventional methods have
      suboptimal sensitivity and specificity[3,4] The limitations often cause the ambiguity of the
      initiation of antibiotic treatment. As a result, unnecessary use of antibiotics adversely
      affects patient outcomes. Also, inappropriate antibiotic therapy increases antibiotic
      resistance in patients, which poses a public health problem. Current strategies to reduce
      antibiotic usage have included the development of biomarker-directed treatment algorithms.
      However, a recent study suggested that procalcitonin-guided therapy has not been effective in
      reducing antibiotic use[5]. Therefore, developing new biomarkers may be the answer to the
      problems.

      Sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) is a bioactive sphingolipid has both extracellular and
      intracellular effects in mammalian cells[6-9]. S1P is synthesized by two sphingosine kinases
      (SphK1 and SphK 2) and degraded by S1P lyase (S1PL)[6] S1P is a ligand for five G
      protein-coupled receptors, S1P receptors1-5[6,7], and also acts as an intracellular second
      messenger[10,11]. S1P is involved in many physiological processes including immune responses
      and endothelial barrier integrity[12-15]. In term of endothelial barrier integrity, S1P plays
      a crucial role in protecting lungs from the pulmonary leak and lung injury. [16-19] Previous
      research suggests that S1P signaling through S1PR1 is crucial for endothelial barrier
      function. [20] The S1P induces actin polymerization and then results in the spreading of
      endothelial cells which fills intercellular gaps. Also, the S1P-signaling can stabilize the
      endothelial cell-cell junctions such as adherens junction and tight junction. [21-23] Both
      actin-dependent outward spreading of endothelial cells and cell junction stabilization
      enhance the endothelial barrier function. Because of the involvement in lung injury and
      endothelial barrier function, S1P would be the potential biomarker of pneumonia.

      For the study, a case-control design was utilized for collecting clinical samples. the
      investigators plan to enroll 150 individuals for each targeted disease (CAP, Asthma, Asthma
      with CAP, COPD, and COPD with CAP) and control. Peripheral blood will be collected from the
      patients presenting at the emergency department (ED) of Wan Fang Hospital for an acute event
      of the candidate diseases. Each recruited individual will fill out a specific questionnaire,
      which will include lifestyle, occupation, habits, and general dietary information. The
      initial peripheral blood sample will be obtained in the emergency department, and if the
      patients were admitted, the individual's blood sample would be collected one day before a
      planned discharge again. The following parameters will be recorded for each participant: sex,
      age, body weight, body temperature, vital signs at the ED, and clinical characteristics of
      the disease. The laboratory testing will include baseline analyses (hematocrit, white blood
      count with differential, serum sodium, and chloride), ALT, AST, CRP, BUN, and creatinine. The
      plasma S1P will also be tested and will be measured by ELISA. The questionnaire will provide
      the individual's basic information of living area, occupational environment, personal habits
      and family history for further analysis.
    
  