
    
      Depression is common and disabling but the evidence is that fewer than half of people with
      depression seek any treatment and few receive any help from specialized mental health
      professionals (1). In secondary care treatment is often limited to drug therapies because of
      long waiting lists to see psychological therapists face to face despite recommendations by
      NICE and others about the importance of non-drug therapies (2). At The Royal Ottawa Health
      Care Group the waiting time to be seen in the Mood Program is between nine months and a year.
      One way to address this problem is to use computerized e-therapies which deliver structured
      cognitive behavioral treatment via a computer (3). The appeal of e-therapies is that they
      solve several problems. Firstly they are convenient for users. They can be used at any time
      and can be accessed in different locations. Secondly there is no waiting for appointments.
      Last for health providers they address the workforce issue of a lack of trained providers of
      effective interventions. If e-therapies can be shown to be acceptable, feasible and effective
      there is no reason why these computerized therapies could not replace humans leaving
      qualified professionals to focus on more complex management problems. This may lead to the
      development of new role which in this proposal is an e-therapy coach.

      Previous randomized controlled trials of e-therapies for depression have mainly been in
      people recruited through the internet or in clinical populations with mild or "sub-clinical"
      disorders(4). The difficulty with these populations is that there is a high rate of
      spontaneous remission. However systematic reviews have consistently found a significant
      moderate effect of computerized therapies in reducing depressive symptoms compared to control
      conditions (5, 6). A further problem is that many people fail to complete the course of
      e-therapy (although this also applies to face to face therapies). There is a need for
      randomized controlled trials of e-therapies in clinical populations using novel techniques to
      maximize the dose of e-therapy without losing the potential health workforce benefits.

      A potentially attractive solution is to enable clinician-assisted computerized cognitive
      behavior therapy. For this proposal the investigators plan to use an e-therapy coach who
      would coach people through the on-line therapy. In this model the clinician acts in the role
      of a coach to support the patient progress through the computerized treatment - the clinician
      does not need to deliver the non-drug therapy themselves. There is some evidence that this
      can result in significant improvements in depression with reduced demands on clinician
      time(7). However previous trials have been done using participants with relatively less
      severe depression who may not have seen clinicians as part of their usual care (8). Also the
      outcome measures are usually only self-rating scales rather than objective measures of
      function. To date there have been no trials of clinician assisted e-therapy in secondary
      care.

      "The Journal" (9) a free internet based program for the self-management of depression
      (www.depression.org.nz) was developed in New Zealand and capitalizes on the social marketing
      appeal of Sir John Kirwan, an ex All Black who has described his experiences of depression to
      help destigmatize mental illness. However in Canada John Kirkan is unknown so one hypothesis
      the investigators will test in this study is whether the social marketing by a celebrity is
      necessary for the effective use of an e-therapy. The self-help program is based on the
      cognitive behavioral techniques of behavioral activation and problem solving which teaches
      patients the skills of problem solving and delivers an evidence based intervention which is
      personalized for their individual care. The problem solving approach was derived from a large
      randomized control trial of face to face problem solving used in people who presented to
      emergency departments with intentional self-harm (10).

      Usage data from New Zealand shows that the depression.org web site was visited by 700,000
      people in its first year (the population of New Zealand is 4.2 million) with 20,000
      registered with The Journal and 13,000 active users. About 1500 people a month register to
      start the program with about three quarters of people recording significant improvement.
      Although the program was designed for depression of mild to moderate severity the evidence
      shows that nearly a third of people who access the program have more severe depression. The
      mean PHQ-9 score at the start of the program is 16 which reduces to 10 after 3 sessions and 7
      by the end of the program. The change in depression scores is most marked for severe
      depression with only 5% of people scoring in the severe range at the end of the program.
    
  