
    
      Home visiting programs provide critical support to families and young children to promote
      healthy development and reduce health disparities. Decades of research has yielded a robust
      evidence base supporting their effectiveness and impact on maternal and child outcomes. In
      2010, the importance of these interventions was recognized nationally with the authorization
      of $1.5 billion to fund Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting (MIECHV) across
      states and tribes. MIECHV was most recently reauthorized and funded for five years in early
      2018. There are now 20 evidence-based early childhood home visiting models nationwide, all of
      which have evidence from multiple randomized controlled trials, favorable impacts on primary
      and secondary outcomes, and sustained impacts of the intervention over time.

      Despite robust evidence of early childhood home-visiting effectiveness, replication and
      scale-up beyond the context of research has been challenging. Improving program retention,
      enhancing program content to address families' unique and often complex needs, and increasing
      fidelity have been identified as priority areas for further research. While building the
      evidence base for home-visiting programs, researchers necessarily took a "one-size-fits-all"
      approach - designing programs that are often lengthy (2-3 years long) and include standard
      lesson sequencing and dosing delivered in the same way to all participants. However, mothers
      and children do not all need the same program content or dosages. A one-size-fits-all
      approach fails to address maternal-child need and has led to differential outcomes across
      studies and populations, indicating that the promise of home-visiting to improve health has
      yet to be fully realized.

      The need for home-visiting programs that can address maternal-child diverse and emergent
      needs and improve client reach and retention, while maintaining fidelity to the active
      ingredients of evidence-based home-visiting programs, is at the forefront of research and
      practice-based dialogue in the US. Recent qualitative research on high- and low-retention
      sites within the Nurse Family Partnership network showed that nurses in high retention sites
      were more collaborative with families and adapted the program to align more with families'
      needs compared to nurses in low retention sites. Based on these findings, Ingoldsby and
      colleagues used principals of motivational interviewing to provide nurses with more explicit
      control over the visit schedule and content to families. When they compared retention rates
      for nurses trained in motivational interviewing to rates for nurses trained in the standard
      approach, they found retention rates were significantly better when nurses had more
      flexibility in service delivery.

      For the past two years, the Johns Hopkins Center for American Indian Health (CAIH) at Johns
      Hopkins University has partnered with the Annie E. Casey Foundation for formative work to
      develop a precision public health approach to the Family Spirit home-visiting program.
      Leveraging CAIH's existing evidence-based home-visiting program, Family Spirit, the goal of
      this project was to enhance the Family Spirit model to aid home visitors in tailoring content
      to meet families' specific needs and continuously monitor clients' emergent issues or
      improvements so that home-visiting education remains responsive, relevant, and feasible. This
      precision approach and corresponding implementation support have been developed. The current
      study will be a pilot study of the precision approach compared to the standard of care. In
      the standard of care, families receive regular home visits, delivered in the same sequence
      for up to 39 months. In the precision approach, there is a core set of lessons that every
      mother will get, but then additional lessons will be added based on maternal or child need.
      For example, if a mother is a first-time mom, they will get additional baby care lessons that
      are included in the standard Family Spirit curriculum but may not be relevant for moms with
      previous children.
    
  