
    
      This is a pilot, single-group, interventional, prospective study including patients with
      moderate Alzheimer's disease, treated with galantamine. Galantamine is thought to benefit the
      cognitive functioning of those with Alzheimer's disease. The starting treatment dose is 8
      mg/day for 4 weeks. The initial maintenance dose of galantamine is 16 mg/day. Patients should
      be maintained on 16 mg/day for 4 weeks. An increase to the maintenance dose of 24 mg/day
      should be considered on an individual basis after the appropriate assessment including
      evaluation of clinical benefit and tolerability. For individual patients not showing an
      increased response or not tolerating 24 mg/day, a dose reduction to 16 mg/day should be
      considered. The primary objective is the assessment of the modulating effect of galantamine
      (Reminyl PRC) on circadian rhythm (wake/sleep) in patients with moderate Alzheimer's disease.
      The secondary objective is to assess the perception of the physicians, caregivers and
      patients themselves on sleep-wake disorders in patients with moderate Alzheimer's disease
      before and after treatment with galantamine. Sleep disturbances will be assessed by two
      actigraphy measures: one, before starting treatment, and the other, 12 weeks after the first
      actigraphic measure. The primary endpoint is the day/night ratio measured by the actigraphy
      before and after treatment with galantamine in patients with moderate Alzheimer-type
      dementia. Concerning the Efficacy Measures, the Actigraphy will be used as a method to assess
      the modulating effect of galantamine on circadian rate. The impact of this modulating effect
      on the caregivers, patients themselves and physicians will be assessed by three
      questionnaires: the Zarit Caregiver Burden Interview (ZBI), the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality
      Index (PSQI) and the Clinical Global Impression (CGI), respectively. Patient safety will be
      monitored. It is estimated that the study period will range from September 2010 to the second
      quarter of 2011.
    
  