
    
      Background:

      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common arrhythmia in clinical practice with a prevalence
      of 2-3 percent in the population. Catheter ablation performing pulmonary vein isolation (PVI)
      is an established treatment, which aim to eliminate triggers from the pulmonary veins. This
      treatment is successful in most patients with paroxysmal AF. In many patients, especially the
      patients with persistent AF, this treatment is not sufficiently to achieve freedom from
      arrhythmia and symptoms.

      There are several studies showing that fibrosis in the left atrium (LA) is an independent
      factor to relapse in AF after PVI. The fibrotic areas can be detected by measuring the
      voltage in the left atrium and creating a voltage map. There are non-randomized studies that
      suggest better results regarding reduction of arrhythmia burden after ablating the low
      voltage areas (LVAs). This ablation strategy is commonly used in clinical praxis although
      there are no randomized studies in this field.

      Aim:

      The objective of this study is to compare two different ablation strategies in participants
      with persistent atrial fibrillation and fibrotic areas in the left atrium. The participant
      will be randomized to PVI versus PVI plus ablation of LVAs.

      The primary endpoint is freedom of atrial arrhythmias after 1 to 2 ablation procedures within
      6 months measured at 12 months after the first ablation procedure without antiarrhythmic
      drugs. Secondary endpoints will be atrial arrhythmia burden, health related quality of life
      measured by AFEQT score, and RAND 36 and periprocedural complications; death, stroke/ TIA,
      tamponade, atrio-esophageal fistula, and atrioventricular block.

      Study design:

      Randomized controlled multicenter trial. The study will be single blinded. All the
      participants will undergo PVI and the substrate map will be collected during atrial pacing.
      The patients with LVA will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion to; PVI plus ablation of LVA or PVI
      alone. Follow up visits will be at 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months. Before ablation and at every
      follow up visit the participants will fill in arrhythmia symptom specific questionnaires
      (AFEQT and ASTA) and questionnaire about quality of life (RAND 36). The participants will
      register arrhythmia with a heart monitoring system if symptoms of arrhythmia and two times
      daily during two weeks before every follow up visit.
    
  