
    
      The long term objectives of this program of research are to develop effective interventions
      for reducing problem drinking and associated problems among adolescents and young adults and
      to further enhance intervention approaches by identifying effective elements of treatment
      derived from cognitive behavioral social learning theory. Current approaches to behavior
      change in this area frequently rely on school-based primary prevention programs that do not
      address cessation/reduction issues for adolescents who are already drinking, rarely address
      motivational issues related to use and abuse, and cannot target school dropouts. Recently,
      two studies have shown Motivational Interviewing (MI) to be effective with alcohol-involved
      adolescents when compared to a control or no intervention condition, but have shown greater
      harm-reduction effects than alcohol consumption effects. In addition, mechanisms of MI have
      not been elucidated. The major purposes of this study re to compare MI to a minimal contrast
      condition in which personalized feedback is provided, and to determine if additional booster
      sessions will enhance outcomes. The population is older adolescents who have been treated in
      an Emergency Department (ED) following an alcohol-related event. Thus, school dropouts, a
      high-risk population, will be included in the study. A 2 (MI versus Feedback Only) x 2 (two
      booster sessions versus no boosters) factorial design will be used to examine whether a MI
      combined with booster can effectively change subsequent alcohol use and alcohol problems.
      Experimental manipulations will be evaluated 6, 9, and 12 months after baseline intervention.
      The study design has several strengths: (1) it will enable an investigation of the main
      effects of MI versus Feedback Only, providing a more stringent test of the active ingredients
      of MI than our current competitive segment permitted; (2) it enables an evaluation of the
      effects of continued contact as a separate factor; and (3) it allows a test of the
      interaction between baseline intervention type and booster contact. A secondary purpose of
      the study is to use explicit mediational analyses, tested within a Structural Equation
      Modeling framework, to examine the hypothesis that stage of change, use of behavioral alcohol
      reduction strategies, and alcohol treatment seeking will mediate the relationship between
      intervention and outcome. Finally, the study will determine whether the diagnosis of alcohol
      abuse or dependence affects responsivity to our intervention. In addition to its potential
      contribut8ion to theory, the importance of this work is its potential for providing a
      cos-effective brief intervention at a "teachable moment" to increase high-risk patients'
      interest in reducing harmful drinking and related risk-taking behaviors.
    
  