
    
      Background: Obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular disease are among the leading causes of
      death in the United States. Consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs) such as sodas,
      fruit drinks and sports drinks increases risk of these preventable conditions. SSBs are
      particularly problematic because they are high in calories but offer little nutritional
      value, and because the liquid calories in SSBs cause faster spikes in blood sugar and lower
      feelings of fullness than solid foods.

      Despite these risks, the average American adult consumes more than 130 calories per day from
      SSBs, well above recommended levels. A promising strategy for reducing SSB consumption is
      requiring health warnings on SSB containers. Online studies show that health warnings attract
      consumers' attention and reduce intentions to purchase SSBs. However, no research has tested
      the impact of SSB health warnings on actual behaviors. This randomized trial evaluates
      whether health warnings reduce purchases of SSBs.

      Setting: The trial will take place a mock convenience store setting created for researchers
      to examine how store and product characteristics influence consumer purchases in a controlled
      but realistic environment. The store reflects a convenience store's characteristics, selling
      foods, beverages, and household items at real-world prices. Participants can buy these
      products using cash.

      Recruitment: Participants will be recruited via university community subject pools, printed
      flyers posted, and online listings. Interested potential participants will complete an online
      pre-enrollment screening questionnaire to determine their eligibility. If eligible, they will
      be invited to schedule a time to visit the mock store for the trial.

      Informed consent: At the beginning of the study visit, research staff will review the consent
      documents with the participants. After reviewing the form, the research staff member will ask
      the participant if he or she has any questions. Then both parties will sign the consent form
      and the participant will receive a copy of the consent form to keep.

      Randomization: Participants will be randomly assigned to trial arms. An independent
      biostatistician will conduct the randomization a priori. Participants will have an equal
      chance of being randomized to either arm of the trial. Randomization will be carried out by
      generating a random number for each participant identification code (ID). Participant IDs
      will be ordered on this random number from smallest to largest. The bottom half of the IDs
      will be assigned to the control arm and the top half to the treatment arm (trial arms are
      described below). When participants arrive for their study visit, they will be assigned the
      next consecutive participant ID and will be allocated to the trial arm previously assigned to
      that ID.

      Experimental Procedures: When participants arrive at the mock store, they will be provided
      with a shopping basket and their participation incentive in cash. Participants will be
      instructed to pretend they are on a usual shopping trip and reminded that there are no right
      or wrong products to select. They will not be told the trial's purpose.

      Participants will be asked to complete a shopping task. They will be given a list of product
      categories and asked to select their preferred products in each of these categories. They
      will indicate their selections by placing products in their shopping basket. Before they
      begin the shopping task, participants will be instructed that they will be required to
      purchase one of the items they select, and that this item will be chosen for them at random
      by the experimenter. This procedure incentivizes participants to only select products they
      are actually interested in purchasing. After participants have completed the shopping task,
      the experimenter will randomly choose one of the products in the participant's basket for
      participant to purchase with his or her incentive cash. The participant will pay for the
      product and will receive change as necessary. After paying for their item, participants will
      complete a computer-based survey in another room.

      Assessment: The products participants select will be recorded by the experimenter at the end
      of the shopping task. Participants will also complete 1 computer-based survey immediately
      after completing the shopping task.

      Detailed description of the trial arms: Participants will be assigned to either a health
      warnings arm or a control arm. In the health warnings arm, all SSB products will be labeled
      with a health warning label. Investigators developed the text and design of these labels
      based on previous research and on label designs described in US and international
      legislation. In the control arm, all SSB products will be labeled with a neutral label, also
      developed by the investigators. In both arms, labels will be adhered directly on the
      front-of-package of SSB containers.
    
  