
    
      Objectives To determine the efficacy of vitamin A fortified rice that gets into the breast
      milk of lactating mothers as determined by breast milk vitamin A concentrations, total body
      reserves of vitamin A via isotope dilution technique, following a 14 weeks feeding trial of
      lactating women.

      Methodology The intervention will have two arms, vitamin A fortified rice and regular rice
      with 35 participants (lactating women) per group. Participants will receive one meal per day
      on weekdays for a period of 14 weeks. The fortified dose will be measured in the final cooked
      product, but we will aim to administer approximately 500 µg retinol in the rice meal. Vitamin
      A fortified rice is produced by extrusion technology by adding retinol into an artificial
      rice to be mix with the normal rice.

      Data collection

        1. Demographic data Each participants will be asked about demographic data in the first
           interview. The data includes general information (age, education and occupation),
           socioeconomic status, number of child and duration of breastfeeding mothers, if women
           had a child before.

        2. Anthropometric data Anthropometric measurements include weight and height of
           participants and weight, length and head circumference of infants will be recorded in
           the first day and post-intervention.

        3. Dietary assessment At the baseline (Day 1: 3+1 week after first breastfeed), all
           participants will be interviewed on food consumption in the previous 24 hours for 3
           times (2 weekdays and 1 weekend day). The data consist of food items, food types, food
           components and weight or size of consumed portions. Information from the interviews will
           be analyzed by INMUCAL software (Mahidol University, Thailand)

        4. Collection and analysis of breast milk sample Breast milk samples will be collected for
           vitamin A analysis. Collection of breast milk sample will be divided into two periods at
           the following time points which will start 3+1 week after first breastfeed.

             -  at baseline: Day 1 and 15

             -  14 weeks post-intervention: Day 121 and 135

        5. Collection and analysis of blood sample The change of vitamin A status of participants
           will be determined by using the pair13C-retinol isotope dilution test . This involves
           giving the first dose of 2 µmol retinol equivalent of 13C2-retinolretinyl acetate to
           participants on day 1 after that the second dose (2 µmol retinol) will be given to
           participants on the day 121. Blood sample will be collected 4 times (Day 1, 15, 121 and
           135 after 3+1 week of first breastfeed) for measuring the isotopic ratio of 13C/12C and
           the calculation of liver vitamin A concentration. Blood samples will be drawn into
           plastic clot blood tubes and will be wrapped with aluminum foil for protection from
           light. Then, blood will be centrifuged at 3000 rpm for 15 minutes, serum will be
           separated immediately into dark cryovials and stored at -20 ◦c.
    
  