
    
      Psoriasis affects 2-3% of the American population. Psoriasis involving less than 10% BSA in
      the absence of joint involvement tends to be treated locally. More than 80% of people with
      psoriasis have <10% BSA involvement. A wide variety of therapies currently exist, including
      topical corticosteroids and Vit D analogs, oral immunosuppressant, retinoid agents, and
      phototherapy. Given the prevalence of localized psoriasis and dissatisfaction with treatment,
      investigation of localized treatment should be a priority for researchers with goals to
      improve the current standard of care.

      UV light has a wavelength of 10nm - 380nm, which is slightly shorter than the wavelength of
      visible light. The UV light can be further classified to a narrow spectrum (UVB light has a
      wavelength of 280-315 nm). UVA has a wavelength of 315-400nm. Tanning beds use UV light to
      produce their effects. Whole body ultraviolet B (UVB) phototherapy is efficacious and is
      recommended as a first line option in selective psoriasis treatment recommendations. In
      pregnancy, UVB therapy is recommended as first line treatment for extensive plaque and
      guttate psoriasis.

      Although UVB phototherapy has been included in the guidelines for psoriasis treatment, its
      use does not come without risk. Toxicities include cataract formation, herpes reactivation,
      photoaging, and with long-term exposure may lead to an increased risk of genital tumors in
      males. In addition, the use of UVB is rarely used as a first-line treatment for localized
      psoriasis probably due to financial issues and increased requirements for clinic visits.
      Narrowband UVB therapy (emission 311- 313nm) is superior to broad-band UVB light, and reduces
      toxicity. Psoriatic plaques can withstand much higher doses of UV light than the surrounding
      uninvolved skin; UV treatment of just the involved skin therefore offers increased efficacy
      in fewer treatments. In addition, localized treatment may remain in remission even 4 months
      after clearing with localized laser treatment. Localized treatment should therefore be a more
      favorable treatment option for psoriasis, using higher doses with sparing of healthy skin.
    
  