
    
      A clinical trial will be carried out in the area of physiotherapy and rehabilitation of the
      "Centro Integral de Rehabilitación S.C. at the Hospital Angeles Lomas" in Mexico. Whose
      population will be hospitalized patients at the angeles lomas hospital. This research is
      carried out with the purpose of knowing and applying the technique of contra-relax at the
      muscular level but in this case extrapolated in the inspirometer. This project will have 3
      arms (1. New intervention protocol created by the main author in the use of the inspirometer,
      2. Conventional use of the inspirometer, 3. breathing exercises) with a population of
      hospitalized patients and whose purpose will be to determine the effectiveness of the new
      intervention protocol and compare it with the current protocol and respiratory exercises.

      The present project will be carried out with hospitalized patients who meet the criteria of
      occlusion and who, after passing the exclusion criteria, become part of a randomized clinical
      trial type investigation with a basic probabilistic sampling through a random number table,
      which Your order will be random through the Microsoft Excel 16.0 program, so we will obtain
      an experimental group 1, which will be the new intervention protocol for the use of the
      inspirometer (The maximum inspiratory capacity will be obtained and that results will be
      taken out 50% and 80% to have it as muscle strength training values for the respiratory
      muscles based on the contra-relax technique), an experimental group 2 (Conventional use of
      the conventional way) and a control group (breathing exercises without the use of
      inspirometer).

      After your hospital stay, the post-training changes of the different groups will be
      determined taking as a reference and control value the maximum inspiratory volume and the
      maximum expiratory volume. The variables to be determined will be: Fatigue, dyspnea, maximum
      inspiratory capacity, maximum expiratory volume, quality of life, vital signs (heart rate,
      respiratory rate, blood pressure).
    
  