
    
      Aspirin is one of the most commonly prescribed drugs worldwide It is widely used as the first
      line agent for prevention and treatment of heart diseases and stroke. It is well recognized
      that aspirin and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are associated with
      risk of upper gastrointestinal (the stomach) bleeding. It is increasingly recognized to have
      adverse effects in the small bowel, including ulcers resulting in bleeding.

      Bleeding from the small bowel has been very difficult to diagnose as it is beyond the reach
      of the conventional endoscopy. But with advances in endoscopic technique, video capsule
      endoscopy is now available to visualize the whole of the digestive tract. Capsule endoscopy
      is the size and shape of a pill which contains a tiny camera. After ingesting the capsule,
      pictures are taken inside of the gastrointestinal tract. Capsule endoscopy is now recommended
      to be a noninvasive test to identify source of small bowel bleeding.

      Investigators have recently shown that misoprostol can heal small bowel ulcers in aspirin
      users with small bowel bleeding. However, the complete healing rate with misoprostol alone
      was only 40%. This suggests that we should continue to investigate for additional therapies
      in order to achieve higher success rate of healing of aspirin-induced small bowel ulcers.

      Rifaximin is a non-absorbed oral antibiotic that targets the gastrointestinal tract. It was
      first described in 1982 and introduced into the Italian market 5 years later. Since then,
      rifaximin has had U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for treatment of
      travellers' diarrhea (year approved = 2004), hepatic encephalopathy (year approved=2010),
      irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) with diarrhea (year approved= 2015). Unlike the systematically
      available antibiotics, it allows localized enteric targeting of pathogens and is associated
      with minimal risk of systemic toxicity or side effects. In addition, the restricted use of
      non-absorbed oral antibiotics should also reduce the development of wide spread resistance.

      The aim of this study is to test the hypothesis that the combination therapy of rifaximin and
      misoprostol is superior to misoprostol alone for healing of small bowel ulcers in aspirin
      users complicated by small bowel bleeding.

      Participants are invited to this study because some predefined lesions are detected by the
      small bowel capsule endoscopy. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either a
      combination therapy of misoprostol and rifaximin or misoprostol and rifaximin placebo for 8
      weeks. Participants will be contacted by telephone after 1 week for any adverse events.
      Participants will then return at Week 8 to undergo a follow-up capsule endoscopy. Lab tests,
      drug compliance, and adverse events will be assessed.
    
  