
    
      AGS-22M6E and ASG-22CE are fully human monoclonal antibody conjugated to a cytotoxic agent
      monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE) targeting Nectin-4 (Agensys code name AGS-22). The main
      difference between AGS-22M6E and ASG-22CE is the change in cell line for antibody production.
      AGS-22M6E and ASG-22CE will be administered at mg/kg doses based on the subjects weight at
      baseline and doses will not change unless the subjects weight changes by ≥ 10% from their
      baseline weight or the investigational product Dosage Assessment criteria is met.

      Subjects will be prescreened for Nectin-4 expression prior to undergoing screening procedures
      for the main study. Subjects with tumors positive for Nectin-4 expression may be screened for
      eligibility into the main study. The dose escalation period is estimated to take between 12
      and 18 months depending on whether 3 or 6 subjects are enrolled in a given dose cohort, and
      the availability of consenting subjects.

      Subjects will be treated in the dose escalation phase of the study until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended dose for expansion (RDE) has been determined by the data
      review team (DRT). After the RDE has been determined, subjects will be enrolled into 1 of 3
      expansion cohorts. There will be 3 expansion cohorts, each targeting a specific cancer
      (i.e.,Breast, Bladder and Lung plus other solid tumor cancers). The DRT may recommend
      stopping the study, adjusting the dose or amending the trial at any time.

      The clinical bridging to the ASG-22CE involves treating the subjects with ASG-22CE,
      irrespective of cancer type, at the next lowest dose level previously determined to be safe
      for AGS-22M6E. After the initial subjects are treated at the bridging dose with ASG-22CE and
      have completed the safety assessment, future subjects will only be treated with ASG-22CE
      throughout the remainder of the study.

      A disease assessment will be performed by the investigator at Week 8 (± 14 days). Subjects
      without evidence of disease progression may continue to receive treatment until disease
      progression or intolerability.
    
  