
    
      Patients with pancreatic cancer suffer from multiple symptoms related to the tumor itself or
      induced by the chemotherapy. The available supportive therapy is still not able to relief all
      symptoms that are caused by the malignancy itself as well as by the antineoplastic therapy.

      Additionally, anorexia and weight loss, that often result in increased morbidity and
      mortality in this patient population as well as in psycho-social burden and suffering in
      patients and their relatives, are unmet needs in pancreatic cancer patients.

      Therapeutic approaches focus on treating the malignancy itself, additional nutritional
      support and physical examination might prevent patients from further side effects such as
      sarcopenia.

      During the last decades a number of appetite-modulating drugs have been under clinical
      investigation. A number of studies focused on the endocannabinoid system, which is involved
      amongst others in appetite-modulating, antiemetic, analgesic and anti-inflammatory processes.

      As dronabinol is already used as magistral formulation, its beneficial effect has often been
      observed in these patients in the clinical routine, especially in patients with
      therapy-refractory nausea and emesis. Due to its broad efficacy it might be of benefit for
      patients suffering from malignancy. Thus, investigators want to evaluate the efficacy of
      dronabinol in the improvement of chemotherapy-induced and tumor-related symptoms in advanced
      pancreatic patients during systemic first-line chemotherapy. However, data on optimal dosage
      are conflicting yet.

      In detail, investigators want to study whether dronabinol has a positive influence on quality
      of life and whether symptoms caused by the tumor or by the chemotherapy itself might be
      palliated by dronabinol. Beneficial and potential harmful side effects and the personal
      perception of advanced pancreatic cancer patients will be documented.
    
  