
    
      The number of children and adolescents living with life-limiting conditions and potentially
      in need for specialised paediatric palliative care (SPPC) is rising. As a highly complex
      subfield of palliative care, paediatric palliative care focuses on the support and
      involvement of the entire family, and on the impact not only at the patient level, but also
      at the family and health systems level. Ideally, a specialised multiprofessional team fills
      the complex healthcare needs of children and their families. A consultative care model might
      be well-suited to address each family's most important needs. The question, however, of how
      SPPC is beneficial for whom and under what circumstances remain largely unanswered as
      validation of innovative care programmes in controlled studies is lacking.

      This study's overall target is to evaluate the effectiveness of SPPC and to report on its
      potential to improve patient-, family-, health professional-, and healthcare-related
      outcomes. The primary objective is to explore how SPPC influences the quality of life (QOL)
      of caregivers, i.e. parents. Secondary objectives are to explore how SPPC influences the QOL
      of patients including their symptom severity and distress as well as the QOL of their
      siblings and of healthcare professionals not specialised in PPC. Further objectives are to
      determine whether the provision of SPPC reduces the utilisation of healthcare resources and
      direct and indirect health-related costs for families, and to evaluate implementation
      outcomes such as adoption, i.e., the uptake of SPPC.

      This interventional multi-centre study will apply a hybrid design to determine the clinical
      effectiveness (comparative effectiveness research) of an existing SPPC programme, while
      gathering information on its delivery and potential implementation in a real-life situation.

      This study will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, the current version of the
      Declaration of Helsinki, the ICH-GCP as well as all national legal and regulatory
      requirements.
    
  