
    
      Effective combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) has dramatically altered the morbidity
      and mortality associated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infection. Nevertheless,
      the current treatment paradigm of lifelong antiviral therapy with near perfect patient
      adherence to avoid the emergence of drug resistant HIV remains less than ideal and this
      therapeutic approach has clear limitations.

      In addition to long term toxicities associated with currently preferred therapies,
      combination therapy for HIV-1 infection cannot address the issue of viral persistence. HIV-1
      persists in both blood and tissue despite long-term suppression with antiretroviral agents
      (ARVs). Eradication strategies for HIV-1 are likely to require a multi-faceted approach to
      reduce the latent reservoir, with key components focusing upon both the disruption of viral
      latency and the enhancement of cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) function to promote killing of
      infected cells. In order to successfully achieve these objectives, agents that safely
      stimulate replication of the latent reservoir AND explore approaches to enhance HIV-specific
      adaptive immunity to augment CTL function must be investigated. The investigators propose
      that this may be accomplished with a single therapeutic modality that is devised
      appropriately. Certain adjuvants may possess immunostimulatory properties that trigger
      transient activation of viral transcription while simultaneously enhancing HIV-specific CTL
      function and, thus, may play an important role in such a vaccine.

      Here, the investigators propose a proof of concept clinical trial to determine the ability of
      Poly-ICLC (Hiltonol®, Oncovir), to safely activate the latent viral reservoir and enhance
      innate immunity when administered to HIV-infected individuals. This randomized,
      double-blinded, placebo-controlled study will administer two doses of Poly-ICLC to
      HIV-infected individuals whom are virologically suppressed on combination anti-retroviral
      therapy (cART). The investigators hypothesize that Poly-ICLC will be safe and well-tolerated
      and will transiently disrupt viral latency while enhancing innate immune responses. Should
      this be the case, then Poly-ICLC would be an ideal modality to combine with a therapeutic HIV
      vaccine to reduce the number of latently infected CD4+ T cells in treated HIV-1 infected
      individuals.
    
  