
    
      Salivary gland hypofunction, or dry mouth, is a damaging oral condition that affects the
      function and flow rate of saliva. Low saliva rates can range from mild self-reported symptoms
      and discomfort to significant oral diseases. Saliva is essential in preventing irritation and
      friction of mucosal surfaces. Progressively dry mouth can cause oral and bodily conditions
      that can affect an individuals quality of life and daily tasks, such as eating and avoiding
      social situations. Specifically, dry mouth is a risk factor for periodontal disease, a
      chronic oral inflammation of tissues and ligaments that support the tooth's structure and if
      untreated, will ultimately lead to tooth loss. In Canada, the first line of defense against
      periodontal disease is non-surgical sanative therapy (ST). Participants in this study have
      been attending a periodontal specialty clinic for routine periodontal maintenance
      appointments for at least 1 to 5 years following their initial scaling and root planing.
      Salivary flow rate will be measured to determine the level of dry mouth. At the regular
      maintenance appointment, clinical measures will be evaluated (probing depth, bleeding on
      probing, plaque index, gingival index, thickness of tissues, mobility, and furcations).
      Patients will also complete a dry mouth questionnaire to determine if dry mouth influences
      the day to day life of a patient, and the patient's Registered Dental Hygienist will complete
      a short questionnaire outlining oral symptoms of dry mouth. Additionally, the investigators
      aim to see if a patient who has periodontal maintenance appointments at a specialty office
      has different clinical outcomes than a patient who alternates these appointments between a
      specialty office and a general dental office. Overall, the investigators will determine if
      thorough periodontal maintenance appointments are efficient in preventing periodontal disease
      in patients with dry mouth.
    
  