
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the relative efficacy of mFOLFOX6 + bevacizumab with that of mFOLFOX6 alone in
      prolonging disease-free survival (DFS).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the relative efficacy of mFOLFOX6 + bevacizumab with that of mFOLFOX6 alone in
      prolonging survival (S).

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the persistence of proteinuria following the discontinuation of bevacizumab.

      II. To correlate the development of proteinuria with clinical sequelae. III. To evaluate the
      risk factors for development of proteinuria. IV. To determine the effect of discontinuation
      of bevacizumab on hypertension. V. To estimate the incidence of delayed vascular events such
      as myocardia infarction, CNS ischemia, and thrombosis in patients receiving chemotherapy +
      bevacizumab.

      VI. To assess the effect of bevacizumab on ovarian function in premenopausal women.

      VII. To assess the incidence rate of immunogenicity and examine post-treatment serum levels
      of bevacizumab in patients receiving bevacizumab.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive adjuvant chemotherapy comprising concurrent oxaliplatin and
      leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1. Patients also receive adjuvant fluorouracil IV
      over 2-4 minutes on day 1 followed by fluorouracil IV continuously over 46 hours on days 1
      and 2. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive
      adjuvant oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil as in arm I. Treatment repeats
      every 14 days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      After completion of adjuvant chemotherapy, patients continue to receive bevacizumab alone
      every 14 days for 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.
    
  