
    
      DECIDE (Bedside versus Operating Room Burr-Hole DrainagE of ChronIc SubDural HEmatoma)

      Background and Significance: Chronic subdural hematoma (CSDH) is an abnormal collection of
      liquefied blood products between the dura and arachnoid membranes of the brain that may cause
      brain tissue compression and subsequent neurological sequelae. One of the most common risk
      factors contributing to CSDH is head trauma, which is usually in the form of a minor head
      injury. Older individuals are at increased risk of CSDH due to brain atrophy that occurs with
      advancing age as well as their tendency to fall and sustain minor head traumas. Chronic
      alcoholics are also at increased risk as alcoholism leads to globalized brain atrophy,
      increased risk of falls, and hepatogenic coagulopathy. Coagulopathies including the use of
      anticoagulants, antithrombotics, and antiplatelets for certain health conditions are other
      common risk factors for CSDH.

      Study Aims: The primary aim of our study is to conduct a high-quality randomized trial to
      compare the safety and effectiveness of the bedside and operating room burr-hole drainage of
      CSDH. The main objective of this study is to demonstrate the effectiveness of bedside
      drainage and its safety as it bypasses the perioperative risk associated with anesthetic
      especially among the elderly.

      The ultimate goal of this study is to standardize bedside drainage as the treatment of choice
      for CSDH management.

      Primary Objective: To assess the efficacy of bedside drainage compared to operating room
      burr-hole evacuation for CSDH management by examining the hypothesis that bedside is
      associated with lower recurrence rate.

      Secondary Objectives: To examine if the bedside drainage and the operating room burr-hole
      drainage are efficacious in terms of functional outcomes. To evaluate the hypothesis that
      bedside drainage is safer compared to the operating room burr-hole drainage by measuring
      mortality and morbidity.

      Overall study design: Multi-centered pragmatic randomized controlled trial across North
      America (USA and Canada) comparing bedside drainage with operating room burr-hole drainage of
      CSDH.

      Duration: Over a 3 year study period, each patient will be followed for 6 months to measure
      the study outcomes.

      Study population: The study population will include 486 eligible patients >18 years of age
      with confirmed diagnosis of symptomatic CSDH (243 patients per arm).

      Inclusion Criteria: Patients aged > 18 years presenting with symptomatic CSDH confirmed on
      diagnostic imaging, who are able to provide informed consent or have a legal representatives
      available if unable to do so.

      Main intervention and comparator(s): Patients will be randomly assigned between the two arms
      of the study, bedside and operating room burr-hole drainage. For patients randomized to
      bedside drainage of CSDH, the twist-drill procedure will be conducted at the patient's
      bedside using local anesthetic. For patients randomized to burr-hole drainage, the procedure
      will be performed in the operating room under local or general anesthesia based on the
      surgeon's and anesthesiologist's judgement of the clinical stability of the patient.
      Randomization via www.randomize.net website will be stratified by center and by patient age
      in variable unspecified block sizes.

      Follow-Up Post-Randomization: Patients randomized will be followed for study outcomes on days
      1, 2, discharge, and months 1, 3 and 6.

      Primary Outcome: The efficacy of comparative surgical procedures will be measured by the
      recurrence rate of CSDH within 6 months of initial CSDH drainage.

      Secondary Functional Outcomes: Postoperative neurological and functional status of the
      patients will be measured using the Markwalder Grading System (MGS), Glasgow Outcome Score
      (GOS), and modified Rankin Scale (MRS).

      Secondary Safety Outcomes: The safety of both procedures will be measured in terms of
      mortality and morbidity including surgical site infections, misplacement of postoperative
      subdural drain, tension pneumocephalus, new intracranial hemorrhage, and other medical
      complications.

      Sample Size: Sample size estimation is based on a Chi-squared two-sided test of the null
      hypothesis that bedside drainage is not different from burr-hole drainage in reducing the
      proportion of patients who experience a hematoma recurrence within 6 months of the drainage
      procedure. Including for possible attrition rate of 10% a total of 486 patients (243 per arm)
      will be required to detect a difference in recurrence rates of 7% or a risk ratio of 0.36
      (11% in the burr-hole group and 4% in the bedside drainage group), with a power of 80% and a
      level of significance set at alpha=0.05.

      Primary Analysis: Primary analysis will be by intention-to-treat and data analyst will be
      blinded to participant allocation.

      Interim Analyses: Interim analyses will be conducted upon recruitment of 25% of the expected
      sample size (122 patients) to assess recruitment rates, recurrence rates and safety outcomes.

      This trial is important in the ongoing search for more efficient and safe intervention
      strategies.
    
  