
    
      This is a non-interventional, prospective study aim to recruit 200 subjects from National
      University Hospital, Tan Tock Seng Hospital and Ng Teng Feng General Hospital over a period
      of 2 years to determine whether differential serum A2M, CMA1 and VEGFA concentrations can
      predict whether a dengue patient will develop severe disease. Serum A2M, CMA1 and VEGFA
      concentrations will be quantitated using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. The objectives
      of this study as below:

        1. Determine the optimum cut-off for the prediction of DHF/DSS (WHO 1997 classification)
           and Severe Dengue (SD; WHO 2009 classification).

        2. Better understand the characteristics (e.g. daily kinetics) of A2M, CMA1 and VEGFA in
           Dengue and how their serum concentrations are affected by other variables e.g. patient
           age and gender, day of sample collection, primary/secondary infection (based on patient
           memory and/or Standard Diagnostics SD BIOLINE Dengue Duo) and virus serotype.

        3. Perform a cost-effectiveness analysis for the adoption of such a Dengue prognostic
           technology in hospital.

      Eligible participants will be aged 21 and above with a laboratory confirmed dengue patients
      (either positive PCR or positive NS1), and meet all inclusion/exclusion criteria. Each
      participant will be given an information sheet and informed consent obtained from him/her.
      Blood will be drawn for PCR Dengue serotyping and measurements of serum concentrations of
      A2M, CMA1 and VEGFA via quantitative enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA). Blood
      collection will be performed on the day of recruitment.

      Participants may be managed as inpatients or outpatients as decided by their treating
      physician. For participants who are managed as Dengue outpatients, they will be asked to
      return to the outpatient clinic every day. For both Dengue inpatient and outpatient
      participants, blood will be drawn every day until they are discharged from care or Day 7 of
      the study, whichever earlier. If the participants are discharged from care (discharge from
      hospital or dengue clinic) on the day of recruitment, they will be asked to come back for
      study visit on Day 2. And 2 ml of blood will be collected for research purpose on Day 2. On
      the day of discharge, for both Dengue inpatients and outpatients, participants will each be
      given a questionnaire to complete. A separate questionnaire will also be filled up by the
      study team for the discharge of each Dengue inpatient participant. Should the participant be
      discharged prior to Day 7 of the study, a telephone call will be made to the discharged
      participant on Day 7 of the study to establish his/her health status. Upon completion of the
      study, each participant will be reimbursed a lump sum of $50.

      Data collected will be entered into a paper case report forms and will be transcribed onto
      eCRF. All participants identifiers will not be collected. The system will allow for audit
      tracking. During the course of the study, auditors from relevant authorities may visit the
      study site to review protocol compliance, check electronic case report form (eCRFs) and
      ensure that the study is being conducted according to Good Clinical Practice (GCP).
    
  