
    
      Falls and fall-related injuries are the leading cause of injury deaths among older adults.
      This proposal will help prevent falls at night by developing a new alarm system. Current
      bed-exit alarm systems sound when the patient is half way out of the bed or on the ground. We
      need a warning for when a patient is about to try to exit the bed.

      The investigators believe that patients' heart rate or breathing changes before they leave
      bed. They may also start moving within the bed. This is a brief study with nursing home
      patient participants. Our primary outcome of interest is bed-exits, and up to 10 participants
      at a time will be monitored for an average of 6 weeks (less than their anticipated stay)
      until which time that 250 bed exits have been recorded. Nearly all participants will have
      physical and/or mental impairments and will be at high risk for falling.

      The investigators will use an investigational device to watch over the patient using a pad
      under the mattress. This monitor is called the "Early-Sense 5". The system works like a
      microphone for very low sounds. It changes heart, lungs, and movement vibrations into tiny
      electrical signals. A wire carries these signals to a control box.

      The information collected in the box will be stored and checked later. We will use five
      different math descriptions for recognizing patterns. One or more of these may be useful to
      give a 1 - 5 minute early warning that the patient is about to exit the bed.

      The plan is to determine whether patterns of differences in three areas (heart rate,
      breathing rate, and body movement) can be recognized and depended on to warn us about
      bed-exits or attempted bed-exits.

      There are four study targets. The first is to develop five possible mathematical
      descriptions. The second is to use the rest of the information to test which of the
      descriptions have meaningful ability to predict that a patient is about to get out of bed.
      The third is to show that warning times are one to five minutes. The fourth is to test the
      best mathematical descriptions for false alarms and true fall prevention.

      How doable Phase I is will depend on how well we can predict that a patient is about to get
      out of bed. If we can identify a pattern easily, then Phase II research will be put forward.

      This study is supported by the National Institute on Aging (SBIR-I).
    
  