
    
      The prevalence of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is increasing in HIV-positive men who
      have sex with men (MSM) participating in the Swiss HIV Cohort Study (SHCS). MSM with
      high-risk sexual behaviour are recognized to be the main drivers of the current HCV epidemic.
      However, in Switzerland treatment with the newest available direct acting agents (DAAs) is
      currently restricted to patients with a METAVIR fibrosis score ≥2 (i.e., patients with
      beginning or advanced liver fibrosis or cirrhosis) by the federal office of public health due
      to the tremendous costs of these DAAs. Within the study population (i.e. HIV-infected MSM
      with a replicating HCV-infection in Switzerland), about 90% of individuals have a METAVIR
      fibrosis score <2. As a consequence, HCV therapy with new DAAs is not covered by health
      insurances for the majority of this population. However, there is evidence that HCV treatment
      should not be delayed until the development of advanced liver disease. Treating
      HIV/HCV-coinfected individuals independently of their liver fibrosis score can prevent the
      development of liver related complications and the transmission of HCV infection.

      The once daily oral combination regimen grazoprevir/elbasvir was approved by the Food and
      Drug Administration (FDA) in January 2016 for the treatment of genotype (GT) 1 and 4 HCV
      infection in mono- and HIV/HCV coinfected patients. In phase III clinical trial, a 12-week
      course of grazoprevir/elbasvir showed high efficacy with sustained virologic response (SVR)
      rates of ≥95%, and favourable tolerability. A 16 weeks treatment with grazoprevir/elbasvir in
      combination with weight-adjusted ribavirin is necessary in GT 1a infected patients with
      baseline resistance associated variants (RAV's) and GT 4 infected patients with a history of
      prior failure to HCV-treatment. Grazoprevir/elbasvir has only robust data from phase 2 and 3
      clinical trials for GT 1, 4 HCV infections.

      Of note, GT 1, 4 infections account for ~90% of HCV infections in the MSM population in the
      SHCS.

      HCV reinfection remains a concern among MSM, who can be re-exposed to HCV through high-risk
      sexual behaviours after successful HCV treatment. A recent review shows evidence that
      behavioural interventions in high risk MSM have the potential to be effective at least in
      short term reduction of sexual risk behaviours.

      To date the knowledge about the HCV-specific immune responses during DAA treatment is sparse.
      An effective adaptive cellular immunity is known to play a crucial role in spontaneous viral
      eradication after primary infection.

      The investigators aim at investigating the efficacy of grazoprevir/elbasvir ±ribavirin in
      HIV-positive MSM participating in the SHCS in a broader setting of coinfected MSM. The study
      pursues a comprehensive approach of a treat, counsel and cure strategy exploring the impact
      of such a strategy in a representative HIV/HCV-coinfected MSM population. This study is a
      nested project of the Swiss HIV Cohort Study entitled "The Swiss HCVree Trial".
    
  