
    
      Colorectal cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors in China. With the advancement
      of medical science and technology, the treatment of colorectal cancer has become more mature,
      forming a comprehensive and individualized treatment model focusing on surgery. The promotion
      of the principles of TME and CME surgery has greatly standardized the operation of colorectal
      surgery. COLOR II, COREAN and CLASICC studies have all confirmed the safety and effectiveness
      of laparoscopic colorectal cancer surgery.

      In traditional laparoscopic-assisted surgery, a small incision in the abdominal wall is used
      to assist in trimming the mesangium to remove the specimen, and the anastomosis is completed
      outside the abdominal wall, which will still cause postoperative incision pain and may lead
      to complications such as incisional infection and incisional hernia. However, in some obese
      patients, the mesangium is thick and short. The above operations are more difficult, and may
      even cause the risk of mesangial tears and bleeding, which will weaken the minimally invasive
      advantages of laparoscopic surgery.

      The total laparoscopic radical resection of colon cancer is performed under laparoscopic free
      dissection and dissected reconstruction of the operation area. The small incision of the
      abdominal wall Trocar is used to take out the specimen, which not only guarantees a
      sufficient range of dissection and resection, but also avoids the troubles caused by the
      auxiliary abdominal wall incision. Postoperative recovery may be faster, but it also raises
      questions about the increased risk of infection in the surgical area. Total laparoscopic
      radical resection of colon cancer still lacks corresponding high-quality clinical research.
      In response to this problem, this study compares related surgical methods, verifies the
      safety and effectiveness of the corresponding surgical methods, and provides better guidance
      for subsequent clinical practice.

      Taking laparoscopic-assisted radical resection of colon cancer as a control, the short-term
      and long-term effects of full laparoscopic radical resection of colon cancer were evaluated,
      so as to choose a more effective and safe operation method.
    
  