
    
      Background/Rationale:

      For people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), standard maintenance inhaler
      treatments consist of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and long acting bronchodilators
      (principal classes include long-acting beta-2-agonists (LABAs) and long-acting muscarinic
      antagonists (LAMAs)). Clinical trials indicate that adding ICS to treatment combinations may
      provide rapid and sustained improvements (1). However, ICS may be associated with adverse
      effects, notably pneumonia.

      There is a need for real-world effectiveness data regarding COPD treatment in order to
      demonstrate that improvements in lung function translate into reductions in exacerbations,
      hospitalizations or morbidity.

      Objectives and Hypotheses: We hypothesize that ICS containing treatment regimens (including
      triple therapy - ICS/LABA/LAMA) are more effective at preventing AECOPD than non-ICS
      containing regimens. The main objective is to assess the impact of ICS therapy on
      exacerbation outcomes in a COPD population and identify which patient subgroups may achieve
      the greatest benefit.

      Methods:

      Study design: Cohort study examining comparative effectiveness

      Data Source(s): Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) GOLD, Hospital Episode Statistics
      (HES) and Office for National Statistics (ONS) mortality data

      Study Population: Patients ≥40 years-old, with a validated diagnosis of COPD registered
      between the 1st of January 2006 and the 29 February 2016. Eligible patients must have a
      smoking history, data recorded at least 12 months prior to the study index date and have
      Up-To-Standard (UTS) data as defined by CPRD.

      Exposure(s): ICS containing (LAMA/LABA/ICS and LABA/ICS) regimens and non-ICS containing
      regimens (LABA/LAMA, LAMA monotherapy).

      Outcome(s): Exacerbationsmof COPD, defined using a published algorithm, both GP treated and
      hospitalised(2), hospitalised pneumonias.

      Sample Size Estimations:

      A two-sample log-rank test for power indicated that a total of n=2,858 patients (1,429
      patients per group) will be required to detect a 15% risk reduction for exacerbation in the
      triple therapy population compared to the dual-therapy group (comparison which requires the
      maximum number of patients). This is based on a 60% annual hazard rate for exacerbation in
      the dual-therapy population and a 51% annual hazard rate for exacerbation in the triple
      therapy group; assuming power of 90%, alpha=0.05, and a conservative accrual period of one
      year and a minimum follow-up time of one year.

      Statistical Analysis: Descriptive statistics will be used to characterize patients according
      to baseline demographic, clinical and treatment factors and to study treatment patterns
      during follow-up.

      Analytical statistics will estimate time to exacerbation events per treatment type during the
      follow-up period. These statistics will include extended Cox regression models, marginal
      structural models (MSM) and inverse probability weighting (IPW).

      Sensitivity analyses will assess follow-up time in incremental periods in order to examine
      the impact of drug type and drug changes over time. We will also analyse associations between
      demographic and clinical factors and treatment received.
    
  