
    
      For patients in the study group, new prescriptions with three refills were electronically
      scripted to local compliance packaging pharmacy, ExactCare pharmacy, LLC, Valley View, Ohio,
      44125. ExactCare is a local packaging pharmacy that pre-packs medications for patients so
      that each day's medications come in a separate paper compartment that can be discarded after
      daily use. They also deliver medications to the patients' homes. At the initiation of the
      study, ExactCare provided medications in pill packs for all patient medications in a 30-day
      supply (Figure 2). Pill bottle medications were provided for medications that would run out
      prior to the initial supply date. Inhalers, nebulizers, injectable medications, as needed
      medications and medications that required frequent dose changes were not included in the pill
      packs but were sent separately within the 30-day supply box.

      If the patient was started on a new medication by their PCP, the local compliance packaging
      pharmacy packed this medication in pill packs for the next 30-day box supply and sent pill
      bottles containing enough pills to last the patient till the next 30-day box. Every pill in
      the pill pack was coded with an identification number. If the patient's physician
      discontinued or changed the dose of any medication, the patient was advised to remove the
      pill from the pack using its identification number and either discard it or make the dose
      change accordingly.

      A study investigator counted the pills left in the control group prior to the study start
      date. After the study start date, patients in the control group continued to receive their
      medications the same way they were getting them before being enrolled in this study using
      either electronic or printed prescriptions. They received instructions about the timing and
      frequency of medication administration from their physicians and nurses, and picked up their
      medications from their local pharmacy.

      Patients from both groups had a follow-up PCP visit approximately four months from
      enrollment. Patients received telephone calls prior to their follow-up appointments to remind
      them to bring their medications from home. During the appointment, the study investigator
      counted the medications remaining in the pill packs for the study group patients and the
      pills remaining in pill bottles for the control group patients.

      ExactCare provided the initial start date for each patient receiving their pill packs in
      30-day supply. Refill dates were accessed from local pharmacies and the EMR for patients in
      the control group. This information was used to calculate the number of pills expected to
      remain with each patient at the end of the study and to compare to the actual number of pills
      remaining. New medications, discontinued medications, and modified-dose medications were not
      included in the study analysis.
    
  