
    
      Participants will be asked to review the informed consent form and consent to the study prior
      to beginning any study procedure.

      There are six phases of this study: (1) an in-person interview, (2) an in-home single night
      sleep recording, (3) a two-week baseline period, (4) a 4-week treatment period, (5) a
      follow-up period immediately after the completion of treatment, (6) and a two-week follow-up
      period 3-months after the treatment period.

      During the interview, participants will be asked questions about their sleep, cardiac, and
      ICD history. Participants will then visit the University of Florida for a medical history and
      will be connected to machinery to monitor their sleep. Participants will return home to sleep
      while still connected to the machine and will return the machine to the University of Florida
      the next day. A third visit will consist of completing questionnaires and a computerized
      neurocognitive performance battery to assess several areas of cognitive functioning.
      Participants will then go home and with brief daily diaries to complete for two weeks while
      also wearing an actigraph (wristwatch-like device) that measures arm movements to detect
      sleep/wake during that time.

      Participants will then be randomized to (a) the brief cognitive behavioral therapy for
      insomnia (CBTi) in ICD patients group or (b) the waitlist control group. The treatment
      consists of 2 weeks of in-person therapy and 2 weeks of therapy conducted over the telephone.
      Participants assigned to waitlist control will be offered therapy at no cost at the end of
      the study. Throughout the 4 treatment weeks, participants in both groups will be asked to
      complete daily sleep diaries.

      A follow-up period consisting of two weeks, during which participants will wear the actigraph
      and complete daily sleep diaries, will take place immediately after treatment completion.
      Participants will travel to the University two times during this follow-up period in order to
      pick-up and then return the actigraph and sleep diaries, and will once again complete the
      questionnaires and neurocognitive testing battery at the end of the 2nd visit. A final
      follow-up period will occur 3-months following treatment, which will involve visits to the
      University to pick up the daily sleep diaries and actigraph for sleep monitoring, and then
      returning these items after completion 2-weeks later. Upon returning the diary and actigraph,
      participants will complete questionnaires and then be debriefed by study personnel.
    
  