
    
      This study will capture different approaches in the management of persons with haemophilia A
      (HA) and inhibitors. HA is a serious blood coagulation disorder caused by a deficiency in
      FVIII that results in a failure to produce FVIII in sufficient quantities to achieve
      satisfactory haemostasis. Patients with HA are predisposed to recurrent bleeds into joints
      and soft tissues that culminate in debilitating arthropathy and long-term morbidity. HA can
      be effectively treated with replacement FVIII concentrates, obtained by fractionation of
      human plasma (pdFVIII) or using recombinant technology (rFVIII). In patients receiving FVIII
      replacement therapy, inhibitors can develop that neutralise the effect of treatment.
      Inhibitors develop in ~35% of patients who have not been previously exposed to FVIII
      treatment and ~1% of patients who have undergone previous FVIII treatment. Inhibitor
      development has major adverse implications on bleeding rates, morbidity, mortality and
      quality of life.

      Immune tolerance induction (ITI), which involves prolonged treatment with plasma-derived
      (pdFVIII) or recombinant FVIII (rFVIII), is the only clinically proven strategy for
      eradication of inhibitors and is recommended as the primary treatment option in European and
      US guidelines. Bypassing agents (activated recombinant factor VII [rFVIIa] and activated
      prothrombin complex concentrate [aPCC]) are used to manage bleeding episodes (BEs) and for
      prophylaxis or in surgical settings in patients with FVIII inhibitors. The bispecific factor
      IX (FIX) and factor X (FX) monoclonal antibody emicizumab was approved in the US in November
      2017, and in Europe in February 2018.

      The overall objective of this study is to capture different approaches in the management of
      participants with HA and inhibitors, document current ITI approaches, and evaluate efficacy
      and safety of ITI, including the combination of FVIII and emicizumab. Patients will be
      assigned to 1 of 3 groups based on the treatments they receive:

        -  Group 1 receives ITI with Nuwiq, octanate, or wilate, with aPCC or rFVIIa administered
           as needed

        -  Group 2 receives ITI with Nuwiq, octanate, or wilate, in combination with emicizumab,
           with aPCC or rFVIIa administered as needed

        -  Group 3 receives routine prophylaxis with emicizumab, aPCC or rFVIIa without ITI
    
  