
    
      Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a debilitating and common disorder of
      childhood marked by pervasive and persistent patterns of inattention, overactivity and
      impulsiveness. It is associated with impairment in a range of domains at both home and school
      and leads to long term educational and vocational underachievement, delinquency and conduct
      disorder and social and marital problems. Current treatment approaches involve both
      pharmacological and non-pharmacological options. Non-pharmacological options tend to focus on
      home-based approaches such as parent training. These can be effective especially in limiting
      impairment and reducing symptoms of comorbid problems such as oppositional defiant disorder
      (ODD) and other psychiatric comorbidities. This can really improve the quality of life of
      children with ADHD. However, a major problem with these home-based approaches is that their
      effects are unlikely to generalise to the school setting. This means that to effectively
      treat ADHD and to deal with impairment at both home and at school one needs to supplement
      home based approaches with effective school based strategies.

      Classroom-based approaches that have been tried with ADHD can be divided into two types
      (Pelham & Fabiano, 2008). First, there are classroom based management strategies where
      teachers manipulate the consequences of behaviour to reduce (i.e., negatively reinforce)
      inappropriate behaviours (aggression, loss of concentration, disruptiveness) and increase
      (reinforce) appropriate behaviours (compliance, concentration). The second type of
      intervention focuses on academic targets through manipulating the academic instruction and
      materials (i.e., reducing task length, peer tutoring). In the current proposal the
      investigators focus on the first category. Pelham & Fabiano (2008) recently concluded that
      "the evidence for BCM [behavioural classroom management] for ADHD was substantial".

      However, while there is a considerable evidence base for the value of classroom management as
      a component of ADHD treatment in multi-modal psychosocial treatment packages in school-aged
      children, there is a lack of well designed randomized studies in a naturalistic school
      setting that can provide a definitive estimate of efficacy for such approaches.

      At the University Hospital of Leuven a toolkit for school behaviour modification in children
      with ADHD has been developed and piloted. This is an instrument for teachers to
      systematically target specific behaviours in the classroom and the playground with the
      ultimate goal of improving school ADHD behaviours and reducing oppositionality. Teachers will
      identify the behaviours which are most challenging and apply a series of levels of
      intervention with increasing intensity of monitoring, feedback and training. The effect of a
      three month application of the toolkit will be evaluated compared to a waiting list control
      group. Outcome measures will include measures of ADHD behaviours, oppositional defiant
      behaviour, teacher attitudes towards ADHD, teacher-child relationship and child self-esteem.
    
  