
    
      This is a phase Ib/II trial designed to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and does
      limiting toxicities (DLTs) of the combination of eribulin and cyclophosphamide in solid
      tumors and make preliminary estimates regarding efficacy of this treatment in patients with
      advanced breast cancer.

      The study includes a standard dose-confirmation schema (phase Ib portion) enrolling 3 to 6
      patients/subjects, with any solid tumors, per cohort (3+3 design) with a total of 18
      patients. The dose-expansion (phase II portion) will enroll 40 patients with advanced breast
      cancer to detect an effect size of 15% with a power of 80% with endpoints of safety,
      efficacy, and clinical benefit rate. A maximum of 58 patients will be enrolled on the phase
      Ib and II portions of this trial combined and will be treated until disease progression or
      toxicity mandate treatment change.

      Eribulin is a non-taxane microtubule inhibitor that is FDA approved as monotherapy for the
      treatment of taxane and anthracycline resistant metastatic breast cancer. The combination of
      docetaxel and cyclophosphamide is a well-accepted adjuvant chemotherapy regimen that has
      become an increasingly common therapeutic choice for intermediate risk early stage breast
      cancer. Eribulin has a favorable toxicity profile compared to docetaxel with the most common
      adverse reactions (incidence ≤25%) including neutropenia, anemia, asthenia/fatigue, alopecia,
      peripheral neuropathy, nausea, and constipation. Eribulin appears to have activity in taxane
      resistant disease, making it an attractive partner with cyclophosphamide.

      Neuropathy can be a devastating complication from adjuvant chemotherapy and in the metastatic
      setting, may limit effective therapy and reduce quality of life. Understanding the host
      factors that predict risk for neuropathy is critical, as these patients may in particular
      benefit from the lower risk of neuropathy associated with eribulin therapy. In conjunction
      with this trial, we have included correlative studies to study the proposed pharmacogenomic
      factors associated with risk of neuropathy. In this way we will potentially be able to
      identify patients who could preferentially be treated with less neurotoxic microtubule
      inhibitors.
    
  