
    
      Although preoperative chemoradiation therapy followed by surgery is the most common approach
      for patients with resectable esophageal cancer, considerable number of esophageal cancer
      patients received operation as the first treatment modality. Accordingly, postoperative
      treatments have always been playing an important role because of the poor survival rates of
      the patients in stage ⅡB[UICC 7th edition] -Ⅲ[UICC 7th edition] who have been treated with
      resection alone. The existing data shows that the 5-yeal survival rate of stageⅡB-Ⅲ of
      thoracic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma(TESCC) after surgery is merely about 28.4% ,and
      locoregional lymph nodes metastases is responsible for the main cause of failure. While we
      have proved the value of prophylactic radiation therapy after radical esophagectomy for
      esophageal carcinoma with positive lymph node metastases and stage Ⅲ disease (UICC 6th
      edition) under the conventional 2-dimensional radiotherapy methods in subset analysis of
      prospective randomized clinical trial. For patients with positive lymph nodes, 5 year
      survival after surgery alone was 28.4%, median overall survival was 24 months, recurrence
      patterns were 34.6% in mediastinal lymph nodes，13.3% in supraclavicular lymph nodes，10% in
      abdominal lymph nodes. Distant metastases occurred in 21% patients. Adjuvant radiotherapy
      significantly reduced the recurrence in mediastinal lymph nodes(13.4%), supraclavicular lymph
      nodes (6.1%). However distant metastases rate increased to 30.7%. Chemotherapy may be vital
      for these patients. Chen reported that 5 year overall survival rates for the
      chemoradiotherapy group and radiotherapy group were 47.4% and 38.6% (P=0.03). Based on our
      studies, treatment failure occurred in 8% patients because of celiac metastases. Small
      radiation field by omitting celiac drainage region may ensure patients to accept 2 cycles of
      concurrent chemotherapy for lower toxicity.
    
  