
    
      Method

      Design A single-group, repeated-measures design was adopted for this study. All participants
      received the participation-focused strategy training intervention and the assessments at
      baseline (T1) and at post-intervention (T2). The study protocols were approved by the
      university institutional review board.

      Intervention

      The intervention protocols were developed based on the strategy training guidelines developed
      by Skidmore et al. Three trained research occupational therapists delivered the intervention
      to participants in addition to their regular outpatient rehabilitation care. The following
      standardized procedures were followed. First, the therapists asked the participants to
      identify three participation goals that they perceived important to them. Next, the
      participants were asked to identify barriers to their performance, and according to which the
      therapists taught the participants the "Goal-Plan-Do-Check" strategy, which involves (1)
      setting a goal to address the barriers, (2) developing a plan to address the goal, (3) doing
      the plan, and (4) checking if the plan worked or required revising. This procedure repeated
      iteratively until the participants' goal was met, and the next goal could be moved on to. At
      the end of each session, the therapists prompted the participants to identify the principles
      they learned during the session and encouraged the participants to apply these principles in
      the next session. Each participant received 1~2 intervention sessions per week for a total of
      10~20 intervention sessions (or until their goals were achieved) from trained research
      therapists. Each session lasted for 45~60 minutes. All intervention sessions were recorded
      and rated for fidelity by research staff.

      Measures

      Background Characteristics. Demographic variables (e.g., age and gender) were collected
      through a questionnaire developed by the research team at baseline assessment. Clinical
      variables (e.g., diagnosis and time since injury/illness) were retrieved from participants'
      medical charts.

      Feasibility Indicators. Investigators assessed feasibility by examining (1) the number of
      participants recruited and retained; (2) the number of intervention sessions that
      participants attended; (3) participants' engagement in the intervention sessions (assessed by
      the research therapists using the Pittsburgh Rehabilitation Participation Scale, measured on
      a 6-point scale: 1: no engagement to 6: excellent engagement); (4) participants'
      comprehension of the intervention sessions (assessed by a 3-point scale: 1: minimal
      understanding to 3: good understanding); (5) participants' satisfaction with the intervention
      (assessed by the Client Satisfaction Questionnaire, a 8-item questionnaire, with total scores
      8~32 (0~23: poor to fair satisfaction; 24~32: moderate to high satisfaction); and (6) the
      intervention adherence (measured by the Strategy Training Fidelity Checklist, for which an
      independent rater randomly selected 20% of sessions to rate the research therapists'
      adherence to the principles in the intervention protocol (yes, no) and competence in
      execution (inadequate, adequate, exceptional).
    
  