
    
      A total of 24 Veterans enrolled at the Durham Veterans Affairs Medical Center will be
      screened and enrolled. Eligible Veterans are 35-64 years old, with at least one uncontrolled
      or poorly controlled risk factor for CVD. In addition, 3-6 veterans will be enrolled and
      trained as heart health peer coaches, with eligibility being 35-64 years old, with at least
      one documented CVD factor who have sustained improvement in physical activity or dietary
      change in the previous 3-6 months. All participants complete a baseline assessment, three
      structured group meetings, and a 12 week post-intervention assessment. At the first group,
      each participant creates a behavioral goal, and peer partners are paired with another Veteran
      based on behavioral goal and gender. They are expected to call their peer once a week to
      discuss progress or difficulty with their action plan and support each other with problem
      solving. Post enrollment and prior to the first group meeting, Peer coaches will have 3-5
      hours of motivational and communication training with study staff focusing on skills such as
      active listening, non-directive support, eliciting change-talk, promoting incremental change,
      and patient confidentiality. Peer coaches will interact with peer buddies during a) group
      sessions, b) at a 6 week phone check-in, and c) on-going support if needed. Additional
      support will be initiated if there are no phone calls between pairs, there is a lack of
      participant engagement in calls to partner or attending group sessions, or upon request by
      the peer. There are two Aims of the current pilot study. Aim 1: examine the feasibility and
      acceptability of a 12-week hybrid peer coach-reciprocal peer support intervention.
      Feasibility will be evaluated by ease of recruitment, and enrollment and retention rates.
      Acceptability will be assessed by self-report of amount, frequency and modality of contacts,
      participation rates for group sessions, and through post-intervention qualitative interviews.

      Aim 2: explore gender differences in feasibility/acceptability of the hybrid peer support
      model. Gender differences will be evaluated through qualitative comparison of participant
      reported experiences with intervention content as well as peer and group interactions by
      gender; and, quantitatively via exploration of differences in enrollment, retention, refusal
      reasons and frequency of peer contacts.
    
  