
    
      The role of SBRT as a potentially non-invasive treatment for small-volume tumors in the lung
      is well established, but the effectiveness of tumor eradication has yet to be determined.
      This prospective Phase 2 trial will provide several novel contributions to the literature: 1)
      the assessment of SBRT effectiveness in metastatic tumor control (radiotherapeutic
      metastasectomy), 2) the evaluation of pathologic response to SBRT by surgical resection, 3)
      identification of histologic predictors of radiation effect and toxicity (i.e. what are the
      effects of SBRT on different type of metastatic disease), and 4) the effect of combined
      modality SBRT and surgery on survival and local recurrence as compared to either modality
      alone. This trial will uniquely assess whether surgery as an adjunct to radiotherapy offers
      better tumor control as compared to SBRT alone, and whether it decreases locoregional
      recurrence. The study is an open-label unblinded single-arm prospective trial evaluating
      induction SBRT followed by pulmonary metastasectomy. This is a collaborative effort between
      the divisions of Thoracic Surgery and Radiation Oncology to evaluate the effects of dual
      treatment of pulmonary metastasis amenable to curative resection with neoadjuvant SBRT
      followed by surgical resection. Study recruitment and analysis will be conducted at St.
      Joseph Healthcare Hamilton and the Juravinski Cancer Center. Institutional data suggests that
      the Division of Thoracic Surgery at McMaster University performs an average of 450 pulmonary
      resections per year with approximately 10-15% being pulmonary metastasectomies for a spectrum
      of malignancies (including colorectal carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma and soft tissue
      sarcoma).

      Surgical resection and stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) are generally regarded as
      mutually exclusive treatment options for the local management of pulmonary malignancies. The
      Primary Outcome will be measured as the Rates of complete pathologic response (pCR) in
      surgical specimens post SBRT as assessed using the Junker grading scale for lung
      malignancies: Grade I, no regression or only spontaneous tumor regression; Grade II,
      morphologic evidence of tumor regression with at least 10% (grade IIa) or <10% (grade IIb)
      viable tumor tissue; and Grade III, complete tumor regression with no viable tumor. The
      Secondary Outcomes: Overall survival (OS) at 3 years, Disease-free survival (DFS) at 3 years,
      local recurrence rates, radiation related toxicity, postoperative pulmonary complication rate
      (including prolonged air leak, need for invasive or noninvasive mechanical ventilation,
      postop pneumonia and empyema), the effect on time-to-resection and tumour histology on pCR.
      In addition, it will be explored whether cancer specific tumor biomarkers correlate with SBRT
      effects and related toxicity. Based on institutional data from other local prospective
      trials, the Thoracic Surgery division at McMaster averages a study accrual rate of 25-30% and
      retention rate of approximately 80%. The most pertinent metric in determining the necessary
      sample size is the effect size estimate of pCR. The MISSILE study preliminary data
      demonstrated a pCR of 60%. This serves as the only representative value in the literature,
      even though our study evaluates SBRT and surgery for metastatic disease and NOT primary lung
      cancer. In contrast, the SBRT literature (using post-treatment CT scan surveillance only)
      reports local control rates of nearly 90%. Using the Fleming procedure, in order to measure
      the true pCR with a 95% confidence interval ± 10% using an estimated true pCR of 70%,
      estimated dropout rate of 20%, and 80% power, the calculated sample size requirement is 39
      patients. It is estimated being able to recruit approximately 1-2 patients per month.
    
  