
    
      Hip fractures are common among older women and can have a devastating impact on their ability
      to remain independent. A clinically important functional decline and failure to recover
      following a hip fracture has been documented as late as a year after the fracture, even among
      women who were functioning at high levels before the event. Age-associated androgen
      deficiency in women contributes to deficits in muscle mass, strength and power that are
      common in this patient population before the fracture, and are exacerbated afterward. A pilot
      study of testosterone (T) supplementation in elderly female hip fracture patients has
      demonstrated the feasibility of T treatment in this population, and showed gains in lean body
      mass (LBM) and muscle strength with active drug, compared to placebo. The benefits of
      exercise in restoring muscle strength and physical function after a hip fracture have been
      documented. However, it remains unclear whether T treatment can augment the effects of
      exercise on mobility and patient-reported function after hip fracture.

      The STEP-HI study is a 3-group, multi-center, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded,
      parallel group clinical trial in older female hip fracture patients. 168 female hip fracture
      patients, age 65 years and older, will be enrolled from multiple clinical sites, using
      objective screening criteria for T deficiency (serum total testosterone level < 60 ng/dL) and
      physical frailty (Modified Physical Performance Test (PPT) Score of 12-28). The trial will
      compare the effects of Enhanced Usual Care with home exercises and no gel treatment (EUC),
      supervised exercise training (EX) with inactive (placebo) gel (EX+P), and EX combined with T
      therapy (EX+T), to ascertain the incremental impact of adding T to EX in older adult women
      with a recent hip fracture. The study team will carefully monitor testosterone levels,
      adverse events, biochemical parameters, and factors related to adherence to the
      interventions.

      Information from this study has the potential to alter treatment of hip fracture in older
      women, a problem that contributes to significant morbidity and mortality, and has a large
      public health impact. The STEP-HI study is highly aligned with NIA's mission of identifying
      interventions that target common geriatric conditions and improve treatment options for older
      adults with multiple morbidities or risk factors.
    
  