
    
      BACKGROUND

      Human Papillomavirus (HPV) causes cervical, vaginal, vulvar, anal, and oral cancers, which
      disproportionately affect low-income and minority populations. Universal HPV vaccination has
      the potential to decrease burdens and to reduce disparities in these diseases. However, HPV
      vaccination rates for U.S. adolescents remain low. Clinician recommendation is the most
      important factor influencing HPV vaccine uptake; thus enhancing clinician communication about
      HPV vaccines is a critically important target for interventions to prevent cancer.

      OBJECTIVE

      In the past six years, the investigators' research has identified factors affecting HPV
      vaccine communication and utilization. the investigators recently piloted a communication
      intervention with clinicians, and at the two pilot intervention sites, girls were 60% and
      boys were 15 times more likely to receive HPV vaccination than at control sites both during
      and after the intervention period. The investigators aim to demonstrate the effectiveness of
      this intervention in a randomized trial, and to directly examine its effects on
      communication.

      SPECIFIC AIMS

      Aim 1. To evaluate intervention effectiveness on raising HPV vaccination rates using a
      stepped wedge randomized trial in federally qualified health centers.

      Aim 2: To conduct a process evaluation that examines barriers and facilitators to
      intervention implementation and intervention sustainability, and to assess intervention
      fidelity.

      Aim 3. To describe specific effects of the intervention on clinician-parent communication
      about HPV vaccination.

      STUDY DESIGN

      To address Aim 1, the investigators will perform a stepped wedge randomized trial in five
      community health centers to determine the effectiveness of the intervention. The intervention
      consists of a seven session Performance Improvement Continuing Medical Education (PI CME)
      program that employs HPV education and training in motivational interviewing to improve
      clinicians' HPV vaccine communication, and allows clinicians to improve the quality of
      vaccine care while fulfilling board certification requirements. To address Aim 2, the
      investigators will individually interview a selected group of providers and clinical leaders
      using the Promoting Action on Research Implementation in Health Services (PARiHS) model of
      process evaluation, and will analyze audio recordings of clinical interactions to measure
      intervention fidelity. Aim 3, an exploration of the intervention's effects on
      parent-clinician communication, will be conducted by surveying parents and clinicians and
      observing clinical encounters.

      CANCER RELEVANCE

      Rates of HPV related cancers have been increasing, but vaccination rates have remained
      stagnant since 2011. Recognizing the potential impact of HPV vaccination, the President's
      Cancer Panel stated in 2014 that raising HPV vaccination rates was a national priority. The
      proposed intervention represents an innovative and scalable model for promoting cancer
      prevention and screening activities by clinicians.
    
  