
    
      Acute deterioration among hospitalised patient can result in serious adverse events like
      cardiac arrest, unexpected death or unanticipated intensive care unit (ICU) admission. Most
      events are preceeded by deteriorating vital signs, and potentially avoidable.

      To detect and treat hospitalised patients at risk of clinical deterioration in a timely
      manner, an early warning score (EWS) was introduced at the investigator site. EWS includes
      measures for respiratory rate, arterial hemoglobin oxygen saturation, pulse rate, systolic
      blood pressure, level of consciousness according to AVPU score, temperature, and whether a
      patient receives supplementary oxygen. Each vital sign can be assigned between 0 to 3 points
      (supplementary oxygen 0 or 2) depending on how much it deviates from a predefined threshold;
      the values are added to an aggregated score from 0 to 20, higher scores indicating more
      severe disease. An escalation protocol that directs the type of clinical response and
      competency of the provider according to EWS triggers was also introduced as an integrated
      part of the system.

      Patients with low scores (0 - 1) are monitored every 12th hour and seldom experience serious
      adverse events. The optimal monitoring frequency for this group is unknown, and presently
      based on a compromise between patient safety and work load issues.

      The aim of the present study is to explore if an 8 hourly monitoring interval (intervention)
      is correlated with a better outcome than 12 hour intervals (control) in the group of patients
      that have an EWS of 0 or 1 on admission. Deterioration is based on the number of patients
      that deteriorate to a higher EWS 24 hours after the first EWS is measured. Since serious
      adverse events in this population are rare the primary outcome is clinical deterioration
      defined as number of patients with elevated EWS >/= 2 in each group, 24 hours after admission
      to the hospital.

      This is a cluster-randomized, non-blinded, pragmatic, interventional study of acutely
      admitted, adult patients to surgical or medical wards at our hospital.
    
  