
    
      Part 1: Cognitive survey

      Participants: emergency and critical illness medical staff (doctors and nurses) of
      participating units. The number of medical staff in each unit is at least 12, among which
      doctors and nurses are ≥6 (the ratio is ≥3 for elementary level and ≥3 for intermediate and
      above).

      Investigate awareness of sedation and analgesia guidelines.

      Part 2: Current status of sedation and analgesia

      Participants: patients older than 18 years old in the ICU of the participating unit.

      1. Collect general information of patients that meet the inclusion criteria, including the
      patient's gender, age, body mass index (BMI), length of stay in ICU (days, with 1 effective
      decimal), diagnosis, acute physiology and chronicity on day 1 Health status score (Acute
      Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II, APACHE II), whether to receive mechanical
      ventilation, whether to use vasoconstrictor to maintain blood pressure and other information;

      2. Assess whether the patients need sedation and analgesia, and divide the patients into
      groups.

        1. Sedation assessment: Use the Richmond Sedation and Restlessness Score (RASS score) for
           sedation assessment. For mechanically ventilated patients, if the RASS score is ≥1,
           sedation is considered necessary; for patients without mechanical ventilation, if the
           RASS score is ≥2, consider Sedation is needed; for patients who have been given sedation
           and the RASS score reaches the target, sedation is also considered necessary.

        2. Analgesia evaluation: The digital pain scoring method is used for awake patients, and
           when the score is ≥4 points, the drug is administered according to the WHO three-step
           analgesic principle; non-conscious patients should use the Critical-Care Pain
           Observation Tool (CPOT), If CPOT ≥ 3 points, it is considered that there is pain, and
           analgesia is needed; for patients who are already on analgesia treatment and the pain
           score reaches the standard, it is also considered that analgesia is needed.

        3. Evaluation of delirium: Has delirium occurred after entering the ICU? Do you use
           delirium assessment tools? Record the means of delirium management;

      3. If sedation and analgesia is required, relevant information will be collected according to
      the actual situation of each research unit. For patients who do not require sedation and
      analgesia after the second step assessment, there is no need to collect sedation and
      analgesia information. This information includes:

        1. Is there any sedation and analgesia?

        2. Information about sedation: Are sedation assessment tools used (if used, what kind of
           sedation assessment tools are used); are sedation target values set (record specific
           values)? Actual sedation score; name and dose of sedative drugs;

        3. Analgesia-related information: whether to use analgesia evaluation tools (if used, what
           analgesia evaluation tools are recorded); whether to set an analgesia target value
           (record the specific value)? Actual analgesic score; name and dosage of analgesic drugs;
    
  