
    
      In this study the effect of food on the plasma exposure of ModraDoc006/ritonavir will be
      assessed in an open-label, cross-over design. Patients will receive ModraDoc006/ritonavir at
      the dose of 30 mg ModraDoc006 with 100 mg ritonavir.

      Patients will be randomized 1:1 into two treatment groups (in total 16 evaluable patients are
      needed):

        -  Group A: will receive ModraDoc006/ritonavir under fasting conditions the first week and
           in a fed condition the second week of treatment.

        -  Group B: will receive ModraDoc006/ritonavir under fed condition the first week and under
           fasted condition the second week of treatment.

      The department of pharmacy of The Netherlands Cancer Institute - Antoni van Leeuwenhoek
      Hospital has developed a solid oral dosage form of docetaxel, ModraDoc006 10 mg tablets. This
      formulation has been investigated in two phase I clinical studies in combination with the
      CYP3A4 inhibitor ritonavir, according to a weekly once-daily (QD) or bi-daily (BID) schedule,
      respectively. Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) and pharmacokinetics of both regimes have been
      determined and further clinical testing is being planned, in particular of the weekly
      bi-daily regime.

      The aim of the current study is to evaluate the effect of food on the pharmacokinetics of
      ModraDoc006 in combination with ritonavir. For the ritonavir tablet formulation used in this
      trial a food-effect on the bio-availability has been found in two prior studies. In these
      trials the plasma concentrations were lower when ritonavir was given after a moderate or
      high-fat meal. Plasma concentrations and T-lag were dependent on the type/amount of food
      administered. Concentrations were lower and T-lag longer when a high-fat meal was
      administered as compared to a moderate fat meal.

      Randomization will be performed centrally at the Biometrics Department of the Netherlands
      Cancer Institute using a minimization technique as implemented in TENALEA©.

      Pharmacokinetics will be performed in week 1 and 2 for up to 48 hours after study drug
      administration (see Pharmacokinetics paragraph for exact time points). Patients will receive
      a high-fat meal on the morning of the day of fed condition pharmacokinetics, half an hour
      prior to intake of ModraDoc006/ritonavir.

      After week 2, the N15FED study will be completed and patients can be enrolled in the roll
      over study N17DEX to continue their treatment with ModraDoc006/r (at the dose of BID 30/20 mg
      ModraDoc006 in combination with BID 100 mg ritonavir) in their best interest and to assess
      the long-term safety of this treatment.
    
  