
    
      Background: The number of hearing aids dispensed by the VA has nearly quadrupled from 75,000
      in 1996 to over 283,000 in 2003. However, the number of audiologists serving this population
      has less than doubled (72% increase) in the same period. This imbalance has resulted in
      burgeoning waiting times for audiology appointments, negatively impacting the quality of life
      of thousands of veterans while they wait for hearing aids. Reduction in waiting times through
      more efficient use of limited resources while maintaining high quality care is of great
      interest to VA leadership. Objectives: The orientation portion of the hearing aid fitting
      appointment and the hearing aid follow-up visit 4 The researcherseks later impart standard
      information relevant to all new hearing aid patients, and may be highly conducive to group
      format. Our specific aims are to compare group and the current standard of individual aural
      rehabilitation appointments to determine if: 1) group visits are at least as effective
      ('non-inferior') as individual visits for each audiology appointment, and 2) the use of group
      visits leads to lower costs for the VA. Methods: The researchers propose a non-inferiority,
      randomized clinical trial to compare the effectiveness of group vs. individual audiology
      appointments. The researchers will compare group vs. individual visits for two types of
      audiology appointments: hearing aid fitting (orientation only) and hearing aid follow-up. The
      researchers hypothesize that: 1) group visits are at least as effective as individual visits,
      as measured by hearing-related quality of life and hearing aid adherence, and 2) group visits
      lead to cost savings, not just in the immediate treatment period, but throughout a 6-month
      aural rehabilitation period. Setting and Population. The researchers propose to enroll 660
      new hearing aid patients from the audiology clinics at the Seattle and American Lake
      Divisions of VA Puget Sound Health Care System. Randomized Interventions. Patients will be
      randomized to group vs. individual orientation (intervention #1) and group vs. individual
      follow-up (intervention #2) visits. Status: Recruitment is completed. The primary
      effectiveness outcome will be hearing-related quality of life 6 months after the hearing aid
      fitting. Secondary effectiveness outcomes will include hearing aid adherence and satisfaction
      with hearing amplification. Cost and utilization outcomes will include audiology labor for
      the initial visits and subsequent unplanned visits, the cost of hearing aids, and the number
      of hearing aid repairs. The researchers selected a time frame of 6 months because pilot data
      show that 75% of unplanned visits occur in the first 6 months. Analysis. An
      intention-to-treat analysis will be used to minimize bias due to subject self-selection. The
      researchers have chosen a sample size adequate to detect non-inferiority of hearing-related
      quality of life in patients undergoing group rehabilitation in either intervention. Analyses
      for each intervention will be stratified by degree of hearing loss, binaural vs. monaural
      hearing aid use, and group vs. individual appointment of the other intervention.
      Cost-effectiveness analyses will be pursued if greater effectiveness and higher costs are
      both documented, in which case pilot calculations of the unit cost to obtain an additional
      successfully treated patient (those with a clinically important improvement of 6 points on
      the Inner EAR scale) will be made. Benefit to VA. This proposal directly addresses three of
      the VA's designated research areas: sensory disorders, aging, and health services. In
      addition, this application is directly responsive to an HSR&D Solicitation on sensory
      disorders and loss. This project has the potential to help VA leadership identify more
      efficient treatment that maintains high quality care for one of the most common disabilities
      in veterans, and to provide insight into the value of group visits as a model of care.
    
  