
    
      Retinopathy affects on average 30% of all patients with diabetes. Good glycaemic control
      delays the onset and progression of retinopathy in subjects with both type 1 and type 2
      diabetes. However, the incidence of retinopathy has not been declining in type 1 diabetes
      over the last decades, even if visual acuity may be better preserved. As many as 20% of the
      patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus have already retinopathy at the time of diagnosis of
      diabetes. Diabetic macular edema (DME) is a serious manifestation of diabetic retinopathy
      that produces loss of central vision. Data from the Wisconsin Epidemiological Study of
      Diabetic Retinopathy (WESDR) estimate that after 15 years of known duration of diabetes the
      prevalence of DME is 20% in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus, 25% in patients with type
      2 diabetes who are treated with insulin, and 14% in the patients with type 2 diabetes who are
      not treated with insulin. Concerning the natural history a previous study has shown that 53%
      of the eyes with DME involving the centre of the macula, lost two or three lines of visual
      acuity over a two year period. In addition, in the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study
      (ETDRS), 33% of untreated eyes available for follow-up at the 3-year visit, all with oedema
      involving the centre of the macula at baseline, had experienced a 15 or more letter decrease
      in visual acuity score.

      The federal budgetary cost of blindness was estimated to be $4.1 billion in the U.S. for the
      year 1990, and 97% of these costs were accounted for by the working-age adult group. Health
      care and economic burdens are further compounded by the resulting decline in quality of life;
      thus, the true impact on society cannot be estimated on a monetary basis alone.

      Although the etiology of DME is unclear, an altered local expression of the pleiotropic
      cytokine tumor necrosis factor (TNF) may play an important role in pathogenesis. Standard
      treatment of clinically significant DME (i.e. reduction of visual acuity due to DME) consists
      of laser photocoagulation (two sessions for optimal results?). However, this treatment
      effectively reduces the risk of vision loss in only 50% of cases. Even among those patients
      who achieve an initial response recurrences are common, requiring ongoing treatment.
      Vitreomacular traction or the vitreous itself may play a role in increased retinal vascular
      permeability. Removal of the vitreous or relief of mechanical traction with pars plana
      vitrectomy and membrane stripping may be followed by substantial resolution of macular edema
      and improvement in visual acuity. However, this treatment may be applicable only in specific
      subset of eyes with DME. It also requires a complex surgical intervention with its inherent
      risks, recovery time and expenses. Other treatment modalities such as pharmacologic therapy
      with oral protein kinase C inhibitors, antibodies targeted at vascular endothelial growth
      factor (VEGF), intravitreal corticosteroid injection, or high doses of non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory agents that lower retinal expression of TNF are under investigation.

      Infliximab is a chimeric IgG1 monoclonal antibody with an approximate molecular weight of
      149,100 Dalton. It is composed of human constant and murine variable regions. Infliximab
      binds specifically to human tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a) with an association constant
      of 1010 M-1. Infliximab is produced by a recombinant cell line cultured by continuous
      perfusion and is purified by a series of steps that includes measures to inactivate and
      remove viruses.

      Infliximab is currently used for the treatment of inflammatory arthritic conditions and
      inflammatory disease with a favorable safety profile. Because of the limitations of current
      treatments for DME, and based on our recent findings indicating that infliximab is an
      effective therapy for cystoid ME associated with uveitis, we decided to assess whether
      infliximab is effective for patients with diabetes (type 1 or 2) and sight-threatening DME.

      We have found that a clinically meaningful anatomic and functional improvement was achieved
      after two infliximab infusions in 4 of 6 eyes with severe diffuse DME (i.e. macular thickness
      >400 μm); in contrast the remaining 2 eyes with coexisting epiretinal membranes did not
      improve. The observed recovery of useful vision represents a very significant clinical
      result, especially for those eyes in which DME was refractory to laser photocoagulation.
      Comparable beneficial results have been obtained in our patients with severe, chronic cystoid
      ME complicating intermediate uveitis, Adamantiades-Behcet's disease, or adult type vascular
      pseudotumor. Repeated treatment in one diabetic patient produced a further significant
      improvement of DME, indicating that the clinical response to anti-TNF dosing regimens is
      individualized, as it has also been observed in patients with arthritis, or in patients with
      uveitic ME. Thus, a sustained beneficial effect of infliximab for DME may require long-term
      treatment. Infliximab was well tolerated by our patients in all studies conducted at our
      site.

      Results from a preliminary study suggest a central role for TNF-mediated pathogenesis
      mechanisms in DME. Recent experimental evidence also indicates that low-grade subclinical
      inflammation is responsible for many of the signature vascular lesions of diabetic
      retinopathy On the other hand, studies in patients with arthritis have shown that anti-TNF
      therapy negatively affects vascular permeability and angiogenesis by decreasing the potent
      angiogenic vascular endothelial growth factor, which has been implicated directly in the
      pathogenesis of DME and diabetic retinopathy.

      Four women, aged 52 to 76 years, with type 2 diabetes who were in danger of vision loss due
      to severe DME were included in this prospective, non-comparative case series. They all used
      oral antidiabetic agents for 14 to 20 years, while one patient required exogenous insulin
      therapy for the last 4 years. Patients were free of other major medical disorders and they
      had no evidence of infection. Following full discussion and after obtaining informed consent,
      2 infusions of infliximab (5mg/kg, Remicade, Schering-Plough, Greece) with one month
      interval, were given intravenously over 3 hours in an outpatient setting on a compassionate
      basis. Additional infusions were offered in 3 patients. Concomitant medications remained
      unchanged.

      Complete ophthalmic examination and Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT, Model 3000, Zeiss,
      Humphrey Systems) were performed immediately before each infliximab infusion, as well as 2
      months after the last infusion. The main outcome measurements were best corrected visual
      acuity (BCVA) and macular thickness. The OCT-derived maximum height of DME was recorded as
      described previously in detail. The student t-test for paired data was used to compare
      logarithm of minimum angle of resolution (logMAR) transformed BCVA, as well as macular
      thickness between baseline and post-treatment.

      DME was present in 7 eyes, 6 of which were refractory to previous treatment with laser
      photocoagulation. DME was classified as severe in 6 eyes (range of macular thickness 420-720
      μm) and as mild in 1 eye (macular thickness of 290 μm after vitrectomy). A dense epiretinal
      membrane was present in 2 eyes with severe DME. BCVA at baseline was profoundly impaired,
      ranging from 'hand motion' to 0.1 at the Snellen chart. At one month after the first
      infliximab infusion, macular thickness had decreased in 5 from 7 eyes from [mean(SD)]503
      (171) to 426 (165) μm (p=0.033). The 2 eyes with coexisting epiretinal membranes did not
      improve. Two months after the second infusion, the macular thickness had further regressed to
      330 (134) μm (range 170 to 515 μm, p=0.028, compared to baseline). The BCVA was increased in
      all 5 eyes from a baseline mean at the Snellen chart of 0.03 to 0.15 (logMAR 1.42 (0.45) to
      0.82 (0.27), p=0.01).

      At 3 months post-baseline a third infliximab infusion was offered in those 3 patients who had
      the least improvement of DME. Repeated OCT after 2 months revealed a further decrease of
      macular thickness in 3 of 5 eyes, by 7 %, 15 % and 23 %, respectively. At this point the
      patient who still had the most severe condition received a fourth infliximab infusion;
      remarkably, a repeated OCT two months later revealed a marked resolution of severe DME, while
      BCVA had improved from counting fingers at baseline to 0.2. Infliximab therapy was well
      tolerated and no ocular or extra-ocular side effects were noted. In further available
      follow-up ranging from 4 to 7 months post-treatment, a recurrence of DME was observed in 2 of
      5 eyes, albeit at a less severe level.

      For detailed information about the safety of infliximab please refer to summary of product
      characteristics. Active tuberculosis may develop soon after the initiation of treatment with
      infliximab. Before prescribing the drug, physicians should screen patients for latent
      tuberculosis infection or active disease.

      Based on the above, we believe that administration of infliximab may be a reasonable
      therapeutic approach in diabetic patients who are in danger of vision loss due to refractory
      DME. Therefore, a controlled study on the safety and efficacy of infliximab treatment in DME
      refractory to laser photocoagulation is warranted. Because of our preliminary results (27),
      we feel that all patients who will participate in such a study should be granted the
      opportunity to receive infliximab, therefore a cross-over design is proposed. A cross-over
      design would also enhance the statistical power of the study, achieving the same statistical
      power with fewer patients.

      Within this study, additional questions could be addressed. For example, TNF in patients with
      diabetes is secreted mainly by the fat cells and is involved in the development of insulin
      resistance and decline in the pancreatic beta-cell function. Previous studies examined the
      effect of anti-TNF treatment on indices of insulin resistance in non-diabetic subjects and
      showed that chronic treatment with anti-TNF agents may improve insulin sensitivity in humans.

      The research programme will involve one country (Greece), and will include a total of 26
      patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. The planned treatment period will be 32 weeks.
      Patients with clinically significant DME (i.e. BCVA < 0.4) refractory to at least two
      sessions of laser photocoagulation or who have leaking microaneurysms within the foveal
      avascular zone (FAZ) making laser photocoagulation unsafe for the central vision, will be
      included in the study. The study will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, ICH
      guidelines, Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and the applicable regulatory requirements
    
  