
    
      Ureteral stents treat ureteral obstruction, allow for passive dilation of the ureter,
      maintain urine flow to the bladder, and aid in the recovery of the ureter after endoscopic
      surgery or ureteral injury. These stents are routinely utilized after urologic procedures for
      the treatment of urolithiasis and are generally kept in place for 1-2 weeks following the
      procedure. Despite their advantages, indwelling ureteral stents cause discomfort and reduce
      patient quality of life. These symptoms are partially attributed to local irritation to the
      ureter and bladder. Bothersome stent-related symptoms include urinary urgency, frequency,
      flank pain, hematuria, dysuria, sexual side effects, and emotional distress. The majority of
      patients with ureteral stents experience symptoms post-operatively.

      Several studies have indicated that agents such as antimuscarinics or alpha-1 adrenergic
      receptor antagonists may improve stent-related symptoms. The indications for anticholinergic
      medications are based on blocking involuntary bladder muscle contraction; however, the
      efficacy of these drugs is still controversial. Furthermore, these medications have potential
      adverse side effects.

      Antihistamines also show potential in alleviating stent-related symptoms. Multiple in vitro
      studies have shown H1 receptor activity involved both in ureteral peristalsis and in bladder
      contraction. Both first- and second-generation H1 antagonists have shown activity in the
      urinary tract. In clinical practice, antihistamines are commonly utilized in the management
      of bladder pain caused by interstitial cystitis. Additionally, a randomized controlled trial
      found efficacy of antihistamines for pain management in the setting of renal colic from
      obstructing ureteral stones. There is novel evidence that in patients with indwelling stents,
      there are inflammatory changes in the bladder with an associated eosinophilic reaction.
      Eosinophilic cystitis is commonly associated with bladder irritation or allergy, and these
      findings point to a novel paradigm of treating patients with antihistamines. To our
      knowledge, no studies have evaluated the efficacy of antihistamines for managing
      stent-related symptoms.
    
  