
    
      The study will be conducted at the "Team Base" training center, located in the western zone
      of Rio de Janeiro. All procedures were performed under standard conditions (temperature:
      21-23 ° C, relative humidity: 40-60%). Participants were previously instructed not to perform
      vigorous exercise 24 hours prior to data collection and to fast 8 hours prior.

      All procedures will be performed in one day. Before the study procedures, participants will
      be evaluated for anthropometric characteristics using a scale (GAMA ITALY® brand) and a
      portable stadiometer (Sanny® brand, Personal model). Then, manual palmar grip strength (FPM)
      will be measured in pre and post fight moments. And, after the fight will also be verified
      the participants' perception of effort through the adapted Borg scale.

      Procedures Fights The struggles (Handori) began respecting the schedules stipulated between
      the components of the same group. Thus, each fight lasted five minutes, without intervals,
      where the athletes were instructed to perform dynamic movements, and maintain high movement,
      aiming to raise the intensity to the maximum during this period.

      Carbohydrate Supplementation For the administration of carbohydrate supplementation, the
      "Advanced Nutrition®" pack containing 30g (1 sachet), energy of 83kcal = 349kJ, carbohydrates
      21g, sodium 82mg, vitamin C 4, 2mg and vitamin E 0.90mg.

      Palmar Manual Holding Force (FPM) Measurement of the Manual Holding Force (FPM) was performed
      using the JAMAR® analog hydraulic dynamometer (Asimow Engineering®, USA), with an accuracy of
      0.5 kg / f and a maximum capacity of 100 kg / f. Thus, the position suggested by the American
      Society of Hand Therapists (ASHT) [8] was used, with the participants positioned in a seated
      position with their hips and knees at 90 ° flexion, shoulder in adduction, elbow flexed at 90
      °, wrist and forearm in neutral position. The participant was instructed to perform the
      greatest possible force and the peak value was subsequently recorded.

      Modified Borg Scale Perceived exertion was assessed using the Adapted BORG Scale [7]
      consisting of an ordinal scale ranging from 0 to 10, where 0 represents none and 10
      represents maximum intensity. The following standardized question preceded the application of
      the scale: "How do you rate the intensity of the exercise performed?" Statistical analysis
      Mean and standard deviation values were calculated for all variables. The normality of the
      data was initially analyzed by the Komolgorov-Smirnov procedure. In addition, t-test was used
      to compare moments and groups. All statistical analysis assumed a significance level of 5%.
      The analyzes were conducted using the statistical package SPSS (2.0).
    
  