
    
      Through this study, the medium term objective is to approach a clinical protocol for
      treatment of pathological scars in developing an appropriate way to deliver ADSC for a future
      clinical application, while ensuring the safety of such procedure.

      The primary goal of this work is to determine whether ADSC from children prepared according
      to Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), is associated with an improvement of wound healing in
      vivo as demonstrated with adult ADSC. To answer this question, 40 samples of adipose tissue
      of children obtained from settled surgery (inguinal hernia and vesico-ureteral reflux by
      suprapubic way) will be performed within the 2 groups of children; 0 to 1 year and 2 to 13
      years, defined from data acquired in the previous protocol. Wound healing will be evaluated
      in a nude mouse model of skin burn. A macroscopic analysis will be carried out with two
      indexes described in the literature (re-epithelialization and scar contraction) and expressed
      as a percentage of the initial lesion at different times (3 days, 7 days, 10 days, 14 days,
      21 days, 30 days). A microscopic analysis will be conducted to determine the rate of
      re-epithelialization (day 7) and the evolution of the skin structural parameters (dermal and
      epidermal thickness, density of collagen, inflammatory infiltration). These indexes will be
      defined in the treated group (burned mice and injected with pediatric ADSC) from control mice
      (burned but not injected with cells). A comparative analysis between the two groups of age
      will be conducted that will be also compared to data collected with adult ADSC.

      To answer to the second part of this primary goal regarding to safety, the study will perform
      a long-term follow-up (1 yr) of burned mice injected with of ADSC, to obtain data in the
      animal after transplantation of cells and for further clinical study.

      Complementary in vitro investigations still seems necessary to better understand the
      specificities of ADSC from pediatric origin and particularly to perform transcriptomic and
      epigenetic studies.
    
  