
    
      Calcific uremic arteriolopathy (CUA), also known as calciphylaxis, is a vascular
      calcification disorder associated with 60-80% one-year mortality and significant morbidity.
      CUA predominantly affects end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients and presents with painful
      skin lesions. Although rare (prevalence: 4% in dialysis patients), the incidence of CUA is on
      the rise as shown by us and others. Mural calcification of dermal arterioles is the hallmark
      histological finding of CUA. However, there are significant gaps in the understanding of the
      pathophysiology and risk factors for CUA and there are no effective therapies.

      In animal models, vitamin K prevents vascular calcification by serving as a co-factor for
      Matrix Gla Protein (MGP) carboxylation, a process that converts decarboxylated-MGP (dc-MGP)
      to carboxylated-MGP (c-MGP). By inhibiting pro-calcification Bone Morphogenic Protein (BMP)
      ligands, c-MGP acts as a potent vascular calcification inhibitor. uc-MGP is inactive with no
      vascular calcification inhibitory properties. However, the effects of vitamin K
      administration on CUA remain unknown.

      Aim: To conduct a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) of oral vitamin K in CUA.

      The investigators will examine the following hypotheses:

      Hypothesis 1: Vitamin K therapy, when compared to placebo, reduces uncarboxylated Matrix Gla
      Protein in chronic hemodialysis patients with CUA.

      Hypothesis 2: Vitamin K therapy can be safely administered in chronic hemodialysis patients
      with CUA.

      Hypothesis 3: Vitamin K therapy leads to improvement in CUA pain and average lesion size when
      compared to placebo in chronic hemodialysis patients.

      Study population and procedures: Twenty patients will be enrolled in this pilot RCT over the
      2-year study period.

      Study Procedures: Patients meeting the eligibility criteria will be consented and randomized
      to receive either vitamin K (phylloquinone) 10 mg orally three times a week for a total of 12
      weeks or identical appearing placebo. Follow-up will occur every 4 weeks during which
      information will be obtained regarding pain severity, number and size of CUA lesion (s), and
      adverse events. Blood samples will be taken at baseline and at 12-week follow-up.

      Sample processing and assays: Blood samples (plasma and serum, total 30 mL) will be taken at
      baseline and at 12-week follow-up.
    
  