
    
      HAART is considered to be the most effective treatment for HIV. However, sustained and
      consistent adherence to HAART is necessary for long-term success. Issues such as memory
      problems, lack of social support, medication side effects, depression, and substance abuse
      can significantly reduce patient adherence to HAART. This study will evaluate the
      effectiveness of a managed problem solving strategy to increase HAART adherence in patients
      with HIV. Both treatment-naive and treatment-experienced participants will be recruited for
      this study.

      The treatment part of this study will last 12 months. Participants will be randomly assigned
      to receive the managed problem solving intervention or standard of care for 12 months.
      Participants in the managed problem solving group will have 4 study visits and will receive 3
      phone calls for the first 3 months of the study, and 1 phone call every month for the
      following 9 months. At each study visit, participants will identify barriers to adherence.
      During the phone calls, participants will be asked about any steps they have taken to improve
      their adherence. A medication event monitoring system (MEMS) will be used to assess
      participants' treatment adherence. MEMS uses microelectronic monitors on the caps of
      medication bottles to record the timing and frequency of bottle openings. Participants whose
      adherence has decreased or remained the same at the end of 12 months will be evaluated for
      regimen changes. Blood collection at the beginning and end of the study will be used to
      measure viral load and CD4 count. Follow-up phone interviews will be conducted every year for
      3 years after the end of treatment.

      Study hypothesis: Managed problem solving will result in better adherence to highly active
      antiretroviral therapy (HAART) and better virologic control and immunological outcomes at the
      end of 1 year compared with a control group receiving standard or care.
    
  