
    
      1. The aim of this longitudinal randomized investigation is to determine the long-term
           effects of early lateral crossbite correction with Quad-Helix appliance, during the
           deciduous dentition, on craniofacial structures and dental arches, compared to treatment
           started later, after the first permanent molars have erupted.

        2. The aim was further to find out the possible benefits and the burden of early treatment
           to the patients and parents of these common malocclusions, when compared to groups
           treated later, but with the same methods as much as possible.

        3. The hypothesis is that the timing of treatment has significant effects on orthodontic
           treatment total time, the general outcome of the treatment, and the compliance of the
           patient.

        4. Background. In spite of the fact that about 30 to 50% of the children in Europe undergo
           orthodontic treatment during growth, negligible amount of RCT based data is available
           concerning these treatments.

        5. The most used treatment method in Finland, and one of the most popular in the world, is
           to treat lateral malocclusion with the maxillary dental arch expanding Quad-Helix
           appliance (Bodoy et al., 2011; Petren et al., 2011; Lippold et al., 2013).

           The goal of the expansion treatment is typically described as to expand maxillary dental
           arch, expand the maxilla and correct the possible functional shift in the occlusion.

           The views of the effects of the expanding devices during early childhood are to some
           extent inconclusive, at least when the long-term effects are concerned. Most reports
           that are based on a short-term follow-up, describing maxillary arch expansion and the
           correction of the crossbite. When the Quad-Helix appliance is compared to the removable
           appliance, the Q-H is found to be more effective (Petren et al., 2011). When it comes to
           the elimination of the functional lateral shift after the crossbite treatment, the
           research data is weak and not sufficient (Tsanidis et al., 2016). Valid evidence based
           data is rare and the thus exact conclusions are very difficult to be set.

        6. Preliminary Studies. The investigators conducted a randomized clinical study with an
           expanding Headgear device, where the control group was treated with a camouflage
           treatment, without expansion in the adolescence. The main difference between the groups
           was broader dental arch with less extractions in the headgear group, the differences
           between the groups being relatively small, except the broader dental arch in the
           Headgear group. (Mäntysaari et al.,2004; Pirttiniemi et al.,2005; Krusinskiene et al.,
           2008). However, canine eruption pattern was found to be more favorable in the early
           headgear group (Silvola et al., 2008).

        7. Experimental Design and Methods

             -  The Age cohort of five-year-old of children living in the community areas of
                Oulunsalo are screened at the age of 5 years for malocclusions. Of these children
                80 children who meet the criteria are chosen for the study after the written
                consent. The inclusion criteria are crossbite of at least two deciduous lateral
                teeth.

             -  Exclusion criteria are anterior crossbite, missing permanent teeth, or craniofacial
                anomaly.

             -  The subjects are randomized into two groups. In the first group the treatment with
                Quad-Helix appliance is started at the age of 5 to 6 years, before the eruption of
                the permanent molars. The device is cemented to the second deciduous molars. The
                treatment is continued and continued until normal lateral occlusion is achieved and
                the device is kept stable for one year after this.

             -  In the second group headgear treatment is started after the first permanent
                maxillary molars have erupted. The device is cemented to the first permanent
                molars. The treatment is continued until normal lateral occlusion is achieved and
                the device is kept stable for one year after this In both groups dental casts,
                cephalograms, and standardized 3D facial photographs are taken before treatment
                (T0), after the first treatment phase (T1), after the second treatment phase (T2)
                and after the growth (T3).

           Facial 3D scanning is performed for all the subjects after the treatment to find out the
           effect of different treatment methods on facial characteristics. The dental casts are
           scanned to make 3D models of the cast to be used in detailed analysis.

             -  A wide multi-level questionnaire is performed before, during and after the study to
                the parents and the children to find out the comprehensive effects of orthodontic
                treatment on the well-being of the child. The questionnaire includes the Rutter's
                child behavioral pattern (Rutter et al., 2001).

             -  In both studies, all the guidelines of RCT are applied (Moher and Schulz, 2005).
                Blinding of the clinicians is gained, as the orthodontists or dentists treating the
                children are not aware of the rationale of the study. Blinding is applied on all
                measurement of the documents.

        8. Quality assurance plan. Quality of the data collected is secured by preliminary training
           that has been done concerning the input data and the registration processes. The
           collected data is monitored on regular basis, on clinical records this is done by three
           months intervals. The quality assurance of the clinical data is done by the same person
           who has trained the dental personnel by on-site monitoring and auditing. Immediate
           feed-back is given to the registering personnel concerning the quality of the records.

           The input data is monitored by testing the normality of the data during the input
           process. Immediate feed-back is given to the personnel doing the registration process in
           the cases of deviation is found in the range of normality or consistence of the data.
           Basic assumption is that the input data is supposed to be normally distributed with this
           type of patient material.

           Intra- and Inter-examiner error is tested during the measuring process to test the
           accuracy of the measurements. The level of error is compared to the level of level
           reached in corresponding studies.

        9. Sample size assessment Power and sample size calculation has been made using the data
           derived from the preliminary studies (Mäntysaari et al., 2004), and the applied sample
           size was gained using the formula for the
           purpose:(http://stat.ubc.ca/~rollin/stats/ssize/n2.html).

           The used estimates for means and deviations were gained from the analogous preliminary
           study. The test power used in the power analysis was 0.80 with the level of significance
           p=0.05. The used value give the sample size 49, and thus the used sample is very
           sufficient.

       10. Plan for missing data. It is known from earlier longitudinal orthodontic studies that
           the drop-out rate is about 20% when reaching the end point of the study. This has been
           taken into account in the original sample size. As randomization is applied, it is
           likely that the missing subjects will occur approximately at the same rate in both study
           groups and by choosing appropriate statistical methods, the data can be handled.

       11. Statistical analysis plan. The study hypothesis is tested by using statistical methods.
           When the differences between the two groups are tested, a test for two independent
           samples is utilized. When the values of the children are compared at different time
           points, a test of related samples is used. If the sample data is not normally
           distributed, a non-parametric test is applied ( e.g. Mann-Whitney-test or
           Wilcoxon-test). When the behavioral items are tested, the applied tests are on ordinary
           level or nominal level (e.g. Cross-tabulation tests).

           To estimate the Intra-examiner and Inter-examiner error, double measurements are
           performed. The statistical testing of the error is done using Intra class correlation
           (ICC).

           The Intention to treat principle is applied in the study. The results will be shown both
           in graphical and table format to clearly show group and individual variation. The
           statistical testing is done by using the latest version of SPSS program.

       12. Timing and Importance of the studies The first part of the study will be initiated in
           2016. The study will continue actively during the years 2016-2019.

      The treatments and the follow-up continues until the growth is over, until about year 2028,
      and further until the adulthood. Most of the data, however, is available to be analyzed
      already earlier in 2018-2020.

      The results of these studies are clinically very important and therefore they will be
      published in the most respected international orthodontic journals. As the results are of the
      highest clinical relevance with a sound evidence, they can easily be applied directly to
      clinical practices.

      University of Oulu will give all the facilities needed for the research, including rooms. The
      clinical examinations are performed in the health centers as a part of normal treatment
      costs, when normal documentation is concerned.
    
  