
    
      It was concluded that fluoride uptake into dentine from conventional GI restorations was not
      affected in the presence of SDF and KI. It was also mentioned that the results may be
      different if conditioning is applied not etching and recommended this for future
      investigation.

      Aim: Therefore, the aim of this study is to determine whether carious primary molars treated
      with SDF and Potassium iodide (KI) prior to placing resin modified glass ionomer (RMGI)
      restorations will affect the fluoride uptake into primary dentine or not.

      Study Setting:

        -  The study was conducted in Pediatric Dentistry and Dental Public Health Department
           Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University, Egypt.

        -  Energy Dispersive X-ray analysis with Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM/EDX) measurement
           analysis was conducted at the National Research Center (NRC), Egypt.

      Freshly extracted discarded primary molars were collected from outpatient clinic of Pediatric
      Dentistry Department, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University at the end of every day.

        -  Teeth were then sectioned through the center of the carious lesion mesiodistally using a
           slow-speed cutting saw with coolant (Isomet 4000, USA) forming two similar halves, so
           that the 20 molars were sectioned to 40 halves.

        -  Each tooth was placed in a separate container with its 2 halves.

        -  Teeth containers were then randomly allocated either to the control or intervention
           group.

      Control Group: One half empty and the other half with Resin Modified Glass Ionmer (RMGI)
      only.

      Intervention Group : One half empty and the other half SDF+KI+RMGI

        -  After dehydration, teeth were mounted on stubs using double-sided carbon tape, and
           sputter coated with gold for 20 s using a Turbo molecular pumped coater (QUORUM 150T ES,
           Laughton, United Kingdom) .

        -  Teeth were then placed in SEM/EDX for fluoride measurement by weight percentage.

      Data showed parametric distribution so; it was represented by mean and standard deviation
      (SD) values. Independent and paired t-tests were used for inter and intragroup comparisons
      respectively. The significance level was set at p ≤0.05 within all tests. Statistical
      analysis was performed with R statistical analysis software version 4.0.3 for windows (R Core
      Team, 2020).
    
  