
    
      The research will be conducted in the Clinic for Rheumatic Diseases and Rehabilitation,
      University Hospital Center Zagreb. The research will be a double-blind randomized control
      prospective study. Randomization of patients will be performed before the intervention in the
      R software package and the results of the randomization will be known only to the therapist
      who will be involved in the treatment. The respondent and the examiner (doctor) will not be
      aware of in which group the patient is enrolled. All respondents will sign an informed
      consent before the study begins. Research has been approved by the Ethics Committee of
      Clinical Hospital Center Zagreb and the Ethics Committee of the School of Medicine,
      University of Zagreb.

      The minimum sample size of a total of 42 subjects (21 in each group) was estimated according
      to the following characteristics: type 1 error (α = 0.05), power (1-β = 0.8) and effect size
      [(effect size) 0.2], with the expected use of two - way analysis of variance with two
      independent groups and two repeated measurements (2x2 ANOVA) with an estimated minimum
      correlation between repeated measurements r = 0.6.

      Inclusion criteria are symptomatic RCT (VAS pain ≥ 4 + limited shoulder mobility) with D-US
      calcification size ≥ 5 mm, calcification type I and II according to Chiou HJ et al., and
      disease duration ≥ 2 months. Exclusion criteria are asymptomatic RCT or RCT with mild
      symptoms (VAS pain ≤ 3+ normal shoulder mobility), calcification size <5 mm, type III and IV
      calcification according to Chiou HJ et al., duration symptoms less than 2 months, rotator
      cuff tendon rupture, adhesive capsulitis, application of corticosteroids in the examined
      shoulder in the previous 3 months, glucocorticoid therapy, physical shoulder therapy in the
      previous 6 months, shock wave therapy in the previous 12 months, prior percutaneous
      calcification irrigation, current cervical or cervicobrachial pain syndrome, inflammatory
      rheumatic disease, scapular dyskinesia with positive assisted and repository scapular test,
      subacromial/subdeltoid bursitis, recent trauma or malignancy in malignant disease.

      During the study, respondents will be able to relieve pain with paracetamol and/or tramadol.
      Respondents will keep a diary of analgesia, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
      and cryo massage will not be allowed due to their anti-inflammatory effect.

      The investigators will record age, sex, dominant arm, height, body weight, body mass index,
      cigarette smoking, medications, physical activity (sports), and profession. Clinical
      examination will be performed on the first day and the last day of the therapy.

      Ultrasound therapy (Sonopuls 490u, Enraf-Nonius, Rotterdam, Kingdom of the Netherlands) will
      be used with continuous output, frequency 1 MHz, intensity 1.5 W / cm2 and duration 10 min
      per treatment, on the front of the shoulder, on the surface of 2 ultrasound heads (10 cm2),
      with the position of the arm in adduction and internal rotation in RCT of the supraspinatus,
      adduction and external rotation of the arm in RCT of the subscapularis and the position of
      the arm over the opposite shoulder in RCT of the infraspinatus. Sham ultrasound therapy will
      be applied in the same way as ultrasound therapy, using a frequency of 0 Hz, intensity 0 W /
      cm2, 10 min per treatment. All respondents will conduct IMG that includes: unloading pendular
      exercises if strength exercises cannot be started immediately, shoulder range exercises, and
      rotator cuff and scapula stabilizer exercises for 30 minutes per treatment. The
      physiotherapist will apply ultrasound therapy and sham ultrasound therapy by slow circular
      motions through a neutral gel and perform IMG.

      The respondent and the researcher will not know in which group the subject was randomized.
      The first group will receive ultrasound therapy and IMG, and the second sham ultrasound
      therapy and identical IMG for four weeks (5 therapies per week, a total of 20 therapies). The
      researcher will perform a standardized ultrasound examination of the shoulder of all
      respondents immediately before and immediately after the therapeutic intervention, measuring
      the size of the calcification. Another examiner will make an independent measurement of the
      calcification size. The final measure will take the average value of the two. The researcher
      will record a positive PD in the tendon around the calcification (on a scale of 0-3), assess
      the severity of shoulder pain at rest, at night and when moving using a visual analog scale
      of pain (VAS-pain; 0-10), measure passive and active shoulder mobility (goniometer in
      degrees), rotator cuff muscle strength (manual muscle test; 0-5), handgrip strength
      (hydraulic dynamometer in kg) and assess functional status using the Shoulder Pain and
      Disability Index (SPADI)). All respondents will be assessed the overall satisfaction of the
      therapeutic intervention using a five-point Likert scale.

      The primary outcome of the study will be the change in calcification size measured by D-US
      before and after the intervention, while other outcome parameters are: reduction of pain, an
      increase of shoulder mobility, improvement of functional status, and overall satisfaction
      with rehabilitation.
    
  