
    
      Initiation of treatment during acute HIV infection seems to result in greater suppression of
      viral replication than noted during chronic infection and better recovery of certain CD4
      subpopulations. However, it is difficult for patients treated during acute infection to
      maintain long-term continuous antiretroviral (ARV) treatment because of difficulty adhering
      to complicated medication regimens, drug-related toxicities, and cost of medications. Acutely
      infected patients who have undergone early initiation of treatment followed by structured
      treatment interruptions (STIs) appear to have lower off-treatment viral loads than historical
      controls. This study will evaluate whether effective ARV treatment during acute and early HIV
      infection followed by STI will result in lower viral setpoints than would otherwise be
      expected.

      This trial will have 2 steps and will last for a maximum of 104 weeks. Participants will
      either enter Step 1 and continue on to Step 2 or enter Step 2 directly. During Step 1,
      participants with acute or early HIV infection will be given 24 weeks of ARV therapy.
      Participants may take any combination of FDA-approved ARV medications that they and their
      doctors select. Participants will have study visits at study entry and Weeks 1, 4, 8, and 20.
      After 24 weeks on Step 1, participants may enroll in Step 2.

      Participants in Step 1 and people with early or acute HIV infection who began ARV treatment
      within 21 days of diagnosis and have had no more than 1 year of treatment may enroll in Step
      2. During Step 2, participants will be randomly assigned to one of two study arms:

        -  Arm 1: Participants will continue taking ARV therapy for 16 weeks and then stop ARVs for
           64 weeks.

        -  Arm 2: Participants will stop ARVs for 4 weeks, take ARVs for 8 weeks, stop ARVs for 4
           weeks, take ARVs for 8 weeks, and then stop ARVs for 56 weeks.

      Participants in both study arms will restart ARVs regardless of STI duration if their viral
      load is above 50,000 copies/ml, they progress to CDC category C disease, or their CD4 count
      falls below 350 cells/mm3 or declines more than 50% from the last on-treatment CD4 level.

      Step 2 will last 80 weeks. For the first year, participants will have study visits every 1 to
      4 weeks, depending on whether they are taking ARVs. During the second year, participants will
      have study visits every 8 weeks. Study visits will include a brief medical history, blood and
      pregnancy tests, and voluntary behavioral questionnaires.
    
  