
    
      Chest pain is one of the most common symptoms evaluated in the Emergency Department (ED). One
      of the primary diagnostic concerns during the evaluation of this presentation is whether
      there is evidence of acute coronary syndromes (ACS) as ACS is a major risk factor for short-
      and long-term major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE, defined as acute myocardial
      infarction, revascularization, or all-cause death). Two of the cornerstones of the
      guidelines-based evaluation of this patient group are serial electrocardiograms (ECG) and
      troponin measurements (a serological marker of myocardial ischemia), which have shown to be
      both independently and incrementally predictive of ACS. Recently, second-generation troponin
      assays have been adopted into clinical practice as they have higher sensitivity and
      specificity for ACS compared to older assays. Given the increased diagnostic accuracy of
      these novel second-generation assays, the proposed study's research question is to
      investigate whether serial ECG changes significantly increase the diagnostic accuracy of
      serial second-generation troponin changes in predicting MACE in patients presenting with
      symptoms consistent with ACS. In order to investigate this question, we originally proposed
      an observational pilot study ancillary to the HEART Pathway trial (WFUHS IRB00021074), a
      funded randomized controlled trial investigating a recently developed decision aid tool (the
      HEART score) designed to identify patients being evaluated for chest pain that can safely
      forgo further objective testing. We proposed to add the collection of two additional 12-lead
      ECGs to the protocol in the HEART Pathway trial, which included serial second-generation
      troponin collection, in order to generate pilot data regarding the research question. As
      recruitment for the HEART Pathway trial ended in February 2014, we now propose to continue
      enrollment for the ASAP CATH study independently, as a prospective observational study
      evaluating the additional prognostic value of serial ECGs to standard care in patients with
      chest pain being evaluated for acute coronary syndromes in the Emergency Department.

      Objective:

      The goal of this project is to produce preliminary data to investigate whether the presence
      or absence of serial ECG changes suggestive of myocardial ischemia aids in reclassifying
      participants' risk for MACE and objective evidence of ACS over and above serial
      second-generation troponin testing.

      Methods:

      Adult patients, over 21 years old, presenting to WFBMC ED with chest pain or symptoms
      concerning for ACS, in which the provider orders cardiac biomarkers and an ECG will be
      eligible for enrollment. We aim to add serial ECG analysis (one at the time of study
      enrollment and a second at the time of the study blood draw) to the protocol in the proposed
      study. The primary outcomes are major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) at 30 days and
      evidence of acute myocardial ischemia via objective cardiac testing performed during the
      index hospitalization.
    
  