
    
      In the current clinical trial, systemic perfusion and oxygenation through hemodynamic
      variables such as cardiac index and mean arterial pressure, and central venous oxygen
      saturation (cvSO2) are monitored during surgery. However, it has not been studied whether the
      hemodynamic parameters and systemic oxygen saturation adequately reflect the perfusion and
      oxygen saturation of the kidney. Although there are various new serum biomarkers that are
      known to reflect renal function or damage, they are not real-time monitoring of renal
      function because they take time and cost to collect and analyze.

      Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) measures the distribution of oxygenated hemoglobin and
      deoxygenated hemoglobin in tissues by sending two different near-infrared wavelengths (730
      and 810 nm) from the sensor. It is a device that can continuously monitor the oxygen
      supply-demand balance to a specific region non-invasively. NIRS is mainly used to measure the
      oxygen demand-supply balance of the cerebral tissue by attaching a sensor to the forehead in
      the surgical patient. Since it is known to be closely related to the reduction of cerebral
      oxygen saturation during surgery and the occurrence of postoperative cognitive dysfunction,
      it is used as an indispensable monitoring device to prevent neurological complications in
      heart surgery patients. Recently, with technological advances, it has become possible to
      measure oxygen saturation by attaching sensors to various body tissues other than the brain.
      When monitored with an NIRS sensor attached to the kidney, the relationship between renal
      oxygen saturation reduction and postoperative acute kidney injury (AKI) in children and adult
      patients undergoing heart surgery was reported. However, so far, the effects of systemic
      hemodynamic and oxygen saturation changes during the displacement of heart for coronary
      anastomosis during OPCAB on the oxygen saturation in the cerebral cortex and kidney, have not
      been studied. In addition, it is not known whether the cerebral cortical oxygen saturation
      (rcSO2), which is commonly used in heart surgery, can reflect the renal oxygen saturation
      (rrSO2).

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate changes in renal oxygen saturation (rrSO2) and its
      relationship with central venous oxygen saturation (cvSO2), cerebral cortical oxygen
      saturation (rcSO2), and hemodynamic parameters while displacing the heart for each coronary
      anastomosis in 19-80 year old adult patients receiving off-pump coronary artery bypass graft
      surgery (OPCAB) under general anesthesia.
    
  