
    
      Given the potentially devastating impact of poor cognitive functioning on the ability of
      patients with PTSD to benefit from treatment interventions, and its association with poor
      functional outcomes, there is an urgent need to identify novel treatment interventions aimed
      at reducing cognitive dysfunction in these disorders. Accordingly, the aim of the present
      proposal is to conduct a randomized controlled trial among patients with PTSD, examining the
      efficacy of a well-established cognitive intervention (in the treatment of cognitive
      deficits), aimed at reducing attentional and executive dysfunction, known as Goal Management
      Training® (GMT) (See Levine et al., 2011). A secondary aim is to determine the longer-term
      impact of the GMT approach on functional outcomes.

      The participants include 48 men and women with a primary diagnosis of with stable symptoms at
      the time of baseline assessment and reporting alterations in memory, attention, or executive
      functioning. Participants will be recruited from multiple sites: an inpatient post-traumatic
      stress recovery program in Ontario, Canada, and the program's external referral agencies that
      also service clients via outpatient services/ programs, external community agencies and
      support groups, and through social media.

      Following determination of eligibility, participants will be randomly assigned, by using the
      randomized table of numbers method, to either: 1) a 9-week GMT program or 2) a 9-week
      wait-list control (WLC) condition (see Figure 1). Participants will be invited to attend a
      baseline testing session 1 prior to group commencement (approximately 4 hours in duration)
      where written consent will be obtained prior to any collection of data. Once the testing
      session is complete, the participants will be given information about what group they have
      been assigned to (GMT or WLC).

      Participants enrolled in the GMT program attended the 9-week GMT sessions (2 hours/week for 9
      weeks) and a post-intervention testing session date (1-2 weeks following the completion of
      the GMT; approximately 3 hours in duration). Participants enrolled in the WLC control group
      attended a testing session date after 9 weeks has past (approximately 3 hours in duration).

      As each participant completed a post-intervention testing session (both GMT and WLC), they
      will be setup with the final testing session (in 3 months' time; approximately 3 hours in
      duration). WLC were offered a complimentary 9-week GMT program once the final testing session
      is complete. Following the completion of the complimentary 9-week GMT program, individuals in
      the WLC completed a post-intervention testing (1-2 weeks following the completion of GMT and
      again at 3 months, post GMT completion).

      These data will be analyzed using 2 x 3 mixed-design split plot factorial ANCOVAs that treat
      Group (GMT vs. WLC) as a between-subjects factor and Time (baseline, post-intervention, 3
      months; subjects nested within groups) as a within-subjects factor. In addition,
      within-subjects analyses of covariance (ANCOVAS) treating time (baseline, post-intervention,
      3 months) as a within-subjects factor will be carried out on data collected from the GMT
      group and from the WLC group after they have completed the GMT arm of the study. PTSD symptom
      severity (CAPS), depressive symptom severity (BDI-II), severity of past trauma exposure
      (CTQ), and medication load, and additional psychological treatment (treatment information
      form) will serve as covariates in this model. Tukey's Honestly Significant Difference
      post-hoc test will be used for follow-up pair-wise comparisons of between-subjects'
      variables.

      It is hypothesized that, post-treatment, participants with PTSD assigned to the GMT group
      will show significantly greater improvement in neuropsychological test performance and
      greater functional improvement compared to participants in the wait-list control group; these
      gains are expected to be maintained at 3-month-follow-up.
    
  