
    
      Stroke is one of the leading causes of long-term adult disability worldwide. The impaired
      ability to walk post-stroke severely limits mobility and quality of life. Many
      recently-developed assistive technologies for gait rehabilitation are at present only
      marginally better at best than traditional therapies in their efficacies. There is an urgent
      need of novel, clinically viable, and effective gait rehabilitative strategies that can
      provide even better functional outcome for stroke survivors with diverse presentations.

      Among the many new post-stroke interventions, functional electrical stimulation (FES) of
      muscles remains attractive. FES is a neural-rehabilitative technology that communicates
      control signals from an external device to the neuromuscular system. There is increasing
      recognition that rehabilitation paradigms should promote restitution of the patient's muscle
      coordination towards the normal pattern during training, and FES can achieve this goal when
      stimulations are applied to the set of muscles whose natural coordination is impaired. For
      this reason, FES is a very promising interventional strategy. Existing FES paradigms,
      however, have yielded ambiguous results in previous clinical trials, especially those for
      chronic survivors, likely because either stimulations were applied only to single or a few
      muscles, or the stimulation pattern did not mimic the natural muscle coordination pattern
      during gait. A multi-muscle FES, when applied to a larger functional set of muscles and
      driven by their natural coordination pattern, can guide muscle activations towards the normal
      pattern through neuroplasticity, thus restore impairment at the level of muscle-activation
      deficit.

      The first aim of our project is to utilize a 10-channel FES wearable for delivering
      multi-muscle FES to muscles in the lower-limb muscles. Participants will attempt to
      rehabilitate the gait of chronic stroke survivors over 12 training sessions by delivering
      stimulations to multiple muscles, in their natural coordination pattern, using our wearable.
      As such, participants will utilize the theory of muscle synergy from motor neuroscience to
      guide our personalizable selections of muscles for FES. Muscle synergies are hypothesized
      neural modules of motor control that coordinate the spatiotemporal activation patterns of
      multiple muscles. Our customizable FES pattern for each stroke survivor will be constructed
      based on the normal muscle synergies that are absent in the stroke survivor's muscle pattern
      during walking. Since muscle synergies represent the natural motor-control units used by the
      nervous system, reinforcement of their activations through FES should lead to restoration of
      normal neuromuscular coordination, thus more natural post-training gait.

      Our second aim is to evaluate the effectiveness of our FES paradigm by assessing the
      walk-muscle synergies in the paretic and non-paretic legs of the trained stroke survivors,
      before, after, and 1 month following our intervention. In doing so, participants hope to
      explore whether lower-limb muscle synergy can be a physiologically-based marker of motor
      impairment for stroke survivors.

      If our muscle-synergy-based multi-muscle FES is indeed efficacious, our strategy will help
      many disabled chronic stroke survivors to regain mobility, thus living with a much higher
      quality of life in the decades to come. The clinical and societal impact of our research will
      be huge.
    
  