
    
      The goal of this research is to develop a series of interconnected models of therapeutic
      response in the diseased lung, focused primarily on Cystic Fibrosis (CF), that will
      ultimately provide a means for predicting in vivo response based on patient-specific in vitro
      testing, allowing for the optimization and personalization of therapies. Investigators use
      both human bronchial epithelial (HBE) and more recently human nasal epithelial (HNE) cell
      cultures to study CF pathophysiology. The investigators performing this study have also
      developed functional imaging biomarkers in the lung that provide organ level quantification
      of CF lung physiology (mucociliary clearance and airway liquid absorption), and, more
      recently, in silico systems models of lung physiology at both the cell and organ level. The
      in silico models provide a framework of differential equations that describe how basic
      physiological processes interact and contribute to experimental outcomes. Their use allows
      these mechanisms to be more specifically differentiated. Here the investigators propose to
      link in vitro and in vivo response by sampling and culturing HNE cell cultures from both
      non-CF and CF subjects who will also perform a series of physiological assessments, including
      functional imaging scans. The in silico models will facilitate linking therapeutic studies in
      cells to therapeutic outcomes in patients.

        1. CF PATIENTS will perform 2 study days.

           Study day 1 will include:

             1. nasal potential difference measurements

             2. pulmonary function testing

             3. inert gas washout testing

             4. urine pregnancy testing

             5. nasal cell sampling

             6. nuclear MCC/ABS scan (to include inhalation of isotonic or hypertonic saline -
                randomized order)

             7. blood draw for CFTR genotyping if not already available.

           Study day 2 will include

             1. pulmonary function testing

             2. urine pregnancy testing

             3. nuclear MCC/ABS scan (to include inhalation of isotonic or hypertonic saline -
                randomized order)

        2. PARENTS OF ENROLLED CF patients who choose to participate will perform 1 study day which
           will include:

             1. nasal potential difference measurements

             2. pulmonary function testing

             3. inert gas washout testing

             4. urine pregnancy testing

             5. nasal cell sampling

             6. nuclear MCC/ABS scan (to include inhalation of isotonic saline)

             7. a single blood sample drawn for CFTR genotyping.

        3. HEALTHY CONTROLS will perform 1 screening and 1 study day which will include:

             1. pulmonary function testing

             2. inert gas washout testing

             3. urine pregnancy testing

             4. nasal cell sampling

             5. nuclear MCC/ABS scan (to include inhalation of isotonic saline)

             6. a single blood sample drawn for CFTR genotyping (at screening).
    
  