
    
      This is an intervention study that will determine whether an exercise program targeting
      spinal extremity range of motion for individuals with Parkinson's Disease, is superior to
      general conditioning and to 'usual care'. This study builds on previous findings of Schenkman
      and colleagues including the following: loss of spinal and extremity range of motion occur as
      sequelae to PD; these losses contribute significantly to early impairments of balance; and
      both spinal range of motion and balance of people with economy of movement is impaired in
      people who have PD. Specifically, we will examine whether the intervention, targeting range
      of motion and balance, also improves economy of movement.

      Untreated impairments of range of motion, balance, and economy of movement may become highly
      disabling. Short term improvements of range of motion and balance occur with exercise. If the
      patient can sustain such improvements after a supervised exercise program is completed, these
      functionally limiting impairments may be delayed. Additionally, if exercises for spinal range
      of motion are coupled with functional retraining, the patient should improve in overall
      physical functional ability. Therefore, this study will establish the overall impact of a
      targeted exercise program for people with PD in terms of balance, economy of movement, and
      overall functional ability.

      The study is a randomized clinical trial, with three treatment arms and four repeated
      measures: before treatment, after treatment, and follow-up after 10 months and again after 16
      months. This study compares usual care based on the National Parkinson's Foundation, aerobic
      training, and targeted flexibility and functional training. The primary outcomes are measures
      of overall functional ability, balance and economy of movement. Secondary outcomes include
      measures of disease state, spinal range of motion, aerobic capacity, and quality of life.
    
  