
    
      Frailty is term widely used to denote a multidimensional syndrome associated with the loss of
      physical and cognitive reserve capacity that makes an individual vulnerable to cumulative
      clinical health conditions. The level of frailty can be classified as one of three phenotypes
      (non-frail; pre-frail, frail) using the Cardiac Health Study frailty index (CHS). The CHS
      assesses the number of physical deficits expressed by an individual. These deficits include
      (unexplained weight loss, poor grip strength, feelings of exhaustion, slowed gait, and low
      levels of physical activity). An individual who exhibits 1-2 deficits in physical function
      suggests a pre-frail phenotype. The Canadian Study of Health and Aging's Clinical Frailty
      Scale (CFS) classifies older adult's level of frailty using a 9-level scale, ranging from
      "Very fit" (level 1) to "Terminally ill" (level 9). An individual is considered vulnerable or
      mildly frail if they fall between levels 4 and 5 on the CFS. Both assessment tools will be
      used to assess frailty status. It becomes more difficult to restore physical health once the
      individual attains 3+ deficits on the CHS or ≥ level 6 on the CFS.

      The purpose of this study is to determine if the pre-frail phenotype can be reversed in
      participants who are pre-frail and/or vulnerable or mildly frail using CHS and CFS assessment
      tools respectively. Both assessment tools are used as inclusion criteria and as outcome
      measures within this study. To confirm frailty status, gait speed will be evaluated over a
      4-meter level walkway with an addition 2-meters on either end, to allow for acceleration and
      deceleration of walking speed. A normal gait speed of 1-1.5 meters/second is associated with
      persons expressing the pre-frailty phenotype. Females are most susceptible to frailty;
      therefore, this investigation targets females 65 years of age and older. Eligibility criteria
      includes only females (65+ years) who are considered pre-frail by the CHS and vulnerable to
      mildly frail (levels 4-5) on the CFS, with a normal gait speed between 1-1.5 meters/second.
      Individuals who are considered pre-frail are highlighted for our study as we believe that
      this demographic is at a critical-point of physical transition between frailty phenotypes. If
      pre-frail individuals do not actively engage in restorative exercise to reclaim muscle
      strength and balance, they will remain as pre-frail or continue to regress toward the frailty
      phenotype.

      Frailty is a multidimensional geriatric syndrome additional assessment tools will be used to
      determine physical strengths and deficits within each individual. Participants will be
      cleared for exercise participation using the Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire - Plus
      (PAR-Q+) and cleared for exercise by a Certified Exercise Physiologist (CEP). The CEP in good
      standing with the Canadian Society for Exercise Physiology and is trained to effectively
      screen participants with multiple co-morbidities for exercise and prescribe appropriate
      exercise programs for these participants. Participants with unstable health conditions will
      be advised to seek physician approval before re-entering the study using the PAR-Medx
      assessment form. Cognitive function will be assessed using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment
      (MoCA) tool to ensure that participants are not suffering from non-observable cognitive
      impairment.

      Participants will be randomized, using a table of random numbers, to either an Exercise (EX)
      or a Control (CON) group. The EX group will participate in a 16-week multi-component training
      intervention (3x per week, 45 to 60 minutes/session, at moderate to vigorous intensity) that
      will include primarily resistance exercises, an aerobic warm-up and cool down, and include
      both flexibility and balance exercises throughout the session (Bray et al., 2016). The CON
      group will be asked to maintain their normal daily living habits for the same duration (16
      weeks). At the conclusion of the 16-weeks the exercise program will be made available to the
      CON group participants.

      The sample size goal of 50 participants, 25 per group (EX=25, CON=25) was determined
      based-upon previous research with this population. T-tests will be used to analyze intergroup
      differences at baseline and post intervention. Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) will be used to
      analyze intragroup differences at week 0 (baseline), week 8 (mid-point) and week 17 (post
      intervention). Measures of intragroup differences include frailty assessment measures (CHS
      and CFS), the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) protocol, isotonic muscle strength of
      the dominate arm and leg using a Biodex System 4Pro Dynamometer will be assessed and daily
      physical activity accumulation will be examined using the Phone FITT questionnaire.

      The investigators hypothesize that those who are randomly enrolled into the exercise
      intervention will reverse their frailty phenotype on the CHS index (i.e. 'pre-frail' become
      'non-frail') and restore physical function to lower levels (<4) on the CFS (i.e. 'vulnerable'
      become 'managing well'), while those in the control group will be unchanged or further
      regress in their frailty phenotype and become frail, or move further along the CFS toward
      greater levels of frailty. This research will provide support for the use of multi-component
      exercise as a proactive approach to restoring physical independence and quality of life for
      older adults.
    
  