
    
      Anaemia is one of the main disease burdens of children in developing countries. Severe
      anaemia is often fatal, while moderate anaemia leads to growth and cognitive disorders. The
      incidence of anaemia in children is extremely high in malaria endemic areas since episodes of
      clinical malaria and asymptomatic parasitaemia result in red cell destruction. It has been
      shown in Tanzania that the incidence of severe anaemia in infants can be reduced by 30% by
      regular administration of iron supplements, and by 60% if regular malaria chemoprophylaxis is
      given in addition. One way to operationalise this research finding, with minimal additional
      cost to governments and communities, is to link the distribution of iron and antimalarial
      drugs to the EPI programme. We propose a community-randomised trial to study the
      effectiveness of intermittent iron supplements and malaria chemotherapy in reducing the
      incidence of anaemia and clinical malaria, and to investigate any possible interactions of
      iron and antimalarial drugs with EPI vaccines. The study will have two arms: children in both
      arms will receive monthly supplies of twice weekly iron supplements when they attend EPI and
      growth monitoring clinics. In addition, children in arm 1 will receive a placebo when they
      receive Polio/DPT 2, Polio/DPT 3 and measles vaccines, while those in arm 2 will receive
      sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP). The baseline incidence of anaemia and malaria, and immune
      response to EPI vaccines, will be estimated in a sample of children from a non-intervention
      area adjacent to the study area. The immune response to EPI vaccines, drug side-effects, and
      the incidence of anaemia and malaria will be compared between the two arms of the study and
      with the non-intervention area. Any possible 'rebound' in malaria incidence due to impairment
      of immunity will be monitored and treated during the six months after stopping the
      chemotherapy and supplementation.
    
  