
    
      In the current study the investigators aim to assess the nutritional quality and
      bio-functional activity of two alternative protein sources bovine plasma and corn and from
      the benchmark protein whey. The objective is to assess the degree of digestibility and
      protection of the epithelial barrier of two alternative protein concentrates from corn and
      bovine plasma and of the commonly consumed benchmark protein whey. These outcomes will also
      be used to evaluate how predictive the in vitro-measurements have been for the obtained in
      vivo-effects. Secondary objectives are to assess the impact on other markers of
      gastrointestinal health, metabolic health, vascular health and satiating properties. Study
      design: The study is a double blind, randomised, cross-over, short-term trial in which 36
      study subject will participate. Study subjects will receive three protein interventions of 1
      week with a washout period of 1 week between interventions. Study subjects will visit the
      research facility before and after the intervention period on two separate occasions to
      measure gut permeability via a multi-sugar/acetylsalicylic acid test and to collect fasting
      blood samples and blood pressure outcomes. Faecal and saliva samples before and after each
      intervention will be collected. All measurements will be conducted after an overnight fast
      and a standardised evening meal prior to the study days. A subgroup of 12 study participants
      will also be subjected to a postprandial digestibility test on the first day of the
      interventions.

      Study population: healthy study subjects, between 35-70y, BMI 18 - 30kg/m2, both males and
      females.

      Intervention (if applicable): Three intervention arms of one week; a bovine plasma protein
      intervention, a corn protein intervention and a whey protein comparator intervention. Study
      subjects will receive 40 grams of protein per day during the intervention in two 20 g doses.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main study parameter is to assess the protein digestion
      kinetics and protection of the epithelial barrier. Secondary study parameters include other
      markers of gastrointestinal health, metabolic health, vascular health and satiating
      properties.
    
  