
    
      Cervical cancer (CC) is preventable. Screening for CC aims to identify treatable lesions
      prior to the development of invasive CC which, without screening, is often first detected at
      a stage when comfort care is all that can be offered. Still, only 80% of U.S. women age 21 -
      65 report adherence to U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) CC screening
      recommendations. This rate is considerably below the Healthy People 2020 target of 93%8.
      Lower rates of screening have been particularly pronounced among racial and ethnic minorities
      and patients with lower education levels. The group most likely to be non-adherent with
      screening guidelines is women who use the emergency department (ED) for their usual source of
      care. The ED setting, therefore, is optimal for the deployment of an intervention to promote
      CC screening. Although designed to address acute illnesses and injuries, the ED is an
      effective environment to advance preventive health. Numerous preventive health interventions
      have been successfully deployed in the ED including smoking cessation, HIV testing, and
      depression screening. Interventions delivered in the ED often suffer from lack of follow up
      and hence low adherence. Novel approaches are needed to reinforce health messages delivered
      in the acute context of the ED. Short Message Service (SMS) on mobile phones, also known as
      text messaging, is a low-cost, scalable, and effective means of delivering health behavior
      interventions. According to the Pew Research Center, the vast majority of Americans - 95% -
      own a cell phone, and an estimated 98% of all cell phones have texting capabilities.
      Evidence-based SMS interventions for health behavior include smoking cessation,primary care
      attendance, breast cancer screening, and sun safety, among others. However, minimal research
      has been conducted applying SMS interventions to CC screening and no prior research, apart
      from our pilot work, has targeted a CC prevention intervention by leveraging the universal
      healthcare access setting of the ED. In 2018-19 the investigators conducted a randomized
      clinical trial pilot (ClinicalTrials.gov #NCT03483610; NIH Grant ID: UL1TR002001) among ED
      patients non-adherent with USPSTF recommendations comparing an SMS intervention group to a
      referral-only control group to improve CC screening uptake at follow-up. The intervention
      consisted of a series of text messages, grounded in behavioral change theory, aimed at
      generating intention to get screened. The results of this pilot: (A) demonstrated the
      feasibility of our approach, (B) showed preliminary evidence of efficacy, and (C) provided an
      effect size estimate. Our overarching goal is to develop a low-cost, scalable SMS
      intervention that increases CC screening uptake among ED patients and can be deployed in
      heterogenous ED settings. The proposed randomized controlled trial will test the efficacy of
      this intervention. Step 1 of our approach is to identify whether the participant is adherent
      with screening guidelines. Step 2 is to randomize non-adherent participants to one of the two
      treatment conditions: (1) referral only (control) or, (2) referral and an SMS-intervention
      consisting of a series of text messages, grounded in behavioral change theory, aimed at
      generating intention and autonomous motivation to get screened. To limit costs and increase
      the scalability of the intervention, determination of adherence with screening guidelines via
      a self-administered questionnaire on a tablet computer will be evaluated. A total of 1,460
      non-adherent women, age 21-65, will be recruited from a high-volume urban ED and a low-volume
      rural ED, randomized among study conditions, and followed-up at 150 days to assess interval
      CC screening uptake.

      Aim 1: Compare CC screening uptake between SMS intervention and control groups. Hypothesis 1:
      Uptake of CC screening in the SMS intervention group will be greater than in the control
      group at 150-day follow-up.This aim will determine the efficacy of the intervention.

      Aim 2: Compare the impact of in-person (using research staff) versus self-administered (using
      a tablet) determination of CC screening adherence on the efficacy of the intervention.

      Hypothesis 2: The method of determining adherence will not impact the efficacy of the
      intervention. This aim will evaluate an approach to limit cost and increase the scalability
      of intervention implementation. Aim 3: Identify mediators and explore moderators of
      intervention effects on CC screening uptake at follow-up.

      Hypothesis 3: Uptake in the intervention group will be mediated by theory-posited proximal
      predictors. This aim will elucidate the mechanism of behavioral change resulting from the
      intervention and identify differential effects among study sub-groups.

      This project leverages the universal access setting of the ED to target women most at risk
      for non-adherence with CC screening guidelines. A low-cost, scalable intervention that
      increases CC screening uptake in this population would decrease CC incidence and save lives.
      Our next step would be a multi-site effectiveness trial using the NCI Community Oncology
      Research Program (NCORP) Network.
    
  