
    
      Mortality associated with congenital heart defects (CHD) has decreased significantly
      world-wide over the past decades. As more CHD patients are surviving beyond infancy and
      childhood, these patients are found to be at significant risk for developmental disabilities
      and developmental delay. In CHD patients, their neurodevelopmental impairments, as suggested
      by recent data from the Boston Circulatory Arrest Trial, appear to become more serious with
      increasing age. As they mature into adolescents and adults, more areas of neurocognitive
      abnormalities become evident. These abnormalities significantly influence their ability to
      function independently in their daily living and impact their quality of life. Physical
      activity has been shown to improve cognitive function in adults and improve attentional
      inhibition and cognitive flexibility in school-age children between 7 to 9 years of age. An
      exercise program has also been shown to improve self-reported cognitive functioning and
      parent-reported social functioning in older children and adolescents (age 10-25 years) with
      Tetralogy of Fallot or single ventricle physiology. Of note, neuroimaging studies have
      further documented that physical activity induces an increase in hippocampal volume which
      corresponds to the observed improvement in memory tasks. Since neurocognitive functions in
      CHD patients become worse as they get older, any early intervention that can mitigate the
      neurocognitive impairment in these patients will modify their negative neurodevelopmental
      trajectory and thus could have a major impact on the mental and cognitive well-being of CHD
      patients. The purpose of our study is to test the hypothesis that a regular, structured
      physical activity program as recommended by the American Heart Association will improve
      cognitive function and adaptive behavior in children with CHD after cardiac surgery.
    
  