
    
      The objectives of this study are to perform tests and questionnaires. All samples will be
      non-invasive.

      Evaluation of metallic taste (MT) occurrence with a specific questionnaire. In a single
      patient, MT occurrence may vary according to the time of the study.

        1. Oral media modifications 1.1- Salivary functions: basal and stimulated salivary flow
           will be determined. Immediately after collection, both salivary samples will be stored
           at -80°C. Twice a year frosted samples will be delivered to the Centre des Sciences du
           Goût et de l'Alimentation in Dijon, France) by a special transporter. Biochemical
           analyses of saliva will consist of analyses of candidate markers: malondialdehyde,
           metabolites (uric acid), ions (Mn2+ and Zn2+), enzymatic activities and key proteins
           involved in the salivary peroxidation (catalase, superoxide dismutase). All the technics
           are already validated.

           1.2- Quantification of fungiform papillae in dermatoscopy. The objective of the
           dermatoscope is placed on the tongue and a snapshot of a predefined surface area will be
           recorded on both sides of the tongue. The density will be estimated according to an
           automatic method from the snapshots.

           1.3- Trapping of nasal scents To assess the presence of volatile odorous compounds
           induced by the oral lipoperoxidation, the nasal scents of the patients will be harvested
           by a Tenax® trap positioned at the exit of nostril. The operation will be performed
           without any stimulus, after an iron sulphate mouthwash (artificially inducing MT) and
           after treatment with lactoferrin mouthwash (chelating agent). The traps will be
           hermetically closed and sent to the Centre des Sciences du gout et de l'Alimentation in
           Dijon for analysis by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. These tests will be
           performed after psychophysical tests not to distort their results.

        2. Psychophysical tests. 2.1- Psychophysical tests of taste intensity will be carried out
           with two aqueous solutions (one neutral, the other sapid) of each taste (salty, sweet,
           sour, bitter and umami) and iron sulphate. The solutions will moisten 0.5 cm-diameter
           filter paper discs that will be deposited on the tongue. For each taste, patients will
           have to indicate the disc with the strongest and least strong taste. Four locations on
           the tongue will be tested: one for the territory of the facial nerve (anterior tongue),
           one for the glossopharyngeal nerve (tongue base), repeated on both sides.

           2.2- Efficacy of a lactoferrin mouthwash to attenuate the sensation of MT. Omur-Ozbeck
           et al. showed that a lactoferrin mouthwash completely attenuated an artificially-created
           MT by an iron sulphate mouthwash. For the investigator's patients, in case of
           spontaneous presence of a MT or after having artificially created it by the iron
           sulphate mouthwash, a lactoferrin mouthwash will be proposed and its efficacy to
           attenuate the MT will be evaluated.

           2.3- Psychophysical olfaction tests (European Test of olfactory Capacities ETOC from
           Thomas-Danguin T et al. Rhinology 2003;41:142-51) This test is constructed from odours
           contained in vials. It is made up of 16 series of 4 vials. In a series, only one of the
           four vials contains an odour. The patients must first find the vial which, among 4
           contains the odour (test of detection) then in the vial chosen identify the odour (test
           of identification) among 4 alternatives proposed in the form of 4 verbal labels.

        3. Impedancemetry Measurements of the spontaneous presence of a current in the oral cavity
           and the resistivity of the oral mucosa will be carried out by application of an
           electrode on the back of the tongue. This procedure is painless.

        4. Evaluation of food intake by patients weighing, an analogic visual scale and of food
           pleasantness by MT specific questionnaire.

        5. Characterization of quality of life through general EORTC QLQ30 and HNC-specific EORTC
           HNC35 quality of life questionnaires.
    
  