
    
      It reviewed 350 patients who underwent allogeneic 2 or more between the beginning of
      monitoring and the end of 2009, end of follow-up. Is a multicenter study of row should
      include all possible patients who take the appropriate data. To all centers contributing
      patients to the study, were asked to fill out basic information related to the data sheets of
      the EBMT report (MED-A and MED-B).

      To collect these forms of EBMT, patients have previously authorized through the informed
      consent of this information collection.

      It will include basic descriptive characteristics of the cohort and comparisons between
      groups were conducted to check if the sample is homogeneous.

      The analysis is divided into descriptive data collection related to the transplant, both
      prior to transplantation and on during it. It also collected data related to transplant once
      done this.

      FINDINGS AND PURPOSE The main variables to be analyzed are: overall survival, disease-free
      survival and progression, relapse rate and transplant-related mortality.

      Secondary endpoints to be analyzed can vary once made the data collection. Yet between them
      will include: incidence of graft-versus-host disease (both acute and chronic), incidence of
      infections.

      The purpose of this study is the description of variables that can predict the success or
      failure of making a second allogeneic transplant after the first relapse. These variables
      were also analyzed for third or subsequent transplants.

      Also seeks to differentiate risk groups among patients. The novelty of this study could
      provide regarding previously published studies is the description of third or subsequent
      transplants, so far there are few references to this in the literature to date.

      FINANCING This study does not require funding.

      CONFLICT OF INTEREST There is no conflict of interest

      DATA COLLECTION PERIOD AEMET submission and acceptance: 1-2 months. Aceppt (SEPT-10-2010)
      Data collection: 3 - 6 months Results: at 6 - 9 months Publication and presentation at
      conferences, at 12 months
    
  