
    
      Urothelial cancer typically begins in the lining of the bladder, the balloon-shaped organ in
      the pelvic area that stores urine. Urothelial cancer can also begin in the ureter (the tube
      connecting the kidney and bladder), part of the kidney itself, or the urethra (the tube you
      pass urine out of). Some Urothelial cancers remain confined to the lining, while in other
      cases they spread to other areas. Treatment for these cancers varies greatly depending on the
      stage of disease at the time of diagnosis. Study participants in this research study will
      have a diagnosis of urothelial cancer that is advanced or has come back after prior therapy.

      There are two standard chemotherapeutic regimens for the management of this disease. One is
      the combination of the drugs, methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin (MVAC).
      However the toxicities associated with this treatment regimen (side effects) is high.

      The other is a combination of two drugs called Cisplatin and Gemcitabine. These drugs are
      also known to destroy urothelial cancer cells, and are better tolerated by patients. All
      study participants will receive both of these drugs.

      Another anti-cancer drug called Cetuximab is known to delay or prevent tumor growth and in
      some cases to lead to death of cancer cells by blocking certain cellular pathways that lead
      to tumor development. This drug has been approved by the United States Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) for the treatment of colorectal cancer and for treatment of head and
      neck cancers. The use of Cetuximab for the treatment of urothelial cancer is investigational
      in this study.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the safety and efficacy of Gemcitabine and Cisplatin
      administered with or without the addition of Cetuximab in study participants with urothelial
      cancer.

      This is a randomized research study. Study participants will be randomized to receive either
      gemcitabine and cisplatin alone or in combination with Cetuximab.
    
  