
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, we are asking your permission to obtain an
      additional sample of blood (2 tubes or 4 teaspoons). Cells from the blood contain normal,
      non-cancer cell DNA which is needed for the analysis.

      One of the main reasons to study the genetic characteristics of cancers is to learn whether
      they can predict response to existing treatments. Therefore, in this study, we would also
      link the results of gene tests on your cancer wtih medical information that has been
      generated during the course of your treatment. The medical information is contained in your
      medical record.

      A small number of the gene test results may have importance for your health or treatment. For
      example, they might uncover gene alterations known to make cancers respond to (or be
      resistant to) specific therapies. Therefore, we are asking you to consider whether or not you
      would like us to inform your doctor and you about some of the results of these gene tests.

      Your doctor may contact you about results of gene tests, but only if the results could impact
      your cancer treatment or other disease directly, or if you have given your permission for him
      or her to do so. In some cases, a research doctor may contact you to find out if you would be
      interested in participating in a different research study based on information thay may have
      been found in your tissue or blood samples, or in your survey/interview responses. We will
      also ask you to provide the name and contact information for a relative who may know your
      whereabouts, or who could decide about using your information for research in the future, if
      you are not available to give permission yourself.

      Some of your specimens, as well as some of the material generated during the analysis of your
      tissues or blood, may be useful for study in the future, with newer technologies and
      approaches. We are asking your permission to store these specimens and materials in a secure
      biologic sample storage facility for possible later research.

      We are also asking you to participate in two surveys related to the study at a few time
      points. These time points include when you first join the study, and after you receive any
      results from the gene tests done on your samples. The surveys seek to learn how you are
      thinking about this type of genetic analysis, and the ways in which the information can be
      shared with you that would be most helpful.

      Some study participants will also be invited to take part in study-related interviews. The
      purpose of these interviews is to understand what you expect will happen as a result of the
      gene tests, and how the results of the gene tests may have affected you.

      The surveys should take no more than 15 minutes to complete. The interviews are expected to
      take approximately 45 minutes to complete.

      Finally, rapid progress in understanding and treating cancer will occur when some of the
      genetic information derived from your tissues and blood can be shared with other researchers.
      In particular, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and other organizations have developed
      special data (information) repositories that analyze data and collect the results of certain
      types of genetic studies. These central banks will store your genetic information, samples,
      and survey/interview information and provide them to qualified researchers to do more
      studies. Therefore, we are also asking your permission to share your results with these
      special banks. Your information or samples will be sent only with a code number attached.
      Your name or other directly identifiable information will not be shared with data banks or
      other investigators. There are many safeguards in place to protect your information and
      samples while they are stored in repositories and used for research. although there may be a
      slight risk of loss of privacy when sharing this information with these banks, we have
      established procedures to encode your samples and information and protect your data. Although
      we will do everything we can to protect the privacy of your data, we cannot absolutely
      guarantee its privacy or predict how genetic information will be used in the future.
    
  