
    
      RESEARCH PATTERN:

      Comparative research, Cross-Over, with a quasi-experimental component, comparing trial
      products to the use of Septol over the course of the year before the research.

      Included in the study will be 29 departments of Sheba, whilst the other hospital departments
      will serve as a control group. The 29 departments will be divided into two branches with
      similar departments in each (each branch consisting of 3 internal medicine departments, 3
      urgent care departments, a pediatric department, a surgical department, etc.). In Stage I
      (the initial six months), Branch A will exchange Septol with AniosGel, and Branch B will
      exchange Septol with Softa-Man. In Stage II (the second six months), Branch A will change to
      Softa-Man and Branch B will change to AniosGel. Branch C will be the control, where Septol
      will be used throughout the duration of the study.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      For objectives 1 and 2: All medical staff at Sheba (in all 3 branches of the study).

      Total: 15 Departments in Branch A, 14 Departments in Branch B

      Stages of the Study:

        1. At point zero (while still using Septol), distribute a questionnaire of hand hygiene
           compliance and satisfaction.

        2. Instruction to Branch A and Branch B departments regarding the switch of Septol to the
           new product (instruction to staff in all sectors of these departments).

        3. Exchange antiseptic Septol with the trial product in departments of Branch A and Branch
           B for the first six months (Stage I).

        4. At point one (six months into the study), distribute a questionnaire of hand hygiene
           compliance and satisfaction.

        5. Interim analysis of the questionnaires from point zero and point one.

        6. Instruction to departments regarding the switch of products, regarding the use of the
           new product.

        7. Exchange of trial product between the two groups for the second six month period (Stage
           II).

        8. At point two (twelve months into the study), distribute a questionnaire of hand hygiene
           compliance and satisfaction.

        9. Final analysis of questionnaires from Point 0, 1, and 2, as well as compliance of hand
           hygiene.
    
  