
    
      Decreasing emergency department (ED) over-utilization is a priority for healthcare systems
      across the country. Patients uncertain about a medical issue routinely end up in the ED when
      less costly and time-consuming alternatives could have addressed their concern. If patients
      reach out to healthcare facilities rather than heading directly to the ED, they can often be
      directed toward resources better suited to their concerns than the ED.

      Geisinger is thus working to encourage patients to contact healthcare providers if any
      concerns arise and patients are uncertain about where to go for care. Patients who have
      recently had a medical procedure may be particularly valuable to encourage, as they routinely
      have concerns related to the procedure and discharge can serve as a useful touch-point to
      remind the patient where they can go for questions or concerns.

      In the present study, patients will be sent a patient portal message shortly after completing
      any Women's Health medical procedure. The message will inform or remind patients how they can
      reach Geisinger if they have any medical issues or concerns. The purpose of this study is to
      assess if such messages make patients more likely to contact Geisinger with medical concerns
      and, in turn, decrease unnecessary ED utilization. This study will A/B test 2 messages,
      encouraging patients to either call their recent provider directly or to call a tele-nurse
      hotline, and will assess if these messages perform better than a control group that will not
      be sent any such message.

      The two message conditions will not be rolled out immediately. In the first phase of the
      study, only the message encouraging patients to call their provider will be sent (compared
      with a randomized no-message control group). In the second phase, once the tele-nurse line is
      available to support this work at Women's Health (estimated 1-2 months), the tele-nurse
      message will be added as a third condition. See "Study Design" section for further details on
      the interventional study model.

      Generalized linear models will examine the primary study outcomes as a function of the study
      arms (between-subjects).
    
  