
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is the leading cause of disability worldwide and affects more than 4.4
      million Canadians. Current evidence-based guidelines for OA management recommend weight
      management, patient education, physical activity, physiotherapy (PT), bracing,
      viscosupplementation, and anti-inflammatory/pain medications prior to joint replacement
      surgery. Unfortunately, current practice trends are not consistent with these guidelines, as
      nearly half of patients with OA referred to orthopedic surgeons do not require total joint
      arthroplasty (TJA) at the time of initial consultation. Through the Southwest Musculoskeletal
      Rapid Access Clinic (RAC), approximately ten referrals (20%) are rejected each day due to OA
      criteria not met, and a further 20% are assessed as non-operative.

      We aim to identify individuals with 'mild to moderate' OA and optimize their first-line
      non-operative management, starting with physical activity and education.

      Physical activity prescriptions are effective in increasing patient levels of physical
      activity, and 93% of patients surveyed want advice on physical activity from their
      physicians; but it is underused.

      Physicians cite lack of time and inadequate training as barriers. Electronic screening of
      physical activity behaviours can save time for physicians, and the use of digital health
      tools can improve physical activity levels.

      Patient education and physiotherapist-led group exercise therapy programs have shown to delay
      progression of knee OA symptoms and improve pain and function; however, two of the most
      significant barriers to accessing exercise programming is the cost (~approximate $425-475 per
      6-8-week session) and accessibility to attend the exercise session (proximity to facility,
      remote/rural communities, etc.).

      The Need for a Solution that targets both Providers and Patients Screening for baseline
      physical activity levels and including educational components significantly increase
      intervention effectiveness.

      We have previously tested the feasibility of implementing an e-health tool to support
      physical activity counselling by physicians during patients' periodic health review. We will
      adapt and implement this tool, Physical Activity and App Prescription (PARx) to screen and
      provide tailored resources for physical activity in the setting of OA. We will use tablet
      computers and email, directly linked with the electronic medical record (EMR), to engage
      patients in contemplating their own physical activity levels, start conversations with their
      healthcare providers (in this case, primary care physicians with additional training in sport
      and exercise medicine), and support customized, patient-centered health care. After patients
      enter their information, they will receive evidence-based behavioural change supports to help
      them meet their goals.

      The automated algorithm assesses current activity level, risk factors/comorbidities and
      readiness for change. Based on the answers provided, patients are risk-stratified and
      tailored resources will be provided to the patient and to their clinician in the form of
      decision support tools embedded in the EMR. This will include the novel implementation of an
      exercise tracking platform via the smartphone app (myrecovery.ai).

      The web-based platform Joint Management (JM) is a free, readily accessible evidenced-based
      resource focusing on non-operative management strategies for mild to moderate hip and knee
      OA. The platform will include exercise programming (videos, pictures, and descriptions of the
      exercises) and patient education (benefits of exercise, lifestyle modifications, nutrition,
      injections, etc.), to assist the patient engage in self-management. JM will also include the
      option for (paid) virtual access to PTs, who can provide individualized support,
      recommendations and exercise programming via the platform.

      RATIONALE:

      Creating customized physical activity plans with automated reminders and other supports
      addresses the problem of self-efficacy in providers by developing an evidence-based automated
      method, while also addressing the issue of patient adherence by using tailored behaviour
      change techniques, through assessing readiness for change, and helping patients create new
      habits.

      The motivation for JM is to create a free, online evidence-based OA education and exercise
      programming resource for those that are not able to afford or access community-based exercise
      programs. The virtual PT option will help optimize patient's experience with the web-based
      platform, offering support and personalized recommendations regarding management of their
      condition and exercise programming tailored to their specific abilities, preferences, and
      needs.

      Why this is Innovative:

      The evidence for using patient-reported measures and functional outcomes to guide quality
      improvement for personalized OA care in a systematic manner is in an early stage, meaning
      that this project can not only impact healthcare delivery and translate new knowledge into
      medical practice but help position Western University as a leader in this area. The novel
      technologies (PARx and JM) are innovative tools informed by patient priorities and
      co-designed with our patient partners, specifically geared towards 1) developing new and more
      personalized treatment approaches, 2) developing more effective self-management tools, and 3)
      reducing disparities in vulnerable and hard-to-reach populations. To this end, we will share
      our findings broadly with our patient partners and reach out to these harder-to-reach groups
      in particular.

      EXPECTED OUTCOMES:

      Health Outcomes: We expect to increase patients' physical activity and improve outcomes for
      individuals with mild to moderate OA. We aim to optimize non-operative management of OA
      symptoms and therefore possibly delay and/or prevent the need for TJA.

      Academic Outcomes: We expect to develop a model of physical activity prescription and patient
      education that can be scaled up for implementation in primary care.

      Societal Outcomes: Both novel technologies have the potential to be implemented across
      Canada, targeting modifying disease progression and, ideally, delaying or preventing TJA.

      Innovative Technology 1: Physical Activity (PA) and App Prescription (Rx) (PARx) Physical
      Activity and App Prescription (PARx): Tablet/email software (REDCap) is used to collect
      physical activity data from patient input and prompt intervention by providers. The automated
      algorithm assesses current activity level, risk factors/comorbidities and readiness for
      change. Based upon their answers, patients will be risk-stratified and tailored resources
      will be provided to them in the form of a personalized prescription and free smartphone app
      (myrecovery.ai) to track activity levels.

      Innovative Technology 2: Joint Management (JM) Joint Management (JM): This is a free online
      evidence-based OA education and exercise programming resource for those that are not able to
      afford or access community-based exercise programs, with a virtual physiotherapy (PT) option
      to offer support and personalized recommendations.

      OBJECTIVES:

      The objective of the proposed study is to 1) determine if PARx and JM will improve pain,
      increase physical activity levels, and improve functional outcomes in patients with mild to
      moderate hip or knee OA

      RESEARCH QUESTIONS:

        1. Does the use of novel technology (PARx) affect patient reported outcomes in individuals
           with mild to moderate hip or knee OA?

        2. Does PARx influence activity levels in individuals with mild to moderate hip or knee OA?

        3. Does the use of novel technology (PARx and JM) affect patient reported and functional
           outcomes in individuals with mild to moderate hip or knee OA?

        4. What are the experiences and perceptions of patients and physicians during this process?

      SPECIFIC AIMS:

      Measure and compare A1) patient reported outcomes (pain, joint stiffness, disability, quality
      of life, disease knowledge, self-efficacy, depression, and fatigue), A2) physical activity
      levels, and A3) functional outcomes with those that have access (PARx and JM) and those that
      do not have access (usual care) to the technology. Determine A4) participant and physician
      experiences.

      HYPOTHESES:

      We hypothesize that access to technology-facilitated physical activity prescription (PARx)
      and access to the web-based platform (JM) will H1) improve patient reported outcomes (pain,
      joint stiffness, disability, quality of life, disease knowledge, self-efficacy, depression,
      and fatigue), H2) increase PA levels, and H3) improve functional outcomes in individuals with
      mild to moderate hip or knee OA compared to usual care. We hypothesize that access to JM will
      result in a greater improvement than PARx alone.
    
  