
    
      The specific aims of the study aree:

        1. To collect complete environmental, developmental, clinical, neuropsychological, and
           genetic data of 350 probands with autism (800 in total, 450 from [96HD008]) and their
           families;

        2. To re-sequence promoter region, all the exons, and the 3'UTR region of the DLGAP2, CLN8,
           ARHGEF10, FBXO25, and GABRB3 genes (one gene per year);

        3. To conduct fine-mapping and replication studies for selected candidate genes from GWA
           study[96HD008];

        4. To validate social impairment and speech delay as intermediate phenotypes and the
           executive functions as effective cognitive endophenotypes by first demonstrating the
           differences in these measures among probands, their unaffected siblings and
           neurotypicals, followed by different genetic risks (e.g., neurexin, neuroligin, CNTNAP2,
           SHANK3, MET, PTEN, WNT2, FOXP2, DLGAP2, CLN8, ARHGEF10, FBXO25, and GABRB3);

        5. To validate the structural and functional connectivity as effective imaging
           endophenotypes by demonstrating the differences between probands with autism, their
           siblings, and matched neurotypicals; and

        6. To characterize the phenotypes of and to explore the possible function of other
           autism-related genes found by using GWAS, and to explore the possible drug targets for
           the treatment for Dlgap2, Fbxo25, and Arhgef10 mutant mice.

      The investigators will recruit 350 probands with clinical diagnosis of autism confirmed by
      the ADI-R and ADOS, and their families. The probands and their siblings will also be assessed
      for other psychiatric disorders (K-SADS-E); autistic symptom dimensions (SRS, SCQ, CAST,
      ABC), other behavioral symptoms (CBCL, SNAP-IV), and perinatal/environmental risk factors.
      The direct tests include intelligence (CPM/SPM, WISC-III, WPPSI-R) and neuropsychological
      tests (CPT, WCST, CANTAB). The parents will be assessed for DSM-IV psychiatric disorders
      (ASRI-4) and autistic features (AQ, SRS). The investigators will collect blood samples from
      all the subjects. Probands with previous CNVs findings (n = 20) and high-functioning autism
      (n=30) will receive the MRI assessments (Diffusion Spectrum Imaging, resting-state fMRI) as
      compared to 50 age-, sex-, and handedness-matched neurotypicals.

      The investigators will (1) characterize the behavioral, structural, electrophysiological and
      biochemical phenotypes of Dlgap2, and Arhgef10 mice at 4 weeks, 8 weeks, 12 weeks and 16
      weeks of ages; (2) explore the possible function of other autism-related genes found by GWAS
      analysis; and (3) explore the possible drug targets for the treatment of autism from KO mice.
      While the potential target is recognized, existing compounds of this target can be tested.

      The investigators anticipate to establishing a representative cohort of 800 patients with
      autism and their families from this study and [96HD008] with comprehensive clinical and
      genetic data. This well-characterized cohort will contribute to validation of intermediate
      phenotypes and cognitive and imaging endophenotypes for autism in this study, and will be
      used to search for rare variants by CNVs analysis and common variants by GWAS analysis in
      future study, and will pave the way to have 2-3 lines of well-characterized transgenic animal
      models of autism (e.g., Dlgap2). In addition, a wealth of data from this cohort will benefit
      to current and future investigation on autism and will be the basis for future international
      collaboration. The investigators also anticipated to publication of 20 SCI papers (4 per
      year) and presentation of our work in peer-reviewed scientific conferences by more than 40
      posters or oral communications.
    
  