
    
      Screen potential HFpEF patients for eligibility criteria and interest

      Study Visit 1

      • Initiate consent process and obtain written informed consent.

        -  Confirm with the participant that HF symptoms are the primary limitation to activity. If
           so, they proceed to CPET screening. If not, they are considered a screen fail.

        -  Obtain baseline bloods *- CBC, complete chemistry panel, biomarkers, biorepository and
           genetics (if agreed to participate) .

        -  Obtain CPET to verify patient eligibility peak VO2 ≤ 75% predicted and RER ≥ 1.0 (within
           3 days prior to randomization) and establish baseline value.

        -  Qualifying patients perform additional baseline studies: history, assess NYHA class,
           physical exam, ECG, and KCCQ.

        -  Open label, single-dose run-in where patient receives maximal dose (80 mg) inhaled
           inorganic nitrite. Patients who do not tolerate the run-in are considered screen
           failures.

        -  Randomize qualifying patients.

        -  Dispense phase-1 study drug, nebulizers and accelerometers

        -  Participants take no study drug for two weeks (baseline).

        -  Participants take 46 mg study drug at a minimum of 4 hours apart, 3 times a day, during
           active part of the day for 7 days.

        -  Participants take 80 mg study drug at a minimum of 4 hours apart, 3 times a day, during
           active part of the day until returning for study visit 2 (at least 42 days but up to 49
           days post-baseline visit).

        -  If side effects develop, participants can down-titrate to the previous dose.

        -  Participants are called frequently to reinforce study procedures and assess compliance.

      Study Visit 2 (42-49 Days Post Study Visit 1)

      • Participant holds study drug on day of visit.

        -  Review history, assess NYHA class, perform physical exam and KCCQ.

        -  Obtain blood draws ** - CBC, complete chemistry panel, biomarkers, biorepository (if
           agreed to participate).

        -  Obtain limited echocardiogram **.

        -  Perform CPET with Study Drug administered immediately before starting the CPET (primary
           endpoint).

        -  Change out accelerometer and dispense phase-2 study drug.

        -  Participants take no study drug for two weeks (washout).

        -  Participants take 46 mg study drug at a minimum of 4 hours apart, 3 times a day, during
           active part of the day for 7 days.

        -  Participants take 80 mg study drug at a minimum of 4 hours apart, 3 times a day, during
           active part of the day until returning for study visit 3 (at least 42 but up to 49 days
           after study visit 2).

        -  If side effects develop Participants can down-titrate to the previously tolerated dose.

        -  Participants are called frequently to reinforce study procedures and assess compliance.

      Study Visit 3 (42-49 Days Post Study Visit 2) • Participant holds study drug on day of visit.

      • Review history, assess NYHA class, perform physical exam and KCCQ

        -  Obtain blood draws** - CBC, complete chemistry panel, biomarkers, biorepository (if
           agreed to participate).

        -  Obtain limited echocardiogram**.

        -  Perform CPET with Study Drug administered immediately before starting the CPET (primary
           endpoint).

        -  Return accelerometer and phase-2 study drug.

        -  End of study drug (phase out).

      Phone Visit and End of Study (14 Days Post Study Visit 3)

      • A final phone visit is conducted to assess for adverse events.

      *Visit 1: baseline blood draw needs to be completed prior to the CPET (if this is not
      feasible, then they cannot be obtained for at least 3 hours post the CPET and prior to the
      run-in test dose).

      **Visit 2 and Visit 3: blood draws and limited echo need to be obtained prior to study drug
      administration (if this is not feasible, then it cannot be obtained for at least 3 hours post
      study drug administration)
    
  