
    
      Spasticity is a sensory motor disturbance as a result of a damage in the upper motoneuron,
      showing as an involuntary, intermittent and sustained activation of muscles. It is the most
      common feature after stroke, which most affects motor and functional recovery.

      Spasticity prevalence runs from 25% to 46% after the first six months post-stroke, and it is
      estimated that 16% will require treatment.

      Spasticity has neural (increased reflex activity) and biomechanical (altered viscoelastic
      properties due to immobilization) components. The initial paralysis after stroke modifies the
      bio mechanical properties of the muscle, thus shortening its fibers and causing an increase
      of velocity-dependent reflexes in the affected area. Spasticity manifests with paresis,
      increased muscle tone, muscular hyperactivity, decreased range of movement and pain.

      Gait disorder is one of the main physical limitations in stroke survivors and an important
      target for stroke rehabilitation, since physiotherapy treatments of spasticity aim to
      decrease excessive muscular tone, ease mobility, give the patient the sense of right position
      and avoid joint limitations.

      Functional Massage (F.M) is a non-invasive manual therapy technique that combines rhythmical
      passive mobilizations of the joints with gentle massage and compression of the muscles to be
      treated. As massage therapy is effective to improve spastic muscles and gross motor
      functions, F.M may be appropriate in treating post stroke spasticity and gait function. No
      studies were found on its effectiveness in patients with post-stroke spasticity.

      Capacitive Resistive electric transfer therapy (CRet) is a non-invasive diathermy technique
      that, providing high frequency energy (300KHz-1.2MHz),generates a thermal effect on soft
      tissues. CRet is used to facilitate tissue regeneration, and it does not need a
      surface-cooling system as its wave frequency is lower than in conservative diathermy. Its
      effectiveness has been evaluated in several studies related to musculoskeletal disorders,
      where an increase in temperature is needed in deep tissues in order to generate changes on
      its viscoelasticity.

      This effect may be beneficial in the spasticity treatment since spasticity onset and
      development may be affected by structural changes in muscular and tendinous fibers, as well
      as in its intra and extracellular components.

      No studies on the effects of CRet in post-stroke spasticity treatment were found.
    
  