
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. The rate of the pathologic complete response (pCR) (i.e. no evidence of residual tumor) as
      assessed on prostatectomy specimens following 3-months (12 weeks) of neoadjuvant apalutamide,
      abiraterone acetate, degarelix and indomethacin.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the negative margin rate as assessed on prostatectomy specimens following
      3-months (12 weeks) of neoadjuvant apalutamide, abiraterone acetate, degarelix and
      indomethacin.

      II. To determine the rate of near pCR (i.e. =< 5 mm of residual tumor) as assessed on
      prostatectomy specimens following 3-months (12 weeks) of neoadjuvant apalutamide, abiraterone
      acetate, degarelix and indomethacin.

      III. To determine the rate of pathologic T3 disease as assessed on prostatectomy specimens
      following 3-months (12 weeks) of neoadjuvant apalutamide, abiraterone acetate, degarelix and
      indomethacin.

      IV. To determine the rate of nodal metastases as assessed on surgical lymph node specimens
      following 3-months (12 weeks) of neoadjuvant apalutamide, abiraterone acetate, degarelix and
      indomethacin.

      V. To determine the apoptotic index (i.e. percentage of tumor cells undergoing apoptosis) as
      determined by cleaved caspase-3 immunohistochemistry following 3-months (12 weeks) of
      neoadjuvant apalutamide, abiraterone acetate, degarelix and indomethacin.

      VI. To determine the proportion of men who receive adjuvant radiation therapy within 1-year
      of prostatectomy.

      VII. To determine the biochemical (i.e. prostate-specific antigen [PSA]) progression free
      survival estimate two years after the last patient has accrued (i.e. confirmed PSA
      post-radical prostatectomy >= 0.2 ng/mL).

      VIII. To determine the overall survival estimate two years after the last patient has
      accrued.

      IX. Safety as assessed by the incidence and severity of adverse events and serious adverse
      events graded according to the National Cancer Institute - Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0.

      X. Exploratory biomarker assessment.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive apalutamide and abiraterone acetate orally (PO) daily, prednisone PO twice
      per day (BID) and indomethacin PO three times per day (TID). Patients also receive degarelix
      subcutaneously (SC) on day 1 and every 4 weeks for 3 doses. Treatment continues for up to 12
      weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo
      prostatectomy on day 85.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 28, 113, 450 and 815 days.
    
  