
    
      Individual evaluation in the field of health; is very important because it sets out the steps
      necessary for defining and improving the current situation. Evaluation of muscular strength
      is a key factor in sports to improve performance and determine the risk of injury. Thus, the
      training and training process that will optimize the performance of the athlete can be
      planned and necessary steps can be taken to prevent injuries. There are many methods to
      determine muscle strength, manual muscle testing and isokinetic evaluation are the most
      frequently used methods. Isokinetic evaluation provides the ability to objectively measure
      dynamic force. Potential injuries are avoided by providing effective and optimal loading of
      joints and muscles throughout the range of motion. With isokinetic dynamometry, it can
      measure and amplify at high speed with maximal contraction using muscle function at full
      speed over the entire range of motion. With this method, it is possible to assess the
      strength of the muscles of the joint movements in the agonist (the group performing the
      movement as a primer) and the antagonist (the muscle group controlling the movement in the
      movement) during all reciprocal movements. One of the most important values of this
      evaluation is the peak torque, the maximum force. The peak torque value is influenced by many
      internal factors such as the environmental factors, the adaptation of the isokinetic
      instrument to the person, as well as the internal factors of the person being assessed. One
      of the most important of the effective factors is to determine the appropriate number of
      repetitions. Isokinetic dynamometers offer the possibility to make various adjustments such
      as angular velocity, number of repetitions, the range of motion, the current state of the
      person. Therefore, the evaluator can determine the number of repetitions itself. Sufficient
      repeatability is required to allow the individual to create maximum force. However, too much
      repetition can cause fatigue in the individual as well as an additional workload in terms of
      time. There are many studies in the literature carried out with different repeat numbers at
      different angular velocities. The studies include protocols ranging from five repetitions to
      twenty repetitions with very different repeat numbers. Five repetitions may not be sufficient
      for the peak torque to appear, but twenty repetitions cause fatigue in the athlete and lead
      to loss of time. There is no standardized repeat number for isokinetic knee evaluation in the
      literature. The lack of consensus on the number of repetitions hampers the interpretation of
      the works. In our work, it will be determined how many times the athletes reached peak torque
      values. This will prevent future studies from carrying out an incorrect measurement without
      reaching the maximum peak force with a low number of repetitions, or having too many
      repetitions to include tougher, longer evaluations. Standardization of repeat numbers will
      make evaluation easier and more meaningful if it increases the objectivity of evaluation.
    
  