
    
      In the last years magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as well as positron emission tomography
      (PET) of the prostate have emerged as promising imaging tools. MRI provides mainly
      morphologic information and, to an increasing degree, functional information on the tumor
      microenvironment by using multiparametric approaches leading to an increase in diagnostic
      accuracy. Transition and periurethral zone cancers and the identification of patients'
      individual risk (e.g. for the development of a metastatic disease after primary treatment) is
      still a limitation of this method. PET, concerning radiolabelled choline, provides functional
      and predicting data on tumor metabolism and aggressiveness and has been found to be of
      complimentary value to morphologic imaging but still with the caveat of false positive and
      false negative findings. To overcome these limitations of morphological and functional
      imaging techniques, hybrid imaging systems have been developed and introduced into clinical
      routine. Additionally, the recently developed 68Ga-labeled Prostate Specific Membrane Antigen
      (PSMA) provides a highly specific information on a possible metastatic spread of prostate
      cancer. Thus the combined use of PET-MRI has wide spread applications in prostate cancer
      diagnosis, staging and treatment planning.

      The potentials of this novel technique in general and its impact on assessing patients'
      individual risk to support a therapy or active surveillance decision in a future modified
      urological patient management were not yet explored in detail, but an initial prospective
      clinical trial in 38 patients with a sequential PET/MRI technique demonstrated the ability of
      a significant improvement of the individual methods. This registered prospective, randomized
      clinical trial is intended to proof, in a first step, the superiority of PET/MRI vs. the
      actual clinical standard procedures by applying a stable multiparametric metabolic hybrid
      imaging protocol. The aim of this study is to reduce the number of unnecessary invasive
      procedures to a minimum (image guided biopsy) and to enable superior image guided risk
      stratification.

      In this prospective, randomized, multi-arm, multi-treatment clinical trial 220 subjects will
      be included at 1 site within 3 years. With a maximum follow-up for an early biochemical
      relapse of 2 years the planned duration should not exceed 5 years. The primary objective will
      be answered after 36 months.
    
  