
    
      1. PURPOSE The purpose of the pilot study is to assess feasibility of a novel device
           (Canary 01 Mobile Vital Signs Monitoring Device) in individuals who inject opioids and
           in hospital inpatients who are on high-dose oral opioid medications. The primary
           objectives are to evaluate if the device can reliably and comfortably be worn for an
           extended duration of time following opioid consumption and can accurately monitor
           changes in vital signs (electrocardiogram (ECG), heart rate, respiratory rate) in this
           clinical population and setting. A secondary purpose of the study is to enrich our
           understanding of changes in vital signs that occur post-opioid-consumption. The
           long-term goal of the study is to create a device that will allow clinicians and
           patients to detect adverse effects of opioid consumption early (i.e. respiratory
           depression), so that appropriate treatment interventions can be delivered to prevent
           overdose-related morbidity and mortality.

        2. HYPOTHESES The team hypothesizes that the Canary 01 Mobile Vital Signs Monitoring Device
           will prove to be a feasible and reliable device for monitoring vital signs before and
           after consumption of opioids, among individuals who inject opioids and among individuals
           who are on high doses of opioid medication.

        3. JUSTIFICATION Opioid medications are key agents for treating acute pain, cancer pain,
           and are deemed to be essential medicines for pain care by the World Health Organization.
           However, opioid medications have a serious side effect profile including contributing to
           delirium, oversedation and respiratory depression in the event of overdose. Between 2005
           and 2009, there were 815 deaths related to fentanyl, hydromorphone, morphine and
           oxycodone in British Columbia. Opioid overdose is now the second leading cause of
           accidental death in the United States.

           In addition to adverse events, opioids are known to be highly addictive. In Canada,
           there were an estimated 75,000-125,000 injection drug users (the vast majority of them
           who injected opioids) as well as approximately 200,000 people with prescription opioid
           dependence, as of 2012.

           Knowledge gained in this innovative pilot study will inform development of a mobile
           monitoring device designed to alert clinicians of cardiopulmonary changes indicating
           opioid overdose in patients, allowing for rapid detection, intervention and
           administration of potentially life-saving treatment. Ultimately, clinical implementation
           of this device could lead to a reduction in the substantial morbidity and mortality
           attributable to opioid-related overdoses.

           In addition, through fulfillment of our secondary objective, this feasibility study will
           contribute new knowledge regarding changes in cardiopulmonary status associated with use
           of high opioid doses.

        4. OBJECTIVES

      Primary Objective To determine whether a mobile monitoring system for specific vital signs
      (e.g., heart rate and respiratory rate) can be used successfully in the monitoring of opioid
      dependent individuals.

      Specifically, the study team will examine:

        1. Participant compliance;

        2. Feasibility of specific vital sign data collection, storage, and analysis for
           participant status assessment; and

        3. Clinical utility and overall participant and provider acceptability of mobile monitoring
           devices

      Secondary Objective To document and characterize changes in cardiopulmonary status associated
      with opioid consumption.

      5) RESEARCH METHOD The MOVE study is a single site, three-week feasibility study of
      individuals who report ongoing/current injection opioid use. Potential study participants
      will be recruited from the Providence Crosstown Clinic and St. Paul's Hospital. The target
      enrolment goal is 25.

      At the study recruitment sites, potential study candidates will be invited to participate,
      provide informed consent and complete the Screening Visit (Visit 1) in order to assess
      eligibility.

      Once found to be eligible, individuals recruited at the Crosstown Clinic will complete all
      other study visits (Visits 2, 3 & 4) at Crosstown Clinic. At Crosstown Clinic, individuals
      receive managed treatment for opioid dependence with known quantities of drug (e.g.
      diacetylmorphine, hydromorphone). The clinic is staffed with clinicians who are trained and
      equipped to deal with any potential opioid overdoses. For hospital inpatients recruited at
      St. Paul's Hospital, all study visits will occur in hospital.

      All participants will be monitored on three separate study visits. At the start of each
      session and prior to opioid consumption, the study coordinator will assist with placement of
      two mobile monitoring devices on the study participant to measure specific vital signs:

        -  Heart rate and ECG monitor: Heart rate and ECG data will be collected with a compact,
           wireless device with 3 leads that are placed on the participant's chest. The leads are
           connected to a processor/battery pack unit, approximately the size of a bar of soap.

        -  Respiratory rate will be collected using Respiratory Inductance Plethysmography (RIP)
           belts, fastened around the participant's abdomen.

        -  Activity monitoring: An Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) (gyro) is incorporated within
           the device to measure the participant's activity.

      At Crosstown Clinic, the participant will receive their managed treatment via self-injection
      and will be monitored for a total duration of 120 minutes in a clinic room/post-treatment
      room.

      At St. Paul's Hospital, the participant will be administered their dose of oral opioid
      medications and will be monitored for a duration of 120 minutes ideally at their bedside in
      their hospital room and always within their hospital ward.

      Monitoring devices will be worn for a total duration of 120 minutes. The study coordinator
      will remain with the participant throughout the observation period. In addition to vital
      signs data, the study coordinator will complete a activity log documenting all activities
      that occur during the time that the monitor is in place. In addition any, and all medical
      treatments and/or interventions administered during this time will be recorded by members of
      the study team.

      Data from the mobile monitors will be transmitted via Bluetooth to a smart phone, and then
      securely transmitted to the study database. Transmitted data will be coded with the
      participant's study identification code only and will not contain any protected health
      information and will not be utilized for any clinical decision-making.

      It is important to highlight that data collected from the mobile monitoring device will
      solely be used for research and will not serve any clinical decision-making purpose.

      All participants will be discharged from the study at Visit 4. Participants will be offered
      addiction treatment referrals if requested.

      Safety data will be collected up to 30 days following the last study visit and follow-up of
      any serious adverse events will continue until resolution.

      THE MOBILE VITAL SIGNS MONITORING DEVICE

      The prototype has several main components, including several commercially available sensors
      to measure heart rate, respiration, and motion data, an enclosed case containing circuitry
      for processing and transmitting data, and a mobile phone/system interface to store and
      transmit data.

      Data is collected from respiratory bands, ECG electrodes, and an accelerometer. The safety of
      individual sensor components has been evaluated previously by respective manufacturers and
      all are currently available for commercial purposes. Two respiratory bands, worn on the
      thorax and abdomen, will measure patterns and changes in participant breathing patterns.
      Although not yet implemented, outputs such as breaths per minute could be extracted from the
      data file by using peak finding or frequency analysis software in future. Four ECG electrodes
      placed on the participant's thorax and abdomen will record analog voltage changes that
      correspond to the electrical potential difference that occur during the cardiac cycle (i.e.
      heartbeat). The electrodes are configured in a 3-lead setup, with three signal electrodes and
      a driven electrode. In the unlikely event that the device malfunctions, Analog Devices ECG
      chips with a current-limiting protection circuit have been used to optimize participant
      safety, as per manufacturer specifications. The 3-axis analog accelerometer is sampled at 10
      Hz, and used to denote activity and motion artefacts that may influence ECG and respiratory
      data.

      These sensors are attached to a custom printed circuit board (PCB) and a Bluetooth module
      inside a 3D printed case. The PCB holds two microprocessors needed for the system: the
      PIC16LF1618 and the Broadcom Wireless Internet Connectivity for Embedded Devices (WICED)
      Smart. The WICED Smart communicates sensor data to the mobile phone using Bluetooth Low
      Energy (BLE). The case holds the circuit boards and a 3.7 V lithium-ion battery; the circuit
      boards are screwed into a separate compartment inaccessible to patients.

      The circuit board processes and sends the data to a phone application. Data is then
      transferred wirelessly to a Standardized Query Language (SQL) database. Within this database,
      each data point is associated with a timestamp and patient Identification (ID), allowing for
      multiple patients' data to be stored in the same SQL database. Finally, the battery included
      in the case has been tested to last for two days of continuous use.

      6) STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      Descriptive statistics, including the mean, standard deviation, median and 95% confidence
      intervals of the mean for continuous variables, and frequency distribution for categorical
      variables will be produced for participant demographics and baseline characteristics.

      STATISTICAL METHODS FOR PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOMES

      As this is a feasibility study, more complex statistical analyses are not planned.

      EXPLORATORY ANALYSES

      Biometric data collected before and after opioid consumption will be compiled and used to
      construct preliminary simulation models of average changes in heart rate and respiratory rate
      following consumption of high dose opioids. Ultimately, the goal of these modeling exercises
      will be to develop a clinical algorithm to be used with the mobile signs monitoring device to
      determine thresholds of risk and levels of therapeutic intervention required at each
      threshold.
    
  