
    
      Onychomycosis is the most common cause of nail deformities resulting with more than 50% of
      the patients with abnormal nails. From the institution of dermatology of Thailand, it
      confirmed that 1.7% of Thai population have onychomycosis. Most of the patients aged between
      40-60 years old with female predominated. The common cause of onychomycosis worldwide is
      dermatophyte group, found in more than 50% of the patients. However, in Thailand, the study
      showed that 51.6% of patients with onychomycosis were infected by non-dermatophyte group
      especially Neoscytalidium spp.

      The goal standard treatment for onychomycosis was oral anti-fungal drugs such as Fluconazole,
      Itraconazole and Terbinafine. But many patients were limited to the oral medications due to
      drug interaction between other CYP P2C9 inhibition such as statins, causing the risk of
      rhabdomyolysis and hepatotoxicity. Even though these medications are effective against
      dermatophytes. The non-dermatophytes which were the leading pathogens for onychomycosis in
      Thailand tends to be resistant to the oral medications. Therefore topical and other
      modalities have become an important role for treating those non-dermatophytes onychomycosis
      such as topical anti-fungals, topical urea cream and laser treatment. So far, no standard
      treatment has been made in order to treat the non-dermatophyte onychomycosis causing problems
      to both patients and physicians in Thailand.

      Amorolfine is a morpholine derivative used in topical anti-fungal that inhibits the
      biosynthesis of the fungal cell membrane and showed fungicidal activities. From the previous
      study, amorolfine is an effective topical treatment against non-dermatophyte onychomycosis
      with 52-55% mycological cure rate and the clinical cure rate varied from 12.7%-54% depending
      on the studies. The side effects were minimal and the application was simple to use. So
      amorolfine is used as a first line treatment for non-dermatophyte onychomycosis in our
      practice. However, with the long treatment (from 6 months up to 1 year) and the low
      mycological cure rate newer modality had been studied to deal with this problematic
      pathogens.

      Long-pulsed Nd:YAG laser had been used to treat onychomycosis with a promising result. In
      2013, Kostas Kalokasidis used long-pulsed Nd:YAG for the onychomycosis and showed a 94.5%
      mycological cure rate with no relapse of the disease within 3 months. Later on, Rungsima
      Wanitphakdeedecha M.D. tried the long-pulsed Nd:YAG to treat onychomycosis and found the
      significant result that long-pulsed Nd:YAG can cure up to 95.42% onychomycosis from
      non-dermatophyte group. But the protocol was performed the laser treatment every 2 weeks for
      1 month which made it difficult for the patient to come to the hospital, moreover the
      duration to treat onychomycosis might needed to be longer.

      So the investigators came up with this study to compare the efficacy of long-pulsed Nd:YAG
      with 4-week intervals to the amorolfine and the combination of both Nd:YAG and amorolfine to
      see the mycological result and also the clinical improvement.

      The treatment and KOH examination and fungal culture will be performed every month for 4
      months, and then the follow up will be at 6 months after the first treatment
    
  