
    
      The main study is a single-center, randomized, cross-over, 4-arm, dose-response, single-
      blinded, 6-hour postprandial study to evaluate the ability of strawberry powder to block
      meal-induced oxidative stress and inflammation and concomitantly improve postprandial insulin
      sensitivity and glucose handling.

      A planned sample size of 45 will be recruited into the study. Thirty subjects for the main
      study and 15 subjects for the complement study. Subjects can participate in both studies and
      if subjects participate in both studies, there will be a time gap between the main study and
      the complement study due to the volume of blood permitted to collect within 56 days.

      The complement study will be a 2-arm placebo controlled study following the exact same
      protocol as the main study, but using only one strawberry dose (Dose 3 as in the main study)
      and comparing the effects relative to a placebo that does not control for fiber.

      The main study will take 5- 6 weeks per subject to complete and the complement study will
      take 1-2 weeks per subject to complete, depending on subject's schedule.

      The procedures conducted at the screening visit include blood sampling by finger prick for a
      fasting blood sugar test and anthropometric measurements (height, weight, and waist
      circumference), vital sign measurements (blood pressure and heart rate) and completion of a
      series of questionnaires relating to volunteers' general health and eating habits. Volunteers
      may be asked to complete an oral glucose/sugar tolerance test (OGTT) at screening. Volunteers
      will be exempt from the OGTT procedure if other qualifying conditions are present. Briefly,
      subjects undergoing OGTT will be asked to drink a glucose drink (similar in taste to
      kool-aid) in the morning after a 10 hour fast. Blood glucose finger pricks will then be done
      at 1 hour and 2 hours for determination of glucose tolerance. If the OGTT is necessary,
      additional compensation will be provided.

      If qualified, subjects will undergo a 7-day pre-study period during which they will be asked
      to record their usual diet intake for 3 days, including 2 weekdays and 1 weekend day, EITHER
      followed by randomization into 1 of 4 treatment beverage sequences for the main study:
      Placebo (Pbo), Strawberry Dose 1, Strawberry Dose 2 and Strawberry Dose 3, OR followed by
      randomization into 1 of 2 treatment (Placebo without fiber and Strawberry Dose 3) beverage
      sequences for the complement study.

      We expect it to be very difficult to eliminate or severely restrict polyphenolic diet during
      the entire study period, therefore subjects will be asked to limit only berry product intake
      during the study period. However, subjects will be asked to limit all polyphenolic foods in
      their diet for 3 days prior to each study visit.

      All subjects will consume the standard high fat/ carbohydrate meal (known to induce
      oxidative- and inflammatory- stress) accompanied by 1 of 4 test beverages (whole milk shake
      with or without strawberry powder) on four separate occasions for the main study OR 1 of 2
      test beverages on two separate occasions for the complement study, so that each subject will
      serve as their own control.

      Subjects will arrive at the study visits fasted for at least 10 hours, well hydrated and
      rested. Each study visit will require blood draws throughout the visit. After pre-study
      procedures (height, weight, waist circumference, blood pressure, blood glucose finger prick)
      and while fasting, a registered nurse (RN) will place a catheter (flexible tubing) in
      subjects' arm for the purpose of drawing blood. This catheter will remain only throughout the
      study day. Approximately 1 tablespoon of blood will be taken at this time. The test meal and
      strawberry shake will be served and thereafter subjects will have blood draws (1 T each time)
      at designated time points for the next 6 hours. Each visit will last approximately 7 hours
      and subjects will be required to remain at the Clinical Nutrition Research Center on the IIT
      Campus for the duration of the visit. Blood samples will be collected at designated time
      points during the postprandial period for analysis of metabolic (insulin and glucose
      homeostasis), oxidative and inflammatory endpoint markers.
    
  