
    
      Specific Aims

      Specific aim 1 Compare time to progression (TTP) treated with TAE and DEB-TACE in a
      homogeneous hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patient population

      Specific aim 2 Compare

        -  safety - severe adverse events (SAE)

        -  radiologic tumor response (mRECIST)

        -  overall survival (OS)

        -  cost-effectiveness after the entire follow-up

      Study plan

      Experimental design This is an interventional with drug, multicenter, prospective, randomized
      open label study.

      Experimental design Aim 1 The study was designed, in relation to the primary endpoint, as an
      equivalence trial between two intra-arterial HCC treatments, i.e. DEB-TACE and TAE. The TTP
      considered as the reference value for the DEB-TACE arm is 9 months, on the basis of the
      results of our previous multicentric experience. The study is designed as an equivalence
      trial on the primary endpoint. The standard deviation of TTP is expected not to exceed 6
      months, through accurate selection criteria of included patients. The equivalence limit is
      set to no more than 5 months between the two arms. Thus, using appropriate formulae each arm
      will be formed by 69 patients (alpha:0.05; beta:0.80). Taking into account a 10% of drop-out,
      the final sample size per each arm will be of 77 patients (154 total).

      Experimental design Aim 2

        -  Safety. Adverse events (AEs) and severe adverse events (SAEs) will be monitored and
           recorded. AE will be assessed during and after each treatment and at all follow-up
           visits and graded according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for AE (CTCAE)
           version 3.0. The AEs occurring within 4 weeks after TACE will be considered as treatment
           related. SAE incidence in both arms will be ascertained assuming a reduction of SAE from
           25% after TACE to 19% after TAE (25% of reduction). Such an assumption would require 607
           patients per arm for being confirmed. To accomplish this task, the O'Brien-Fleming
           stopping boundaries will be applied considering an analysis when 69 patients for each
           arm will be obtained and follow-up ended. Applying stopping boundaries to this sample
           size, a nominal p-value <0.001 (z-score: 3.15) is needed to confirm the assumption. If
           the p-value will be above this threshold (even if <0.05) the null hypothesis will be not
           refused.

        -  Efficacy. The response will be evaluated by CT or MRI as local (per-lesion) response and
           overall (per-patient) response, according to mRECIST, at 1 month after each TACE and,
           thereafter, every 3 months, for at least 2 years.

        -  Survival. Through the selection previously described, we expected a standard deviation
           of the mean survival of no more than 10 months. To design the present equivalence trial
           we also expected a difference in the mean survival not greater than 5 months
           (equivalence limit) between the two groups. Using formulas proposed by Julious et al.,
           each arm will be formed by 69 patients (alpha: 0.05; beta: 0.80). To obtain more robust
           estimate and accounting for possible dropout from the study a 10% of patients will be
           added to the initial sample size, resulting in 77 patients for each arm.

        -  Cost-effectiveness will be assessed from a third payer perspective, thus, including only
           direct costs of the procedures and related costs (hospitalization, imaging, etc.). The
           effectiveness will be assessed by measuring the life-expectancy. Incremental
           cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) will be used to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of one
           treatment over the counterpart.

      Study population The study involves the enrollment of a total of 154 patients, 77 per
      randomization arm, with a HCC diagnosis, according to the guidelines of the American
      Association for the Study of the Liver Disease (AASLD), as in clinical practice. The enrolled
      patients will have to meet the inclusion criteria and sign the informed consent for the
      participation in this study. At the time of enrollment, demographic, clinical and
      radiological data will be collected, as in standard clinical practice.

      Treatment

      Treatment study In the present study, only patients in the DEB-TACE arm (Arm A) will receive
      intra-arterial hepatic chemotherapy (Doxorubicin). Both treatment arms, on the other hand,
      will receive arterial embolization of the branches that vascularize the tumor lesions.

      Arm A: DEB-TACE or chemoembolization with microspheres. The chemotherapy used in this arm is
      the Doxorubicin that will be carried into the tumor by Embozene TANDEM® (Boston Scientific)
      microspheres. TANDEM® embozene microspheres are made of non-resorbable, biocompatible,
      hydrogel microspheres, subjected to precision calibration and coated with an inorganic
      perfluorate polymer (Polyzene®-F). Thanks to their design, the microspheres can be loaded
      with drugs, such as doxorubicin, in order to administer a local, controlled and constant dose
      of the drug to the tumor sites affected after embolization.

      TANDEM® embozene microspheres are available in three different sizes, in 2 ml and 3 ml
      volumes of product and are supplied in preloaded vials and syringes.The maximum loadable
      amount on the hydrospheres 50 mg of Doxorubicina for ml. The maximum injectable dose of
      Doxorubicin for each treatment is 150 mg and therefore the maximum amount of microspheres
      that can be used for each treatment is 3 ml. The size of microspheres that will be used in
      this study is up to 100 ± 25 μm.

      Arm B: TAE or embolization with microspheres. The TAE will be performed with Embozene
      microspheres (Boston Scientific). Embozene microspheres are spherical particles of hydrogel,
      precisely calibrated, biocompatible, non-absorbable and coated with a perfluorinated
      inorganic polymer (Polyzene-F). This medical device is available in various sizes; in this
      study, to avoid that the particle size exceeds the one used for the treatment of arm A, it
      will be possible to use microspheres with dimensions up to 100 μm (range 75 ± 125 μm).

      Embozene microspheres are offered in vials containing 1 ml of suspended product in
      physiological saline solution for apyrogenic sterile transport. The total volume of the
      Embozene microspheres, including the transport solution, is about 7 ml. To this product it is
      necessary to add an appropriate amount of non-ionic contrast medium in order to obtain a
      homogeneous suspension and with good visibility during the injection under fluoroscopy.

      In enrolled patients, regardless of the treatment arm, the possible presence of extra-hepatic
      shunts, such as gastric and pulmonary arteries arising from the hepatic branches, should be
      appropriately assessed. As in standard radiological practice in case of intra-arterial
      hepatic treatments, if these shunts are macroscopically evident, the preventive closure of
      the same vessels will be evaluated, using the devices that will be more suitable on a
      case-by-case basis. If these shunts are not treatable by occlusive devices, the enrolled
      patient will not be treated in the clinical study and the patient will be considered as
      drop-out. Both treatments will be repeated "on demand" after demonstration to the imaging of
      the presence of vital tumor ie absence of complete response (complete response, CR) or in
      case of intrahepatic distal recurrence at follow-up.

      Safety assessment The evaluation of the safety of the experimental treatment will consist in
      the monitoring and recording of AEs and SAEs.
    
  