
    
      The lifetime risk for pelvic floor surgery for prolapse is likely to be between 10% and 15%,
      and a large number of patients who previously underwent hysterectomy develop vaginal vault
      prolapse. There is some evidence that about 2% of all women after hysterectomy would require
      a surgery for vault prolapse. There are many different techniques used for correction of
      vault prolapse but the evidence for them is lacking and the use is guided mainly by tradition
      at the singe institution.

      There is some evidence indicating that laparoscopic surgery can be superior to the vaginal
      approach. Symptoms of prolapse are significantly associated with avulsion injury in patients
      after hysterectomy.

      Our aim is to compare, with a 1- and 2-years follow-up examination in patients with
      post-hysterectomy prolapse, the efficacy of two standard surgical procedures for vaginal
      vault prolapse: sacrospinous vaginal colpopexy (the Richter procedure) with native tissue
      vaginal repair (sacrospinous fixation, SSF) and laparoscopic colposacropexy with mesh.

      This is a single-center, randomized controlled trial of two standard surgical procedures for
      vaginal vault prolapse routinely used at our institution.Both procedures are designed to
      treat vault prolapse, one with mesh implantation through laparoscopy and the other with
      vaginal repairs and apical fixation to the sacrospinous ligament, usually on the right.

      All patients referred to our gynecological unit (Ob/Gyn Department of Sahlgrenska University
      Hospital in Gothenburg) because of symptomatic vault prolapse and fulfilling the inclusions
      criteria are asked to participate in the study. Eligible for inclusion are: post-hysterectomy
      patients with at least two-compartment prolapse (with affected apical/vault compartment,
      stage II or higher on the Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantification system (POP-Q)), suffering
      from symptoms of prolapse, requesting pelvic floor reconstructive surgery, and diagnosed with
      a vault prolapse. Excluded are: patients with prolapse and uterus in place, those not
      requesting pelvic floor surgery, patients who do not understand Swedish or are not capable to
      fulfill follow up procedure.

      Patients undergo identical pre- and postoperative assessment procedures, including POP-Q
      examination on maximum Valsalva maneuver, which are archived on Case Report Form, and
      validated questionnaires PFDI-20, PFIQ-7 and PISQ-12. The study was approved by the regional
      ethics committee and all subjects obtain written informed consent to participate. To minimize
      the bias we decided that all the follow up examinations are going to be performed by the same
      gynecologist who do not perform the surgery.

      All patients can end participation in the study at any moment.

      The randomization process is carried out by computer, using patient social security number,
      at the time of enrollment (usually 2-3 months before the surgery). Patients are informed
      about their allocation after the randomization. Both procedures are performed by an
      experienced surgeon, with the patient under general anesthesia for the laparoscopic procedure
      and regional anesthesia for the sacrospinous fixation.

      Patients are followed up at 3 months,1 year and 2 years postoperatively. These postoperative
      clinical examinations are performed by a single examiner, who had not been involved in the
      surgical procedures. The vaginal descent was assessed at maximum Valsalva maneuver.

      In case of recurrence of prolapse and distressing symptoms which a patient desired to be
      resolved, a reoperation of prolapse is planned according to the clinical praxis at our
      department.

      The primary outcome measure was anatomical failure based on clinical assessment. Failure was
      defined clinically as Ba, C or Bp at the hymen or below, on maximum Valsalva maneuver.

      As secondary outcome measures we used a continence status, sexual function and prolapse
      symptoms based on validated questionnaires: Pelvic Floor Impact Questionnaire (PFIQ - 7),
      Pelvic Floor Distress Inventory Questionnaire - Short Form 20 (PFDI-20), Pelvic Organ
      Prolapse/Urinary Incontinence Sexual Questionnaire (PISQ-12) and quality of life based on
      Short Form (36) Health Survey.

      The power calculation was based on the primary outcome measure and available data which led
      us to expect a failure rate of 25% in the sacrospinous fixation group and 10% failure in
      laparoscopy group. To detect an expected difference of 15% between the groups, with 80% power
      of the test 70 patients are required in each group.
    
  