
    
      Efforts to contain rising costs for hospital acute care have resulted in shorter hospital
      stays for patients with acutely decompensated heart failure. These shorter stays may not
      allow for adequate diuresis, titration of oral medications, or for patients to receive the
      full benefit of intravenously (IV) administered medications. In addition to shorter stays
      when hospitalized, physicians are exploring ways to treat patients in the outpatient setting
      to avoid hospitalization. Although there is increasing interest among clinicians in the use
      of outpatient IV therapy for the treatment of advanced heart failure, there is no consensus
      among clinicians regarding patient selection, dosing, or treatment duration. The use of IV
      inotropic agents (drugs that influence and or affect muscle contractility) such as milrinone
      or dobutamine in this setting is controversial and may lead to increased mortality. Indeed,
      the ACC/AHA (American College of Cardiology and American Hospital Association) guidelines
      warn that long-term intermittent use of IV inotropes for treatment of left ventricular
      dysfunction is of "unproved value and not recommended." Yet, despite these guidelines,
      clinicians use inotropes in the outpatient setting because there is no currently approved
      alternative therapy. Thus, there is an unmet need for effective outpatient treatment of
      advanced chronic heart failure to improve quality of life and/or reduce the number of
      hospital admissions for heart failure.

      The data from previous studies suggest that doses of NATRECOR® hBNP may be a potent agent for
      the treatment of acute congestive heart failure (CHF) with a unique combination of desirable
      effects on the flow of blood throughout the body; the hormones secreted by the nervous system
      and support of copious salt outputs by the renal system not provided by currently available
      therapies. This study is a multicenter, open-label pilot study in which subjects who have
      received treatment for acutely decompensated CHF during a hospitalization at least twice
      within the previous 12 months are randomized (1:1:1) to one of three treatment groups. One
      treatment group will receive their usual long term cardiac medications, either with or
      without serial infusions of inotropes (various drugs that affect the strength of contractions
      of the heart muscle) and without nesiritide therapy. The 0.005 mcg/kg/min nesiritide
      treatment group receives a 0.5 mcg/kg bolus of nesiritide followed by a 0.0025 mcg/kg/min
      infusion, in addition to their usual long term cardiac medications, excluding IV inotropes;
      The 0.010 mcg/kg/min nesiritide treatment group receives a 1 mcg/kg bolus of nesiritide
      followed by a 0.005 mcg/kg infusion, in addition to their usual long term cardiac
      medications, excluding IV inotropes. Because patients treated in an outpatient setting may be
      less decompensated than patients with acutely decompensated heart failure, this study was
      designed to evaluate the 0.010 mcg/kg/min dose of nesiritide (the currently approved dose for
      acutely decompensated patients) as well as a lower dose (0.005 mcg/kg/min).

      The hypothesis is that as an adjunct therapy to oral medications, serial IV infusions of
      nesiritide may produce more rapid and sustained compensation of heart failure in patients
      with frequent episodes of decompensated heart failure. The 0.005 mcg/kg/min group receives a
      0.5 mcg/kg bolus followed by a 0.0025 mcg/kg/min infusion; the 0.010 mcg/kg/min group
      receives a 1 mcg/kg bolus followed by a 0.005 mcg/kg infusion. Intravenous bolus over 60
      seconds and a fixed rate infusion of 4 - 6 hours, at least once per week for 12 weeks.
    
  