
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Prediction of Coronary heart disease (CHD) events is based on conventional risk factors for
      atherosclerosis such as age, sex, blood pressure, diabetes, lipid levels, and smoking status.
      Because these risk factors are prevalent in much of the population, available risk prediction
      algorithms lack desired sensitivity and specificity. For instance, Cooper et al showed that
      the algorithms correctly predicted just ~11% of the CHD events occurring within 10 years.
      Thus, there is an urgent need to develop and validate new biomarkers for early detection of
      disease and more accurate risk stratification. According to the World Health Organization
      (WHO) estimates, cardiovascular disease will be the leading cause of morbidity and mortality
      by the year 2020. Developing countries including the Gulf States will be the major
      contributors to this increased death and disability. A recent report by McKinsey & Company
      forecast that the Gulf region will face an unparalleled and unprecedented rise in demand for
      health care over the course of the next two decades, with an estimated total health care
      spending of US$ 60 billion in 2025, up from US$ 12 billion today.

      Knowledge of novel genetic and proteomic markers will provide more precise estimates of risk
      while defining the pathways important in individual patients, revealing new targets for
      intervention, and ultimately enabling an individualized approach to care. A biorepository of
      Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), serum, and plasma samples will enable investigation of the
      pathogenesis of CHD in Qatari adults, and provide an invaluable resource for preventive
      cardiovascular research and development of biomarkers for early detection of CHD.

      SIGNIFICANCE Significant recent progress has been made in identifying genetic susceptibility
      variants as well as circulating proteomic markers of atherosclerotic vascular disease.
      However, the generalizability of these results to patients belonging to diverse ethnic groups
      is unclear. To translate recent advances in genomics and proteomics into clinical practice,
      these newly discovered biomarkers will need to be evaluated in patients of diverse ethnic
      groups with varying characteristics, environmental factors, and medication use. The
      investigators propose to establish a biorepository of plasma and DNA linked to demographic
      and clinical variables to facilitate biomarker studies of CHD risk, progression, and outcome.
      The overarching goal in developing the Qatar Cardiovascular Biorepository (QCBio) is to
      create a resource that fosters research aimed at identifying novel biochemical and genetic
      markers of CHD.

      RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS:

      The investigators are leveraging the following resources available for this proposal:

        1. The infrastructure and patient referral patterns of the cardiac catheterization
           laboratory at Hamad Hospital, Doha, Qatar, where several thousand patients are seen
           annually for coronary angiography and percutaneous coronary intervention;

        2. The Electronic Medical Record (EMR) at Hamad Hospital that includes risk factors, drug
           therapy, relevant laboratory data, and vital status; and

        3. A multidisciplinary investigative team with significant experience and expertise in
           biorepository science, including ethical, legal, and social implications (ELSI),
           laboratory information management systems, informatics, and mining of the EMR to
           annotate biospecimen with relevant clinical covariates.

      SPECIFIC AIMS AND OBJECTIVES:

        1. Establish a DNA and plasma biorepository (QCBio) of Qatari CHD cases and
           ethnicity-matched controls to enable investigation of genomic and proteomic biomarkers
           for early detection and prognostication as well as identification of new targets for
           drug development.

        2. Annotate the biorepository with a) demographic, laboratory, and clinical variables
           derived from the EMR using electronic phenotyping algorithms, and b) detailed
           information regarding history of cardiovascular diseases and risk factors derived from
           surveys of the study subjects.

        3. Develop processes to promote use of the biorepository by Qatari investigators by
           facilitating access to the biorepository for biomarker research, while maintaining the
           highest ethical standards with emphasis on patient confidentiality and stewardship of
           the biospecimens.

        4. Tracking Recruitment: A Patient Numbering Program (PNP) is being used to de-identify
           subjects enrolled in the study and track patient recruitment. The program contains
           demographic information and an assigned Personal Identification Number (PIN) for each
           participant.

      Consenting: Potential subjects are being identified by the study coordinators after review of
      catheterization laboratory (Cath lab) and blood bank schedules. The study coordinator is
      explaining the consent form and the study questionnaire to each participant. Wherever
      possible, the investigators are attempting to collect blood specimens in the fasting state
      before the receipt of any treatment and avoid the burden of additional venipuncture. For
      those eligible ones, the study coordinator will provide the details regarding the objectives
      of the study, risks and potential benefits from participation, the storage, future use and
      privacy of the samples. In addition, the study coordinator is informing the participants
      about the lack of immediate benefit for health and their right to withdrawal from the study
      any time after consenting.

      Collection and Processing of Blood Samples: Twenty-five milliliter of blood is being obtained
      at the time of a procedure in the Cath lab, during admission in the Coronary care unit (CCU)
      or at the time of the blood donation. Samples are collected from the special study area close
      to the Cath Lab/CCU and the Blood Bank, respectively. Blood is being drawn into the
      appropriate collection tubes, labeled with a hospital generated barcode Identification
      number, and sent to the Molecular Genetics laboratory.

      Freezer Monitoring: All freezer temperatures are being monitored round the clock by a
      combination of project management facilities and Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC) Security.

      Quality Assurance: Accurate sample handling is being achieved by adherence to Standard
      Operating Procedures (SOPs) by following general laboratory quality assurance and control
      standards.

      Specimen Tracking: Sample tracking will be accomplished by a Laboratory Information
      Management System (LIMS) program that is currently being used by the Lead PI's research
      group.

      Patient Confidentiality: The investigators will use informatics and data security features to
      maintain patient confidentiality. The Patient Numbering Program (PNP) will be used to
      de-identify patients enrolled in QCBio and to track patients after recruitment.

      Ethical, Legal, and Regulatory Issues in DNA Biorepositories: The consent form is including
      separate check-off boxes to seek permission for the collection of plasma and DNA use in
      studies of diverse diseases, and the transmittal of specimens to collaborating investigators.
      Banking of biospecimens raises new concerns regarding a patient's privacy and consent.

      Informatics: Informatics and data security are critical components to a biorepository and key
      to leveraging the power of biorepositories. QCBio will be linked to several databases.

      Study Questionnaire: The investigators are using a questionnaire to collect information
      regarding sociodemographic information, cardiovascular history, physical activity, lifestyle,
      past medical information and family history. Data will be extracted from the questionnaire by
      scanning or manual entry.

      Annotation of Specimens with Clinical Data: The investigators are using the Hamad hospital
      EMR viewer in addition to the laboratory databases to annotate the biorepository with
      relevant clinical variables.

      Ascertaining Risk Factors: The investigators are ascertaining conventional cardiovascular
      risk factors, including hypertension, diabetes, and dyslipidemia. The EMR and survey data
      will be used to establish presence of the following risk factors for atherosclerosis:
      smoking, diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and obesity. The investigators are using
      targeted manual review of paper records and EMR in tandem with access to electronic data sets
      for laboratory values, medications, and diagnosis codes.

      Biospecimen Management and Access to Biorepository: The investigators will develop protocols
      to enable investigators to leverage the datasets associated with specimens, ensure compliance
      with regulatory guidelines, encourage collaboration between Qatar, Gulf, and Mayo
      investigators, and improve research productivity. The investigators will provide a flexible,
      robust, secure, and validated information management workspace program to manage
      biospecimens. Banked specimens will be available for researchers whose protocols have been
      approved by the IRB and prioritized by the Scientific Review Panel.

      Tracking Specimen Use: To maximize the use of the biospecimens, the investigator will use
      LIMS to track all the specimens received by allotting unique identification for all input
      (sample tubes) and output (DNA/plasma/white cell) tubes and record the sample movement,
      processing, creation, and consumption. A designated computer analyst will maintain and manage
      the system.

      Access to Information: Only members of the research team will have access to the research
      data. Participants will be identified by code numbers only in the database and in
      transcripts; all data are tracked in databases by anonymous but linkable study numbers. No
      identifiable information will be released outside the study.

      Strategy for Project Continuation: The long-term goal of the investigative team is to create
      a resource that enables discovery of genetic susceptibility variants and novel circulating
      markers of CHD, thereby allowing individualized assessment of risk for CHD, a leading cause
      of death and morbidity in Qatar. Creation of the biorepository is the first necessary step to
      understand genomic and proteomic of CHD in Qatari individuals.
    
  