
    
      Aim of the study

      To compare the acute effect of the consumption of a test meal on satiety, gastrointestinal
      hormones' response, post-meal thermogenesis, and further metabolic parameters in lean
      patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM), obese patients with T1DM, and healthy lean and
      obese controls.

      Study subjects:

      Four groups of participants will be recruited, consisting of 15 lean healthy subjects (BMI
      <25 kg/m2), 15 obese healthy subjects, 15 lean patients with T1DM (BMI <25 kg/m2), and 15
      obese patients with T1DM (BMI ≥ 30kg/m2). Groups will be matched for age and sex. Healthy
      volunteers will be recruited from the community, and diabetic individuals from our diabetes
      clinic. Eligibility criteria will include 18-65 years of age, no use of medications affecting
      appetite and stable weight (no fluctuations exceeding 5 kg the last 3 months.

      Methods:

      Demographic data and anthropometric measurements will be collected on the day of visit.
      Fasting blood samples will be collected for measurement of plasma glucose, insulin,
      triglycerides, GIP, GLP-1, PYY (total), ghrelin (total). VAS for hunger and satiety will be
      completed in the fasting state. Participants will then consume a test meal of ~700 kcal
      consisting of protein and fat (no carbohydrates) within 10 minutes. Blood samples will be
      drawn and VAS scales completed postprandially at 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, 180 min. RMR
      measurements using indirect calorimetry will be performed in the fasting state, 1 hour and 3
      hours postprandially to assess meal induced thermogenesis. Postprandial responses for these
      parameters will be assessed as area under the curve (AUC).

      Patients with T1DM treated with basal- bolus insulin therapy will receive their regular basal
      insulin dose and patients on an insulin pump will be kept on their basal rate of insulin
      infusion. In case of fasting hyperglycemia, the session will be canceled.

      Postrpandial glucose excursion will be treated with fast acting insulin.
    
  