
    
      There will be two study arms:

        1. patients with suspected or diagnosed localized gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma (GEA) and

        2. patients diagnosed with de novo metastatic gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma. Fresh
           tumour, adjacent normal tissue materials, and blood samples will be acquired and
           utilized to generate molecular data. Stool or rectal swab samples will also be acquired
           for microbiome analysis. Physiologic, quality of life, epidemiologic, frailty, and other
           clinical data will be systematically collected as standard of care to serve as clinical
           correlates for the molecular data.

      Arm 1 Primary Objectives

        1. Feasibility to produce a potential molecular signature in a clinically meaningful time
           point in patients with locally advanced GEA

        2. Study the molecular characteristics of GEA in patients with localized and resectable
           disease and identify predictive signatures of response to induction therapy and the
           development of novel treatment regimens

        3. To validate previously identified mutational signatures that defined subgroups of GEA

      Arm 2 Primary Objectives

        1. Feasibility to produce a potential molecular signature in a clinically meaningful time
           point for patients with advanced GEA on 1st line chemotherapy

        2. Use of genotypes and genomic analyses to define therapies, and develop predictive and
           prognostic models

        3. Assess the feasibility of prospectively identifying distinct genomic characteristics
           which associate with response to systemic therapy and survival

      STUDY ENDPOINTS:

        1. Feasibility of obtaining timely sequencing data (8-12 weeks) to guide treatment for
           patients progressing on 1st line treatment

        2. Feasibility of using ctDNA, metabolome, immune profiling and other emerging technologies
           to guide treatment

        3. Establish a program of personalized care for GEA patients in terms of pre-treatment
           assessment (Physiological and Frailty Risk Assessment, QOLQ, 4. Sarcopenia and Adiposity
           measurements) and treatment based on clinical-genomic correlations

        4. Establishment of repository of biospecimens (tumour, blood and microbiome)

        5. Establishment of robust preclinical models of GEA: PDO and PDX models

        6. Assess the feasibility of using PDO models to identify drug sensitivity to guide
           treatment decisions
    
  