
    
      In 2011, United Nations (UN) addressed the prevention and control of four non-communicable
      diseases (NCDs: cancer, cardiovascular disease, chronic respiratory disease, and diabetes
      mellitus) worldwide. The UN, in its Political Declaration, recognized the critical importance
      of reducing the exposure to the common modifiable risk factors for NCDs, namely, tobacco use,
      unhealthy diet, physical inactivity, and the harmful use of alcohol. In Hong Kong, NCDs are
      responsible for more than 85% of all deaths and most of these are preventable. FAMILY Project
      Cohort Study (2014) also found that 88.6% of Hong Kong people had inadequate vegetable and
      fruit intake, 70.6% had inadequate physical exercise, 26.4% were overweight and 5.4% were
      obese. Hong Kong, being the most westernized and developed city of China, can take a leading
      role in promoting and implementing the UN Political Declaration.

      Families worldwide have been undergoing rapid changes with macro, social and economic trends.
      Demographic shifts, economic upheavals, changing societal norms and values, immigration
      across national borders and migration within nations are creating new and altered structures,
      processes and relationships within families. The increasingly complex and diverse family
      structure contributes to concerns regarding the well-being of families in Hong Kong,
      including their health, happiness and harmony (FAMILY 3Hs). Family life and health education
      should be strengthened to meet the increasing needs of promoting healthy lifestyle among Hong
      Kong families. The results from the baseline findings of FAMILY Project Cohort Study (2014)
      revealed that only 27.9% of the participants considered themselves to be 'happy', while 15.6%
      of the participants were classified as 'unhappy'. Nearly one-third (30.7%) of the
      participants reported having experienced at least one stressful life event in the previous
      year due to heavier workload (10.8%), serious health problems of a family member (6.8%),
      worsening financial situation (6.2%), health problems of oneself (5.1%), or death of a family
      member (4.7%). Furthermore, more than half of the participants (52.5%) reported having some
      source of dyadic conflicts with family members. In response to these changes in the contexts
      and nature of the family, the Fitter Families Project (FFP) with a focus on "FAMILY Holistic
      Health", will be conducted in order to increase the awareness of the importance of FAMILY
      3Hs.

      There are several definitions of family health. On the functional level, the terms family
      health, family functioning, and healthy family are often used interchangeably. Family health
      has been described as complex system, interactions, relationships and processes with the
      potential to enhance both well-being and the entire household's health, and routines in the
      family may affect family health. Despite the different perspectives in the definitions,
      family health should be holistically defined, encompass both wellness and illness variables
      and focus on the interactive, developmental, functional, psychosocial, and health processes
      of family experience. Therefore, family health may be described as a dynamic process that
      maintains or changes the relative state of well-being, including elements of family systems,
      such as biological, psychological, spiritual, and sociocultural aspects. Hence, the FFP
      focuses on "FAMILY Holistic Health" which is to emphasize a more comprehensive and wide
      reaching aim and includes physical, mental and social health and well-being.

      Over the past six years, the FAMILY project has been working on community-based projects to
      promote FAMILY 3Hs. Since 2010, the Christian Family Service Centre (CFSC) in collaboration
      with the School of Public Health of the University of the Hong Kong (HKU) implemented a
      community-based Learning Families Project (LFP) to promote family health, happiness and
      harmony (3Hs). As a component of the FAMILY Project, the LFP had built up an effective
      practice model through collaboration among various project partners and showed good evidence
      of effectiveness in developing a learning culture in the families, enhancing family
      communication time and quality, increasing neighborhood cohesion and resilience and promoting
      FAMILY 3Hs. Therefore, the FFP is developed based on the strong foundation of the LFP in the
      previous years. In view of the health challenges locally and globally, the new phase of
      FAMILY project will put more emphasis on health in the upcoming three years. Following the
      theme on FAMILY 3Hs, the FFP focuses on family holistic health with emphasis on the
      interaction and integration of both physical and psychosocial health.

      In Hong Kong, most 'health projects' only focus on individual's physical health and usually
      separate physical from mental or psychosocial health. This new project focuses not only on
      individuals' health but on the whole family and holistic health. The investigators strive to
      help family members influence each other to have better holistic health. The focus on family
      is a new and unique concept which is an innovative, long-term and highly sustainable approach
      at the community level. With the involvement of family members, Hong Kong families can
      develop and change their lifestyles which impact on families' health. The investigators will
      use a family-focused approach and adopt a holistic perspective to design a sustainable family
      holistic health intervention model in the community to meet the global health challenges
      identified by UN.

      The innovative family holistic health intervention model will emphasize on the interaction
      and integration of physical health and psychosocial health, using physical exercise as the
      platform to promote fitter families, which will ultimately enhance the FAMILY 3Hs. Thus, the
      ultimate objective of this community-based project is "FAMILY holistic health" for FAMILY
      3Hs.

      In practice, the investigators will use innovative integrated public health theories and
      minimal methods to plan brief, simple and cost-effective interventions targeted at families,
      with collaboration with experienced NGO partners and community stakeholders. Hence, a larger
      number of people will be able to benefit from the program, leading to greater sustainability
      and wider dissemination as the administration of project will be easier and the costs will be
      lower. The "FAMILY Holistic Health" community-based project aims at promoting a higher level
      of physical exercise for people of all ages which will enhance family interaction, pleasure
      and well-being. The project can help families to build positive attitudes with stronger
      motivation for family members to improve their holistic health by encouraging each other to
      have healthy active lifestyle and enjoy the processes with quick and measurable benefits.

      The evaluations conducted will be vigorous and evidence generating with quantitative and
      qualitative methods and follow-ups to assess behavioral changes and improvements in the key
      components of family well-being. The data will be provided to the participants for developing
      their own health action plan. In order to assess the effectiveness of the interventions on
      improving individual and family well-being and for future program development, the data will
      also be used for program evaluation. Thus, this proposal is to seek approval from IRB to
      collect data from the participants, to use the data for in depth analyses, and to write up
      scientific papers based on the findings.
    
  