
    
      Identifying patients at risk for postextubation distress using standard clinical criteria and
      the only available test the investigators have, that is, the spontaneous breathing trial
      (SBT) remains a challenging issue2. A cumulative body of evidence suggest that the decision
      to attempt extubation might be assisted by the use of thoracic ultrasound. This non-invasive,
      reproducible and fully bedside approach is able to provide accurate information about
      respiratory, cardiac and neuromuscular functions which are independent predictors of
      extubation outcome. Recently, the investigators have demonstrated that a combined thoracic
      ultrasound (CTUS) strategy based on lung ultrasound, echocardiography and diaphragm
      ultrasonographic assessment data performs better than routine clinical assessment to evaluate
      extubation readiness in medical and surgical ICU patients3. CTUS appears as a unique point of
      care precision medicine prognostic and diagnostic tool for the management of patients
      experiencing ARDS. Based on those premises, the investigators hypothesize that CTUS-based MV
      weaning strategy could reduce the duration of mechanical ventilation of ARDS COVID-19 ICU
      patients by 72 hours, compared with usual medical care. This research is a national,
      multicenter, randomized, controlled, open-label, in parallel group. Patients will be
      randomized on 1:1 CTUS strategy group or standard strategy group, daily daily followed until
      extubation+48hours, reassessed at day 28 and at 3 months. In CTUS strategy group, a combined
      CTUS examination will be performed until the day of patient extubation. CTUS examination will
      consist on a fully bedside ultrasonographic assessment of lung, cardiac and diaphragm
      functions. In standard strategy group, from the day of patient's inclusion and beyond every
      day, the clinical team in charge of patients will decide to perform or not an SBT following
      current recommendations2. These criteria are mainly based on clinical data and do not include
      any specific ultrasound assessment.
    
  