
    
      The investigators conducted a prospective randomised controlled trial at a tertiary referral
      hospital in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania from December 17th, 2015 to March 25th, 2017. All open
      tibia fractures arriving at the hospital emergency room during the enrollment period were
      screened for inclusion in the study. Inclusion and exclusion criteria are noted later in this
      submission.All patients who were eligible after clinical screening were offered enrollment in
      the study and subsequently completed written informed consent in either English or Swahili
      depending on the patient's preference. The investigation was approved by ethical review
      boards at the University of California San Francisco (UCSF) and the Tanzanian National
      Institute for Medical Research (NIMR).

      All enrolled participants were taken to the operating room for initial irrigation and
      debridement using a standardized protocol aiming for debridement within 24 hours of hospital
      admission. Preoperative ceftriaxone was given as soon as possible after presentation to the
      emergency department. Following debridement, the primary surgeon determined if the wound was
      amenable to immediate or delayed primary closure. If amenable to primary closure, the patient
      was randomized by a site research coordinator to one of two treatments (Intramedullary
      nailing (IMN) or external fixation (EF))using a centralized web-based electronic
      randomization tool, Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap). The study computer analyst
      developed the REDCap randomization module with input from senior authors. The REDCap
      randomization module incorporated block randomization to maintain equal patient distribution
      between each treatment group and to ensure allocation concealment.

      Data from a pilot study at the site of our investigation informed sample size calculations,
      which showed reoperation rates of external fixation and intramedullary nailing of 38% versus
      3.8%. However, with longer follow-up and more stringent criteria for a primary event, The
      investigators used a more conservative effect size of 20% compared to 5%. Using a power of
      80% and alpha of 0.05, The investigators calculated the study would require 88 patients in
      each treatment group (176 total). Accounting for 20% loss to follow up, The investigators
      estimated a total sample size requirement of 240 patients (120 per group).

      Data monitoring was completed by the adjudication committee at 6 month intervals throughout
      the study duration and prior to final analysis in December, 2018.
    
  