
    
      In 1998, 55% of Very Low Birth Weight (VBLW) infants (those born at <1,250g) born at centers
      in the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) Neonatal Research
      Network (NRN) either died or developed BPD.

      Previous studies within the NICHD Neonatal Research Network showed substantial differences in
      the incidence of BPD between centers. These differences were not explained by birth weight,
      gestational age, race, frequency of antenatal steroid use, or incidence of respiratory
      distress syndrome. Practice differences may contribute to BPD incidence variation. This study
      evaluated the efficacy of a Benchmarking Initiative to modify clinical care practices and
      decrease incidence of BPD in VLBW infants.

      This study tested whether Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) teams trained in benchmarking
      -- comparing care practices between different NICUs to see which practices prevent
      bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) -- and quality improvement would change practices and
      improve rates of survival without BPD in inborn neonates with birth weights of <1250 grams.
      Benchmarking is a method involving detailed comparisons of processes between similar
      organizations. For this study, three NRN centers with the lowest rates of BPD have been
      identified as Benchmark centers. During a 6-month pre-intervention period, details of care
      practices and management style at these centers were carefully assessed. Based on practices
      at these Benchmarking sites, we developed a quality improvement program. For this study, 14
      other NRN sites were randomized to either implement the benchmarking intervention
      (intervention sites) or continue with their usual care practices (control sites). After the
      1-year intervention period, we compared changes in the rate of survival without BPD at 36
      weeks corrected age between the intervention and control sites.
    
  