
    
      Women in Tanzania suffer alarming rates of intimate partner violence (IPV) that has
      detrimental effects on mental and physical health including an increased risk of HIV
      infection. The investigators will use a cluster randomized control study design to conduct a
      preliminary evaluation study of TEVAW, an intervention that aims to improve gender equitable
      attitudes and to decrease tolerance of IPV among men and women in rural Tanzania. Nine
      villages will be randomly assigned into one of three study arms, each comprised of 150
      partnered women and their co-resident male partners. A total of 450 women and their partners
      will be recruited for the study. Women in the comparison arm are currently exposed to World
      Education's savings and lending group intervention (known as LIMCA), in which they receive
      training on business skills, literacy, child nutrition and health, child protection, intimate
      partner violence (IPV) and HIV prevention. Women in Intervention Arm 1 will be exposed to
      LIMCA, while their male partners will participate in male peer group workshops that explore
      gender norms, IPV and HIV prevention issues. In Intervention Arm 2, men and women will
      receive the same treatment as Intervention Arm 1 and participate in community dialogues with
      community leaders to explore similar topics as the male peer groups. Our hypothesis is that
      study participants in Arm 2 will report improved gender equitable attitudes and lower
      intolerance of intimate partner violence than participants in Arm 1 and participants in the
      control group. Data will be collected at baseline and endline using a structured
      questionnaire with questions from three validated instruments that measure gender equitable
      attitudes and attitudes about IPV. The following are the specific aims of the study:

        1. To test the feasibility, acceptability and proof of concept of two interventions
           (women's savings groups combined with male peer groups vs. women's savings groups
           combined with male peer groups and community dialogues) compared to a control group
           participating only in women's savings groups in Karatu District, Northern Tanzania.

        2. To contribute to a better understanding of the attitudes, behaviors and social factors
           related to intimate partner violence through the exploration of cultural gender norms in
           Karatu District, Northern Tanzania.
    
  