
    
      Counseling and provision of postpartum contraception is an integral component of
      comprehensive reproductive healthcare. A woman's preference for contraception is paramount;
      early initiation of postpartum contraception may assist in optimal birth spacing promoting
      the wellbeing of mother and baby. Equally important is the provision of appropriate support
      for breastfeeding. Exclusive breastfeeding for six months with continuation beyond one year
      of age is recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), American Academy of Family
      Physicians, American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), and the World Health
      Organization (WHO).

      The utilization of Long Acting Reversible Contraception (LARC's) has increased in the last
      decade. The etonogestrel (ENG) implant is one of the most effective LARC's and has become one
      of the methods used by many women in the postpartum period to prevent an unplanned pregnancy.
      The major advantage of immediate ENG implant insertion is the prompt initiation of a highly
      effective contraceptive method at a time that does not interfere with breastfeeding and the
      life changes and demands of motherhood.

      Our long-term goal is to understand the impact of the ENG implant hormonal contraceptive,
      initiated early in the postpartum period, on breastfeeding. The central hypothesis is that
      breastfeeding continuation at eight weeks postpartum is not inferior in women in the
      immediate insertion group of the ENG implant than in those with standard insertion and that
      time to lactogenesis stage II is not more than 8 hours difference between the immediate
      insertion and standard insertion groups.

      Primary:

      Aim #1: To determine breastfeeding continuation rates at 8 weeks in both groups.

      Aim #2: To determine the timing of lactogenesis in both groups

      Secondary:

      Aim #1: To assess breastfeeding continuation and exclusivity between the immediate versus the
      standard group. Aim #2: To compare postpartum factors associated with discontinuing
      breastfeeding between the immediate versus the standard group. Aim #3: To compare participant
      satisfaction with postpartum contraception counseling in women enrolled in the study and in
      those women who opted not to enroll in the study between the immediate versus the standard
      group. Aim #4: To compare postpartum mood as measured by EPDS score between the immediate
      versus the standard group. Aim #5: To compare postpartum sexual function as measured by
      Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) score between the immediate versus the standard group.
      Aim #6: To compare the total number of days of postpartum bleeding in the immediate versus
      standard. Aim #7: To compare participant satisfaction with the timing of ENG implant
      insertion between the immediate versus the standard group

      This proposal will support a non-inferiority RCT where participants will be randomly assigned
      to immediate insertion (first 24 hours after delivery) or delayed postpartum insertion (4-6
      weeks postpartum). This project will provide needed evidence on breastfeeding impact of early
      postpartum initiation of the ENG implant.
    
  