
    
      The loss of a desired pregnancy is a significant negative life event associated with grief
      comparable to the grief after a peri- or neonatal death. Recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL)
      defined as 3 or more pregnancy losses affects approximately 3% of couples trying to have
      children. Most cases of RPL are unexplained and have no effective treatment to improve the
      chance of a live birth.

      42% of the women referred to RPL Unit in Rigshospitalet has a high stress level where as it's
      22% in the background population trying to achieve parenthood. It's also known that 8,8% of
      RPL patients have a depression at referral where as it's 2,2 % in the background population
      trying to achieve parenthood.

      This study will investigate if a 7 weeks course in meditation and mindfulness is a useful
      tool to reduce stress and the psychological consequences for women and their partner treated
      in RPL Unit in Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen.

      Furthermore this study will investigate if there's a marital benefit from practicing
      meditation and mindfulness. The investigators will use four different scales to measure the
      participants stress, depression, marital benefit and fertility stress. Also the investigators
      will measure the participants before and after the intervention and 12 months after.

      All participants will have to complete:

        1. Major Depression Index, a validated self-rating depression scale, which is used both
           clinically and in epidemiological studie. The 6-point Likert scale ranges from 0 (no
           depression) to 50 (extreme depression).

        2. Perceived Stress Scale, which is a validated 10-item-self-reporting scale for stress
           symptoms. The 5 point Likert scale ranges from 0 (no stress) to 40 (extreme stress).

        3. The COMPI Fertility Problem Stress Scale, a validated scale measuring the impact of RPL
           on the woman and her interpersonal relationships.

        4. The COMPI Marital Benefit Scale measuring if RPL has reinforced the couples
           mariage/relationship.

      The investigators assume that meditation and mindfulness can improve the quality of life for
      the RPL patients and their coping strategies. It's the investigators purpose to contribute
      with new knowledge in this area for current and future patients.

      The RPL Unit in Rigshospitalet doesn't have any psychological support apart from ordinary
      attention from the nurses. This study has the potential to establish mental health support as
      a supplement to the medical and clinical treatment for RPL patients, which is in high demand.
    
  