
    
      A prospective, randomized, double-blinded (patient, anesthesiologist, assessor) clinical
      study. This study will examine three different clinically used application schemes of
      fentanyl, an opioid used as the standard of care in routine practice. Patients will be
      randomized to receive one of the following three treatment arms for anesthesia maintenance
      (pre-sternotomy):

        1. High-dose fentanyl bolus (20 µg/kg of body weight [BW]; e.g. 70kg 1400 µg or 1.4mg)

        2. Low-dose fentanyl bolus (3 µg/kg BW; e.g. 70kg 210 µg or 0.2mg)

        3. Continuous fentanyl application by Shibutani scheme

           This study will include data from 69 adult patients (23 per arm) undergoing first time,
           elective, on-pump CABG surgery with median sternotomy and central cannulation.

           Following randomization by the sealed envelope technique, fentanyl kits will be drawn up
           by an anesthesiologist not involved in patient care or outcome assessment. Patients with
           preexisting chronic pain, opioids in the last 30 days, a BMI>36kg/m2, sleep apnoea,
           renal failure (clearance <30ml/min), with neuraxial anesthesia, pregnant, with planned
           wound infiltration, known allergies/intolerance to opioids, and unable to understand
           pin-prick testing will be excluded.

           At induction, all patients will receive a standard 3 µg/kg bolus of fentanyl (not study
           medication, but rather standard of care). 5 minutes prior to sternotomy, the patient
           will receive analgesia maintenance (one of the three fentanyl study arms). Clinicians
           will at all times be able to administer a bolus of fentanyl on a perceived "as needed"
           basis (not study medication, but rather standard of care).

           The primary objective of this trial is to assess whether or not different intraoperative
           dosing schemes of fentanyl during on-pump CABG surgery influence the area of
           hyperalgesia as measured by sternal pin-prick testing on the first postoperative day. As
           the mechanisms causing opioid-induced analgesia are poorly understood but appear to be
           dosis-related, the investigators will examine 3 clinically used fentanyl application
           schemes in cardiac surgery: 1) a high-dose bolus group, 2) a low-dose bolus group, and
           3) a low-dose continuous infusion group.

           [i.e. does fentanyl dosing influence the area of hyperalgesia?]

           The secondary objectives of this trial are 1) to explore the intraoperative
           concentrations of fentanyl in these various dosing schemes during and after
           extracorporeal circulation (ECC).

           [i.e. determine the time course of fentanyl with ECC and its association with
           hyperalgesia; explorative] 2) to explore a possible association between fentanyl dosing,
           hyperalgesia, and persisting pain 3, 6, and 12 months after surgery.

           [i.e. clinical implication on persistent/chronic pain; explorative]
    
  