
    
      Myoclonus Dystonia (M-D) is a rare, inherited movement disorder in which patients experience
      myoclonus - sudden, brief, jerky involuntary motions, often in association with dystonia -
      involuntary sustained contractions causing twisting or abnormal posture. While most M-D
      patients respond significantly to alcohol, there are no approved medications for M-D. A
      variety of medications are currently used to treat M-D, but these treatments work in a small
      proportion of patients and provide only partial improvement in symptoms; their use is also
      limited by side-effects in many patients.

      T2000 is a medication currently under development for the treatment of movement disorders,
      including essential tremor (ET). Although T2000 is a new medication, it belongs to a class of
      medications that has been used for many years for the treatment of a variety of medical
      conditions. In previous studies, T2000 appeared to be effective in controlling symptoms of ET
      and some patients with severe ET had major improvements in tremor. As would be expected for
      medications in this class, T2000 can cause sedation at high blood levels, such as may be seen
      when large doses are given to older individuals. In younger patients, T2000 caused only
      minimal side effects even when administered at high doses and for periods of several weeks to
      several months.

      The current study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of T2000 in patients with M-D.
      Patients will receive doses of T2000 beginning at 200 mg a day and increasing every other
      week by an additional 200 mg a day up to a maximal dose of 1000 mg a day. The total duration
      of treatment will be 12 weeks. Patient's symptoms of myoclonus and dystonia, as well as
      overall neurological examination, will be monitored throughout the study. The response to
      T2000 will be determined by comparing the severity of myoclonus and dystonia while patients
      are receiving T2000 compared to the symptoms observed without active medication.
    
  