
    
      Methods Setting Investigator designed a single center, retrospective, observational study
      conducted from February 2020 to April 2020 in the emergency department (ED) of Princesse
      Grace Hospital center, a general hospital in Monaco. The study was monitored by the research
      department of the Hospital Center. No specific funding was obtained for this study. The
      institutional review board for the protection of human subjects approved the study protocol
      and waved the need for written informed consent for inclusion.

      Objectives The primary objective was to assess sensitivity of routine biomarkers and blood
      cell count for diagnosis of COVID-19-related pneumonia in low and high probability groups for
      level of certainty using the adjudication committee classification.

      Secondary objectives were :

        -  to compare values in the four different categories of level of certainty and between low
           and high probability groups;

        -  to assess performance of combined routine biomarkers and blood cell count for diagnosis
           of COVID-19-related pneumonia;

        -  to assess whether usual biomarkers and blood cell count were associated with diagnosis
           of COVID-19-related pneumonia using sensitivity analyses in two predefinite subgroups
           chosen a priori; Group 1 : when considering patients classified as having low
           probability and high probability COVID-19-related pneumonia; Group 2 : when patients
           with excluded COVID-19-related pneumonia and diagnosed extra-pulmonary infectious
           disease were not taken into account, in the low probability COVID-19-related pneumonia
           group.

      Adjudication committee Based on data collected from baseline on standardized case report
      forms, results of low dose chest CT-scan, of SARS-Cov-2 specific RT-PCR, and full access to
      all available data including patients' discharge summary, an adjudication committee
      consisting of three independent senior experts in infectious diseases, pneumology and
      radiology retrospectively assigned the probability of COVID-19-related pneumonia diagnosis
      using the 4-level Likert scale. For this study, the gold standard was the diagnosis assessed
      by the adjudication committee. Alternative diagnoses were established for low probability
      COVID-19-related pneumonia and classified as non-COVID pulmonary diseases and extra-pulmonary
      infectious diseases and others.

      A Likert scale allowed distribution of patients in four categories:

        1. absence of COVID-19-related pneumonia hereafter referred to as excluded;

        2. possible COVID-19-related pneumonia;

        3. probable COVID-19-related pneumonia;

        4. definite COVID-19-related pneumonia. After this first classification, patients were
           distributed in two groups: low probability COVID-19-related pneumonia (excluded and
           possible) and high probability COVID-19-related pneumonia (probable and definite).

      Study population For the study purpose and to ensure quality of the final adjudication
      committee diagnosis, investigator selected consecutive adults (18 years of age and above)
      visiting the COVID-19-dedicated ED if they presented with clinically suspected
      COVID-19-related pneumonia and had SARS-Cov-2 RT-PCR and/or low dose chest CT-scan.

      Patient management and usual biomarkers and blood cell count Patients' management in the
      COVID-19-dedicated ED was based on local protocoled practices based upon collegial
      multidisciplinary decision if they presented with suspected COVID-19-related pneumonia.
      Recorded baseline data consisted of demographic data (age, gender), coexisting illnesses,
      treatments, symptoms, clinical findings and predetermined laboratory tests including:
      SARS-Cov-2 specific RT-PCR obtained on nasopharyngeal swab; low-dose chest CT-scan; standard
      blood analysis (complete blood count, hemostasis, metabolic panel, creatinine, blood urea
      nitrogen, liver enzymes), D-dimers (Vidas, Biomérieux), procalcitonin, C-reactive protein
      (CRP), high sensitive cardiac troponin T (cTnT-hs, Cobas, Roche diagnostics), NT-pro-brain
      natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP, Cobas, Roche diagnostics). For each individual, CRB65 and
      Pneumonia Severity Index (PSI) were calculated.

      Microbiological samples Naso-pharyngeal swabs were collected at admission and placed in a
      Middle Virocult MWE (Sigma®) transport medium. Samples were kept at room temperature and sent
      to the laboratory immediately after collection. For the presence of SARS-COV-2, swabs were
      sent to French referent centers of virology (Nice, Marseille, Paris). Routine microbiological
      examinations were also performed at the discretion of the emergency physicians and included :
      presence of influenza A and B viruses and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) A and B on
      nasopharyngeal swabs, blood culture, urine antigens for Streptococcus pneumoniae and
      Legionella pneumophila type I, serodiagnosis of Mycoplasma pneumoniae. These results were
      available to the adjudication committee.

      Low dose chest CT-scan data and COVID-19-related pneumonia diagnosis classification
      Multidetector low dose thoracic CT-scan was performed for each individual patient and
      interpretation was recorded using a standardized report form according to guidelines. The
      level of COVID-19-related pneumonia probability according to low dose chest CT scan were
      defined.

      Statistical analysis Baseline and follow-up characteristics were described by means and
      standard deviations (SD) or by median and interquartile range (IQR) for continuous variables
      with normal or with skewed distribution, respectively, and by percentages for categorical
      variables. Chi-square or Fisher exact tests were performed when appropriate for qualitative
      variables. The Student or Mann-Whitney tests were used to compare baseline characteristics
      and study outcomes between study groups for continuous variables with skewed distributions.

      The distribution of values for usual biomarkers and blood cell count were determined in the
      different populations of patients using boxplots. The performances of current laboratory data
      in predicting definite COVID-19-related pneumonia were evaluated by sensitivity analysis
      (definite vs excluded COVID-19-related pneumonia). CRP was evaluated at several cut-off
      points of 20 mg/L, 30 mg/L, 50 mg/L, 70 mg/L, and 100 mg/L, values used in previous studies.
      Several cut-off points for PCT were chosen at the level of 0.10 μg/L, and at the two levels
      for suspected bacterial infection as stated by the manufacturer, i.e., 0.25 μg/L and 0.50
      μg/L. Cut-offs for cTnT-hs were 0.014ng/mL and 50ng/mL. Cut-offs for D-dimers test were
      500µg/ml and age-adjusted threshold. Sensitivities, specificities, positive predictive values
      (PPVs), negative predictive values (NPVs), and likelihood ratio were calculated. Receiver
      operating characteristic (ROC) curves were drawn, area under the curve AUC was computed and
      optimal cut-off was identified by the maximization of the Youden's index, comparing
      laboratory results values in patients with excluded COVID-19-related pneumonia and definite
      COVID-19-related pneumonia. From these optimal cut-offs for laboratory results, sensitivity
      analyses were performed combining cut-offs.

      A multivariate logistic regression model was built to identify factors associated with having
      definite COVID-19-related pneumonia as compared to having an excluded COVID-19-related
      pneumonia diagnosis. Investigator excluded from the excluded CAP diagnosis group, patients
      with an extra-pulmonary infectious disease. All variables with a p value of < 0.25 in the
      bivariate analysis were entered into a multivariate logistic regression with a backward
      stepwise approach; the discrimination was evaluated by the C-index and its 95 % confidence
      interval (95 % CI) and the calibration was evaluated by the Hosmer Lemeshow goodness-of-fit
      test.

      All tests were two-sided, and p-values below 0.05 were considered to denote statistical
      significance. All statistical analyses were performed using SPSS statistical software version
      21.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA).
    
  