
    
      Percutaneous coronary intervention of bifurcation lesion remains a challenge, even in the era
      of drug eluting stents (DES). Bifurcation interventions, when compared with non-bifurcation
      interventions, have a lower rate of procedural success and a higher rate of restenosis
      regardless of the techniques or technologies used. Although stenting of individual
      non-bifurcated lesion has been shown to be superior to balloon angioplasty, stenting of both
      branches seems to offer no advantage over stenting of the main branch (MB) alone. The recent
      introduction of DES has resulted in a lower event rate and reduction of MB restenosis in
      comparison with historical controls. However, reports suggest that restenosis at the side
      branch (SB) ostium continues to be elevated. Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) studies have
      shown that stent dimensions are important predictors of restenosis even with DES. Recently
      published observational data of IVUS analysis of bifurcation lesions treated with "crush"
      technique has shown the smallest minimum stent area at the SB ostium. This may contribute to
      a higher restenosis rate. Plaque shift and insufficient covering of the SB ostium may also
      play a major role in a development of SB restenosis. The belief that plaque shift occurs
      during bifurcation stenting is challenged by the fact that plaque is mainly located opposite
      to the side branch ostium as demonstrated by IVUS and anatomical studies. Further, the
      occurrence of plaque shift in bifurcation lesions has never been scientifically investigated.
      Finally, bending and twisting of the coronary arteries at the bifurcation should be taken
      into account in the mechanism of SB restenosis because of continuous vessel wall injury by
      the rigid stent and potential stent fractures. Bifurcation represents an extreme model of
      vessel bending and twisting because the vessels beyond the bifurcation are in different
      path/orientation and different heart walls. A better understanding of the mechanisms of
      bifurcation intervention and restenosis is essential for the development of a successful
      technique and dedicated technologies for this challenging scenario. Despite multiple
      retrospective studies and various ingenious techniques, a true prospective mechanistic
      investigation remains lacking in the field of bifurcation. The main objectives of this study
      are define frequency of plaque shift phenomenon and impact on flow dynamics in the side
      branch as assessed by IVUS, and evaluate acute and late side branch ostial vessel reaction to
      balloon angioplasty and DES.
    
  