
    
      Acute viral hepatitis is usually a self limited condition characterizes by typical course of
      prodrome followed by an icteric phase. In some cases the course may be protracted or
      complicated by the development of cholestatic phase or acute liver failure . The development
      of complicated course depends on a number of factors such as the type of virus and a variety
      of host factors including age of infection, immune status of the host and condition of the
      underlying liver before the onset of hepatitis.

      Patients who have an underlying chronic liver disease or cirrhosis have increased risk of
      development of decompensation and liver related death when they develop superinfection with
      some hepatotropic viruses.

      Vento etal demonstrated in their classical study that superinfection with hepatitis A on
      chronic liver disease is associated with high risk of decompensation and death. In India,
      since most of the adult population including those with chronic liver disease has been shown
      to have protective antibodies against HAV, this infection is rarely a problem in them.

      Hepatitis E virus (HEV) has demonstrated to be the most common cause of acute hepatitis,
      acute liver failure and subacute liver in India. There is now enough data to suggest that HEV
      superinfection is also the commonest cause of acute decompensation of chronic liver disease
      in Indian subcontinent.

      Many of these patients do not have any signs and symptoms of preexisting liver disease and it
      is the liver failure secondary to HEV superinfection which bring to light the underlying
      chronic liver disease.

      World over, as well as in developing countries nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is
      fast emerging as an important causes of chronic liver disease. Obesity and diabetes are two
      most important risk factors for NAFLD.It has been estimated that there would be about 366
      million diabetes in the world by 2030.Of these 79.4 million will be in India.

      Diabetes has been proposed as a risk factor for both chronic liver disease and HCC.The
      spectrum of liver involvement ranges from fatty liver, steatohepatitis, and fibrosis to
      cirrhosis. Even among patients with NASH, presence of diabetes is annotated with advanced
      stage of fibrosis . There is some suggestion that diabetic patients who develop acute viral
      hepatitis may have a prolonged course. Liver regeneration capacity has been demonstrated to
      be impaired among animal and human with fatty liver after partial resection. It is therefore
      possible that diabetic by of having NAFLD may have poor regenerating capacity leading to
      prolonged course of hepatitis.

      It has been an observation in our unit that most of the patients who present with acute on
      chronic liver failure or subacute hepatic failure have diabetes. Whether it is simply a
      co-existence of two commonly occurring diseases (diabetes with a prevalence of 10% in Indian
      population and hepatitis E which is endemic(1) in our country) or the presence of acute
      hepatitis E in a diabetic patients some how produces a worse outcome as compared to hepatitis
      E in a non-diabetic patients. There fore it is important to find out the natural course of
      the two commonly occurring diseases when they occur together or separately.

      We hypothesize that acute hepatitis infection has a prolonged and complicated course among
      diabetic patients.
    
  