
    
      The study will be conducted as a randomized controlled between subject trial. The study
      consists of two study phases. In study phase 1 the experimental group takes part in three VR
      exposure sessions (duration 20min each), whereas the control group takes part in three
      virtual tours (duration 20min each). All VR sessions and assessments of outcomes will be
      conducted on one study day for each participant.

      In study phase 2 the experimental group will participate in a home training, spanning over
      two weeks (6x30-minutes sessions), whereas the control group will not receive any treatment
      (untreated comparison group). Assessment of outcomes will be conducted 3-5 weeks after
      completion of home trainings.

      Group 1 (experimental group) consists of individuals with clinical and subclinical fear of
      heights, that will receive a three-session VR exposure (study phase 1) and take part in a
      2-week treatment period with the same VR scenarios (study phase 2). Group 2 (control group)
      consists of individuals with clinical and subclinical fear of heights that will not receive
      any active treatment, but will participate in fear-unrelated tasks in study phase 1 or
      receive no treatment at all (study phase 2).

      This design allows a direct comparison and therefore an estimation of the effectiveness of
      the VR exposure therapy. Before and after the virtual exposure/tours participants will
      undergo an in vivo BAT to assess the effects of the VR exposure therapy.

      80 participants between 18 and 60 years with clinical or subclinical fear of heights will
      take part in the study. Two to three months after having finished study phase 1 the
      participants will be contacted again and asked to take part in study phase 2. All
      participants undergo a third in vivo BAT during study phase 2. The BAT will take place 3-5
      weeks after completion of the home training.
    
  