
    
      This study consists of four phases and will utilise a mixed methods design. The first phase
      is the development of the intervention, the second phase is a feasibility randomised
      controlled trial (RCT), the third phase is a qualitative process evaluation and the fourth
      phase is a feasibility economic evaluation.

      The first phase will involve the development of the intervention and will follow the
      development framework published by Fancourt in 'Arts in Health' (2017). This framework was
      developed specifically to inform arts-based interventions for healthcare contexts, and
      focuses primarily on identifying the needs of patients and staff within the clinical setting.
      The development will be informed by a systematic literature review and an interdisciplinary
      advisory group. The advisory group will consist of three patient representatives, two staff
      representatives from the haemodialysis unit, a renal counsellor from the Northern Health and
      Social Care Trust, two artist representatives from Arts Care Northern Ireland, the Chief
      Executive Officer from Arts Care Northern Ireland, the Community Wellbeing Manager in the
      Northern Health and Social Care Trust, a representative from the Renal Arts Group at Queen's,
      a representative from the University of Florida Arts in Medicine faculty, and a statistician.
      They will meet approximately every three months to inform the intervention and the research
      process.

      The second phase will be a feasibility RCT that will involve recruiting 30 participants from
      Antrim Area Hospital's haemodialysis unit. Feasibility RCT's are necessary to determine
      whether a definitive randomised controlled trial can and should be conducted, and to identify
      the key areas within the methodology that work well or need to be adapted.

      Recruitment will take place over seven months.Half the participants will be randomly
      allocated to the experimental group who will receive the intervention and half will be
      randomly allocated to the control group who will receive usual care.Participants will not be
      randomly allocated on an individual level, but instead will be randomly allocated according
      to the days of the week that they attend for haemodialysis. Patients receiving haemodialysis
      attend hospital on a set shift pattern, either Monday, Wednesday and Friday, or Tuesday,
      Thursday and Saturday. As the unit is open planned there is a risk that participants
      allocated to the control group will observe the intervention taking place if random
      allocation is done on an individual basis and this may influence the outcome; therefore
      randomisation will occur according to shift pattern to reduce the risk of contamination. The
      intervention will consist of an artistic activity that is minimally disruptive to the
      clinical setting, such as painting, sketching, pen and ink or creative writing. The
      intervention will be done at the bedside and will be adapted to ensure that vascular access
      is maintained. In order to ensure infection control protocols are followed each participant
      will receive their own set of art supplies to prevent the potential spread of infection
      through contaminated shared materials. The intervention will involve 6 sessions that will be
      administered over the course of 3 weeks for approximately an hour during dialysis sessions.

      The third phase is the qualitative process evaluation. Participants will consist of both
      patients on the unit and staff who are working within the unit. Patients recruited will
      include those who have participated in phase two of the study, both in the intervention and
      control group. Semi-structured interviews will be conducted with 13 patients in order to
      capture a broad range of experiences with the intervention and the research process,
      including potential methods to make the intervention more accessible or engaging, experiences
      of being randomisation and participating in a control group, and reasons for retention of
      participants. 3 focus groups will be conducted with healthcare staff who have experienced the
      intervention on the unit. Due to the potential impact that arts-based interventions could
      have on the responsibilities of staff and the environment that they work in it is important
      to consider their experiences within the process evaluation as well, including identifying
      any barriers or facilitators to implementing the intervention in the dialysis setting.

      Phase four is the feasibility economic evaluation. Participants who have been recruited into
      phase two of the study will be asked to complete a Patient Service Use Log throughout the
      study, this will be completed with the PhD student during the haemodialysis session, and the
      approximate cost of the intervention will be also be calculated.
    
  