
    
      Background:

      Sarcopenia is a syndrome highly prevalent in the older population, characterized by muscle
      loss and a decrease in muscle strength. This leads to loss of physical function, decreased
      life quality and well-being and an increased risk of early death. Research has shown that
      both ingestion of protein and physical activity is able to diminish the loss of muscle mass
      during aging and thereby reduce the prevalence of sarcopenia and diminish the consequence of
      the disease. This study will investigate if more sustainable protein sources of good quality
      can increase the muscle protein synthesis and thereby prevent sarcopenia.

      Aim:

      The aim of this project is to investigate the effects of insect protein on the stimulation of
      muscle protein synthesis. The effects of protein will both be studied alone and in
      combination with exercise in perspective of preventing loss of both muscle mass and muscle
      strength. The potential of insect protein will be elucidated by comparison with other
      alternative plant-based protein sources in this case pea protein. In addition, whey protein
      will be included as a positive control as it may be regarded as the most established dietary
      protein source combatting muscle loss.

      Method:

      Young(18-30 years old) healthy men (n=60) are randomized in 3 groups to ingest either insect
      protein, pea protein or whey protein. Urine are collected 24 hours prior to the experiment
      while a blood sample and a muscle biopsy is collected at the beginning of the study. The
      subjects are instructed to perform one-leg exercise (knee extension, 5 sets of 10
      repetitions, 10 repetitions-maximum) after which the subjects ingest the assigned protein
      bolus. Urine and blood samples are collected in the following hours and one muscle biopsy is
      collected from both the exercised and the non-exercised leg at 3 hours after protein
      ingestion. The expression of messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein related to the mTORC pathway in
      the muscle is investigated by qPCR and western blotting. In addition, metabolites in urine,
      blood plasma and muscle tissue are investigated by metabolomics analysis.
    
  