
    
      Within the new OsseoSpeedTM TX Profile Implant from Astra Tech a special surface modification
      treated with diluted hydrofluoric acid is combined with an inclined implant-abutment
      interface to support soft tissue and marginal bone maintenance in the aesthetic zone or the
      socket like atrophy in the mandible. Pre-clinical studies of the OsseospeedTM modification
      support improvement in osseointegration. Both aspects are of special clinical interest in
      critical situations e.g. reduced bone quantity and quality or in case of socket atrophy with
      loss of the papillae. The outcome variables of interest are implant survival and the marginal
      bone and soft tissue response for clinical evaluation of the OsseoSpeedTM TX Profile Implant
      from Astra Tech. In contrast to the original treatment protocol with a healing period of 3
      and 6 months for maxilla and mandible, respectively, the healing period is reduced to 3
      months following the recent literature with equal clinical results. Within the present study
      implants will heal in a transgingival mode and loaded after a healing period of 3 months. For
      special indications in the aesthetic zone the implants may optionally be loaded following an
      early loading protocol, which comprehend temporary loading within 48h after implant
      insertion. Overall implant survival rates are high. However, for implants placed immediately
      after tooth extraction in the esthetic zone or in the socket like atrophied mandible survival
      rates are lower. The special physiology of bone resorption in the aesthetic zone exhibit high
      requirements for soft tissue and bone maintenance for good clinical long term results.
      Differences in pattern of marginal bone response have been described for different implant
      systems. The extend of bone loss as also the pattern of remodeling as reaction to
      OsseospeedTM surface and the special shape of the OsseoSpeedTM TX Profile Implant will be
      investigated within the present study.
    
  