
    
      a. Study type: prospective, randomized, single-blinded trial:

      i. Prospective inclusion of ambulatory patients;

      ii. Randomization by computer generated tables;

      iii. Allocation concealment by sealed, opaque envelopes;

      iv. Patient not blinded to diet;

      v. Endoscopist blinded to the diet followed by each patient.

      b. Patient selection: Consecutive series of patients scheduled for total colonoscopy;
      Exclusion criteria: inpatients, sedation, urgent procedures, colonoscopies not intended to
      reach the caecum, patient with previous partial colectomy.

      c. Sample Size:

      i. 412 individuals; 2 groups of 206 patients

      ii. Primary goal: to achieve a reduction from 15 to 5% of inappropriate preparation result;
      The Boston Bowel Preparation Scale (BBPS) will be used as grading system. Inappropriate is
      defined as total BBPS < 6 or < 2 in any segment. The chosen scale is the most systematically
      validated and appropriate for the clinical setting. iii.Both groups, from a community-based
      outpatient ambulatory center, used the same split dose regimen with Polyethylene glycol
      (PEG).Patients were instructed to drink 3 L of PEG preparation on the afternoon of the day
      prior to the exam and 1 L four hours before the scheduled exam time. All the exams scheduled
      for morning period. Assuming a normal distribution, a power of 90% and a type I error of
      0.05, the calculated sample size for each group was 188; allowing a 10% dropout rate, the
      sample size is 206 per group (412 patients overall); Groups: Group A: 3-day low residue diet
      + split dose preparation; Group B: 1-day low residue diet + split dose preparation

      d. Endoscopist:

      Exams to be conduct by 5 board-certified gastroenterologists and 2 supervised fellows in
      training; All physicians were trained in the use of BBPS by online training available at
      http://cori.org/bbps/, and have been using the BBPS for at least 3 months.

      e. Data collection methods: form sheet filled by the endoscopist and patient opinion
      regarding the assigned bowel preparation protocol.

      f. Analyzed variables:

      i. Primary outcome: BBPS score

      ii. Secondary outcome: Patient assessment of tolerance and acceptance of the preparation and
      diet

      iii. Tertiary outcome: polyp detection rate (PDR), polyp location, size and configuration;
      adenoma detection rate (ADR), cecum intubation rate

      iv. Other variables and patients characteristics (age, gender, chronic medication, risk
      factors for inappropriate preparation), withdrawal time.

      g. Statistical analysis: T-test for groups comparing quantitative variables with normal
      distribution (primary outcome); Qui square test for groups comparing proportions (secondary
      and tertiary outcomes)
    
  