
    
      In spite of the fact that approximately 800,000 strokes are diagnosed in the United States
      each year, many physicians and patients have approached the management of stroke with a sense
      of futility. However, within the past 2 decades, following the advent of computerized
      tomography (CT), medical interest has turned toward stroke and effective interventions to
      treat and prevent it have received attention.

      CT and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are the typical diagnostic tools used in the event
      of a stroke alert. These studies are done on an emergent or urgent basis, since, to be
      effective, treatments for ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke must be delivered soon after onset
      of the illness. In an effort to institute an appropriate therapeutic regime, laboratory and
      structural diagnostic studies are required to be done as rapidly as possible to determine
      pathological etiology, size, and location of concern.

      The speed at which a diagnosis is made and a treatment plan established often determines
      patient outcome and any associated complications. This is especially true when evaluating
      patients for ischemic stroke where there is a narrow 3 hour window of opportunity in which to
      resolve the clot with IV .before permanent neurological impairment results, and up to 8
      additional hours with the use if intra arterial (IA) t-PA or interventional mechanical
      embolectomy procedures are utilized. Current treatment modalities include pharmacologic
      thrombolytic drugs utilized to disrupt or dissolve clots located in the distal vasculature or
      mechanical intervention in larger vessels. Since many patients do not recognize the symptoms
      of stroke they do not seek medical attention immediately. Significant time is then often lost
      from the onset of the stroke before seeking medical help / treatment.

      Although the current technologies are quite adequate as diagnostic tools for hemorrhagic
      stroke and for identifying subdural hematomas, and other pooled blood abnormalities which
      would preclude t-PA therapy, they are largely ineffective at positively identifying stroke
      during the limited therapeutic window of time. Positive identification of ischemia itself is
      rarely possible or practical with CT or within the limited therapeutic window. As such the
      diagnostic determination and associated treatment decisions are based on the unsatisfactory
      basis of exclusion.
    
  