
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the survival of patients with non-small cell lung cancer treated with docetaxel
           with or without oblimersen (G3139).

        -  Compare the proportion of major antitumor responses in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the response duration and time to progression in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the safety and clinical benefit of these regimens, in terms of changes in
           performance status and tumor-related symptoms, in these patients.

        -  Compare the proportion of patients surviving 6 and 12 months after treatment with these
           regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to response to prior first-line chemotherapy regimen (progression vs stable
      disease, partial response, or complete response), ECOG performance status (0-1 vs 2), and
      prior paclitaxel treatment (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oblimersen (G3139) IV continuously on days 1-7 and docetaxel IV
           over 1 hour on day 5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 courses in the absence
           of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with responding or stable
           disease upon completion of 8 courses may receive 8 or more additional courses at
           physician's discretion.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21
           days for 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Upon
           completion of 8 courses, patients may continue to receive docetaxel off study at
           physician's discretion.

      Patients are followed every 9 weeks for up to 18 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 280 patients (140 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  