
    
      Each year around 785,000 Americans endure a first heart attack and more than half will have
      another in the future. The American Heart Association (AHA) recommends exercise-based cardiac
      rehabilitation (CR) to aid prevention of future heart attacks. Despite the benefits of CR,
      only a small proportion of eligible patients participate in CR. Patients with other
      illnesses, women, older adults, and ethnic minorities are least likely to utilize CR
      services. Many medical centers do not have CR programs and patients have to travel to distant
      locations to undergo CR. In turn, Tai Chi has been studied in the elderly, requires no
      expensive equipment, can be practiced at home, and is well tolerated across fitness levels
      and co-occurring illnesses. Tai Chi serves as an aerobic exercise of low to moderate
      intensity. However, no Tai Chi studies in post-MI patients have employed state-of-the-art
      measures of cardiac function and exercise capacity and therefore it is unclear whether Tai
      Chi has similar benefits as CR during the period of recovery from a heart attack. This study
      is innovative in that it specifically targets patients who have not opted to participate in a
      formal CR program within 6 months of a first-time heart attack and emphasizes recruitment of
      patients spanning an older age range, physical function ability, women and minorities. A
      total of 75 men and women with a first time heart attack will be randomly assigned to 24
      sessions of Tai Chi training composed of 8 meditative movements or to an equivalent "dose" of
      Health Education classes. Clinical assessments will be performed over a 4-5 month period,
      with testing occurring before, mid-way, after treatment, and at an 8-week follow-up. Our goal
      is to gather preliminary data on study feasibility, acceptability and to find indications of
      improvements in measures of cardiac health, physical function, health behaviors, and mental
      health. If the aims are met from this exploratory/development study, a future large scale
      study will be undertaken to confirm Tai Chi's effectiveness in post-heart attack patients.
      Such research is critically needed to aid the development of effective rehabilitative
      interventions that will be acceptable to a wider range of patients.
    
  