
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      The purpose of this protocol is to evaluate a measure that would assist clinicians in
      assessing the presence of psychological distress in children and adolescents with serious
      medical illnesses.

      Aim 1: To assess the inter-rater reliability of the Distress Thermometer by comparing ratings
      of the patient s distress given by the patient, the primary caregiver and the patient s
      primary medical provider.

      Aim 2: To assess the concurrent validity (i.e. the extent to which a test correlates with
      other previously validated measures of similar constructs) of the Distress Thermometer, a
      brief screening tool for psychological distress, as compared to validated measures of
      psychological symptoms (i.e. depression, anxiety, pain and fatigue) in patients with
      pediatric cancer, Neurofibromatosis Type 1 (NF1) HIV-1 infection, Primary Immune Deficiencies
      (PIDs), DNA repair diseases, sickle cell disease, and Li-Fraumeni.

      Aim 3: To assess the acceptability of completing the Distress Thermometer to patients,
      primary caregivers, and medical providers.

      Aim 4: To assess the feasibility of administering the Distress Thermometer to patients with
      cancer, NF1, and HIV-1 infection, PIDs, and DNA repair diseases.

      Secondary Aim 1: To assess the relationship between the caregiver s self-report of
      psychological symptoms and his or her rating of the patient s level of distress on the
      Distress Thermometer.

      Secondary Aim 2: To assess whether patient ratings on the Distress Thermometer differ between
      the specific diseases, controlling for disease severity.

      Secondary Aim 3: To assess the burden and benefits of participating in psychosocial research.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      This study is taking place at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and Medstar Georgetown
      University Hospital. All outpatients, ages 7-21, enrolled in a research study either at the
      Pediatric Clinic, the Primary Immune Deficiency Clinic, or the Dermatology Clinic at the NIH
      with a diagnosis of pediatric cancer, NF-1, HIV, PIDs, and DNA repair, and those at risk for
      Li-Fraumeni (P53 positive)syndrome diseases will be invited to participate in this study.
      Additionally, all outpatients, ages 7-21, seen at Medstar Georgetown University Hospital for
      HIV or sickle cell disease will be invited to participate in this study.

      DESIGN:

      Each patient will complete a brief self-report distress scale (the Distress Thermometer) and
      standardized measures of depression, anxiety, pain, and fatigue. Additionally, all patients
      will be asked to assess the benefits and burdens of participating in psychosocial research.

      Primary caregivers will rate their child s level of distress (using the Distress
      Thermometer), pain, fatigue anxiety and depression, and complete a self-report measure
      assessing their own psychological symptoms in addition to questions that assess the benefits
      and burdens of participating in psychosocial research.

      The primary medical provider (physicians or nurse practitioners) will give their estimation
      of the patient s distress (using the Distress Thermometer).

      All patients, primary caregivers and medical providers will assess the acceptability of
      completing the Distress Thermometer. Additionally, data collectors will assess the
      feasibility of administering the Distress Thermometer in a pediatric clinic. <TAB>

      MEASURES:

      Measures include the Distress Thermometer, a brief screening tool consisting of a single item
      rating of distress and a list of possible reasons for distress; the Children s Depression
      Inventory (CDI); the Brief Symptom Inventory 18 (BSI-18); the State Trait Anxiety Inventory
      (STAI); the Wong-Baker FACES Pain Scale; the Children s Fatigue Scales; an Acceptability and
      Feasibility scale for completion of the Distress Thermometer; and two questions regarding
      perception of research participation.
    
  