
    
      Rationale for the study The cellular entry of the SARS-CoV-2 can result in a functional
      reduction of ACE2 activity and this could lead to an increased activity of the Ang II/AT1
      axis and decreased levels Ang-(1-7)/MasR expression that could contribute to the severity of
      the disease. The administration of Ang-(1-7) could reestablish this equilibrium, contributing
      to decrease pulmonary inflammation e thus decreasing the symptoms of the disease.

      Eligible patients and the next of kin (whenever possible) should be informed about the
      rationale and the aims of the study and potential risks of drug infusion. Local ethical
      regulations should be otherwise followed. Due to the eligibility criteria and the urgency
      setting, a delayed written consent may be obtained after randomization from the next of kin
      and/or the patient (i.e. after ICU discharge).

      Randomization will be performed using sealed envelopes with a ratio of 1:1 including
      information on treatment assignment and a five-digit number, which will be open by the person
      responsible for drug constitution. Each vial or syringe will be then labeled with the
      randomly allocated number it will be assigned to the nursing personnel. The doctors and
      nurses administering the drugs, as well as the local investigators and research personnel who
      collected data, were unaware of the treatment assignments. Randomization should occur within
      24 hours since orotracheal intubation and drug infusion initiated within 4 hours from
      randomization.

      Trial will be conducted in adherence to the current Helsinki Declaration and the standard of
      good clinical practice. Screening of patients will only start after approval of the ethical
      committees (EC) in the trial sites. No deviation of the protocol will be implemented without
      the prior review and approval of the ECs.

      Study Treatment Ang-(1-7) is a pre-constitute intravenous lyophilized formulation containing
      0.5 mg/ ampoule and will be administered to patients via a dedicated central venous line at
      the initial dose of 0.1 mcg/Kg/h (equivalent to 2.5 mcg/Kg/day). After the first hour of
      infusion, if no decrease in mean arterial pressure (decrease superior to 30% or need to
      increase vasopressors ≥ 50% of an initial dosage to maintain a MAP ≥ 65mmHg), the infusion
      rate will be increased to 0.2 mcg/Kg/h (equivalent to 5 mcg/Kg/day). The infusion will be
      continued for up to 48 hours and then stopped. To this end, the substance solution,
      prepackaged, will be diluted in 1000ml of NaCl 0.9% and then infused using an infusion pump
      at corresponding speed. The placebo substance, made up of the vehicle alone, will also be
      intravenously administrated using the same procedure as that for the substance containing the
      active principle.

      Patient's management Management of any underlying comorbidity will be at discretion of the
      attending physicians; the use of international guidelines for the monitoring and the adequate
      therapeutic interventions are recommended in all patients.

      In particular, patients ventilation should be managed according to ATS/ESICM/SCCM 2017
      consensus for the ventilation in ARDS patients which suggest low tidal volume ventilation
      (4-8 mL/Kg predicted body weight) associated with low plateau pressure (<30 cmH2O), high
      positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) associated with recruitment maneuvers and prone
      positioning for periods longer than 12h in severe ARDS patients. Arterial gas analysis
      assessment should be performed at maximum intervals of six hours or more often according to
      the attending physician beliefs. Maintenance fluid should be chosen among balanced
      crystalloids and the quantity will be decided by the attending physician. Glucose management,
      nutrition protocols, decision to administer neuromuscular blockade, prone positioning, ECMO,
      nitric oxide or any other adjunctive therapies will be continued according to center current
      clinical practice and will be recorded in the CRF file.

      Weaning procedure Regarding the weaning from mechanical ventilation, in order to standardize
      and reduce bias we will comply with the following procedures based on ARDS Network protocol
      (ARDSnet).

      Each day the patients enrolled will be assessed by the medical staff for the following
      weaning criteria:

        1. FiO2 ≤ 0.40 and PEEP ≤ 8 cmH2O OR FiO2 < 0.50 and PEEP < 5 cmH2O

        2. PEEP and FiO2 ≤ values of previous day.

        3. No neuromuscular blocking agents

        4. Patient has acceptable spontaneous breathing efforts (It will be allowed to decrease the
           respiratory rate on the ventilator up to 50% for 5 min to detect inspiratory effort)

        5. Systolic BP ≥ 90 mmHg

      If all the above conditions will be met, medical staff will start a spontaneous breathing
      test (SBT) for up to 120 minutes using one of the following methods and maintaining a: FiO2 ≤
      0.5:

        1. T-piece Tube

        2. Pressure Support Ventilation ≤ 5 cmH2O with PEEP ≤ 5 cmH2O

        3. CPAP with PEEP ≤ 5 cmH2O

        4. Tracheal Collar mask

      To test the tolerance at such measures the medical staff will evaluate the following goals
      for a minimum of 30 minutes up to 120 minutes:

        1. SpO2 ≥ 90% and / or PaO2 ≥ 60 mm Hg

        2. Mean spontaneous tidal volume ≥ 4 ml/kg PBW (if measured)

        3. Respiratory Rate ≤ 35 / min

        4. pH ≥ 7.30 (if measured)

        5. No respiratory distress (defined as 2 or more of the following):

             1. Heart rate ≥ 120% of the rate (≤ 5 min at > 120% may be tolerated)

             2. Marked use of accessory muscles

             3. Abdominal paradox

             4. Diaphoresis

             5. Marked subjective dyspnea

      If all these goals will be met, the medical staff will consider extubation, otherwise the
      patient will be treated with the pre-weaning settings.

      Data Collection Data collection on admission will include: demographic characteristics,
      comorbidities, including use of antihypertensive medications, source of admission, primary
      and secondary diagnosis, delay since symptoms begin, APACHE II Score (the worst values within
      the first 24 hours), SOFA score on admission, Chest X-ray and Thoracic CT scan results if
      available, EKG trace, PaO2/FiO2 on admission. Daily data collection during ICU stay will
      include: continuous hemodynamic monitoring, including invasive arterial pressure monitoring
      and continuous EKG; SaO2 and PaO2/FiO2 every 2 hours; blood samples including Hb, glucose and
      several other chemical variables will be collected at least once per day at 8 am (or the
      first value of the day); ventilatory parameters and arterial gas analysis will be also
      collected every six hours; SOFA score; presence of any other documented infection (site,
      pathogen, treatment); presence of septic shock; daily diuresis and daily total fluid
      infusion, urine analysis including main electrolytes (sodium, potassium, chloride, calcium)
      and osmolarity every morning. The occurrence of serious adverse events (see specific
      paragraph in the text). Duration of ICU stay, duration of mechanical ventilation, need for
      tracheostomy. In case of death, reasons for withdrawal of care will be recorded. All the data
      will be recorded using the specific CRF forms, divided into a core section and a daily
      section and will be uploaded to a web-centralized protected database.

      Statistical Analysis

      First phase (Phase IIb) = 15 vs 15 patients Second phase (Phase III) = expected 30 vs 30
      patients in total (recalculation of sample size after 15 vs. 15 patients included)

      The primary outcome of this study is the number of ventilator free days at day 28.

      Considering an expected median duration of mechanical ventilation in COVID-19 related
      respiratory insufficiency patients of 14 days, to provide an absolute reduction of 22,5% with
      an alpha error of 0.05 and to provide a power to detect the effect of 80% and a dropout rate
      of 3%, 60 patients will need to be included in the primary analysis, 30 in each group.

      Pre-planned Stratified group analysis will be performed for the following group of patients:

        1. History of hypertension vs. no history of hypertension

        2. Treatment with ACEi, ARB or DRI drugs vs no treatment

        3. Age (<65 vs. ≥ 65 years)

        4. PaO2/FiO2 values at randomization (<100 vs ≥ 100)

        5. Confirmed vs highly suspected COVID-19

      Data Safety Management Members of the Data Safety Monitoring Committee (DSMC) are individuals
      free of conflicts of interest for this protocol; DSMC will analyze the safety of the study
      and their membership within the DSMC will be for the duration of this clinical trial. Serious
      Adverse Events (SAEs) will be recorded at the participating site on the specific CRF and
      their occurrence will be monitored by the DSMC at the different interim analysis. Formal
      meeting will be held for each interim analysis to review the data related to the primary
      outcome, the safety findings as well as the quality of the trial conduct. To enhance the
      integrity of the trial, the DSMC will have access to the different results aggregated by
      treatment group and remain unaware of the treatment assignment (the groups will be encoded as
      A and B). A report including data on recruitment and baseline characteristics and pooled data
      on eligibility violations will be prepared by the statistician for each DSMC meeting. Only
      the independent statistician will have access to the whole database. A closed report will be
      then prepared to allow confidential discussion of clinical data and the DSMC has to prepare
      minutes of their meetings, with a list of recommendations for the Steering Committee (to
      continue, to hold or to terminate the trial). If the recommendation is to stop the trial, a
      final decision will be made after the analysis of all patients included at the time
      (including patients randomized after data collection for the DSMC meeting). The Steering
      Committee will be responsible for deciding whether to continue, hold or stop the trial based
      on DSMC recommendations. The DSMC will be notified of all changes to the trial protocol or
      conduct.

      Organization Data will be recorded using pre-printed CRF by the attending physician or a
      trained research nurse. All data will be periodically introduced by trained personnel in the
      central web-based database. The study coordinator will contact each time a patient is
      included the local PI to ensure data collection and reporting as well as completion of
      patient follow-up or on premature termination of the study protocol. The individual data
      provided by a participating ICU are primarily property of the ICU who generated the data. All
      investigators have the right to access their data every time.

      The Principal Investigators of the study have the responsibility to perform periodic and spot
      checks visits to monitor the progress of the clinical study. Completed CRFs will be reviewed
      for completeness, compliance with investigation plan and appropriate device use and
      accountability. Case report forms will be uploaded on a website with the help of an
      independent statistician, which will be overseen data entry and data quality management. Data
      on safety will be provided to the DMSC with regular time intervals. The steering committee
      will review study integrity, safety and risk/benefit issues after 25 included patients. The
      rate of these reviews could increase according to report of relevant safety issues.
      Independent analyses of serious adverse events will be performed and adjudicated if the
      frequency or nature of serious adverse events warrants it.
    
  