
    
      Over the past ten years a contribution to the increasing incidence of T1DM is derived from
      children of foreign origin. As many studies confirmed environmental factors are involved in
      the onset and development of T1DM: type of nutrition, infections, perinatal events,
      characteristics of the microbial flora, 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels and early exposure to
      certain foods. Recent research has disclosed a tight connection between gut microbes, host
      metabolism and utilization and storage of energy. For this reason the microbiota could be
      implicated also into the diabetes ongoing. Methanobrevibacter smithii is the dominant
      methanogen in both the distal colon of individuals in health and disease. Some studies
      reported that immigrant children have a less efficient metabolic control in comparison to
      age-matched Italian children, thus identifying the different ethnic background as a risk
      factor for quality of life: a younger age at T1DM diagnosis is frequently observed in
      immigrant children, which may have also an increased risk of nutritional problems related to
      dietary habits, social disadvantage and poverty.

      The project will make a comparative assessment in the two populations (italian and immigrant
      children). The research hypothesis is that the two analysed groups show a different metabolic
      control of diabetes due to differences in access to care, in compliance to therapy and in
      type of nutrition.

      Specific Aim:

        1. Estimate any discrepancies in the course of T1DM among the two populations by assessing
           the modality of hospital admission (ordinary or emergency) and the structures involved.

        2. Evaluate the quantity range of a microbiological indicator of intestinal microbial
           flora, (Methanobrevibacter smithii) determined by molecular techniques on stool samples
           and the levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D in serum. That difference will be evaluated on
           immigrants and non-immigrants diabetic children and on a control group of healthy
           children.

        3. Estimate of the main outcomes of two T1DM populations (glycated hemoglobin, number of
           hospitalizations for acute events with the calculation of hospital days per year, U
           insulin / kg / day, dose of C-peptide as an expression of residual pancreatic function)
           and their compliance to therapy and prescriptions (frequency of tests and visits,
           adherence to insulin therapy, dietary lifestyles).

      Case-control at the onset of Italian T1DM versus Immigrant T1DM by assessing hospital
      admissions [Aim 1]

      Origin-stratified case control [Case (T1DM) vs double control (healthy), italian and
      immigrant: evaluation microbiota/metabolic profile, vit D] [Aim 2]

      Prospective cohort study (TDM1 italian vs TDM1 immigrant: evaluation of the impact of social
      and health-related factors) [Aim 3]
    
  