
    
      PROTOCOL SYNOPSIS

      Background

      Neuroendocrine tumours (NETs) are a heterogeneous group of malignancies that can arise at any
      site in the gastrointestinal tract, that are known by their ability to over express
      somatostatin receptors. Originally called carcinoid tumours, these tumours are rising in
      incidence. In patients with incurable disease, several systemic options have demonstrated
      activity but few have been compared in prospective, randomised controlled trials (RCTs).
      177Lu-Octreotate peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) and CAPTEM have shown promising
      activity in initial single arm trials. Prospective RCTs are needed to build on these early
      trials to determine the optimal role of these therapies in clinical practice.

      CONTROL NETs is a parallel group phase II randomised open label trial of Lutetium-177
      Octreotate (177Lu-Octreotate (Lutate)) peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) and
      capecitabine (CAP)/temozolomide (TEM) chemotherapy (chemotherapy): (i) versus CAPTEM alone in
      the treatment of low to intermediate grade pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours (pNETs); (ii)
      versus PRRT alone in the treatment of low to intermediate grade midgut neuroendocrine tumours
      (mNETs).

      General aim

      i) To determine the relative activity of CAPTEM/PRRT in biopsy-proven, low to intermediate
      grade, unresectable, metastatic 68Ga-octreotate PET-avid NETs in the following parallel phase
      II studies: Group A: pNETs and Group B: mNETs.

      ii) To inform future comparative phase III RCTs to determine the optimal therapies in pNETs
      and mNETs.

      Design

      Two parallel non-comparative group randomised, controlled, multi-centre phase II, 2 arm
      open-label controlled trials with 2:1 allocation (experimental : control)

        1. Study A: pNETs: PRRT/CAPTEM vs. CAPTEM (control)

        2. Study B: mNETs: PRRT/CAPTEM vs. PRRT (control)

      Randomisation will be performed using the method of minimisation.

      Patients will be stratified by:

        -  Previous systemic therapy regimens (0,1 v 2)

        -  WHO tumour grade: Low Grade - G1 (Ki67<3% (mitotic count <2)) vs. Intermediate Grade -
           G2 (Ki67 3-20% (mitotic count 2-20))

        -  visceral only vs. visceral with bone metastases

        -  Treating institution

      Population

      The target population for this study is consenting adult patients with advanced, unresectable
      low or intermediate grade (Ki-67<20%) midgut neuroendocrine tumours (mNETs) or pancreatic
      neuroendocrine tumours (pNETs ), who have received ≤ 2 prior systemic therapies for advanced
      unresectable disease (including long acting somatostatin analogues).

      Assessments

        -  Patients will be assessed at each treatment cycle for toxicity

        -  CT including a 3 phase contrast CT of the liver will be undertaken at baseline, then
           every 2 months (pNET) or every 4 months (pNET) until radiologic progression by RECIST
           v1.1.

        -  68Ga-DOTATATE PET CT Scan will be undertaken at baseline, then every 4 months until
           radiologic progression by RECIST v1.1.

        -  18F-FDG PET Scan may be performed at the discretion of treating clinician at baseline,
           then every 2 months until radiologic progression by RECIST v1.1) for G2 NETS.

        -  24-h whole-body planar gamma imaging will be undertaken on the day after administration
           of PRRT (every 2 months).

        -  Serum biomarkers will be undertaken every 4 months until disease progression.

        -  Quality of life assessments will be undertaken at every 2 months until disease
           progression using QLC C30 and QLQ-GINET21.

        -  Health utilities will be evaluated with EQ-5D-5L every 2 months until completion of
           study follow up.

      Statistical considerations

      Both studies are based on a Simon's two-stage design and are randomised using a 2:1
      randomisation (Experimental: Control). A mix of approximately 30% G1 patients and 70% G2
      patients is expected.

      Study A, pNETs (n=90) will have 80% power with 95% confidence interval to exclude a 12 months
      PFS of 60% in favour of a more interesting rate of 77% in the experimental arm.

      For Study B, mNETs (n=75), the PFS at 24 months in the control arm is expected to be 52%.
      Thus study B will have 80% power with 95% confidence interval to demonstrate a PFS rate at 24
      months of 70% in experimental arm, a result that would warrant further investigation.

      A total sample size of 165 patients for the two studies will be accrued over 2 years.

      Patients will be followed up for a minimum of 2 years.
    
  