
    
      Background. Caries of the root surface (root caries) is the most prevalent type of dental
      caries in older adults with a reportedly worrisome trend to increase, as more teeth are being
      retained. Dental caries is the leading causes of tooth loss among older adults. Fluoride has
      been successfully used in preventive programs for root caries. In addition to preventing root
      caries, fluoride-based therapies may be used to treat lesions. This approach is known as
      non-invasive treatment. Fluoride seems to arrest and promote remineralization of the lesions.
      Indeed, recent studies appear to indicate that, higher fluoride concentrations are more
      effective to prevent and to treat the disease. Dentifrices with high concentrations of
      fluoride appear to be the most rational approach to prevent and treat root caries. To the
      chemical effect of fluoride, toothbrushing adds mechanical removal of the dental biofilm.
      High concentration fluoride varnishes have also been proposed as effective in treating
      carious lesions. Whether dentifrices, varnishes or the combined use of varnish and
      fluoridated toothpaste result more effective is a matter of controversy and it needs to be
      elucidated. Non-invasive treatment avoids the complications inherent to treating frail people
      in a dental setting, decrease costs and importantly, allows increased coverage, as these
      therapies may be delivered by non-dentist personnel. Although the appealing idea of
      non-invasive treatment of root caries in older adults, evidence is still limited and more
      research appears necessary to both, confirm clinical success and elucidate the mechanisms
      involved in lesion arrestment.

      Aim. To determine the effectiveness of non-invasive therapies for root caries and their
      impact in the quality of life of older adults.

      Methodology. A double blind randomized controlled trial (RCT) on independently-living older
      adults aged sixty or more years is proposed. Subjects will undergo clinical and
      microbiological examination when recruited (baseline) with a six-month follow-up regime until
      completion of two years. To participate, subjects will have to have at least five teeth with
      exposed root surfaces and one carious lesion. Sample size was calculated and a sample of
      two-hundred and eighty-eight older adults is necessary, randomized into two study arms;

      Group 1: toothpaste 1.450 ppm F-

      Group 2: toothpaste 5.000 ppm F-

      Dependent variables. Root caries incidence and activity, cariogenic bacteria and oral
      health-related quality of life will be assessed upon completion of the study and compared
      with baseline scores.

      Expected results. Based on some previous data available, it is expected that a non-invasive
      therapy for root caries based on low-fluoride concentration will be less effective than high
      fluoride therapies in inactivating root caries lesions. These results may be used in novel
      therapeutic programs at the community level, as well as in private practice. Furthermore,
      these studies will shed light on potential mechanisms associated with non-invasive treatment
      of root caries, from a microbiology stand point. Since a non-invasive approach decreases
      costs and increases coverage of dental care for older adults, these results may contribute to
      increase access to care for the usually vulnerable population of older adults.
    
  