
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish the safety and describe adverse effects associated with administration of the
      adult recommended dose of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in each stratum separately.

      II. To estimate the sustained objective response rate, (complete response [CR] + partial
      response [PR], sustained for at least 9 weeks) associated with pembrolizumab (MK-3475)
      treatment for pediatric patients with recurrent, progressive or refractory diffuse intrinsic
      pontine glioma (DIPG), non-brainstem high grade glioma (NB-HGG), ependymoma or
      medulloblastoma.

      III. To establish the safety and describe adverse effects associated with administration of
      the adult recommended dose of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in pediatric patients with progressive
      or recurrent hypermutated tumors, including those with constitutional mismatch-repair
      deficiency (CMMRD) syndrome.

      IV. To estimate the sustained response rate of pediatric patients with progressive or
      recurrent hypermutated NB-HGG, including those with CMMRD syndrome, treated with
      pembrolizumab (MK-3475).

      V. To determine changes in the immunophenotypic profile of PD-1hi CD8+ T cells from serial
      peripheral blood samples obtained before and during treatment with pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in
      pediatric patients with hypermutated brain tumors, including those with CMMRD syndrome.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the relationship between outcome (response and progression-free survival) and
      potential biomarkers, including PD-L1 expression, patient immunophenotype, ribonucleic acid
      (RNA) signature profile, mutational profile, tumor gene expression and circulating tumor
      deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA).

      II. To estimate the duration of objective response in patients with measurable disease at
      baseline and estimate progression-free/event-free/overall survival for patients in each
      stratum treated with pembrolizumab (MK-3475).

      III. To evaluate PD-L1 expression on archival tissue obtained from pediatric patients with
      eligible primary central nervous system (CNS) tumors.

      IV. To examine the ability of quantitative magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy and
      diffusion/weighted imaging/apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) mapping to provide early
      assessment of tumor behavior and specifically distinguish pseudoprogression/tumor
      inflammation from tumor progression.

      V. To explore the use of serial MR permeability (dynamic contrast-enhanced [DCE]) and MR
      perfusion (dynamic susceptibility contrast [DSC]) to determine if elevated relative cerebral
      blood volume (rCBV) and transfer coefficient (ktrans) can distinguish pseudoprogression/tumor
      inflammation from tumor progression in tumors treated on this protocol.

      VI. To characterize biomarkers, patient immunophenotyping, mutational load (as determined by
      whole exome sequencing), the tumor gene expression profile and ctDNA in patients receiving
      pembrolizumab (MK-3475).

      VII. To estimate the duration of objective response, progression-free survival/event free
      survival and document overall survival of pediatric patients with progressive or recurrent
      hypermutated NB-HGG, including those with CMMRD syndrome, treated with pembrolizumab
      (MK-3475).

      VIII. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) of all patients enrolled on stratum C
      and sustained objective response rate of pediatric patients with hypermutated progressive low
      grade gliomas including those with CMMRD, treated with pembrolizumab (MK-3475).

      IX. To categorize the T-cell receptor repertoire in PD-1+ cells obtained from peripheral
      blood or from tumor tissue, when available, before and after treatment with pembrolizumab
      (MK-3475) in pediatric patients treated in stratum C (hypermutated brain tumors).

      X. To define the specificity of T-cell receptors against tumor antigens identified in
      objective IX.

      XI. To characterize functional features of T-cell populations after pembrolizumab (MK-3475)
      treatment and relate these findings to epigenetic programs within these cells.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for 34 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for
      1 year, then every 6 months for up to 3 years.
    
  