
    
      There is a clear survival benefit with the use of adjuvant cytotoxic therapy for most women
      with invasive breast cancer, even in those who have hormone receptor positive disease and
      receive adjuvant hormonal therapy with tamoxifen.1 In addition, several trials have shown a
      benefit for anthracycline based regimens over the more classic combination of
      cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil.1-4 The improved efficacy with taxanes in
      the adjuvant setting has more recently been demonstrated for patients with lymph-node
      positive disease.5-8 Despite clear survival benefits with cytotoxic therapy, the 10
      year-disease specific mortality remains suboptimal at 69-78% and 49-53% for patients with and
      without lymph node involvement, respectively.9

      Of the 180,000 women diagnosed with breast cancer in the United States, about one-fourth are
      pre-menopausal.10-13 Breast cancer clearly represents one of the most commonly diagnosed
      malignancies in this patient population. With the common use of adjuvant chemotherapy,
      long-term sequelae of treatment are becoming increasingly important. In addition to the acute
      toxicities of anthracycline and cyclophosphamide-based regimens,5 one side effect with both
      psycho-social and physical implications is pre-mature menopause.13-17 The frequency of
      menopause induced by poly-agent chemotherapy ranges from 34-89%.16,18,19 Multiple factors
      (both patient and drug-related) play a role in explaining this large variability. The age of
      the patient (at time of therapy),13,19,20 type of chemotherapy drugs,18,21 and duration and
      intensity22 of therapy all influence the overall likelihood of a patient prematurely entering
      menopause after therapy. In a previously reported study, age and systemic therapy were
      important variables in determining menopause in women with loco-regional breast cancer in
      multivariate analysis.19 Women with advancing age had a higher rate of menopause as expected.
      Hormonal therapy, and to a much greater degree, systemic therapy predicted early menopause.
      The combination of systemic and hormonal therapy appeared to have an additive effect on
      induction of menopause. Of importance, however, the added impact of hormonal therapy (when
      added to cytotoxic therapy) appears to play a minimal role in the induction of menopause when
      compared to cytotoxic therapy alone. It is also likely that intrinsic host genetic
      variability may also play a role as well. The variable ability to metabolize and clear a drug
      may, in part, affect efficacy and toxicity of these drugs and may ultimately impact the
      effect of the drug on ovarian function. One important example of this relates to
      polymorphisms in enzymes important in the clearance of the described drugs. To date, little
      work has been done to understand the importance of inter-individual, host specific
      variability on the risk of a breast cancer patient experiencing drug-induced, pre-mature
      menopause.
    
  