
    
      Background

      Multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) is the most recent addition to the arsenal of
      cardiac imaging modalities. With its unparalleled spatial resolution and well established
      techniques for contrast enhancement using conventional iodine-based agents, it allows
      visualization of coronary arteries and is thus increasingly used as an alternative to
      invasive coronary angiography (ICA) (de Roos A. et al. 07,Deetjen et al. 07,Schroeder et al.
      08). The diagnostic value of noninvasive coronary angiography (CTCA) has been established
      against conventional techniques used for the diagnosis and evaluation of coronary artery
      disease (CAD), including ICA (Budoff et al. 07,Leber et al. 05,Raff et al. 05,Rubinshtein et
      al. 07) and SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) (Hacker et al. 07,Rubinshtein et al.
      07,Schuijf et al. 06). Nevertheless, the physiological significance of intermediate grade
      stenosis detected by CTCA in individual patients is unknown and such patients are routinely
      referred for stress testing in order to define individual therapeutic strategy. It has been
      suggested that intramyocardial distribution of contrast during the arterial phase of
      enhancement may be related to myocardial perfusion (Cury et al. 07). Several studies have
      demonstrated hypo-enhanced areas corresponding to myocardial scar tissue in a small number of
      patients post myocardial infarction (MI) (Gerber et al. 06,Henneman et al. 06,Mahnken et al.
      05,Nieman et al. 06,Nikolaou et al. 05), and in animal models of acute MI (George et al.
      07,Gerber et al. 06,Hoffmann et al. 04,Lardo et al. 06). Our hypothesis is that perfusion
      information, which can be extracted from images acquired for CTCA without additional
      radiation exposure or contrast load, could be a useful addition to the MDCT evaluation of
      ischemic heart disease (IHD).

      Accordingly, we recently completed a study designed to determine the value of MDCT assessment
      of resting myocardial perfusion in consecutive patients referred to CTCA. In this study, we
      developed and tested a new technique for quantitative assessment of myocardial perfusion
      based on analysis of MDCT images acquired for CTCA. The accuracy of resting MDCT perfusion
      was tested against ICA as well as MPI. Both protocols included a detailed investigation of
      the sources of inter-technique discordance.

      Comparisons against ICA revealed that the majority of perfusion abnormalities detected on
      MDCT images at rest were associated with either prior MI, as previously reported (Gerber et
      al. 06,Henneman et al. 06,Mahnken et al. 05,Nieman et al. 06,Nikolaou et al. 05), or reduced
      blood supply secondary to significant stenosis. This previously unknown finding may have
      important clinical implications in the context of detection of myocardial ischemia. Although
      comparisons against resting MPI data showed high levels of agreement, we noted a large number
      of perfusion defects that were not confirmed by resting MPI. These apparent "false positive"
      findings were found to be either directly related to suboptimal image quality or were true
      positives when compared to stress MPI. This latter surprising finding may probably be
      explained by the effects of nitroglycerin used during MDCT imaging, as well as possible
      vasodilating effects of the iodine-based contrast media (Limbruno et al. 00), which may to
      some extent mimic those of vasodilator stress agents used during MPI, namely adenosine or
      dipyridamole.

      The main conclusion of these recent studies was that future studies are needed to explore the
      full diagnostic potential of MDCT perfusion when used in combination with vasodilator stress.

      Objectives

      Accordingly, we are planning a new study in which MDCT imaging will be performed during
      vasodilator stress in consecutive patients referred for clinically indicated CTCA. Myocardial
      perfusion will be assessed using quantitative volumetric analysis of myocardial x-ray
      attenuation and compared to either ICA or MPI findings in a subgroup of patients who also
      undergo one of these tests.

      Methods

      We will prospectively study 120 consecutive patients referred to CTCA for the evaluation of
      CAD. MDCT imaging will be performed according to the standard clinical protocol, which will
      be modified to include the vasodilator stress agent Regadenoson (Astellas Pharmaceutical)
      recently approved by the FDA for clinical use. This selective A2A agonist will be
      administered according to the manufacturer's guidelines. Imaging will be performed during its
      peak effect.

      Standard contraindications to CTCA will be observed, including known allergies to iodine,
      renal dysfunction (creatinine >1.4 mg/dL), inability to perform a 10 sec breath-hold. Images
      will be obtained using an MDCT scanner (256-channels, Philips) using retrospective
      ECG-gating. A nonionic iodinated contrast agent (Omnipaque-350, Amersham) will be injected
      into a right antecubital vein (80-120 ml depending on body weight, at 5-6 ml/sec), followed
      by a 20-50 ml chaser bolus (70% saline, 30% contrast, at 5 ml/sec). Image acquisition will be
      triggered by the appearance of contrast in the descending thoracic aorta, and performed
      during suspended respiration.

      Additional set of images will be acquired 10 min later in order to visualize delayed contrast
      enhancement, which is used to estimate viability in hypoperfused myocardium. This set of
      images will be acquired without injection of contrast or Regadenoson. Prospective ECG-gating
      will be used to obtain a single phase of a cardiac cycle in order to minimize total radiation
      dose.

      Regional MDCT perfusion measurements

      Volumetric MDCT perfusion analysis will be performed using custom software from the same
      phase of the cardiac cycle used for CTCA (75% of RR interval in most patients).
      Semi-automated detection of the endo- and epicardial surfaces will be performed based on the
      level set approach, as described previously (Corsi et al. 05), and the myocardium will be
      divided into 16 segments (6 basal, 6 mid-ventricular, 4 apical) using standard segmentation.
      In each 3D myocardial ROI, mean x-ray attenuation will be measured and divided by the mean
      attenuation measured in the corresponding ROI in the control group of normal subjects. This
      normalization will compensate for inter-segmental heterogeneity in x-ray attenuation. The
      resultant value will then multiplied by the ratio between the mean of the highest three
      attenuation values measured in the control group and in the individual patient. This
      rescaling will compensate for differences in contrast levels between patients. The resultant
      value will be used as the MDCT myocardial perfusion index.

      Objective detection of regional MDCT perfusion abnormalities

      By definition, MDCT perfusion index (subendocardial and transmural) obtained in the control
      group approximately equal to 1 in all segments. The SD of this index averaged over the 16
      segments, SD16, will be used to determine the threshold for automated detection of perfusion
      abnormalities, which will be defined as [1-SD16] for all segments. To this effect, in each
      patient, segments in which the perfusion index is below this threshold will be considered
      abnormal. A territory of an individual coronary artery will be considered abnormal when the
      perfusion index is abnormal in at least one segment. For the patient-by-patient analysis,
      abnormal perfusion will be diagnosed when at least one territory is abnormal.

      Inter-technique comparisons

      Coronary anatomy depicted on each patient's MDCT volume rendering of the heart will be used
      to determine the perfusion territory of each artery and its major branches, i.e. to assign
      each myocardial segment to the territory of a specific coronary artery. Inter-technique
      comparisons will be performed on a segment-by-segment, vascular territory and
      patient-by-patient basis. Inter-technique agreements will be assessed by counting
      concordances (true positive and true negative) as well as discordances (false positive and
      false negative) on a segment, vascular territory and patient basis. For every comparison,
      these counts will be used to calculate sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative
      predictive values (PPV, NPV) and overall accuracy.

      Anticipated results

      We anticipate that approximately 60% of the study patients will have either MPI or ICA (or
      both) data available as a reference for comparisons with MDCT. We anticipate that combining
      MDCT imaging with vasodilator stress will prove to be highly feasible and that perfusion
      abnormalities detected on MDCT images will correlate with the findings of stress MPI and/or
      ICA.

      Significance

      To our knowledge, this will be the first study to validate quantitative MDCT evaluation of
      myocardial perfusion imaging with vasodilator stress against MPI/ICA reference in consecutive
      patients referred for CTCA. Because the addition of stress perfusion information will allow
      elucidating the clinical significance of coronary lesions in the same test, such addition
      promises not only to improve the accuracy of cardiac CT in the diagnosis and evaluation of
      IHD, but is also likely to prove as a cost-effective, single-stop alternative to costly
      serial testing. We anticipate that the results of our study will support the use of this
      methodology in every patient referred for CTCA, similar to the routine use of vasodilator
      stress with MPI.
    
  