
    
      Low levels of physical activity during pregnancy constitute a significant public health issue
      as increasing evidence suggests that the mother's lifestyle during pregnancy may influence
      the future health of her child. A physically active lifestyle during pregnancy has potential
      to improve metabolic health of mother and child and thus may play an important role in
      relation to counteracting the obesity epidemic and the increasing incidence of metabolic
      diseases that escalates globally.

      However, less than four out of ten Danish pregnant women succeed to achieve 30 minutes of
      daily physical activity at moderate intensity as recommended by the Danish Health
      Authorities. The key gap in evidence and practice towards tackling the significant public
      health issue of being physically inactive during pregnancy is lack of evidence of how
      physical activity can be implemented. Only very few and scattered regional or municipal
      physical activity initiatives are currently targeting Danish pregnant women, and these are
      mainly targeted overweight women. Implementing and validating means to empower the pregnant
      women to be physically active have the potential to establish the norm of being physically
      active during pregnancy and might halt the negative spiral effect of physical inactivity,
      obesity and metabolic diseases that escalates globally.

      The aim of FitMum RCT is to evaluate the effects of structured supervised exercise training
      and motivational counseling supported by health technology on physical activity level during
      pregnancy. The two exercise programs are designed to meet the motivators and overcome the
      specific barriers for physical activity among pregnant women. The programs will be tested in
      a three-armed randomized controlled trial including 220 healthy, physically inactive,
      pregnant women.

      FitMum is carried out in collaboration between University of Copenhagen, Nordsjaellands
      Hospital, Technical University of Denmark, Aarhus University and international researchers.

      During the COVID-19 pandemic supplies of interventions and test visits are periodically
      changed. During lockdown periods, all interventions and test visits (except delivery) are
      converted into online versions. In EXE, the water exercise sessions are replaced with online
      land exercises. All land exercise sessions consist of 30 min of aerobic exercise where the
      participants exercise on their own followed by 30 min of supervised online group resistance
      training. All individual and group MOT sessions are held online. As much data as possible is
      collected during the pandemic, but in some periods, biological samples and DXA scans have
      been cancelled and participants were weighed at home.
    
  