
    
      The hospitalization of a relative in an intensive care unit is an important stress factor for
      his/ her relatives and previous studies demonstrated that 33% post traumatic disorder (PTSD)
      following the ICU stay of their loved ones. To response to this issue specific approach have
      been designed to decrease the stress of the relatives named family centered care. Those
      approaches are based on the interaction between the ICU team and the relatives and included
      large time for visiting the patient in the ward. In France the restrictive measures
      (confinement) took to combat the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic from the 17 march 2020 impacted
      negatively those family centered care approach by prohibiting the visit in ICU and limiting
      to interaction between ICU team and relatives to phone calls. The investigators thought that
      this context could have for consequence an increase in relative anxiety and PTSD. The
      investigators designed a care intervention named OLAF in order to limit the impact of the
      confinement on relative psychological state. OLAF intervention permits to the two closest
      relatives of the patient to be contacted by a psychiatrist and could benefit from a
      specialized follow up. This intervention is completed by the implementation of virtual visits
      by video conference that were proposed to the relatives as well as video interview with the
      ICU team. In this study the investigators aimed to investigated the impact of this
      intervention to prevent the PTSD in the relatives by comparing the PTSD prevalence in a group
      of relatives that loved ones were hospitalized after the confinement measure but before the
      OLAF intervention and a group of relatives that loved ones were hospitalized during the OLAF
      intervention.

      The relative will benefit from psychiatric interview 3 months after their loved ones leave
      the ICU or died to collect information by phone about the confinement situation they
      experiment, the satisfaction they had about the patient stay in ICU and their anxiety and
      depression state. Three-month, six month and twelve months after the discharge of the dead
      the relative information will be collected by phone about PTSD symptoms, anxiety and
      depression and complicated grief in case of death of the patient.
    
  