
    
      Detailed Description: This study will implement an individual randomized controlled trial.
      Eligible trainee subjects (second or third year emergency medicine or general surgery
      residents) will be randomized within each month in a 1:1 proportion to either the
      intervention (team leadership training) or control (no training) conditions. Subjects will be
      randomized each month to ensure that outcomes are not biased by opportunities for concurrent
      learning throughout the residency year. The primary outcome is team leadership during actual
      trauma resuscitations. The secondary outcome is patient care during actual trauma
      resuscitations. Primary hypotheses include that the intervention group will demonstrate
      improved leadership (H1) and patient care (H2) during actual trauma resuscitations. The
      investigators will collect baseline data (pre-intervention, first 2 weeks of the month) and
      post-intervention/control data (last 2 weeks of the month).

      Control Condition: Subjects randomized to the control condition will receive a standard
      orientation to the trauma team leader role at the start of their month in the ED. This
      orientation involves review of key administrative information, including departmental policy
      on chart completion, attendance policy, and available resources. No further formal trauma or
      team leader training will be provided for the control group.

      Intervention Condition: Subjects randomized to the intervention arm of the study will also
      receive the standard orientation to the trauma leader role at the start of their trauma
      leader month in the ED. The study coordinator will then schedule these subjects for the
      leadership training intervention to start 11-13 days after the start of the rotation.
      Subjects will attend a session where they will complete the demonstration-based training and
      simulation-based training (simulation + debriefing + additional practice, 4 hours total)
      curriculum. A Laerdal SimMan 3G patient simulator and trained confederates (team members)
      will operationalize the resuscitation scenario. The investigators will record all simulations
      to allow for video-assisted debriefing and opportunity for self-reflection.

      Trauma resuscitations will take place at Harborview Medical Center, an urban, tertiary care
      center affiliated with the University of Washington Medical Center that serves as the sole
      trauma center for a 5-state region (AK, WA, WY, MT, ID). Dedicated trauma resuscitation bays
      are equipped for all levels of trauma resuscitations. Data collection during clinical
      assessments will involve video recording of ongoing trauma resuscitations within two
      resuscitation bays. All patients presenting to the ED with a trauma-related complaint will be
      screened using inclusion and exclusion criteria (below). Criteria were chosen to ensure a
      broad representation of trauma patient care and adequate opportunity to observe team leader
      behaviors. Certain exclusion criteria (c-g) were selected to try to identify those patients
      with near 100% mortality or those inappropriate for resuscitative efforts. Additionally,
      pediatric and pregnant patients will be excluded as their team composition differs markedly
      from those involved in standard adult trauma resuscitations. Criteria will be further honed
      and tested prior to data collection to ensure eligible resuscitations are reliably identified
      and appropriate for the proposed research.

      Measures Primary Outcome: Team leadership Trained raters will code video recordings of actual
      trauma resuscitations using a team leadership rating scale that will produce a single
      leadership score for each resuscitation. Raters will be blinded to study arm and will have no
      prior history of interaction with the subject as a physician provider. Leadership rating
      dimensions will be summed and averaged to create a reliable overall indicator for each trauma
      case. Aggregation of the multiple trauma case assessments is necessary to both create
      reliable indicators across trauma cases and to align the level of the data with the unit of
      observation and the level of analysis (i.e., the subject team leader).

      Secondary Outcome: Patient care Trained raters will code video recordings of actual trauma
      resuscitations using a patient care rating scale that will produce a single patient care
      score for each resuscitation. Raters coding patient care will be distinct from those coding
      team leadership to minimize bias. Raters will be blinded to study arm and will have no prior
      history of interaction with the subject as a physician provider. Patient care rating
      dimensions will be summed and averaged to create a reliable overall indicator for each trauma
      case. Aggregation of the multiple trauma case assessments is necessary to both create
      reliable indicators across trauma cases and to align the level of the data with the unit of
      observation and the level of analysis (i.e., the subject team leader).

      Patient Outcomes (Pilot) are defined below.

      Analysis (Data Preparation)

      Leadership and patient care rating dimensions will be summed and averaged to create a
      reliable overall indicator for each primary dependent variable for each trauma case. The
      sub-dimension ratings for each factor are on the same metric, so the combination of the
      rating dimensions into an overall composite indicator is straightforward.

      Control composites for the subject (team leader) and patient will be examined. The
      investigators will first determine whether candidate control variables are associated with
      the primary criteria. Those candidate control variables that significantly relate to
      leadership behavior or patient care will be retained as controls. For retained variables, the
      investigators will first transform the raw control variable metrics into standardized scores
      to equalize their means and standard deviations. The standardized indicators will then be
      summed and averaged to compute control composites for the subject (team leader) and patient.
      Aggregation of the multiple trauma case assessments and controls (patient) is necessary to
      both create reliable indicators across trauma cases and to align the level of the data with
      the unit of observation and the level of analysis (i.e., the subject team leader).
      Aggregation of the patient outcome assessments will be accomplished by summing and averaging
      the pre- and post-interventions separately. Aggregation of the patient controls will be
      accomplished by summing and averaging the patient control composites.

      Descriptive statistics will be used to provide univariate summaries of the basic
      characteristics of the team leader subjects and patients. These summaries will also be used
      to identify outliers and to determine if randomization resulted in the composition of study
      groups with similar characteristics.

      Analysis (Primary and Secondary Outcomes) With the data prepared and aligned to the unit of
      observation, the experimental design is structured as a fixed effects two-condition pre- and
      post-intervention model. The analyses will contrast an intervention group receiving
      leadership training with a control group receiving no training, controlling for relevant
      subject (team leader) and patient factors and for pre-intervention subject performance. To
      provide a measure of control for the overall Type I experiment-wise rate the investigators
      will first conduct a Multivariate Analysis of Covariance (MANCOVA) that will assess the
      significant effect of training condition on the set of dependent variables (leadership and
      patient care). A significant effect at the designated alpha level (.05), will trigger follow
      up univariate analyses for each hypothesis (i.e., dependent variable) using Analysis of
      Covariance (ANCOVA).

      The study was powered to address the impact of leadership training on leadership. The ability
      to detect significant effects in an experiment depends on the target level of statistical
      significance (alpha), sample size, and effect sizes of the experimental treatments. Given
      that our research foci are innovative, estimating anticipated effect sizes represents the
      major challenge for conducting a power analysis. A meta-analysis of leadership
      training/development programs was consulted to estimate the effect size for leadership
      training. Based on 35 studies with a total sample size of 3389, a mean effect size (Cohen's
      d, corrected for sampling error and measurement error) of .65 was found for leadership
      training and all outcome criteria. Using this effect size, a power analysis indicated a
      sample size of 60 (30 per condition) would provide .80 power in detecting true effects.

      Pilot Outcome Analysis

      Linkage: Assessed as the proportion of patients treated by study subjects (control and
      intervention groups) linked to vital status at discharge after traumatic injury. Assessed
      will be proportions linked to each of these groups as well as overall.

      Interim Analyses: As this is a feasibility study to characterize linkage, there will be no
      formal interim analyses that would allow stopping the study for either efficacy or futility.

      Efficacy Analyses: The linkage rate will be summarized as a binomial proportion. Secondary
      measures will be summarized descriptively, as recommended for pilot studies. Sample Size: A
      sample size of 160 eligible patients will allow estimation of linkage from simulation
      intervention to hospital outcome with a precision (as measured by half-width of 95% CI) of
      7.7%.
    
  