
    
      Coronary artery surgery effectively relieves angina and prolongs life in certain patient
      subsets. It is the most frequently performed major surgical procedure and therefore has
      profound economical impact. Unfortunately angina returns in 10 to 20 percent of patients by
      five years and in up to 50 percent at 10 years primarily because of graft failure and
      progression of atherosclerosis in the native coronary arteries. Serial angiography reveals
      that 15-30 percent of vein grafts are stenosed at one year and that nearly 50 percent are
      occluded at ten years. Recurrence of angina is associated with an increased risk of late
      myocardial infarction and reoperation. Reoperations after cardiac surgery carry a
      significantly increased risk of morbidity and mortality due to increased patient age,
      progression of coronary atherosclerosis, frequently reduced left ventricular function and
      technical difficulties. Thus prevention of restenosis by medical and surgical means is of
      eminent importance.The use of the IMA as a graft to the LAD is proven to reduce long-term
      mortality in patients after CABG throughout a 15 year follow-up period in all age groups.
      This data and the further improved survival with bilateral IMA grafting suggested by some
      have increased the interest of the surgical community in total arterial revascularization
      using both IMAs and various other arterial conduits.

      However to date there is no conclusive data demonstrating a clinical benefit of total
      arterial revascularization.Reports available on complete arterial revascularisation are
      either single institution / single surgeon, retrospective or non - randomized. Data on which
      we base our daily decision making is by and large from a different surgical period with
      different techniques used. Improved understanding of the pathogenic processes leading to
      graft occlusion have led to more rigorous use of antiplatelet drugs and lipid lowering which
      may significantly improve vein graft patency rates and slow or halt progression of native
      coronary artery atherosclerosis in the future.

      The scientific hypotheses underlying this randomized multicenter trial are:

        1. With respect to the primary outcome variable "total mortality" complete arterial
           revascularisation does not cause a significantly higher mortality over 5 years of
           follow-up (as compared to conventional coronary artery surgery) i.e. non-inferiority due
           to increased tecnical complexity of the surgical procedure.

        2. In terms of the combined secondary outcome variable "cardiac death, nonfatal myocardial
           infarction and re-revascularisation (PTCA or CABG)" and additional outcome variables
           "freedom from angina, functional status and quality of life" complete arterial
           revascularisation shows a clear benefit.
    
  