
    
      TLIF (transforaminal interbody fusion) is a safe and effective treatment option for
      single-level lumbar degenerative disease. It is less invasive, yields good outcomes and has
      fewer complications after long-term follow up compared to other fusion techniques. In
      literature, many studies have compared sagittal parameters and functional outcomes in
      single-level TLIF surgery. In most literature reports, however, the fusion was performed at
      different lumbar levels, depending on the characteristics of the studied cohort. As
      demonstrated by Roussouly et. al. in the asymptomatic population, the L4 vertebra represents
      the apex of lumbar lordosis and is the most suitable site for lordosis correction. There are
      several reported surgical techniques and methods to obtain adequate lordosis correction
      during TLIF.

      At Department of Orthopaedic surgery of Ljubljana University medical centre, TLIF is
      performed using a consistent brand of instrumentation. In knee-chest position, polyaxial
      pedicle screws (Xia®, Stryker Spine, Allendale, NJ, USA), combined with a crescent-shaped
      interbody cage (T-Plus®, Pioneer Surgical Technology, Marquette, MI, USA), bilateral facet
      joint removal and laminectomy on both sides are used. Compression over the rods is performed
      to obtain adequate segmental lordosis. The angle of lordosis correction is calculated
      according Schwab's formula (ideal lumbar lordosis (LL) = pelvic incidence (PI) + 9).

      There is little published information regarding cohorts with long-term evaluation. As many
      authors suggested, changes in lordotic parameters can become clinically evident several years
      after the procedure. With this study's cohort analysis, a rarely reported link between
      spinopelvic parameters and long-term clinical evaluation will be demonstrated. Selected
      participants will be analyzed using the same protocol as preoperatively. A clinical
      examination will be made, ODI questionnaires will be administered and radiographic parameters
      on full-standing lateral radiographs, will be analyzed. Changes between preoperative and
      long-term postoperative parameters will be calculated and compared. For statistical analysis
      paired t-test and Pearson correlation will be used. All statistical tests will be two tailed
      and significance will be set at p<0.05.
    
  