
    
      The rising rate of obesity and diet-related chronic diseases illustrate that Canadians'
      eating habits need to change. Equipping Canadians with information and tools to enable
      healthy food choices that decrease risk for disease is imperative. While the Nutrition Facts
      table (NFt) is the most standardized and complete form of nutrition labelling, studies have
      shown that consumers are confused about serving size, nutrient quantities, and the
      interpretation of the % Daily Value. Thus, expert groups have proposed the introduction of
      interpretive front-of-pack (FOP) nutrition rating systems (e.g. traffic light labelling or
      star ratings) that also help consumers understand the significance of the levels of nutrients
      in relation to the "healthiness" of a food. One of the main barriers to the introduction of
      such a system is the absence of high quality studies that objectively measure the impact of
      nutrition information on actual food purchases. This is a consequence of both the practical
      challenges associated with designing and conducting such studies in 'real-world' settings,
      and the lack of food industry support to quantitatively examine or publish the potential for
      enhanced nutrition labels to modify consumer food choices. With the growing burden of
      diet-related disease, there is an urgent need for robust evidence to evaluate the potential
      for additional interpretive nutrition labelling systems to modify and improve food purchasing
      patterns. Given the relative ubiquity of mobile digital technologies, our Canadian Smartphone
      application (FoodFLIP) provides us with an unprecedented opportunity to examine and improve
      consumers' diets.

      This study will investigate whether a traffic light, a health star rating or a high-in
      warning label FOP system can help consumers identify and purchase healthier foods.

      Objective 1: To evaluate the effects of three FOP systems in helping consumers characterize
      healthfulness and nutritional content of food items.

      Objective 2: To determine which of the three FOP systems support healthier food choices and
      are preferred by Canadian consumers.
    
  