
    
      Background

      Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI) is the most frequently medical intervention
      performed worldwide. Coronary heart disease (CAD) remains the leading cause of death,
      although advances in the management of acute myocardial infarction (MI) have reduced
      in-hospital mortality from 16% in the mid-1980s to around 4 to 6%. Several breakthroughs have
      accounted for improvement of cardiovascular outcomes, including the use and further
      improvement of coronary stents and antiplatelet therapy. Regarding stents, bare metal stents
      were first introduced but associated with a high risk of restenosis, something which was
      successfully addressed by the introduction of drug-eluting stents.

      All benefits and shortcomings of newly introduced devices and drug therapies are evaluated in
      large randomized controlled trials (RCT). Registries provide useful insights into novel
      associations that cannot be addressed by RCT.

      The aim of the CARDIOBASE Bern PCI registry is to collect baseline clinical and procedural
      data as well as to assess the clinical outcomes of all patients undergoing percutaneous
      coronary intervention at Bern University Hospital. All patients undergoing PCI with or
      without stent implantation will be prospectively registered. Device use is according to the
      decision of the treating physician and independent of this registry.

      Objective

      Prospectively collect baseline clinical, procedural and clinical outcomes at discharge and
      one year in order to assess the safety and efficacy of PCI at Bern University Hospital.

      Methods

      ECGs of all patients will be analyzed and a correlation with clinical outcome data performed.
      Outcomes will be compared in different clinical subgroups. The impact of stent devices
      implanted and the anti-platelet therapy regimen on cardiovascular outcomes will be assessed.
    
  