
    
      The study will include three groups with a total of 120 participants: A) Forty testicular
      cancer patients will be included and examined 1) shortly after orchiectomy and prior to any
      further treatment and 2) at 6 months' follow- up. B) Forty prostate cancer patients will be
      included and examined at two time-points: 1) prior to initiation of medical castration and
      radiotherapy and 2) at 6 months' follow- up. C) Forty age- and education-matched healthy
      controls will be included and assessed at a similar time-interval, i.e., at an initial
      examination and at a 6 month follow-up. Measures include a battery of neuropsychological/
      cognitive tests, questionnaires, blood samples, and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI).

      Primary hypothesis

        1. Treatment-induced decreases in testosterone will be associated with decline in global
           cognitive functioning from baseline to 6 months' follow- up in both testicular and
           prostate cancer patients.

           Secondary hypotheses

        2. Treatment-induced decreases in testosterone will be associated with decline in
           individual cognitive domains (i.e., processing speed, attention, verbal fluency,
           executive functioning, working memory, verbal learning and memory, visuospatial learning
           and memory, and visuospatial ability) from baseline to 6 months' follow- up in both
           testicular and prostate cancer patients.

        3. Decline in cognitive functioning from baseline to 6 months' follow- up in both
           testicular and prostate cancer patients will correspond to changes in grey matter as
           measured by T1-weighted MRI.

        4. Decline in cognitive functioning from baseline to 6 months' follow- up in both
           testicular and prostate cancer patients will correspond to changes in brain white matter
           as measured with diffusion-weighted MRI.

        5. Treatment-induced decreases in testosterone will be more strongly associated with
           decline in cognitive functioning in prostate cancer patients compared with testicular
           cancer patients due to more advanced age in the former group.

        6. Treatment-induced decreases in testosterone will be more strongly associated with
           decline in cognitive functioning in both testicular and prostate cancer patients
           carrying the the Apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4 allele, the Val catechol-O-methyltranferase
           (COMT) allele, the Val/Val Brain- derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) genotype, and a
           short polymorphic CAG repeat length of the Androgen Receptor (AR) gene.

        7. Treatment-induced decreases in testosterone will be associated with increases in
           neurobehavioral symptoms (i.e., apathy, executive dysfunction, and disinhibition) from
           baseline to 6 months' follow- up in both testicular and prostate cancer patients.

        8. Treatment-induced decreases in testosterone will be associated with decreases in
           health-related quality of life from baseline to 6 months' follow- up in both testicular
           and prostate cancer patients.

        9. Treatment-induced decreases in testosterone will be associated with decreases in
           perceived cognitive functioning from baseline to 6 months' follow- up in both testicular
           and prostate cancer patients.
    
  