
    
      Patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on hemodialysis, in addition to their intrinsic
      kidney disease and frequent burden of comorbidities, also have increased risk of exposure to
      communicable diseases as they are treated several times each week at hemodialysis centers
      with several other patients and clinic staff in attendance. The majority of patients are over
      60 years of age and many are receiving immunosuppressive medications. Accordingly, ESRD
      patients are particularly susceptible to COVID-19 infection.

      Thymalfasin (thymosin alpha 1, Ta1) is a naturally occurring peptide that has been evaluated
      for its immunomodulatory activities and related therapeutic potential in several conditions
      and diseases, including infectious disease and cancer. ZADAXIN, a synthetic form of Ta1, been
      has been used clinically in pilot studies for treatment of severe acute respiratory syndrome
      (SARS) and other lung infections including acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), as well as infections after bone marrow
      transplant]. Larger clinical trials have shown significant efficacy for treatment of severe
      sepsis and hepatitis B, along with certain cancers such as melanoma, hepatocellular, and lung
      cancer. Ta1 has also demonstrated improvement in response to vaccines in the elderly and in
      patients immunocompromised by renal disease. The beneficial clinical effects of Ta1 result
      from activation of toll-like receptor (TLR) 9 in dendritic and other immune system cells,
      resulting in augmentation of T helper (Th1) function, natural killer (NK) cell activity, and
      increased antibody responses to T-cell dependent antigens. Importantly, Ta1 also leads to an
      increase in IL-10 producing regulatory T cells, which create feedback inhibition of cytokine
      production, hence dampening immune response and preventing a pro-inflammatory cytokine storm.

      It is our hypothesis that a course of Ta1 administered to individuals at high risk for
      COVID-19 infection (hemodialysis patients) will reduce the rate of COVID-19 infection and
      severity of infection with COVID-19, compared to untreated individuals in the same
      hemodialysis units with comparable risk. The study will also evaluate the need for
      hospitalization in those patients who do not become infected with COVID-19.
    
  