
    
      This randomized double blind placebo-controlled study will enroll approximately 80 otherwise
      healthy subjects with a diagnosis of migraine headache. All subjects will be medically stable
      at enrollment and be on a stabilized dosage of daily medications.

      The study duration will be approximately four months and the study will be divided into 3
      phases (described below). Participants will complete daily headache diaries throughout all
      phases of the study, which will assess the presence or absence of headache as well as its
      characteristics (e.g. unilateral vs. bilateral, worse with exertion, moderate to severe
      intensity, throbbing quality, presence of associated symptoms [nausea, vomiting, photophobia,
      phonophobia]. The peak severity of the headaches will also be rated on a 0-10 scale each day.
      The characteristics of the headaches will enable us to classify headache days into those with
      migraine and non-migraine headaches. A migraine day will be considered any day with a
      moderate to severe headache that has one of the following two associated symptoms: 1) both
      photophobia and phonophobia or 2) nausea or vomiting. A headache day will be defined as the
      presence of any headache regardless of its characteristics.

      Migraine preventative medications will be permitted, but no changes in dosage will be allowed
      during the four month study. Migraine abortive meds will be permitted and will be
      administered per their standard routine.

      Phase 1: During this phase, participants will complete daily headache diaries for 30 days,
      but no study medication will be given. This phase will last approximately 1 month and will
      establish a baseline for the frequency of migraine in the absence of study medication.

      Phase 2: Phase 2 will last for 1 month and represents the time period of initiation of the
      study medication. Participants will be randomized to either 2 capsules of Theramine速 BID
      (Group A) or matching placebo (Group B) in a 1:1 treatment allocation. Subjects will take the
      study medications (Theramine速 or placebo) for the duration of this phase and complete daily
      headache diaries. Participants will also complete a Headache Impact Questionnaire (HIT-6),
      which is a validated questionnaire to assess headache related disability in the last month.
      This phase will not be included in the data analysis as it may take 1 month to see a
      treatment effect after starting a preventative.

      Phase 3: Phase 3 will last 2 months and represents the time period during which the efficacy
      of Theramine速 will be determined. Participants will continue to complete headache diaries and
      will continue to Theramine速 or placebo during this phase. They will also complete a HIT-6
      questionnaire.

      There will be four study visits, which will be described below.

      Office Visit 1: Following informed consent, a physical and neurological exam and vital signs
      will be completed. A urine or serum pregnancy test will be collected by all female subjects
      of childbearing potential. Routine labs (electrolyte panel with creatinine, liver enzyme
      profile and CRP), will be collected. Eligible participants will be trained during the visit
      to complete daily headache diaries. It is anticipated that this visit will last for 2 hours.

      Office Visit 2: At Visit 2, research staff will review the diary information completed during
      phase 1. Subjects who complete a minimum of 25 out of 30 days of their daily headache diary
      will be asked to continue participation with Phase 2 of the study. They will receive 268
      capsules of study medication (enough for 67 days) and will be instructed to record any
      adverse events experienced from taking the study medication. During the office visit,
      subjects will complete the HIT-6 questionnaire. It is anticipated that this visit will last
      for 1 hour.

      Office Visit 3: At Visit 3, research staff will review the diary information completed during
      phase 1. Subjects who complete a minimum of 50 out of 60 days of their daily headache diary
      and took 80% of their study medication will be asked to complete the last month of the study.
      They will receive 134 capsules of study medication (enough for 33 days) and will be
      instructed to record any adverse events experienced from taking the study medication. During
      the office visit, subjects will complete the HIT-6 questionnaire. It is anticipated that this
      visit will last for 1 hour.

      Office Visit 4: At Visit 4, medical and medication history will be updated and adverse events
      collected. A urine or serum pregnancy test will be collected by any subjects of childbearing
      potential if study medication was taken and a blood test for CRP will be done. Pregnancy
      testing and CRP may be completed at Visit 3 if subjects will not be returning for a Visit 4.
      Study medication accountability and compliance will be assessed by counting all the pills
      that had been returned by the study participant. Subjects will complete the HIT-6
      questionnaire. It is anticipated that this visit will last for 1 hour.

      The study coordinator will contact participants by phone, email, mail or texting at least one
      time per month to schedule appointments and discuss any questions. This study is minimal risk
      and subjects will not need to return study drug if they withdraw or are withdrawn by the
      investigator. Information regarding study medication that is not returned for any reason will
      be documented in the study medication accountability log. Lost to follow up will be defined
      as any subject who has failed to contact the study coordinator after the coordinator has made
      six attempts to contact the subject over a 30 day period.

      The Investigator will access in a case-by-case basis should a subject request additional days
      to complete the study or request replacement study medication due to loss. Documentation of
      such requests and outcomes will be maintained in subject's study file.
    
  