
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, you will have the echocardiography strain
      measurement performed. This will be done while you lie on an exam table. An ultrasound
      technician will apply a vaseline-like gel to your chest and will take the measurements by
      holding a transducer (a device that resembles a microphone) against your chest, sliding it
      back and forth. This will take about 10 minutes.

      After the resting strain measurement is done, you will have the first set of nuclear images.
      This will be done just like the echocardiography strain measurement. Once these images are
      completed, you will be given regadenoson by vein over about 10 seconds. Within 2 to 4 minutes
      of receiving the regadenoson, measurements will be repeated. These measurements will take
      about 2 minutes to complete. At about 30 minutes after regadenoson was given, you will have
      the final images for the nuclear portion of the testing (this is the usual timing for nuclear
      images after regadenoson).

      You will receive the same treatment during your stress test, including the same amount of
      regadenoson, as you would if you did not take part in this study. Some participants may be
      asked to allow a repeat of the strain measurements that will include an additional dose of
      regadenoson if the first set of images are not good enough and additional images may be
      taken.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation on this study will be over 30 days after the tests OR after surgery,
      whichever occurs later. Researchers will collect information from your medical record for up
      to 30 days after your tests.

      If you have surgery or are hospitalized in the 30 days after the tests, you will be called
      and asked about any problems you have been having. This call should take about 10 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. Regadenoson is FDA approved and is routinely used for
      nuclear perfusion stress testing. The use of strain measurement during an echocardiogram to
      detect coronary disease is investigational.

      Up to 300 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  