
    
      Pretreatment phase- All participants will undergo clinician evaluation, self-report measures
      and emotional regulation tasks in TASMC. In addition, participants will undergo a functional
      and structural MRI to characterize brain network responses associated with emotional arousal
      and regulation.

      Participants will be randomized to one of two arms: (1) NF-EFP group and treatment as usual
      at out-patient clinic (TAU) or (2) TAU (without EFP-NF). If participant has a steady
      menstrual cycle she will be randomized to one of three arms: (1) NF group administered during
      low estrogen phase (and maintain TAU); (2) NF group administered during high estrogen phase
      (and maintain TAU) or (3) TAU (without EFP-NF).

      Treatment phase (10 weeks) EFP-NF training, twice a week for a total of 10 sessions. For
      participants with steady menstrual phase treatment will be administered NF during
      designated-estrogen phases (high or low).

      Treatment as usual: Participants will obtain their regular treatment regimen (pharmacological
      and psychological) and meet with a psychologist/psychiatrist following the common practice in
      the clinic.

      NF-EFP sessions: For the duration of each NF-EFP session the participant will be seated
      comfortably in front of a computer screen. A staff member will explain the goal of the
      meeting to the participant, present the equipment to be used and describe the course of the
      meeting. The EEG-NF practice will consist of four-minute segments repeated for up to 30
      minutes. During each practice segment the participant will be asked to modify visual media
      that provides feedback on the degree of successful brain training. The duration of one
      session is approximately 45 minutes.

      Post treatment phase -All participants will undergo clinician evaluation, self-report
      measures and emotional regulation tasks in TASMC. In addition, participants will undergo a
      functional and structural MRI to characterize brain network responses associated with
      emotional arousal and regulation.

      Follow up- participants will be monitored by self-evaluation questionnaires post treatment.
    
  