
    
      Given the recent legislative changes, medical cannabis has quickly garnered attention in
      clinical research as a potential pharmacotherapy to treat mood disorders, anxiety/depression
      disorders, sleep disorders and pain (neuropathic and non-cancer chronic pain)-conditions with
      often debilitating patient impact, substantive economic burden, and limited treatment
      options.

      While there is growing evidence that MC may be an effective therapeutic option for patients
      suffering from chronic medical conditions, clinical research on medical cannabis has focused
      primarily on short-term outcomes, with limited attention to long-term benefits of specific
      strains, dosing regimens or treatment modalities. In addition, patients using MC generally
      are unable to maintain a defined treatment regimen (whether defined by strain name,
      biochemical composition, or mode of ingestion) over a long period of time. Even for patients
      desiring to maintain treatment with the same regimen, it may be impossible to do so, given
      the tendency for recreational and licensed medical producers to change their strains and
      product line up without notice. Such changes complicate MC users' efforts to optimize their
      overall health outcomes, as well as researchers' ability to study long-term effectiveness and
      safety of MC in general, and specific strains in particular.

      Over the last few years, there has been an influx of new growers and an introduction of many
      new cannabis strains, each with a different representation of at least 500 known metabolites.
      Subtle changes in strain composition may have significant clinical effects. With so many
      strains available, and with limited information on strain composition and genetics, patients
      have little ability to control what they are taking over time.

      The current real-world study addresses these complexities by providing patients defined MC
      strains and products, allowing them to maintain their treatment if desired or alter its
      composition in order to identify dosing regimens that work for them. With the introduction of
      TruTrace™ verification, cannabis products can now be "genetically finger-printed" and clearly
      identified. Key information, including DNA genetics and cannabinoid and terpene compositions
      can be collated into a Master Strain Certificate. This certification can then be embedded
      into a cannabis barcode that carries comprehensive information about the strain.

      With TruTrace™ verification, product quality and genetics can now be fully tracked and traced
      throughout the supply chain, from genome to patient. Thus:

        -  Patients who want to maintain a consistent MC treatment regimen will be able to do so
           using TruTrace™ verified products

        -  When patients desire a product and/or dosing change, TruTrace™ verification provides
           them accurate information about their starting strain and other strains that could
           replace or supplement it

      This study will provide much-needed pragmatic and objective information for patients and
      their clinicians about the effectiveness of TruTrace™ verified MC products in the real-world
      setting using validated patient report outcome (PRO) tools.

      The first study, of its kind in Canada, aims to recruit 2000 participants across the country.
      Digital patient consent will occur at the time of registration on the SDM e-commerce platform
      when the study participant registers to purchase their MC and agrees to be part of the MC-RWE
      observational study.

      Once a study participant is registered in the study, they will be given access to TruTrace™
      verified medical cannabis products (i.e., dried flower, oils, extracts and other cannabis
      product as they become approved and available) on the SDM e-commerce platform. This is a
      novel innovation within the Canadian Cannabis Industry.

      Study participants will be administered a number of validated questionnaires upon study
      initiation, including an enrollment questionnaire that asks about medical history and
      specific questionnaires for pain, sleep, anxiety/depression. In addition, all participants
      will complete a health-related quality of life questionnaire.

      All questionnaires will be self-administered online at time points Baseline, 6, 12 and 24
      weeks.
    
  