
    
      While current HIV treatment with combination antiretroviral therapy (ART) has reduced
      morbidity and mortality, it does not eradicate or cure HIV infection. A possible explanation
      for this failure is the persistence of virus in long-lived reservoirs. Resting memory CD4
      cells have been proposed as providing a cellular reservoir. Most patients who initiate ART
      during chronic HIV-1 infection do not experience a detectable reduction in HIV in the latent
      reservoir; this may be due to low levels of ongoing viral replication that maintains the
      resting CD4 cell reservoir. Increasing the potency of therapy by inhibiting new viral targets
      may result in a decrease in the number of latently infected cells and clearance of the latent
      reservoir. Addition of the fusion inhibitor T-20 to ART including reverse transcriptase
      inhibitors and protease inhibitors (PIs) may help achieve this goal. This study will evaluate
      whether treatment naive, chronically infected HIV patients treated with T-20 plus
      emtricitabine (FTC), ritonavir (RTV), saquinavir (SQV), and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate
      (TDF) have a measurable decline in the latently infected CD4 cell reservoir. Patients and
      their physicians may choose different PIs than RTV and SQV, but they will not be provided by
      the study.

      Patients in this study will receive injections of T-20 twice daily in addition to oral FTC
      and TDF once daily and oral RTV and SQV twice daily. At Week 24, patients will have their
      latent cell reservoir sampled. Patients whose HIV viral loads are less than 50 copies/ml at
      or after Week 24 but prior to Week 48 will continue the treatment regimen through the end of
      the study; their latent cell reservoirs will be tested at Weeks 48, 72, and 96. Patients
      whose viral loads are between 50 copies/ml and 200 copies/ml will continue the treatment
      regimen and latent cell sampling, but their regimens may be intensified as determined by the
      study team. Patients whose viral loads are 200 copies/ml or greater after Week 24 may
      continue their study regimens, but will no longer contribute latent cell samples.

      This study will last 96 weeks. During the first 4 months of the study, patients will have 7
      study visits; after that, study visits will be every 8 weeks until the end of the study.
      Medical history, clinical assessments, and blood collection will occur at every study visit.
      Pill and ENF vial counts will be assessed, and patients will be asked to complete a
      medication adherence questionnaire at selected study visits.
    
  