
    
      Patellofemoral pain syndrome (PFPS) is the most common diagnosis among active duty military
      presenting with knee pain in the military ambulatory care setting. The incidence of PFPS has
      shown a striking increase of >11.3% over the last 4 years, affecting work performance,
      limiting activity, and impacting military deployment health. The investigators have shown
      that home-based neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) is safe, portable, easy-to-use
      and improves quadriceps muscle strength with some pain relief. NMES and transcutaneous
      electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) devices are widely used by warfighters in the theatre of
      operation for knee problems. The overall objective of this project is to compare three
      home-managed treatment regimens for PFPS: NMES, TENS, and NMES combined with TENS to a
      standard home exercise program (HEP). The central hypothesis is that the combination of NMES
      with TENS will show significantly greater improvements in muscle strength, mobility, pain,
      daily activity and quality of life (QOL) than HEP alone. The rationale for this study is that
      increasing muscle strength and decreasing pain will significantly improve mobility, physical
      activity and QOL. Such outcomes will ultimately result in improved deployability, retention
      of military personnel and decreased economic costs in this population. The specific aims are
      to determine whether the three treatment regimens are significantly more efficacious than
      standard HEP for improving muscle strength, physical activity, mobility, QOL and symptoms of
      PFPS including pain. After consent and baseline testing, the investigators will randomly
      assign active duty male and female subjects, ages 18 to <45, (n=136) with PFPS to one of the
      four groups. Each of the three treatment arms will be supplemented by HEP and compared to a
      group receiving standard HEP alone. All groups will receive 9 weeks of home therapy. Using
      GEE methods, the investigators will build longitudinal regression models so that differences
      in time trends for the outcome variables among controls and those in the treatment groups can
      be statistically assessed. Positive results could translate into accelerated rehabilitation,
      decreased symptoms and lower medical costs with better patient outcomes.
    
  