
    
      The proposed study will consider the pharmacokinetic evaluation of Trelagliptin after
      administration to Egyptian volunteers and the results will be compared with the other
      reported ethnic populations. The FDA recognizes that standard methods of defining racial
      subgroups are necessary to compare results across pharmacokinetic studies, and to assess
      potential subgroup differences. The design of the study is open labeled, one treatment, one
      period, single dose pharmacokinetic study. The main pharmacokinetic parameters which are
      Cmax, Tmax, t1/2, elimination rate constant, AUC0-t and AUC0-inf, will be estimated. Fasting
      of all volunteers will eliminate the possible interaction from food or caffeine consumption.
      The pharmacokinetic parameters of Trelagliptin will be studied in healthy human subjects
      according to the ethical regulations of World Medical Association Declaration of Helsinki
      (October 1996) and the International Conference of Harmonisation Tripartite Guideline for
      Good Clinical Practice. Written informed consent was provided (attached and signed by the six
      volunteers) in order to be approved by the ethics committee of the Faculty of Pharmacy, The
      British University in Egypt. The good health of the human subjects was confirmed by a
      complete medical history and physical examination. Samples from six, healthy, adult, male,
      smoking, Egyptian volunteers (age: 25-39 years, average weight: 89.8 kg, Average BMI: 34.2)
      will be collected at 0, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 8, 24, 48, 72, 96, 120, 144 and 168 hrs to be
      transferred to heparinized centrifuge tubes in order to be analyzed by LC-MS/MS study
      (developed & validated) after single oral dose administration of one Zafatek® tablet
      nominally containing 50 mg Trelaglipitin. The blood samples (1 mL of each sample) will be
      centrifuged at 3000 rpm for 5 minutes, The main pharmacokinetic parameters of the study which
      are Cmax, Tmax, t1/2, elimination rate constant, AUC0-t and AUC0-inf will be estimated, using
      a validated excel software. Blood glucose level will be determined for all volunteers at
      different time intervals to monitor any hypoglycemic effect. The study will be conducted as
      per FDA guidelines. The development of such correlations between trelagliptin concentrations
      and its pharmacologic responses will enable clinicians to apply pharmacokinetic principles to
      actual patient situations. The evaluation of safety of the study will be based on monitoring
      of blood glucose level, vital signs, pulse rate, monitoring of adverse events, and physical
      examination.
    
  