
    
      Potential participants (those signed up to attend the Samyama program at Isha) will be sent
      email invitations approximately 2 months prior to the program. Participants will have the
      options to take part in online surveys, blood samples, and/or stool samples. Up to 1000
      participants (attendees and spouses/significant others) may take the online surveys twice
      before the samyama program, 2 weeks after and 3 months after. Up to *200 may volunteer to
      have 4 blood draws. (Blood draws will occur 1. At home, or at an Isha group meditation, 1-2
      months prior to Samyama 2. At Isha before the start of the program 3. At Isha after the
      program 4. At home after returning from the Samyama program). 150 volunteers may also send in
      3 stool samples - 1. prior to starting the Samyama pre-prep diet 2. within one week of the
      Samyama program 3. After returning home from the program.

      Up to 50 spouses/significant others living with Samyama attendees will also be offered the
      opportunity to complete a shortened version of the online surveys, provide (2) blood and/or
      (3) stool samples. Blood would be collected at home prior to their spouses/significant
      other's Samyama attendance and in their home after the program. Requested stool samples would
      be asked to be collected approximately 1 month prior to the program, 1 week prior to the
      program and one week after the program.

      Blood samples will be sent to Indiana University and may be sent to other specialty labs for
      additional analysis. Genetic and future biomarker samples will be stored at the PI's Indiana
      University lab facilities.

      If survey participants do not complete surveys during suggested time periods, they may also
      be sent reminders (via emails) to complete surveys.

      *Only up to 150 volunteers will have at home blood draws (or blood draws at an Isha group
      meditation). Only those who participated in the pre-Samyama at home blood draws will be asked
      to participate in the post-Samyama blood draws.

      Up to 200 volunteers at Isha can participate in blood draws (regardless of whether they
      participated in at home blood draw).

      Those who complete the survey will also be asked if they have a significant other or spouse
      who lives with them who would be willing to complete surveys, and participate in blood draws
      and/or provide stool samples. Participants with willing spouses will be asked to enter an
      email address for that spouse/significant other. Spouse/significant other will be emailed the
      invitation with study information.

      Upto 25 subjects will also be enrolled in the (2)EEG and (2)fMRI Study March 19 and March 29,
      2018 (before Samyama), and between April 9th and May 9th, 2018 (after Samyama).
    
  