
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine the subset of patients with stage I or II localized, resectable colon
           cancer (pN0) at risk for developing systemic metastases.

        -  To determine the clinical and prognostic relevance of occult nodal isolated tumor cells
           and micrometastases in these patients.

        -  To determine the benefits of adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with pN0micro+ colon
           cancer.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase II feasibility study (stage 1) followed by a phase III multicenter,
      open-label, randomized, and controlled study (stage 2).

        -  Stage 1 (phase II feasibility study) After undergoing planned curative resection
           followed by ex vivo sentinel lymph node mapping (SLNM). Resected samples are examined.
           The sentinel lymph nodes of those deemed pN0 disease (no macroscopic metastases or
           angioinvasion) are further evaluated for micrometastases by serial sectioning and
           immunohistochemistry using pan-cytokeratin. pN0micro+ disease are defined as isolated
           tumor cells (ITC) < 0.2 mm or micrometastasis 0.2 - 2 mm. Patients with pN0 disease are
           followed-up once every 6 months for 3 years and then annually for 2 years.

        -  stage 2 (phase III randomized study): Patients undergo planned surgery and ex vivo SLNM
           as in stage 1. Patients with pN0micro- disease are assigned to arm C; patients with
           pN0micro+ disease are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms (arms A and B). .

             -  Arm A (pN0micro+): Patients receive oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14 and
                oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 OR oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14
                alone according to standard protocol. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 8
                courses. Patients are followed-up once every 6 months for 3 years and then annually
                for 2 years.

             -  Arm B (pN0micro+): Patients are followed-up once every 6 months for 3 years and
                then annually for 2 years.

             -  Arm C (pN0micro-): Patients are followed-up once every 6 months for 3 years and
                then annually for 2 years.

        -  .
    
  