
    
      Levofloxacin is an antibiotic that has been evaluated in clinical trials for use in the
      treatment of many types of infections including respiratory tract, urinary tract, and
      uncomplicated skin infections. Levofloxacin may be taken by mouth or administered slowly
      through a vein and has been shown to be safe and effective when administered once daily. This
      multicenter, open-label study will evaluate the safety and effectiveness of a single daily
      oral or intravenous dose of levofloxacin compared to multiple daily intravenous doses with
      another antibiotic, ticarcillin/clavulanate given alone or followed by oral
      amoxicillin/clavulanate, in the treatment of bacterial skin infections. Patients will receive
      750 mg of levofloxacin by mouth or intravenously for 7 - 14 days, or 3.1 grams of
      ticarcillin/clavulanate intravenously for 7 - 14 days. Patients receiving levofloxacin
      intravenously may be switched to receive levofloxacin by mouth; patients receiving
      ticarcillin/clavulanate intravenously may be switched to 875 mg of amoxicillin/clavulanate
      given by mouth, twice daily, if significant improvement is noted. Patients are assessed after
      3 - 4 days of treatment; treatment is discontinued if no significant improvement is noted.
      Patients showing signs of improvement continue in the study, with assessments 2 - 5 days
      (post-therapy visit) and 3 - 4 weeks (post-study visit) after completion of the study drug.
      The primary measure of effectiveness is the clinical response rate assessed 2 - 5 days after
      the last dose of antibiotic treatment, categorizing the response as cured, improved, or
      failed. Laboratory tests for the presence of bacteria are performed throughout the study.
      Safety evaluations (incidence of adverse events, physical examinations, laboratory tests) are
      performed throughout the study. The study hypothesis is that a single daily dose of
      levofloxacin is at least as effective as multiple daily doses of ticarcillin/clavulanate
      alone or followed by amoxicillin/clavulanate in the treatment of skin infections, and that it
      is well tolerated. Levofloxacin 750 mg intravenously or by mouth, once daily for 7 - 14 days,
      or ticarcillin/clavulanate 3.1 grams intravenously every 4 - 6 hours, may be switched to
      amoxicillin/clavulanate 875 mg by mouth, twice daily, total duration 7 - 14 days.
    
  