
    
      Obesity is increasingly common among reproductive aged women and women presenting for their
      first pregnancy. Women with overweight and obesity are more likely to exceed recommended
      weight gain during pregnancy and retain excess weight after delivery. Women with
      pre-pregnancy obesity, women who exceed recommended weight gain during pregnancy, and
      children who experience rapid and excess growth during the first year of life are all at risk
      for subsequent obesity. Additionally, maternal obesity is a significant risk factor for
      pregnancy complications (i.e., hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, gestational diabetes) and
      is associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes, including excess fetal weight at birth. The
      goal of this study is to test the effectiveness of active patient engagement with counseling
      for positive gain to mitigate excess weight gain in women during pregnancy and postpartum,
      and in the first six months of life. Pregnant women eligible to receive care in the Military
      Health System (MHS) will be randomized to receive either the positive-gain counseling (PGC)
      prevention program or usual care (UC). PGC is designed to empower women to examine food
      choices and activity patterns during pregnancy to help them adhere to the Institute of
      Medicine (IOM) recommended weight gain standards. PGC patients will be paired with counselors
      who follow their pregnancy from start to finish, as well as providing neonatal and infant
      support in a continuous fashion as part of team-based care. Women in the usual care (UC)
      group will receive prenatal care in accordance with the VA/DoD Guideline for the Management
      of Pregnancy. Both groups will receive routine well-child care in accordance with established
      guidelines from the American Academy of Pediatrics and the American Academy of Family
      Physicians. Routine well-child care appointments (UC) take place at 2-3 days after birth, 2
      weeks of life, 2 months of life, 4 months, 6 months, 9 months and 12 months. Participants'
      weight status, food intake, and mood will be assessed once during each trimester and at 2
      weeks, 2 months, 4 months, and 6 months postpartum. Individuals enrolled in the PGC group
      will receive specific counseling once during each trimester and at 2 weeks, 2 months, 4
      months and 6 months postpartum. Well-child sessions will focus on positive-gain-based
      cognitive strategies to promote breastfeeding, recognition of satiety cues and other healthy
      food choices. It is hypothesized that participants who receive the positive-gains counseling
      program will show significantly less weight gain in both pregnancy and infancy relative to
      those randomized to usual care.
    
  