
    
      Tocotrienol (TCT) is a natural vitamin E supplement with a long history of safe dietary
      consumption. Prior studies with Vitamin E have shown beneficial effects in patients with
      non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and cirrhosis. The primary purpose of this Phase 2 trial is
      to validate the outcome observed in an earlier trial that oral TCT attenuates the rise in
      MELD (Model For End-Stage Liver Disease) score over time in patients with cirrhosis. Outcomes
      of this trail will direct the design of a future larger multi-center trial.

      Study participation will last 3 years. Subjects will be seen for an initial visit, at which
      consent will be obtained and baseline labs drawn, followed by a Randomization visit 2-14 days
      later after MELD criteria have been confirmed. If the acceptable labs have not been drawn per
      standard of care to calculate a MELD score within 90 days before the initial visit, the
      subject will complete the initial visit as planned, but will then return for a repeat lab
      draw 60 days later to confirm MELD criteria for eligibility before continuing to the
      randomization visit.

      Enrollment occurs when a subject meets all criteria and is randomized into one of the
      treatment groups. Subjects will then be seen in the research office by research personnel at
      1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks, 1 month, 2 months, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, 18 months, 2 years,
      and 3 years. Subject compliance with supplements will be closely followed, as compliance is
      critical for accurate data. Given the small sample size, subjects who are less than 75%
      compliant at two consecutive study visits will be discontinued from the study. Subjects will
      be discontinued if their MELD score increases by more than 25% between 2 consecutive visits
      or if they receive an organ transplant. Subjects will be declared lost to follow-up (LTFU) if
      a study visit is unable to be scheduled and completed after 4 documented attempts to contact
      a subject with no response. In this circumstance, a certified letter will be mailed to the
      subject's last known address; if no response is received, the subject is LTFU. All subjects
      discontinued or LTFU before the end of 1 year of study participation will be replaced (see
      protocol to review study visit activities that will occur). At the Randomization Visit,
      enrolled subjects will be randomized into one of two treatment groups in a 1:1 manner. Group
      1: Placebo vehicle; (2) placebo capsules following AM meal, (2) placebo capsules following PM
      meal Group 2: 800mg TCT; (2) 200mg TCT capsules following AM meal, (2) 200mg TCT capsules
      following PM meal.
    
  