
    
      1. SPECT imaging protocol and analysis Stress tests and SPECTs are performed according to
           the routine protocols in use in our center. Briefly, at peak stress, patients were
           injected with thallium-201. Five to 10 minutes after stress, a 5-minutes supine
           acquisition was performed followed by a 5-minutes prone acquisition. Subsequently,
           technetium-99m-sestamibi was injected, and 2 minutes later a single 5-minutes rest
           acquisition was performed. During stress acquisition, patients were imaged in supine and
           prone positions with their arms positioned over their head. The rest acquisition was
           only acquired in supine position. The gated SPECT studies were performed at each
           acquisition. Injected activity (IA) was adjusted for patient weight. For weights of <80
           kg/ 80-100 kg/>100 kg, thallium-201 IAs were 74/92/111 MBq and technetium-99m-sestamibi
           IAs were 300/370/450 MBq, respectively. A uniform imaging pre-treatment for the
           reconstruction of raw myocardial perfusion imaging data was applied, and images were
           reconstructed and reoriented to obtain transaxial sections of the left ventricle
           according to the three standard cardiac planes.

        2. In this study, we use a new mathematic technique from entropy analysis to provide
           precise, objective, automated quantification of perfusion heterogeneity at stress with
           camera SPECT. This method may be a non-invasive imaging to assess coronary microvascular
           dysfunction.

        3. Air pollution exposure (particule matters and gaz) is estimated by SIRANE dispersion
           models validated by Air Rhône-Alpes, our regional agency tasked with protecting and
           managing the ambient air quality. The dispersion models are used to estimate the
           downwind ambient concentration of air pollutants or toxins emitted from sources such as
           industrial plants, vehicular traffic or accidental chemical releases.

      Air pollution is estimated for each patient thanks to their postal private and professional
      adresses for different windows of exposure :

        -  short term windows (2hours to 7 days before the MP-SPECT and cardiovascular events).

        -  long term windows (1 - 5 years before the MP-SPECT and before cardiovascular events)
    
  