
    
      Hematologic malignancies affecting blood, bone marrow and lymph nodes comprise neoplasm of
      either myeloid or lymphoid blood stem cells origin. While a lymphoid stem cell becomes a
      white blood cell, a myeloid stem cell becomes one of the red blood cells, white blood cells
      or platelets types. Due to the this reason, defects in myeloid stem cells result in acute and
      chronic myelogenous leukemia, myelodysplastic syndromes or myeloproliferative diseases,
      whereas defects in lymphoid stem cells result in lymphomas, lymphocytic leukemias or myeloma.
      On the other hand, most of these hematologic malignancies are characterized with high rate of
      morbidity and mortality because of both the nature and various toxic treatments of neoplasm
      including chemotherapy with multiple agents, corticosteroids and hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (HSCT). Especially after allogeneic-HSCT, recipients experience more
      impairments in pulmonary functions, respiratory and peripheral muscle strength, exercise
      capacity, perception of fatigue and quality of life scores which make their lives difficult
      in terms of actively trying to return to the their life. However, although it has been known
      that each hematologic disease has a different negative impact on varied body systems or
      organs after HSCT, little attention has been paid to the comparatively investigation of
      impacts of myeloid and lymphoid hematological malignancies on pulmonary functions, muscle
      strength, exercise capacity, fatigue and quality of life in allogeneic-HSCT recipients.
      Hence, current study aimed to comparatively investigate physical impairments between
      recipients with hematologic malignancies according to myeloid and lymphoid type disorder.

      Recipients undergone allogeneic-HSCT (˃100 days post-HSCT status) were included. Hematologic
      malignancies were grouped as myeloid and lymphoid. Pulmonary functions (spirometry),
      peripheral (dynamometer) and respiratory muscle strength (MIP-MEP) (mouth pressure device),
      exercise capacity (Modified Incremental Shuttle Walk Test (ISWT)), and quality of life
      (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire)
      were evaluated.
    
  