
    
      Low grade gliomas, according to the 2007 WHO classification of tumors of the central nervous
      system, include astrocytomas, oligodendrogliomas, and oligoastrocytomas. It contributes to
      25% of diffuse gliomas and 15% of all gliomas in adults. The majority of age group that is
      the most vulnerable to this neoplasm is from 30-45 years old. Median survival is usually 5-12
      years, but can be prolonged up to 20 years under optimal treatment strategies. National
      Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) and Chinese Guideline for Gliomas 2012 both point out
      that for LGG patients in low-risk group (oligodendrogliomas or oligoastrocytomas; no more
      than 40 years old; KPS 80 and higher; tumor size less than 6cm; no or minor neurological
      deficits), "wait and see" strategy could be considered after gross total resection; but when
      the tumors are in eloquent areas so that gross total resections are not applicable, the
      standard strategies for this specific group of patients are maximum safely resection with
      adjuvant treatments (radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy). Conventionally, radiotherapy is used
      as adjuvant treatment after surgeries. However, a recent phase III randomized trial comparing
      early versus later irradiation has demonstrated that early adjuvant radiotherapy had no
      significant impact on overall survival. Moreover, radiotherapy brings as much side effects as
      its control of tumor recurrence. It inevitably jeopardizes patients, especially young ones,
      with post-radiation cognitive deficits, which impair their social functions. On the other
      hand, chemotherapy could be a safer adjuvant treatment for LGG. Several phase II and III
      studies demonstrated that single chemotherapy is effective for treating LGG, with 50-75%
      response rate (including minor response), and 24-48 months of median duration of response.PCV
      regimen (procarbazine-CCNU-vincristine), which is administrated intravenously, used to be
      considered standard for LGG (oligodendrogliomas and oligoastrocytomas) chemotherapy, but now
      temozolomide (TMZ), an oral alkylating agent, with relatively less side effects than PCV
      regimen, is gaining gradual acceptance. Now we propose up-front adjuvant chemotherapy to
      achieve the effect of early tumor control as well as avoidance or postponement of adverse
      effects caused by premature adjuvant radiotherapy.

      As for different schedules of temozolomide, a systematic review suggested an indication that
      metronomic regimens of TMZ (75 mg/m2/day for 21 days repeated every 4 weeks) result in better
      PFS and response rate when compared to the conventional standard 5 day regimen (200 mg/m2/day
      for 5 days, repeated every 4 weeks), despite of insufficient available data and study
      heterogeneity, thus justifying future well designed trials to verify the efficacy of the
      metronomic regimen. More frequent administration of TMZ will lead to MGMT (O6-methylguanine
      DNA methyl transferase) depletion and render higher levels of O6-methylated DNA adducts, thus
      reducing the chemotherapeutic resistance.

      The spontaneous behavior of LGGs, as well as their response to therapy, is difficult to
      predict, and their outcome is highly variable. These clinical features are closely relevant
      to their genetic characteristics, including IDH (isocitrate dehydrogenase) gene, with 2
      subtypes, IDH1 and IDH2 (less common). These genetic mutations occur in more than 70% primary
      LGGs. And its prognostic significance of gliomas has been reported in the New England Journal
      of Medicine, Journal of Clinical Oncology, and Neuro-oncology. A retrospective study
      suggested its predictive value of high LGGs sensitivity to TMZ. Basic research provided us
      the rationale that overexpression of wild IDH1 gene resulted in chemotherapy resistance to a
      high dose of TMZ in vivo and in vitro, while IDH1 mutation caused cell cycle arrest in G1
      stage, with a compromised ability of proliferation and invasion, raising sensitivity to
      chemotherapy.

      During our previous clinical practice, it is interesting to reveal the consistence of IDH
      mutation, MGMT methylation and 1p19q co-deletion in WHO Grade II and Grade III gliomas. It
      theoretically acknowledged potential higher sensitivity of TMZ chemotherapy in LGGs.

      In order to verify the predictive significance of IDH mutation for a higher sensitivity of
      LGGs in eloquent areas which entail gross total resection inapplicable, higher level of
      evidence should be provided. And recent RANO (response assessment in neuro-oncology) revised
      guidelines for evaluations of objective response rate, cognitive functions, and quality of
      life have better facilitated standard trials.
    
  