
    
      GOAL

      To improve the health and health equity of Indigenous peoples by strengthening the
      effectiveness, sustainability and scalability of a promising community-driven and
      culturally-relevant quality improvement strategy through meaningful conversations and
      engagement with our community partners.

      OBJECTIVES

        1. Engage community partners and key stakeholders to support meaningful participation and
           leadership

        2. Review, improve and adapt the diabetes quality improvement strategy with community
           partners

        3. Evaluate the effectiveness of the adapted diabetes quality improvement strategy

        4. Develop community-driven plans for sustainability and scale-up for the adapted diabetes
           quality improvement strategy

      WHY IS PATHWAYS IMPORTANT?

      In Canada, there are significant inequalities between the health status of Indigenous peoples
      and the general population concerning diabetes. Community-driven initiatives using promising
      diabetes quality improvement strategies can potentially reform local healthcare in Indigenous
      communities and improve care for those living with diabetes.

      WHAT IS INVOLVED IN PATHWAYS?

      Community-based champions called Community Facilitators and Community Data Coordinators will
      be trained to provide leadership and support to community-based teams to make priority
      improvements to diabetes programs/ services and clinical care. The 18-month quality
      improvement intervention includes:

        -  educational workshops on diabetes and quality improvement

        -  support, communication, and coaching for action planning and quality improvement

        -  readiness consultation tools

        -  diabetes registry & surveillance system

      An evaluation consisting of interviews and questionnaires may be used to understand the
      process of adapting the diabetes quality improvement strategy to each community's context and
      factors that influence the program's success.

      Our strong, multidisciplinary and cross-jurisdictional PATHWAYS Team includes Indigenous
      community representatives and healthcare providers, nonIndigenous healthcare providers,
      clinician scientists and academic researchers, as well as policy decision-makers and
      knowledge-user organizations.

      The timely program will provide community leaders and knowledge-users with policy
      recommendations and a quality improvement strategy that can be implemented, sustained and
      spread to Indigenous community settings and regions across Canada and internationally.

      COMMUNITY PARTNERS

      Four community partners will be engaged and will partner in the Pathways program (two in
      Ontario and two in Atlantic Canada). Formal Community Research Agreements will represent
      participation and partnership.
    
  