
    
      Inequalities in the quality and accessibility of healthcare between urban centers and rural
      areas is a global challenge that is particularly stark for low and middle-income countries
      (LMIC). Maternal and child health (MCH) in rural South Africa is negatively impacted by large
      distances, poor infrastructure, and a shortage of healthcare workers at clinics and
      hospitals.

      Home visiting has been repeatedly demonstrated efficacious in addressing some of these
      challenges and improving MCH outcomes, including when delivered by CHW in LMIC. However,
      there is limited research on the effectiveness of implementing these types of programs in
      rural areas.

      The investigators have shown that with training, supervision, and accountability, CHW home
      visits are effective in improving MCH over the first five years of life. These results were
      observed in a successful randomized controlled trial conducted in peri-urban townships in
      Cape Town, South Africa. CHW were trained to address HIV, alcohol, and malnutrition among all
      pregnant women in a neighborhood, to avoid stigma, and to address multiple health challenges
      concurrently. The visits significantly improved MCH outcomes over five years. Based on these
      results, this comprehensive CHW home visiting program served as one model for re-engineering
      primary health care to include 65,000 paraprofessionals providing home-based care in South
      Africa.

      This early phase two comparison trial examines whether the same comprehensive CHW home
      visiting program can be effectively implemented in a deeply rural area of the Eastern Cape in
      South Africa. Two matched cohorts of women and their children, one in areas where the
      comprehensive CHW program has been active for one year and one in areas without the program,
      will be followed from pregnancy through the first 12 months after giving birth. Stellenbosch
      University interviewers will independently assess outcomes of each mother at pregnancy, and
      of the mothers and infants within two weeks of post-birth, 6 months, and 12 months later. The
      primary outcomes are a combined measures of maternal and child health including maternal HIV
      testing, depression, and alcohol use, as well as the child's nutrition, physical growth,
      development, and healthcare and a measure of how MLH comply with tasks for PMTCT.
    
  