
    
      In the Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS), the risk of malaria infection is often due not to
      village-based transmission but rather to occupational and behavioral risk factors leading to
      exposure in forest settings. Additionally, a substantial portion of infections are
      asymptomatic and/or submicroscopic, limiting the scope of current diagnostics and
      surveillance approaches. The proposed research will evaluate the effectiveness of reactive
      case detection (RACD) using highly-sensitive rapid diagnostic tests (HS-RDTs), targeting both
      village and forest working populations, compared to control for reducing the health center
      catchment-level incidence and prevalence of P. falciparum and P. vivax within two provinces
      in Lao People's Democratic Republic.

      To test this hypothesis, this study will employ a cluster randomized controlled trial design
      with two comparison arms: (1) Control: standard of care - passive case management provided
      through community-based Village Malaria Workers (VMWs) and existing health facilities;
      includes village-based RACD with conventional rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) conducted by
      district surveillance teams and (2) enhanced community-based RACD: RACD conducted by
      community-based VMWs using both HS-RDTs and conventional RDTs within villages and among
      forest workers.

      The primary outcome measures to assess effectiveness include P. falciparum and P. vivax
      confirmed case incidence over the study period; PCR-based P. falciparum and P. vivax
      prevalence at end line; and HS-RDT test positivity rate in village and forest worker RACD.
      Secondary outcomes measures will examine the operational feasibility, safety, and
      acceptability of VMW-led reactive approaches and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD)
      testing, referral to district or provincial-level facilities, safety and treatment adherence
      for P. vivax cases.
    
  