
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the event-free survival (EFS) in children with stage I (non-pure fetal
      histology [PFH], non-small cell undifferentiated [SCU]) and stage II (non-SCU) hepatoblastoma
      treated with surgical resection followed by 2 cycles of cisplatin, fluorouracil, and
      vincristine sulfate (C5V).

      II. To determine the feasibility and toxicity of adding doxorubicin (doxorubicin
      hydrochloride) to the chemotherapy regimen of C5V for children with intermediate-risk
      hepatoblastoma.

      III. To estimate the response rate to vincristine (vincristine sulfate), irinotecan
      (irinotecan hydrochloride), and temsirolimus in previously untreated children with high-risk,
      metastatic hepatoblastoma.

      IV. To determine whether timely (between diagnosis and end of second cycle of chemotherapy)
      consultation with a treatment center with surgical expertise in major pediatric liver
      resection and transplant can be achieved in 70% of patients with potentially unresectable
      hepatoblastoma.

      V. To foster the collection of tumor tissue and biologic samples to facilitate translational
      research and to provide data that may aid in risk-adapted approaches for subsequent clinical
      trials.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the EFS of patients with stage I PFH treated with surgery alone. II. To
      determine whether orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) can be accomplished after successful
      referral and completion of 4 cycles of initial chemotherapy.

      III. To estimate the 2-year EFS for patients once identified as candidates for possible OLT,
      the 2-year EFS for patients referred to a transplant center that are resected without OLT,
      and the 2-year EFS for patients referred to a transplant center who receive OLT.

      IV. To register children with hepatoblastoma who receive OLT with PLUTO (Pediatric Liver
      Unresectable Tumor Observatory), an international cooperative registry for children
      transplanted for liver tumors.

      V. To determine if pretreatment extent of disease (PRETEXT) grouping can predict tumor
      resectability.

      VI. To monitor the concordance between institutional assessment of PRETEXT grouping and
      PRETEXT grouping as performed by expert panel review.

      VII. To estimate the proportion of stage IV patients who have surgical resection of
      metastatic pulmonary lesions.

      VIII. To determine the proportion and estimate the EFS of patients with potentially poor
      prognostic factors including alpha fetoprotein (AFP) < 100 ng/mL at diagnosis, microscopic
      positive surgical margins, surgical complications, multifocal tumors, microscopic vascular
      invasion, macrotrabecular histologic subtype, and SCU histologic subtype.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 4 treatment groups according to risk group.

      VERY LOW-RISK GROUP: Patients undergo surgery and receive no further treatment.

      LOW-RISK GROUP: (regimen T) Patients undergo surgery and then receive adjuvant cisplatin
      intravenously (IV) over 6 hours on day 1, fluorouracil IV over 2-4 minutes on day 2, and
      vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on days 2, 9, and 16. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      INTERMEDIATE-RISK GROUP: (regimen F) (closed to accrual as of 3/12/2012) Patients receive
      C5VD chemotherapy comprising cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1, fluorouracil IV over 2-4
      minutes on day 2, vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on days 2, 9, and 16, and doxorubicin
      hydrochloride IV over 15 minutes on days 1-2. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo
      surgical resection after course 2 OR surgical resection or liver transplantation after course
      4 of C5VD. Patients may also receive dexrazoxane IV over 5-15 minutes on days 1-2 of courses
      5 and 6.

      HIGH-RISK GROUP: (regimen W) (regimen W replaced by regimen H as of Amendment 3B) Patients
      receive up front VI chemotherapy comprising vincristine sulfate IV on days 1 and 8 and
      irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes on days 1-5. Treatment with VI repeats every 21
      days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      with disease response then receive 6 courses of C5VD with 1 courses of VI in between each
      2-course block. Patients with no disease response receive 6 courses of C5VD in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      HIGH-RISK GROUP: (regimen H) Patients receive up front VIT chemotherapy comprising
      vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on days 1 and 8 and irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90
      minutes on days 1-5, and temsirolimus IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment with VIT
      repeats every 21 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients with disease response then receive 6 courses of C5VD with 4 courses of VIT
      in between each 2-course block. Patients with no disease response receive 6 courses of C5VD
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo tumor
      resection or liver transplant after course 4 of C5VD followed by 2 courses of adjuvant C5VD.
      Patients may also receive dexrazoxane IV over 5-15 minutes on days 1-2 of courses 5 and 6.

      After completion of study therapy, patients who receive chemotherapy are followed up
      periodically for at least 4 years.
    
  