
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) results in nearly 750,000 hospitalizations
      annually and is the third leading cause of "early" (within 30-day) hospital readmissions in
      the United States. Curbing preventable early readmissions for acute exacerbations of COPD
      (AECOPD) has become a national priority, as demonstrated by the Medicare Hospital
      Readmissions Reduction financial penalty program. One critical barrier in assessing
      readmission risk is the lack of an easily-measured 'vital sign' for COPD: accurate, timely
      measurements of lung function. Unlike other medical problems that have validated,
      easily-obtained measurements of organ function, COPD evaluation often defaults to patient
      report and physician evaluation without critical physiologic data. This lack of objective
      pulmonary function data during AECOPD in turn leads to critical errors in disease severity
      assessment. However, the required, repeated measurements by spirometry that can demonstrate
      responses to therapy can be time-consuming and expensive to perform in a laboratory, and both
      equipment and staffing infrastructure for bedside testing is cumbersome and often not
      prioritized. For these reasons, spirometry frequently is not done for patients with AECOPD.

      To monitor patient responses to therapy and to assess risks based on objective measures, the
      investigators propose to the study the use of a portable, patient-driven device ("SpiroPD")
      that can be used in both in-patient and outpatient settings, and that reports (via the
      internet) values collected in real time. While the device has been used in the lung
      transplant community and for patients with cystic fibrosis, no studies have been done to
      validate its use in COPD. This protocol involves in-hospital patient training with the device
      followed by serial measurements at home in the first 30 days post hospital-discharge.

      Demonstration in a pilot, single-center trial of the usefulness of real-time, repeated
      hand-held spirometry to provide objective measurements of lung function in AECOPD will have a
      substantial impact on both patient health outcomes and on health care utilization and will
      set the stage for appropriate next-step studies and NIH grant applications. It is unknown
      whether this specific technology will be acceptable in the target population, though previous
      research suggests that older patients may be more willing to use home monitoring technology.
      This multi-disciplinary research team includes providers from the Department of Medicine and
      the UCM COPD Readmissions Program team.
    
  