
    
      Delirium is a common and potentially preventable neuropsychiatric complication in cancer
      patients receiving hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) that has profound
      consequences. Among cancer patients hospitalized for HSCT, delirium occurs in approximately
      40% of patients and increases the risk of mortality. Long-term, delirium in this population
      results in worse physical health, mental health, and quality of life. Though strategies to
      prevent delirium have the potential to significantly improve the lives of people living with
      cancer, research in this area is extremely limited. Thiamine deficiency is also ubiquitous
      during HSCT and a known contributor to the development of delirium in other patient
      populations. High dose intravenous (IV) thiamine is an evidence-based and promising treatment
      for delirium, but no one has studied IV thiamine as a prevention strategy.

      This is a randomized double-blind controlled trial in participants undergoing allogeneic HSCT
      to determine if high dose IV thiamine can prevent delirium and minimize the deleterious
      impact of delirium on health-related quality of life (HRQOL), functional status, and other
      neuropsychiatric outcomes. The investigators will recruit 60 patients admitted for allogeneic
      HSCT at UNC, randomize them to treatment with high dose IV thiamine (n = 30) versus placebo
      (n = 30), and systematically evaluate all participants for delirium and related
      comorbidities. The investigators will use the Delirium Rating Scale (DRS) to measure the
      severity and duration of delirium immediately prior to transplant and after HSCT until 30
      days post-transplant or discharge. If delirium is identified, the DRS will be administered
      daily until delirium resolves. The investigators will obtain thiamine levels and other
      laboratory parameters associated with delirium the day after transplant, and continue to
      monitor thiamine levels weekly thereafter. The investigators will also monitor HRQOL,
      functional status, depression, post-traumatic stress symptoms, and cognitive function prior
      to transplant and at one, three, and six months after transplant to elucidate the persistent
      impact of delirium in this population and the potential for thiamine to mitigate these
      negative outcomes.
    
  