
    
      Potentially eligible patients will be given information about the study on day 2 or day 3 of
      the menstrual cycle, when the ovarian stimulation starts. Screening for eligibility will be
      performed by treating physicians on the day of IUI, after having obtained the semen qualified
      for inclusion criteria from the husband. Eligible participants will be invited to a full
      discussion with investigators about the study and will be given the informed consent form.
      Couples will have enough time to decide if they agree to participate in the study or not.
      Written informed consent will be obtained by the investigators from all couples prior to
      enrolment. When a participant signs an informed consent, she is considered to be enrolled in
      the study.

      Eligible patients who have provided informed consent will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to
      either SU or GD. Assignment to treatment allocation will be done via a web portal hosted by
      HOPE Research Center, Vietnam. The randomization schedule will be computer-generated at HOPE
      Research Center, with a permuted random block size of 2, 4, and 6. Blinding will not be
      possible due to the nature of interventions.

      Ovarian stimulation will be performed by using human menopausal gonadotrophins (hMG) (IVF-M,
      LG Life science, Korea) and follicular development will be monitored by transvaginal
      ultrasound every 3 - 5 days begin on day 2 or day 3 of the menstrual cycle. An injection of
      human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) (IVF-C 5000 IU, LG Life Science, Korea) will be given to
      trigger ovulation when the mean diameter of the dominant follicle reached ≥ 18 mm. Those who
      have more than 7 follicles ≥ 14 mm will be subjected to cancel or convert to IVM. IUI will be
      scheduled 36 - 38 hours after hCG injection.

      A sperm sample will be obtained in the clinic by masturbation after 2-5 day of abstinence.
      Spoken and written instructions about the collection of the semen sample will be given in
      advance. The time between semen production and processing will be up to 1 hour. Sperm
      preparation will be performed after the patient agrees to participate in the study.

      In couples allocated to the sperm swim-up technique (SU): the normal and highly motile sperm
      will move against the gravity and separate from the dead or abnormal sperms to swim up to the
      upper media culture layer In couples allocated to the sperm density gradient centrifugation
      technique (GD): the density in which mature and normal sperms are capable of passing through
      filtration layer to be isolated from dead or abnormal sperms in semen Prepared sperms will be
      transferred into uterus by soft catheter (Gynétics, Belgium). Luteal-phase support will be
      done with vaginal progesterone 400 mg per day (Cyclogest 200 mg, Actavis, UK) until 7th week
      of gestation. In both groups, clinicians who perform insemination will be blinded to the
      intervention.

      The prepared sperms will be proceeded to medical doctor who will carry the IUI and have no
      information about the semen preparation step. After insemination, the patient will be asked
      to immobilize for 15 minutes. The patient will receive luteal phase support using vaginal
      micronized progesterone for 14 days. In both groups, blood hCG will be measured at day 14
      after insemination, and positive results indicate biochemical pregnancy. If the gestational
      sac is observed with ultrasonography at week 7 after transferring, clinical pregnancy will be
      confirmed. At the 11th and 12nd weeks of gestation, participants will be referred to the
      Outpatient clinic, OB/GYN Department at My Duc hospital or at My Duc Phu Nhuan hospital for
      prenatal care until delivery. When the participant attends for delivery, data on labor and
      delivery, any complications experienced by participant, and the neonates will be collected.
      For those who cannot participate the prenatal care program at either the two hospitals, for
      any reasons, we will contact the participants via telephone/email monthly until delivery to
      collect data. We also ask these participants to scan their profile in every contact.

      All analyses will be conducted on an intention-to-treat basis using the R statistical program
      The rate of live birth and the associated 95% confidence interval (CI) will be estimated and
      compared between groups using the exact method for binomial proportion.

      Differences between groups in secondary outcome variables will be analyzed using Student
      t-test or Wilcoxon signed-rank test for normally distributed or skewed variables, and
      Fisher's exact test for categorical variables, and reported as relative risk (RR) with 95%
      CI. Besides that, we will conduct the subgroup analysis to compare the effectiveness of DG
      and that of SU for each of criteria within the following categories including causes of
      infertility, quality of pre-washing semen, and total number of post-washing motile sperms.
      For the number of motile sperms after washing, we divide it into 5 subgroups including < 1
      million sperms, 1-5 million sperms, 5-10 million sperms, 10-20 million sperms, and > 20
      million sperms.

      For missing population characteristics, first, we will analyze by removing the missing data;
      then we perform multiple imputations of lost values and perform another analysis to estimate
      the certainty of these obtained results. In case of losing track of patients or making
      protocol mistakes, we will try performing sensitivity analysis to evaluate the effects of
      these factors in the study. A statistical analysis plan will be made and signed before
      data-lock.
    
  