
    
      This is a randomized control trial that will be conducted at Dr. Ruth K.M. Pfau, Civil
      Hospital Karachi for a duration of six months after approval of the synopsis. Randomization
      will be done using sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed envelopes (SNOSE). A sample size of
      total 60 patients was calculated through OpenEpi. Patients will be counseled about the
      procedure of grafting and change of dressings postoperatively. Inclusion Criteria: age
      between 18 to 55 years, both genders, non-hypertensive patients, hemoglobin levels more than
      10 g/dl, Platelet count above 150 to 400 × 109/L, wounds for more than 6 weeks. Exclusion
      Criteria: Hypertensive patients, bleeding tendencies (Disorder), immune-compromised, familial
      history of bleeding. The trial will be registered with clinical trial unit (CTU) of the Dow
      University of Health Sciences. Statistical analyses will be done using SPSS version 21.
      Descriptive analyses will be reported for all variables including age, gender, treatment
      group distribution and other independent and dependent variables. Inferential statistics will
      be reported using comparison of treatment groups using repeated measure ANOVA. P-value of
      <0.05 will be considered as significant. The expected total expenditure on the research
      project will be twenty thousand.

      Data will be collected with change of dressings at graft donor site wound (DSW) that is the
      thigh. Study objectives will be discussed and explained to the patients before surgery as
      part of their change of dressings post operatively as in routine. Potential benefits and
      discomforts of the procedure will be explained. There is no potential adverse effects of
      heparin on wound or patients. Participants will receive both oral and written information
      about the study. Consent form will be filled by the participants. Questionnaire with
      photographic assessment will be filled at every change of dressing.

      Split-thickness skin graft will be harvested from medial side of thigh in two strips of about
      10*6cm with a few cm break in between them, with a Humby knife adjusted on with a randomized
      setting to harvest a fixed depth of skin graft. After harvesting the graft the donor site
      wound will be photographed, cleaned with saline and dressed with impregnated wax gauzes and
      sterilized cotton covered in roll gauze.

      At first postoperative day, donor site cotton dressing will be opened. Heparin and
      conventional dressing group allocation will be done through randomization in order to prevent
      any confounding factors such as baseline differences in depth of wound. Patients will be
      provided with paper chits to choose from, with A or B marked on it. The proximal strip of
      donor site wound (DSW) will be dressed according to the chit chosen. Patients picking up A
      chit will be dealt as 'control half (conventional dressing)', where by patients picking up B
      chit will be dealt as 'intervention half'.

      The 'control half' will be redressed with sterilized cotton covered in roll gauze whereas
      'intervention half' of wound will be sprayed with 5000 I.U/ml concentration of the heparin
      placed in a 5 cc syringe. Then the wound will be redressed with sterilized cotton covered in
      roll gauze. This will be repeated on donor site 'intervention half' of wound on daily basis.

      Skin graft donor site wound will be inspected by the faculty of Plastic surgery on the 7th
      post-operative day and photographic assessment will be recorded.

      The visual analogue scale (VAS) will be used to access pain

      Wound healing will be assessed by following parameters; decrease in size of wound, reduction
      of surrounding skin edema. Senior faculty will verify the assessment of wound healing.

      Independent Variable Demographic variable: Age, Gender, Monthly household income Medical
      History: Blood profile, Pain Intervention: 1.Conventional dressings 2. Heparin Spray

      Dependent Variable: Healing Time

      2.9 Statistical Analyses: Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS version 21) will be
      used for all statistical analyses.

      Descriptive Statistics:

      Descriptive statistics will be reported using mean and standard deviation for all continuous
      variables and frequencies and percentages for all categorical variables.

      Inferential Statistics:

      Mean wound healing time (recorded in days) between two intervention groups will be compared
      using Repeated measures ANOVA. p-value <0.05 will be considered as level of significance.
    
  