
    
      To be eligible, patients must have Medicare parts A and B, not enrolled in a managed care
      plan, not enrolled in hospice, and if currently have cancer, it must be either breast,
      cervical, colorectal, lung, or prostate. Patients may be enrolled up to 3 ½ years. After
      informed consent is obtained, the navigator will administer a CSA triage (attached) to
      determine if patient has cancer or not. Patients who have never had cancer or been in
      remission for five years are eligible for the screening arm and then will have the Screening
      CSA (attached) performed. Cancer screening arm of the study will then go into randomization.

      Medistat has created a data entry system for randomization via internet. Medstat will create
      site administrators and CMS staff users. All users have a defined role that controls what
      they can see and do. Site administrators can perform all functions and create site staff
      users. Site staff users can only assign protocols. All users must supply a user
      identification and password to gain access to the site. Patients are qualified for the
      demonstration by site staff. Cancer status is ascertained via CSA. Sites will assign patient
      identification number that will be entered along with cancer status onto the website, no
      personal identification. RTI will then perform randomization protocol determination and log
      into database. Site reports available by sight only include individual protocol assignments
      by patient identification number, summarized protocol assignments by site and year, and view
      all individual assignments made within a time window. Only the site administrator can
      disenroll patients. RTI will be utilizing block randomization by site and arm
      (screening/treatment) in even blocks of 10-18 events depending on size of site.

      The patients that are in the screening intervention group will have the navigational
      services. The control group will receive only nutritional education. Those patients who have
      non-study cancers and are not in remission for five years are ineligible for the study. The
      study cancers will be given a treatment CSA (attached). For those patients with study cancer,
      the patients will automatically be put in the navigational group. Molokai being such a small
      community where everyone knows everyone, it was agreed that to have a control group here
      would appear to be withholding care and cause bias. The control group will come from another
      community of similar demographics of Kahuku. Both navigational groups will have an initial
      CSA, annual CSA, and then an exit CSA conducted in the last six months of the program. CMS
      has not issued the annual or exit CSA at this time. Molokai has agreed to provide no more
      than 578 patients with delivery of navigational services to no more than 289 patients in the
      screening arm of the project.

      Randomization to intervention or control group will be done as above per RTI International, a
      statistical firm contracted by CMS. Twenty-five cancer or treatment patients will be enrolled
      for navigational arm on Molokai and 25 control group patients from a neighboring island.
    
  