
    
      This is a prospective pilot study funded by the NIHR. Healthy participants and patients will
      be recruited in The Christie NHS Foundation Trust and will be asked to undergo
      oxygen-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (OE-MRI) and dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI
      (DCE-MRI). This study builds on the work recently been completed in lung cancer. Clinical
      data will be collected from patients notes.

      Tumour hypoxia is common in solid tumours and associated with poor response to radiotherapy,
      poor loco-regional control and survival outcomes in head and neck cancer. There is a need to
      develop non-invasive tests that can measure tumour hypoxia to improve radiotherapy for these
      patients. The study will involve 3 components:

        1. Reproducibility and feasibility: The reproducibility of OE-MRI in head and neck cancer
           is unknown. Ten healthy participants will be asked to undergo two baseline OE-MRI scans
           with either nasal cannula or facial mask to breathe air and oxygen throughout. The order
           of which non-invasive breathing method will be used first will be randomized.

           Following this initial pilot OE-MRI will be tested in 30 patients with solid head and
           neck tumours. To assess reproducibility in patients 2 OE-MRI will be performed at
           baseline.

        2. Effect of radiotherapy on tumour and normal tissue: OE-MRI and DCE-MRI signals will be
           measured at baseline before standard radiotherapy treatment begins and at the end of
           week 2 week and week 4 following the start of radiotherapy. Comparison of hypoxia
           measurements will be taken.

        3. Biological validation: All 30 patients will undergo a diagnostic biopsy as standard of
           care at their local hospital. Tissue samples will be requested and multi-gene hypoxia
           signatures will be tested. OE-MRI signals will be compared with tissue sample from the
           same patient and the presence of changes in tumour known to be associated with hypoxia
           will be analysed.
    
  