
    
      Bone metastases are frequently one of the first signs of disseminated disease in cancer
      patients. Skeletal complications due to metastatic disease include (severe) bone pain, spinal
      cord compromise, pathological fractures, and hypercalcemia.

      Zoledronic acid is a member of a class of compounds known as bisphosphonates. Bisphosphonates
      are effective inhibitors of osteoclastic bone resorption and have demonstrated therapeutic
      efficacy in the treatments of hypercalcemia of malignancy, lytic bone disease associated with
      multiple myeloma, and mixed lytic and blastic bone metastases associated with breast cancer.
      The precise mechanism by which bisphosphonates inhibit osteoclast function is not fully
      understood, but may include a direct toxic effect on mature osteoclasts, an inhibition of
      osteoclast production from precursor cells, and an impairment of osteoclast chemotaxis to
      sites of active bone resorption. Osteoclasts are specialized bone cells which erode
      mineralized bone by secreting acids and lysosomal enzymes. In normal bone remodeling,
      osteoclastic bone resorption is coupled to and is in equilibrium with osteoblastic bone
      formation. The lytic bone destruction associated with malignant bone metastases develops
      because tumor cells synthesize and release soluble factors that stimulate osteoclasts to
      resorb bone. The osteoclastic activating factors released by tumor cells include parathyroid
      hormone-related peptide (PTHrP), growth factors, and cytokines. The malignant activation of
      osteoclasts results in a disruption of normal bone remodeling wherein the equilibrium between
      bone resorption and bone formation is shifted toward increased bone resorption. This relative
      increase in osteoclastic bone resorption results in a net loss of bone. Thus, the predominant
      role of the osteoclast in the pathogenesis of bone destruction and the inhibitory effects of
      bisphosphonates on osteoclast function have formed the rationale for the use of
      bisphosphonates in the treatment of osteolytic bone metastases. The common role, regardless
      of tumor type, of the osteoclast as the mediator of bone destruction in metastatic skeletal
      disease is indicated by the inhibitory effects of bisphosphonates on tumor-induced osteolysis
      in animal models utilizing various malignant cell lines and the effectiveness of
      bisphosphonates in the therapy of tumor-induced hypercalcemia arising from any type of
      cancer. Moreover, recent studies have specifically shown that therapy with the bisphosphonate
      pamidronate (Aredia) combined with antineoplastic therapy significantly reduces the
      proportion of patients having skeletal complications due to the lytic bone disease associated
      with multiple myeloma and breast cancer compared to antineoplastic therapy alone.
    
  