
    
      Context: Some individuals have two conditions: 1) a well-documented pain disorder and 2)
      clear evidence of a substance use disorder with opiate dependency. It is not known how to
      manage these patients. In addition to other modalities for the treatment of chronic pain,
      combination tablets of buprenorphine/naloxone (Suboxone) may be helpful.

      Objective: The objective of this study is to determine if the addition of pharmacotherapy
      with Suboxone to usual care would improve clinical outcome relative to usual care alone.

      Design: Randomized control trial.

      Setting: The study will be conducted in the out-patient clinics of a tertiary-care teaching
      hospital.

      Participants: The participants will be those who have: 1) a well-documented pain disorder and
      2) clear evidence of a substance use disorder with opiate dependency.

      Baseline data collected: Data collected at baseline will include (with examples):
      demographics (age, gender, race), substance use history (type of substances used, duration of
      use, routes of abuse), type of pain disorder (previous traumatic injury, musculoskeletal,
      neuropathic), co-existing medical problems (seizures, hepatitis C), prior injuries
      (accidents, interpersonal violence), prior mental health problems (prior treatment,
      diagnoses), prior substance abuse treatment (outpatient, inpatient), socioeconomic variables
      (educational level, occupation, employment history), criminal history (number of arrests and
      convictions, total amount of time spent in jail or prison), family history (first degree
      relatives with substance use disorders) and scores on psychometric testing (ASI).

      Outcome data: Three main outcome variables will be examined relapse to substance use (as
      documented by toxicology), quality of life, and successful participation in the pain
      management program for six months, which included the completion of the study buprenorphine
      treatment protocols.

      Data analyses: Outcome variables will be compared between the two groups using t-tests or
      chi-square tests as appropriate. A Kaplan-Myer survival analysis will be used to describe
      participant participation. Predictors of poor outcomes will be identified using a
      case-control design in which those with poor outcomes (the "cases") will be compared to those
      with successful outcomes (the "controls") using multivariate techniques (logistic
      regression).
    
  