
    
      The investigators will examine the potential mechanisms contributing to PND in an older
      surgical population. It is proposed that BBB will be altered contributing to brain tissue
      changes in cognitive control areas that can be examined with MD measures and blood
      biomarkers. Therefore, the specific aims are to:

      AIM #1: Examine BBB function, using DW-pCASL procedures, and BBB marker (S100β levels), in
      older adult subjects between pre- ) and post-surgery

      AIM #2: Assess brain tissue changes, using DTI-based MD measures, and cognition function,
      between pre- and post-surgery in older adult subjects.

      AIM #3: Examine the relationships between BBB blood biomarker, BBB function index, and MD
      values from cognitive control areas (prefrontal cortex, caudate, and hippocampus) between
      pre- and post-surgery in an older surgical population.

      A One-group comparative and longitudinal study design will be used in this proposal. A total
      of 34 older subjects scheduled for surgery will be recruited. Patients of either sex, in the
      age range 65-75 years scheduled for abdominal, gynecologic or urologic.

      To assess cognitive function, the WRAML2 and MoCA tests will be performed within one week
      before surgery and at two weeks and six months after surgery. These tests have been used by
      our team in several conditions, and will be introduced just before MRI procedures. An average
      mean score of 100±15 on WRAML2 and a score ≥26 on MoCA will be considered normal.

      Examination of BBB integrity from blood. To account for interindividual variation, baseline
      systemic biomarkers will be measured preoperatively (within one week before surgery).
      Postoperative samples will also be collected at two weeks and 6 months of surgery. Samples
      will be batch analyzed using Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (S100β) by the UCLA Department
      of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine.

      Magnetic Resonance Imaging. All brain MRI studies will be performed on a 3.0-Tesla MRI
      scanner (Siemens, Magnetom, Prisma) at the Department of Radiology, UCLA. MRI studies will be
      performed within one week before surgery, and at two weeks and six months after surgery.
    
  