
    
      Hemophilia A or B is caused by defects in the factor VIII or IX gene, respectively, of which
      is located on the X chromosome. This disorder exhibits X-linked inheritance, in which
      primarily males, with a single X chromosome, are affected and females, with two X
      chromosomes, are heterozygotes, or carriers. Hemophilia carriers show a wide distribution of
      factor VIII or IX levels with a mean of 50%, which overlaps the distribution of non-carrier
      women.

      Heavy menstrual bleeding is defined as menstrual bleeding that lasts more than 7 days or more
      specifically as the loss of more than 80cc of blood per cycle. Management is critical as it
      can lead to iron deficiency anemia, lead to school absence and affects the general quality of
      life. There are multiple options to control or reduce menstrual bleeding in hemophilia A and
      B carriers, they include but not limited to the following options: Antifibrinolytics
      (Aminocaproic acid, Tranexamic acid), Synthetic desmopressin (DDAVP, SQ or IN) or hormonal
      therapies (Combined oral contraceptives, Progestin only options, IUD, etc).

      The use of recombinant factor replacement has been poorly studied and limited by a relatively
      short half-life in relation to the typical length of a menstrual period. The purpose of this
      feasibility study is to find out if two clotting factor products, Eloctate [hemophilia A] and
      Alprolix [hemophilia B], can reduce the amount of menstrual bleeding in female hemophilia A
      and B carriers (14 years of age or older) who have severe or heavy bleeding. These products
      are FDA-approved for use in males with hemophilia A and B to prevent and treat bleeding. They
      are not approved specifically to reduce menstrual bleeding, but may be useful for this
      purpose. Both products have an "extended half life" which means they circulate in the body
      longer than other FVIII or FIX products. The study team will gather additional information
      about the safety of these drugs and how well they work. Five out of the 16 anticipated
      enrolled patients will be approach to request participation in the exploratory aim in which
      the subject is taught to perform a hemoglobin check (CBC) every other day using a novel point
      of care device (Anemocheck) during 2 consecutive menstrual cycles. In addition, they will
      have CBCs drawn within 4-6 hours for comparison and correlation. The study team will also
      correlate symptoms of heavy menstrual bleeding with a 2grams drop in the hemoglobin. All the
      results of this study will provide information for an upcoming larger study.
    
  