
    
      Background and Rationale:

      Gastric cancer is the second leading cause of cancer related death in the world in recently
      data. The incidence and mortality rate is predominant in East Asia. Usually, gastric cancer
      is asymptomatic in early stage; therefore; most patients is in the advanced stage and
      incurable at diagnosis. The pathogenesis of intestinal type gastric cancer is sequential and
      multistep pathway. Moreover, the direction of pathway is irreversible beyond dysplasia. The
      equipment and/or procedure which can detect gastric dysplasia are very beneficial.

      The recent study, Imraporn B et al., showed that narrow-banded imaging with magnification
      (NBI-ME) had a better sensitivity for gastric intestinal metaplasia (GIM) detection than a
      standard white light endoscopy (73% VS. 13%) and could detect two early gastric cancer from
      tissue pathology in 1-year follow-up cohort study. However, NBI-ME cannot differentiate among
      GIM, dysplasia and gastric cancer.

      Confocal endomicroscope is a powerful instrument for performing high-resolution (x1,000 time)
      imaging to enable real-time histology and/or optical biopsy at the time of endoscopic
      examination(in vivo histology).Fluorescein, is a slightly acidic and hydrophilic dye, will be
      used as staining substance via IV administration. The fluorescein established a stable
      distribution throughout surface epithelial cells, which is regular columnar epithelium with
      round gland openings and cobblestone pattern; the connective tissue matrix of lamina propria;
      blood vessels, which are regular shape visible in the deeper mucosa; and red blood cells.It
      is not highly miscible with mucins, hence, mucins in goblet cells, which indicated GIM, will
      appear dark.

      Because GIM is characterized by the diminutive lesions or microscopic abnormalities amidst
      large fields of diffuse disease, biopsy targeting and adequate sampling can be difficult and
      time consuming. Therefore, the instant resection with confocal microendoscope is not
      possible.

      Consequently, the patient must be diagnosed GIM via a targeted NBI-ME biopsy first. And then
      endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) via confocal endomicrosocpe is possible to be the complete
      therapeutic treatment for early gastric cancer within the same session at the suspected area
      of gastric dysplasia or neoplasia.

      However, no study about confocal endomicroscope related early detection of gastric cancer was
      observed.

      In this study, we must apply the endomicroscope's criteria from confocal Barrett's esophagus
      classification to indicate gastric dysplasia or neoplasia. The aim of this study is to
      evaluate the feasibility of confocal endomicroscopy to diagnose gastric intestinal
      metaplasia.

      Review of related literature:

      Confocal endomicroscope is available in 2005. The difference between white light endoscope
      and confocal endomicroscope.

      Nowadays, a point-scanning fiber-optic fluorescein confocal endomicroscope for evaluate
      cellular morphology of the upper- and the lower-GI tract is possible. However, the
      improvement of diagnostic yield is evaluated in only Barrett's esophagus, colorectal cancer,
      detecting Helicobacter pylori. There is no exactly study about early detection of gastric
      cancer with confocal endomicroscope. Investigator use the confocal Barrett's esophagus
      classification to predict the area of dysplasia or neoplasia in stomach.

      Assumption:

      All patients have to undergo a targeted NBI-ME biopsy and never be treated as gastric cancer
      before.

      Key Words:

      Confocal endomicroscope Gastric intestinal metaplasia

      Operational definition:

      Gastric intestinal metaplasia/dysplasia/neoplasim is base on the updated Sydney
      classification.

      Research methodology:

      Population and Sample Target and sample population: The patients who were diagnosed gastric
      intestinal metaplasia (GIM) in the past 2 years in KCMH.

      Observation and Measurement:

      Collect the geographic data by interview and review the outpatient record. Evaluate the
      tissue pathology by one pathologist

      Methodology:

        1. All patients had informed the consent.

        2. Take the history, physical examination and then fill in the record form

        3. Set confocal endomicroscopy

             -  10% Fluorescein sodium 10 ml was injected intravenously.

             -  2.5-5 milligrams of intravenous midazolam and 10 milligrams of hyoscine were
                injected to sedate and decrease bowel movement for easier and complete
                visualization.

             -  Simethicone solution was rinsed to reduce mucous and gas bubble in the stomach.

             -  FICE was used to identify the area of suspected GIM.

             -  Confocal endomicroscopy was performed and targeted to the suspected area. One
                snapshot images was recorded at the area of suspected and record the criteria of
                diagnosis GIM. Endoscopic resection was done at the suspected area.

             -  DVD was recorded during the endoscopy.

        4. Record the duration and complication of the procedure

        5. Send the tissues to one clinically-blinded GI pathologist

        6. Compare the pathology report and endoscopic finding

        7. Report the result

      Data collection:

      All data are processed and recorded by one physician.

      Ethical considerations:

      There is not a clearly evidence about the serious side effect of fluorescein injection. If
      the patients had side effects during the research, the procedure will be terminated and the
      patients will be take care from KCMH staff.

      Limitation:

      This is a novel diagnostic tool to analyze living cells during endoscopy, especially for
      gastric intestinal metaplasia (GIM). There is not a standard criterion about confocal
      endomicroscopy finding in GIM. Investigator have to apply from Barrett's esophagus criteria
      and learn about criteria in GIM and gastric cancer.

      Obstacles and strategies to solve the problems:

      Because this is the study which base on the population from previous study by Imraporn et
      al., maybe some patients will loss follow up. The strategies to solve the problems are

        1. Early call back to make an appointment

        2. Collect new patients from the database of pathology department, KCMH
    
  