
    
      The overarching purpose of SATISFY-SOS is to implement a rigorous process to assess
      short-term and intermediate-term outcomes of surgical and procedural patients who receive
      anesthesia services at Barnes-Jewish Hospital facilities, located in St. Louis, Missouri.
      Specifically, patients will be followed for major morbidity events, for mortality, and for
      quality of life up to a year following their procedures. Patients receiving anesthesia
      services will provide informed consent to participate in SATISFY-SOS. Each patient will have
      the opportunity to respond to a baseline quality of life survey as well as to two
      comprehensive post-procedure surveys. These surveys are conducted by either email, mail or
      via a telephone interview at 30-90 days post-procedure and again at one year. The survey
      questions are primarily comprised of standardized, validated, non-proprietary survey tools
      covering the following topics: general health, mental health, emotional health, physical
      health, pain, falls, major morbidity, and cognition.

      In addition to collecting patient-reported outcomes, comprehensive medical record information
      for each patient beginning with the preoperative assessment and spanning throughout the
      surgery or procedure, hospitalization period, time spent in intensive care and follow-up
      clinic visits is incorporated into the database. Additionally, mortality data including cause
      of death for all patients will be ascertained via the National Death Index and from
      information in hospital records. This allows for meaningful, comprehensive electronic data
      query capabilities. Under the umbrella of the SATISFY-SOS initiative, we intend to implement
      specific evidence-based and patient-centered quality improvement programs, and to ensure that
      they are effective when implemented in routine clinical care. Additionally, future
      IRB-approved research projects can utilize de-identified SATISFY-SOS data.

      All electronic data are collected from existing clinical records. The primary SATISFY-SOS
      database is hosted on a firewall-secured, HIPAA-compliant server within the Department of
      Anesthesiology at Washington University School of Medicine and maintained and managed by the
      departmental IT team. Access to the SATISFY-SOS data is restricted from web access and
      limited to only the project Informaticist, Data Manager, and Director.

      Regular internal auditing of the data are conducted for validity and completeness on a
      monthly basis. On an annual basis, the consent process is audited. The data entered early in
      the registry are compared with data entered subsequently. Sensitivity analyses are performed
      to determine whether data are missing at random. It is planned to compare the data obtained
      from patient-reported outcomes against a sample of data in the medical records and against
      data obtained from a sample of patients contacted again by telephone. A data dictionary for
      key data fields is currently being compiled. Standard operating procedures have been
      developed for registry operations, patient recruitment, data collection, data management and
      data analysis. No adverse events attributable to this activity are envisioned. Multiple
      outcomes are being tracked; no specific sample size has been calculated. Sensitivity analyses
      are planned for missing or unavailable data. No imputation is currently planned. The
      statistical analyses will depend on the variables and outcomes of interest. This registry is
      currently IRB-approved for total enrollment of 36,000 patients. This is subject to subsequent
      expansion, pending IRB approval.
    
  