
    
      BACKGROUND Post-operative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) is defined as a spectrum of
      postoperative central nervous system dysfunctions both acute and persistent, including subtle
      neurologic signs and neuropsychological impairment. The incidence of POCD is clearly
      associated with the age of patients, with older patients being more susceptible to neurologic
      impairment following anesthesia and surgery. Due to the increasing life expectances and
      ameliorated surgical and anesthesiologic techniques, more and more elderly people are
      undergoing surgical procedures. In this respect, POCD is a complication that needs to be
      taken into account in the perioperative course of elderly patients, especially in those with
      reduced neurological functional reserve capacity and high prevalence of comorbidities. It is
      worth underlining that the occurrence of POCD brings a very important subjective burden on
      the quality of life of the patient and also and outstanding social impact.

      Several observational studies have shown that POCD occurs in 25% of patients 1 week after the
      surgical procedure (early POCD) and in approximately 15% of patients at 3 months (late POCD).
      Importantly, the incidence of POCD at 3 months has been associated to an increased disability
      and mortality.

      Post-operative cognitive dysfunction is probably a multifactorial syndrome, nevertheless 3
      principal pathophysiological hypothesis, that certainly could co-exist, have been formulated:

        1. Pharmacological hypothesis: drugs employed during anesthesia can produce alterations in
           the neuronal network, principally through alterations of the cholinergic transduction
           signal;

        2. Toxic hypothesis: the neuronal damage is a direct consequence of the drugs employed
           during anesthesia and of the inflammatory mediators associated to the surgical
           procedure;

        3. Hemodynamic hypothesis: hemodynamic changes induced by general anesthesia cause
           alterations in cerebral blood flow, potentially resulting in ischemic neuronal damage.

      The present study focuses on the third hypothesis and aims to evaluate the influence of a
      target of intraoperative arterial blood pressure based on preoperative values on the
      development of POCD at 3 months after elective non-cardiac surgery under general anesthesia
      in patients aged 75 years and older.

      The present study has a potential high scientific and socio-economic impact as it could
      identify a single and quite easily accomplished intraoperative intervention, i.e. a different
      management of intraoperative blood pressure, that could potentially reduce the incidence of
      neurological deterioration in elderly patients undergoing general anesthesia for non-cardiac
      surgery.

      Furthermore, it will be the first study investigating a population of patients aged 75 years
      and more and, to the best of the investigators' knowledge, the first study that will evaluate
      systematically the possible changes in hearing and vestibular function induced by general
      anesthesia and surgery.

      DETAILED RESEARCH PROTOCOL

      The present study is structured in 3 distinct phases:

        1. Preoperative Phase;

        2. Intraoperative Phase;

        3. Postoperative Phase;

      1) PREOPERATIVE PHASE After obtaining informed consent to the study, several evaluations are
      performed in the Clinic for preoperative anesthesiology evaluation. These include the
      standard anesthesia evaluation, a geriatric and neuropsychological evaluation and an
      audiology evaluation. All preoperative evaluations are performed on the same day and in the
      same place during the normal path followed by outpatients scheduled for elective surgery.
      Geriatric, neuropsychological and audiology evaluation are always performed in the same
      sequence.

      Multidimensional Geriatric Assessment:

      The multidimensional geriatric assessment includes several tests that allow a global
      evaluation of the functional status of the patient, including the cognitive domain and the
      functional performance (ability).

      The Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) and the Clock Drawing Test will be used to assess
      the cognitive state of the patients. The MMSE is usually employed in clinical practice for
      two reasons: (i) as a quick tool to screen the cognitive status of the patient and (ii) as a
      tool to track the changes over time in cognitive state of the patients. The MMSE consists of
      30 items (questions/tests), that explore different cognitive domains: spatial and temporal
      orientation, memorization of words, attention, calculation, recall, language and constructive
      praxis. The score of the MMSE ranges therefore from 0 to 30. A corrected score of ≤ 23 is
      usually considered suggestive of cognitive decline. The score of the MMSE is corrected for
      age and education of the patient.

      The Clock Drawing test (CDT) is an additional test employed to evaluate the global cognitive
      state of patients and is considered complementary to the MMSE. To perform the CDT the patient
      is asked to draw a circle in order to symbolize a clock face. Furthermore the patient is
      asked to draw the watch hands in order to indicate ten past eleven. The test explores the
      visual-spatial, practical and executive functions of the patient. The maximal obtainable
      score is 5/5 and requires the presence of all numbers, drawn in the correct order and close
      to the border of the clock face, with the correct symmetry and the watch hands correctly
      showing ten past eleven. The presence of extra numbers, segmentation lines or rotation of the
      numbers determines the subtraction of 1 point to the score. Scores > 3/5 are considered
      normal.

      Functional performance is evaluated employing the scores of the "Activities of Daily Living"
      (ADL) and the "Instrumental Activities of Daily Living" (IADL), respectively.

      The ADL are the activities that a person is able to perform independently on a daily basis
      (eat, dress, wash themselves, move from bed to the chair, use the toilet, etc.). The IADL are
      the activities that allow a person to live independently in a house or apartment (cook, clean
      up the house, take medications, use the phone, etc. ).

      Finally the patients will be characterized in terms of frailty. The geriatric concept of
      frailty generically indicates a condition of increased vulnerability to stressful conditions,
      associated to an increased risk of adverse events including falls to the ground, disability,
      hospitalization and mortality. Physical frailty is defined by the presence of 3 or more of
      the following criteria:

        1. Unintentional weight loss (≥ than 5% body weight loss in the last year);

        2. General feeling of exhaustion (subjective, based on questions on the effort in
           performing certain activities);

        3. Weakness as expressed by a reduced handgrip strength, applying different reference
           values for women and men;

        4. Slow walking speed;

        5. Low levels of physical activity; The presence of 1 or 2 of these criteria characterizes
           the so called "pre-frailty", a condition that is more sensitive to eventual
           interventions as compared to frailty (3 or more criteria).

      Finally, patients will be evaluated for "cognitive frailty", which combines physical frailty
      with the score of the Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) (see below), in order to identify
      non-dement patients in whom physical frailty is however associated to an initial cognitive
      impairment.

      Patients are classified in 4 different categories:

        1. Healthy elderly subjects (no evidence of physical frailty and CDR = 0);

        2. Elderly subjects with physical frailty and normal cognitive function (presence of
           physical frailty and CDR =0);

        3. Elderly subjects without physical frailty but with initial cognitive impairment (no
           physical frailty and CDR = 0.5);

        4. Elderly subjects with physical frailty and initial cognitive impairment (presence of
           physical frailty and CDR = 0.5); The condition of the subjects belonging to group 4 is
           defined as "cognitive frailty".

      The Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) is a complex scale performed to quantify the severity of
      the symptoms of dementia. It includes queries about the cognitive and functional domains. The
      final score ranges between 0 and 3, with higher scores indicating more severe dementia
      symptoms. A score of 0.5 is suggestive of the presence of mild symptoms. It is therefore
      possible that patients with corrected MMSE ≥ 24 have a CDR score of 0.5. Of note, patients
      included in the study will not undergo the CDR test, as the different items that compose the
      CDR can be derived from the performed geriatric and neuropsychological test batteries (see
      below).

      Neuropsychological Evaluation The cognitive functionality at baseline and its possible
      worsening after anesthesia/surgery, i.e. the development of POCD, is best evaluated through
      the administration of neuropsychological test batteries. During the baseline evaluation a
      neuropsychologist will administer to the patient (or to the subject in the Control group) a
      battery of tests standardized to evaluate specifically different cognitive domains: memory,
      attention, language, executive functions, speed of information processing. The obtained raw
      scores will be corrected for age, gender and education and transformed, according to Italian
      calibration standards, in standardized scores (Equivalent Scores = ES) on an ordinal scale
      that ranges from 0 to 4, where 0 represents scores below the cut-off, i.e., pathological
      scores, 1 that represents borderline scores and 2,3 and 4 which characterize normality.

      The duration of the administration of the test battery is approximately 35 minutes. At 3
      months and 1 year from the surgical procedure/general anesthesia (or from baseline evaluation
      in the Control group) the same test battery will be repeated. In those tests having a
      parallel version, the parallel version will be administered, in order to reduce the learning
      effect. The difference in scores of the tests performed at 3 months (and 1 year) and
      baseline, corrected for the mean difference observed in the Control group in the same
      timeframe, will be used in order to define the occurrence of POCD.

      Patients in whom the difference (worsening) in the global score at 3 months to the global
      score at baseline will be greater than 2 standard deviations from the expected difference,
      i.e., the mean difference between the two evaluations (baseline and 3 months) observed in the
      Control Group, will be diagnosed with POCD. Moreover, changes in raw scores of the different
      tests will be considered with the purpose of identifying possible changes in specific
      cognitive domains.

      The administered neuropsychological tests will be the following:

        -  Trail Making Test: evaluates the visual-motor coordination and speed and task-switching
           skills by assessing someone's ability to follow a simple number sequence (Trails A) and
           a more complex sequence of alternating numbers and letters (Trails B).

        -  Stroop test: evaluates selective attention, executive functions, the inhibition of
           distractions and cognitive flexibility.

        -  Symbol Digit Modalities Test: evaluates sustained attention, with elements of vigilance
           and working memory.

        -  Free and Cued Selective Reminding Test: measures anterograde visual and verbal memory
           skills.

        -  Verbal Phonemic Fluency Test: measures the capacity of access to verbal vocabulary and
           is considered a marker of pre-frontal functionality.

        -  Denomination test: evaluates the capacity of visual access of vocabulary.

      These tests have a score and a cut-off value that allows to categorize the result as normal,
      i.e., that falls within the average results obtained from a control group of healthy subjects
      matched for age, gender and education, or pathological, i.e., below this average value.

      Audiology Evaluation The audiology evaluation will include the following tests: video
      oculography, pure tone audiometry, disyllabic speech audiometry and speech audiometry with
      verbal tasks and motor responses.

      Video oculography analyzes the function of the oculomotor system through the study of
      saccadic eye movements and optokinetic system. It allows to identify an alteration at the
      level of the brainstem, cerebellum or of both structures.

      Saccadic eye movements are rapid, ballistic eye movements, which subserve vision by
      redirecting the visual axis to a new location, i.e., to direct the fovea onto an object or
      region of interest that appeared in the periphery of the field of view. Saccadic eye
      movements represent the majority of eye movements and the control signal of saccadic eye
      movements is the so-called "retinal error".

      Collected parameters during the study of saccadic eye movements include:

      Latency: this is the time taken from the appearance of a target to the beginning of a saccade
      in response to that target; Peak Velocity: this is the highest velocity reached during the
      saccade. Saccade velocity profiles are usually symmetrical at least for small and medium size
      saccades. In some conditions while the size of saccades remains reasonably accurate, the
      saccade velocity is greatly reduced - so-called slowed saccades; Precision: relation between
      angular displacement of the eye and the displacement of the reference target; The
      "optokinetic reflex" causes eye movement in response to objects moving in the periphery while
      the head is stationary and is extremely important for stabilizing the image of visual input
      on the retina and provides for primary control of this capacity when the head is stationary.
      It is composed by a slow phase (SP), directed toward the movement of the panorama, and a
      quick phases (QP) with opposite direction. These movements have similar characteristics to
      saccadic eye movements.

      Collected parameters during the study of optokinetic nystagmus include the slow-phase
      velocity of optokinetic nystagmus, which is dependent upon the speed of the stimulus, gain,
      expressing the percentage of the ratio between the speed of the slow phase of nystagmus and
      the speed of the stimulus, asymmetry, indicating the difference in gain between the two
      sides.

      Pure tone audiometry aims at defining quantitatively and qualitatively the possible
      occurrence of hearing loss, its entity and site of the lesion. Pure tone audiometry is
      performed through the aid of an audiometer and headphones. This study is performed to
      investigate the functionality of the peripheral auditory system.

      Finally, disyllabic speech audiometry and speech audiometry with verbal tasks and motor
      responses will be performed, using controlateral masking (cocktail party noise). These
      evaluations investigate the comprehension of verbal stimuli and numerically quantify the
      ability to repeat disyllabic words. It also evaluates the semantic comprehension of phrases
      and the ability of the subject to follow simple motor commands.

      These tests, taken together, evaluate both the functionality of the peripheral hearing
      apparatus and the cortical integration of peripheral signals. Considered parameters are the
      comprehension of the verbal message (100% represents full understanding) and the sound
      intensity level at which comprehension is maximal, expressed in decibels hearing level (dB
      HL). Another parameter studied during speech audiometry testing is the percent reduction of
      disyllabic words understood as the sound intensity increases. This phenomenon, the reduction
      of understood disyllabic words with increasing sound intensity, is due to pathologic
      distortion of cochlear and retro cochlear structures (VIII cranial nerve).

      Anesthesiology Evaluation The anesthesiology evaluation will be performed as standard
      clinical practice in preparation for surgical procedures under general anesthesia. This
      evaluation will include: physiologic, pathologic and drug history collection, clinical
      examination including peripheral saturation of oxygen by pulse-oximetry (SpO2), resting heart
      rate and non-invasive blood pressure measurement with an automatic sphygmomanometer. Three
      measurements of resting blood pressure will be performed during the visit and the mean value
      of the three measurements of mean blood pressure will represent the baseline mean arterial
      blood pressure of the patient

      2) INTRAOPERATIVE PHASE. The day of the operation the patient will be randomized to one of
      two groups, Treatment or Standard of Care (see below). Vital functions will be recorded once
      the patient is in the operating room, before induction of anesthesia, and throughout the
      entire duration of the surgical procedure and anesthesia up to extubation or transport to the
      post-operative intensive care unit. Parameters recorded will include blood pressure (either
      invasive or non-invasive, depending on clinical need), heart rate, peripheral saturation of
      oxygen, end-tidal concentration of carbon dioxide, ventilator parameters, drugs and fluid
      administered, fluid balance and blood loss. Additional measurements will be performed when
      available: non-invasive cardiac output (Nexfin/Pulsioflex, Edwards Lifesciences),
      non-invasive cerebral oximetry through near-infrared spectroscopy (INVOS, Covidien) and depth
      of anesthesia through bispectral index (BIS) measurement (Bispectral Index Technology,
      Covidien).

      The anesthesiologist will be responsible for the clinical management of the patients assigned
      to the two arms. Violations of the protocol are possible whenever the anesthesiologist judges
      it clinically necessary.

        -  Standard of Care Group: intraoperative hemodynamic management will be left to the
           discretion of the anesthesiologist, without any indication as to the intraoperative
           hemodynamic strategy to be adopted. Of note, baseline mean arterial pressure (as
           measured during the preoperative evaluation) will not be communicated to the
           anesthesiologist in care.

        -  Treatment Group: in this group the anesthesiologist will have as hemodynamic target the
           maintenance of mean arterial blood pressure within 10% of the baseline mean arterial
           blood pressure value. The modalities to reach this target (quantity and type of drugs,
           quantity and type of intravenous fluids, positioning of the patient etc.) will be left
           to the clinical judgment of the anaesthesiologist. All interventions will be recorded.

      The intraoperative protocol requires the acquisition of hemodynamic, respiratory, and all the
      other parameters already described at pre-defined intervals (anesthesia induction, start of
      surgery, every 30 minutes thereafter, end of surgery, extubation/transport to post-surgical
      ICU).

      At the end of the operation the blood pressure recording of the entire duration of general
      anesthesia will be downloaded from the anesthesia monitor and analyzed offline with a
      dedicated software to quantify exactly the time spent in each category (mild, moderate or
      severe, see below) of hypotension or hypertension.

      Any hypotensive or hypertensive episode will be classified as mild, moderate or severe based
      on the worst mean arterial blood pressure recorded during the episode, according to the
      following cut-offs.

      Mild: mean arterial blood pressure 10-20% of baseline mean arterial pressure; Moderate: mean
      arterial blood pressure 20-40% of baseline mean arterial pressure; Severe: mean arterial
      blood pressure < or > 40% of baseline mean arterial pressure.

      3) POSTOPERATIVE PHASE.

      DELIRIUM During the first postoperative week all patients will be evaluated, on a daily
      basis, for delirium occurrence by the CAM-ICU scale (Confusion Assessment Method for the
      Intensive Care Unit).

      POSTOPERATIVE COMPLICATIONS Length of stay in the ICU (if applicable), length of stay in the
      hospital and any postoperative complication will be recorded. Cardiac, respiratory, renal,
      neurologic and hemorrhagic complications will be assessed.

      Cardiac complications

      Acute myocardial infarction (AMI): detection of a rise and/or fall of cardiac biomarker
      values (preferably cardiac troponin, cTn) with at least one value above the 99th percentile
      upper reference limit and with at least one of the following:

        -  symptoms of ischemia;

        -  new or presumed new significant ST-segment-T wave (ST-T) changes or new left bundle
           branch block (LBBB);

        -  development of pathological Q waves in the ECG;

        -  imaging evidence of new loss of viable myocardium or new regional wall motion
           abnormality;

        -  identification of an intracoronary thrombus by angiography or autopsy. Congestive heart
           failure: at least one of the following clinical signs (i.e. elevated jugular venous
           pressure, respiratory rales/crackles, crepitations, or presence of S3) and at least one
           of the following radiographic findings (i.e. vascular redistribution, interstitial
           pulmonary edema, or frank alveolar pulmonary edema).

      Pulmonary embolism: any one of the following:

        1. A high probability ventilation/perfusion lung scan

        2. An intraluminal filling defect of segmental or larger artery on a helical CT scan

        3. An intraluminal filling defect on pulmonary angiography

        4. A positive diagnostic test for deep vein thrombosis (e.g., positive compression
           ultrasound), acute cor pulmonale at cardiac ultrasound and one of the following:

      A. non-diagnostic (i.e., low or intermediate probability) ventilation/perfusion lung scan B.
      non-diagnostic (i.e., subsegmental defects or technically inadequate study) helical CT scan
      Cardiac arrest: documented or presumed ventricular fibrillation, sustained ventricular
      tachycardia, asystole, or pulseless electrical activity requiring cardiopulmonary
      resuscitation, pharmacological therapy, or cardiac defibrillation.

      Atrial fibrillation: new atrial fibrillation that results in angina, congestive heart
      failure, symptomatic hypotension, or that requires treatment with a rate controlling drug,
      antiarrhythmic drug, or electrical cardioversion.

      Neurologic complications Stroke (ischemic or hemorrhagic): new focal neurological deficit
      thought to be vascular in origin with signs or symptoms lasting more than 24 hours or leading
      to death.

      Renal complications Acute kidney injury is defined by an increase in serum creatinine of more
      than or equal to 1.5 times the baseline (preoperative) value or more than or equal to 0.3
      mg/dl.

      Hemorrhagic complications Mild hemorrhage: decrease of Hb levels < 3 g/dl without hemodynamic
      impact, without need for surgical revision or endovascular intervention; conservative
      treatment (transfusion of 2-3 red blood cells units and fluid infusion); Severe hemorrhage:
      decrease of Hb levels > 3 g/dl with hemodynamic impact (tachycardia, hypotension, oliguria
      etc); transfusion of more than 3 red blood cells units; need for surgical revision or
      endovascular treatment.

      POSTOPERATIVE COGNITIVE EVALUATION Patients At 3 months ± 2 weeks and 1 year ± 2 weeks after
      the surgical intervention, patients will undergo the same geriatric, neuropsychological and
      audiology evaluations described in the "Preoperative Phase" section.

      Subjects of the Control Group Subjects enrolled in the Control group will undergo the same
      evaluations (geriatric, neuropsychological and audiology) described in the "Preoperative
      Phase" section and to the same evaluations after 3 months ± 2 weeks and 1 year ± 2 weeks.
      These subjects will not undergo any surgical procedure and will therefore not be evaluated
      for post-operative complications or delirium occurrence.

      STATISTICS

      Sample size calculation.

      Primary outcome measure:

      The incidence of POCD is around 15% in patients aged over 70 years. Despite the lack of data
      in patients aged 75 years and more (the average expected age is around 80 years in this
      population), the investigators estimate an incidence of 20%. Hypothesizing that the proposed
      intervention (intraoperative arterial blood pressure target) could cause a 25% relative
      reduction in the incidence of POCD (from 20% to 15%) the sample size, for a probability of
      type I error α=0.05 and a power (1-β) = 0.8 is of 1812 patients. Of note, at the enrolment of
      906 patients the Data Safety and Monitoring Board (DSMB) will perform an ad interim analysis.

      Secondary outcome measures:

        -  Delirium: the incidence of delirium in very old patients undergoing general anesthesia
           is around 15%. The sample size foreseen for the primary outcome measure (1812 patients)
           provides a power (1-β) = 0.88 with α = 0.05 to detect a 30% relative reduction in this
           secondary outcome measure.

        -  Incidence of POCD at 1 year: the incidence of POCD in patients over 70 years of age, at
           1 year after surgery is estimated to be 16%. In the very old, given the lack of data in
           literature, the investigators estimate that the incidence could be around 20%, therefore
           similar to the incidence of POCD at 3 months after surgery. The sample size foreseen for
           the primary outcome measure (1812 patients) provides a power (1-β) = 0.8 with α = 0.05
           to detect a 25% relative reduction in this secondary outcome measure.

        -  Hearing and vestibular dysfunction: There are not sufficient data in the literature to
           estimate the incidence of this secondary outcome measure. It is therefore not possible
           to estimate the statistical power.

      Design and Pilot Study This is a multicentre international prospective parallel-group
      double-blind (patients and outcome assessors) randomized controlled trial. Currently two
      Centres are involved (Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Milan, Italy
      and Universitätsmedizin Göttingen (UMG), Göttingen, Germany). Other Hospitals will be
      involved after the enrolment of the first 100 patients (Pilot study).

      The first 100 enrolled patients will be included in a formal pilot study in order to evaluate
      the feasibility of the study and estimate the real incidence of POCD at 3 months in this
      study population. These patients will be randomized, and the minimization criterion will be
      applied, similarly to the other patients (see below). Of note, these patients will be
      included in the final analysis.

      Randomization Patients will be randomized on the day of the surgical procedure through the
      use of a dedicated software.

      Considering the known risk factors for POCD (advanced age, major surgery and low level of
      education), the minimization criterion will be applied to the randomization. Minimization
      allows to randomize each new patient enrolled in the study in order to minimize the
      differences between the two allocation arms for the risk factors considered. This means that
      when a new patient enters the study, the patient's own characteristics for the risk factors
      considered will affect the patient's probability to be enrolled in one of the two allocation
      arms. The minimization criterion allows to reduce unbalancing for known risk factors between
      the allocation arms of the study.

      The criteria for minimization will be the following:

        -  Age class: 75 ≤ age < 80; 80 ≤ age < 85; age ≥ 85

        -  Foreseen duration of the surgical intervention: < 2 hours; ≥ 2 hours

        -  Education level (years of scholarity): 0-8 years; 9-13 years; >13 years

      Control Group Two hundred and fifty subjects will be enrolled in the Control Group; 30
      subjects will be included in the pilot study. Considering the rule of thumb that requires a
      minimum sample size of 120 for the study of reference intervals, the proposed sample size of
      250 seems definitely adequate. Nevertheless, the pilot study will allow to have a clearer
      view of the application of the parametric method. The sample size of the control group could
      therefore be resized based on preliminary data from the Pilot Study.

      Statistical analysis The analysis of continuous variables will be performed via Student's
      t-test, one or two way analysis of variance (depending on the characteristics of the
      analysis). The study of association between continuous variables will be performed through
      linear regression methods keeping in consideration possible non-linear effects. The analysis
      of non-categorical variables will be performed with contingency tables through the use of
      Fisher's exact test and Chi-square test, together with appropriate indicators of association.
      P<0.05 will be considered as significant. A detailed statistical analysis plan will specify
      the phases of the analysis in relation to the objectives of the research protocol.
      Publications deriving from this research protocol will present data according to the current
      recommendations on parallel-group randomized controlled trials involving non-pharmacological
      treatments.

      The primary and secondary outcomes will be evaluated according an Intention to Treat (ITT)
      analysis, furthermore results will be evaluated according to the effective adherence to the
      study protocol ("Per Protocol" Analysis).

      Finally, the following pre-specified and subgroups analysis will be performed:

        -  Total hypotensive time vs. primary and secondary outcome measures;

        -  Mild, moderate and severe hypotensive time vs. primary and secondary outcome measures;

        -  Analysis of primary and secondary outcome measures related to minimization categories
           (age classes, education level, major vs. minor surgery);

        -  Analysis of primary and secondary outcome measures according to the occurrence of
           intraoperative cerebral desaturation episodes according to values recorded with the
           INVOS.

        -  Analysis of primary and secondary outcome measures in the subgroup of patients with
           hypertension and in patients with diagnosis of "cognitive frailty".

      The study is coordinated by a Steering Committee which includes the scientific
      representatives of the Institutions assuming all the competences and organizational know-how
      required for the trial:

      Istituto di Anestesia e Rianimazione, Fondazione IRCCS - "Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico,
      Mangiagalli, Regina Elena", Università degli Studi di Milano [Coordinating Center]: L.
      Gattinoni, T. Langer, A. Santini, A. Pesenti.

      UOC Geriatria, Dipartimento di Medicina Interna e Specializzazioni Mediche,Area di Medicina
      Interna e Geriatria: D. Mari.

      UOC Audiologia, Dipartimento di Medicina Interna e Specializzazioni Mediche, Area di Medicina
      Specialistica: A. Cesarani Universitaetsmedizin Goettingen, Zentrum Anaesthesiologie-,
      Rettungs- und Intensivmedizin: M.Quintel.
    
  