
    
      Heart failure (HF) is a clinical problem increasingly common throughout Europe, partly
      because of the aging population and increasing numbers of patients now survive after
      myocardial infarction [1, 2] . The IC is a progressive disease and when patients require
      hospitalization, long-term prognosis is poor [3]. The treatment of IC is focused on improving
      the work of the failing heart via the use of specific drugs, if necessary by cardiovascular
      interventions correcting structural lesions (mitral regurgitation) or correcting a
      disorganized contraction (therapy resynchronization). However, the IC is a disease complex
      with multiple factors pathophysiological interdependent making difficult treatment choices
      optimal or of a combination therapeutic optimal.

      The technologies HPV predictive, such as tools for processing data, statistical models and
      simulations biophysical that incorporate these factors pathophysiological have tremendous
      potential to help improve our understanding of the response to treatment in the context of
      the IC. In particular, they have the potential to improve the selection of patients for
      cardiovascular interventions such as cardiac resynchronization therapy and / or that an
      intervention on the mitral valve [4].

      Projects recent - European (HPV or Human physiological virtual) and national - have developed
      a large number of these technologies, but n'ont not been fully released into the environment
      clinic to help care for patients IC.

      The objective of VP2HF project is to develop and validate in clinical settings computer
      modeling platform to integrate non-invasive clinical and imaging evidence acquired in
      patients with heart failure ( IC) for two reasons:

        1. Identify for each patient, the likely response to different therapeutic interventions
           with all clinical data processed by a decision support system.

        2. Optimize responses or interventions selected for each patient to maximize treatment
           response.

      This is a pilot study to generate complete data sets used to parameterize the model
      calculations. All patients will have an accurate imaging assessment and a detailed assessment
      of bio-signals at times (time points) accurate (as shown above) with variations depending on
      the sustained cardiovascular procedure described below .

      Preoperatively

        -  Evaluation of symptoms with the Minnesota Quality of Life Questionnaire in patients with
           heart failure (MLHFQ)

        -  6 minute walk test

        -  cardiopulmonary stress test (CPET) to assess VO2 max

        -  Reference initials Blood tests (CBC, urea and electrolytes, NT-proBNP)

        -  2D and 3D cardiac echocardiography

        -  Cardiac MRI including myocardial tattoo 3D sequences (tagging 3D) and 4D sequences for
           blood circulation

        -  Non-invasive measurement of central blood pressure

      Peri-interference Whatever the treatment envisaged by the surgical team in charge of
      processing (resynchronization, mitral clip, mitral valve repair or mitral valve replacement)
      operative techniques and monitoring procedures will be those normally used by operators.

      Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) can be considered that 70% of patients in our cohort
      eligible for a CRT are also eligible for this project. Invasive measurement of left
      ventricular pressure with and without stimulation may also be acquired to study the acute
      hemodynamic effects of CRT and to make comparisons with the extent of NBP in order to test
      and validate the noninvasive pressure estimates and mechanical modeling tools.

      Repair and replacement of the mitral valve: It is expected that 30% of our cohort of patients
      have significant mitral regurgitation requiring intervention, mainly to repair the mitral
      valve and the occasional replacement of the mitral valve when the repair is unsuccessful. In
      some of these patients, the repair will be carried out by trans-catheter track and they will
      hemodynamic measurements in the aorta, the left ventricle and the left atrium before and
      after the repair of the mitral valve that will be used for the purposes of test and validate
      non-invasive estimates of pressure and mechanical modeling tools.

      Immediately after surgery All patients will again echocardiography, non-invasive measurement
      of central blood pressure.

      Followed at 6 months We will again perform , 6 months after surgery , complete postoperative
      evaluation unless cardiac MRI in patients with a CRT ( because this review is against -
      indicated ) .

      in addition to standard care pathway exams non-invasive measurement of central blood pressure
      The non -invasive blood pressure management Centron Diagnostics uses a humeral standard
      oscillatory cuff estimate both the PA peripheral and central aortic pressure. For the
      patient, this is an experiment similar to that of an automatic blood pressure recording . All
      patients benefit from this measure .

      Exams IRM3T to Cycéron (M0 and M6)
    
  