
    
      Many chemotherapeutic agents are active in breast cancer, although response rate to any
      individual drug is only 30-50%. The choice of chemotherapy is empirical, and development of a
      chemosensitivity assay is desirable, to reduce costs, unnecessary toxicity, and loss of
      window of opportunity to cure. Single molecular markers to predict sensitivity are not highly
      accurate, as chemotherapy resistance mechanisms likely involve complex pathways.
      High-throughput technologies such as gene expression microarray and Proteinchip array allow
      simultaneous analysis of thousands of genes, and hundreds of proteins, and may be more
      informative. We previously conducted a study on patients with measurable primary breast tumor
      who received primary chemotherapy with an alternating regimen of adriamycin and docetaxel,
      and generated tumor genomic and tumor and plasma proteomic signatures that predicted for
      clinical and pathological response using high throughput discovery platforms. This protocol
      aims to recruit 20 patients as an independent test set to validate the genomic and proteomic
      signatures generated previously. Half the patients will be randomized to receive 4 cycles of
      pre-operative adriamycin (Arm A) allowing validation of the adriamycin-specific signatures,
      while the other half will be randomized to receive 4 cycles of pre-operative docetaxel (Arm
      B) allowing validation of the docetaxel-specific signatures. Subjects will then undergo
      resection of the primary breast tumor, followed by 4 cycles of adjuvant therapy with the
      alternative drug (docetaxel in Arm A, adriamycin in Arm B). Serial tumor and plasma samples
      will be obtained for genomic and proteomic analysis. The previously generated genomic and
      proteomic signatures will be applied to this independent dataset to categorize patients into
      good and poor responders, and the prediction correlated with actual treatment responses.
      Secondary goals include the correlation of patient genotype with drug pharmacokinetics, and
      the correlation of chemotherapy-induced peripheral blood mononuclear cell gene expression
      changes with treatment response and toxicities
    
  