
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate the usefulness of infusing purified CD34+ cells
      of donor origin in order to augment graft function in response to declining chimerism after
      initially performing an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) for children
      with primary immunodeficiency diseases. This protocol will be utilized for patients with
      waning mixed donor chimerism that is inadequate for correction of clinical condition or
      disease for which stem cell transplant was performed, or for augmentation of immune function.
      An infusion of selected CD34+ stem cells will be given without any preparative regimen. As
      the children eligible for this protocol have reduced immune function and pre-existing donor
      chimerism, we hypothesize that stem cells will be able to engraft and the infusion will
      augment graft function. This therapy serves as an alternative to a second stem cell
      transplant that is known to be associated with significant morbidity and mortality. CD34+
      stem cells will be collected from the donor used for initial stem cell transplant. Cells will
      be T-cell depleted (TCD) by performing a CD34 selection using the CliniMACS device (Miltenyi
      Biotec) in order to prevent development of new or exacerbation of existing graft versus host
      disease (GVHD), as avoidance of GVHD in nonmalignant diseases is desirable. There is
      sufficient data showing that mixed donor chimerism is adequate for reverting disease
      phenotype in certain primary immunodeficiencies. Observations from Europe and CCHMC show that
      donor chimerism might be boosted by CD34+ stem cell infusion alone without any specific
      preparative regimen. This therapy is likely to be associated with low toxicity due to the
      absence of a preparative regimen and lack of exposure to fresh donor cells capable of
      initiating GVHD, and offers potential significant benefit.
    
  