
    
      Background and Rationale:

      CD30+ lymphomas typically comprise Hodgkin lymphomas and a variety of T-cell non-Hodgkin
      lymphoma (T-NHL) entities including angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphomas (AITL), anaplastic
      ALK+ large-cell T-cell lymphomas (ALCL), Sézary-syndrome, peripheral T-NHL NOS and other rare
      malignant T-cell lymphoma types.

      The prognosis of patients with Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) is excellent for the majority of these
      usually young patients; however, HL patients relapsing after autologous stem-cell
      transplantation (ASCT) have a rather poor outcome, with approximately only up to 20% of the
      patients surviving longer than 5 years. For those in advanced stage Hodgkin's lymphoma
      multiple first-line and second-line treatments, including the combination of doxorubicin,
      bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) - internationally, the most widely used
      regimen in Hodgkin's lymphoma - is expected to cure about 70-80% of patients. However, in
      addition to treatment failures noted for ABVD, the regimen is often associated with
      unpredictable bleomycin-induced lung related toxic effects that can be life-threatening.
      Although High Dose Chemotherapy (HDCT) with ASCT is a curative strategy for some patients
      with relapsing Hodgkin lymphomas, relapse or progression after ASCT is a major limitation of
      this procedure. For these reason, the outcome of Hodgkin lymphoma patients relapsing after
      ASCT is poor, and novel concepts for such patients is an unmet clinical need.

      CD30+ T-NHL generally have a limited prognosis, with a minority of patients being cured after
      specific lymphoma treatment. The incorporation of consolidating high-dose chemotherapy with
      autologous stem cell transplantation for young fit patients within the first-line treatment
      algorithms has improved the prognosis of such patients to some extent. However, the majority
      of such patients still ultimately die of their disease. Again, improvement of lymphoma
      treatment is an urgent requirement for these patients.

      Brentuximab Vedotin (BV; Adcetris®) is an antibody-drug conjugate and is licensed in
      Switzerland and the European Medicine Agency region for the single-agent treatment of
      relapsed and refractory Hodgkin lymphoma or for relapsed and refractory anaplastic T-cell
      lymphoma.

      BeEAM high-dose chemotherapy (comprising Bendamustin, Etoposide, Cyclophosphamide and
      Melphalan) is the standard conditioning regimen before ASCT for lymphoma patients.

      In this trial BV will be used together with BeEAM high-dose chemotherapy according to its
      conventional schedule in CD30+ lymphomas as conditioning regimen before ASCT.

      Objective:

      Phase I: The primary objective of the trial is to assess the maximum tolerated dose of a
      single-dose of Brentuximab Vedotin added to standard BeEAM chemotherapy before autologous
      stem cell transplantation in CD30+ malignant lymphomas.

      Phase II: The main objective of the trial is to assess differences in disease-free survival
      between CD30+ lymphoma patients treated with the standard BeEAM high-dose chemotherapy versus
      Brentuximab Vedotin together with BeEAM (B-BeEAM) high-dose chemotherapy. We aim to
      demonstrate an improvement by 20% of the rate of disease-free survival 1 year after ASCT
      (DFS1) from 70% in patients treated with BeEAM alone to 90% in patients treated with the
      combination of B-BeEAM.

      Study Duration:

      Phase I part was planned to last from 3 to 18 months (permitting the enrolment of minimum of
      6 patients). The Phase I has been stopped after the RP2D (1.8mg/kg/day) was established with
      enrolment of 12 patient in 24 months. The Phase II will stop after the inclusion of 42
      evaluable patients.

      All patients will be followed up for up to 12 months after end of treatment..

      This study will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, the current version of the
      Declaration of Helsinki, the ICH-GCP or ISO EN 14155 (as far as applicable) as well as all
      national legal and regulatory requirements.
    
  