
    
      This study will be a Phase III multi-center, double-blind, parallel group, placebo-controlled
      trial involving approximately 260 study sites in the United States, Canada, South Africa and
      the United Kingdom. It is expected that approximately 6,600 subjects will be screened in
      order to randomize approximately 6,000 subjects globally (3,000 in each arm of the study).
      Male or female subjects with coronary artery disease are eligible to participate if they meet
      all required inclusion and exclusion criteria. Recruitment will be delayed for one month in
      subjects who have had a PCI. Subjects who have a PCI planned at the time of screening or
      randomization, will not be randomized until one month after this planned PCI has been
      conducted. All subjects who successfully complete the screening phase and meet all required
      inclusion and exclusion criteria will be entered into the single-blind, placebo Run-In phase
      of the study to establish compliance. The placebo Run-In medication will be identical to the
      blinded study drug used in the randomized portion of the study. After the completion of the
      two-week Run-In, if compliance has been adequate, study subjects will be randomized to
      receive AGI-1067 300 mg (two 150 mg tablets daily with a meal) or placebo (approximately
      equal numbers of subjects per treatment group) for a minimum of 12 months. It is anticipated
      that subject accrual will occur over a period of approximately 24 months and that all
      subjects will be followed until at least 990 subjects have experienced a primary event.
      Subjects will remain on drug therapy from randomization until the end of the study. It is
      estimated that the first subject recruited will be exposed to blinded therapy for 30 to 36
      months, and the last subject will be exposed for a minimum of 6 to 12 months. For the
      purposes of this study one month will be equal to 28 days. The subject will be asked to
      return to the clinic at 1 month, 3 months, and every 3 months thereafter during the treatment
      phase. All clinical laboratory procedures and electrocardiographic interpretations will be
      performed by central laboratories. Over the study period, subjects will be followed for the
      occurrence of major adverse cardiovascular events. These potential endpoints will be
      adjudicated by an independent endpoint committee. This committee will consist of
      cardiologists and other physician reviewers who will be blinded to the treatment. For the
      purposes of safety, the trial will be monitored by an independent Data Safety Monitoring
      Board. This Board will consist of Cardiologists, and at least one Statistician experienced in
      the conduct of clinical trials. The Board will meet approximately every 6 months to review
      subject safety data.
    
  