
    
      The use of phosphorus as ergogenic aid has been widely reported and researched (Buck et al,
      2013). Most of the research has centered on its chronic intake effect, usually for a loading
      period of 3-6 days (Kopec et al, 2015). The benefits of phosphate supplementation on athletic
      performance have been attributed to several potential factors, like increased maximal oxygen
      uptake and improved cardiac output (Folland et al, 2008). The underlying mechanisms were
      hypothesized to be the increased plasma content in 2.3-DPG (2.3-disphosphoglycerate) which
      may be a factor in reduced oxygen affinity to hemoglobin and consequent enhanced release in
      the exercising tissue (Di Caprio et al, 2015). Other lines of investigation, which were based
      on blood analysis and hypophosphatemia's effect on metabolism (Lichtman et al, 1971), and the
      rate of glycogenolysis in exercising muscle and rate of inorganic phosphorus (Chasiotis,
      1988), attribute the beneficial effects of phosphate supplementation to higher extracellular
      concentration leading to increased ATP formation. A positive effect of phosphate
      supplementation was detected independently of 2.3-DPG in a recent study (Czuba et al, 2009).
      Additionally, increased phosphate availability was reported to increase peripheral glucose
      uptake (Khattab et al 2015) and stimulate glycogen synthesis (Xie et al, 2000). The failure
      of acute phosphate supplementation alone, without carbohydrate, to affect athletic
      performance (Galloway et al, 1996) may be partially attributed to low glycogen availability.
      We hypothesize that phosphorus exerts its effect acutely through increasing glycogen content
      of liver and muscles. Hence the acute effect of Phosphorus in physiologic doses on athletic
      performance may reveal another aspect of phosphate supplementation. If an improvement in work
      output is detected, as a significant difference in Metabolic Equivalent of Tasks (METs) and
      workload would indicate, it could be interpreted as a result of a higher glycogen formation
      leading to increased work output due to muscle signaling (Rauch et al, 2005). The current
      trial will allow 3 hours of absorption to estimate the likely benefit of phosphorus
      supplementation through enhanced glucose uptake possibly limited by phosphorus depletion
      under normal conditions, as noticed in the experiment of Khattab et al. (2015). The risk of
      change in blood osmolality due to administration of 100gr of Dextrose usually used in OGTT is
      minimal (Finta et al, 1992) .

      Methods:

      Inclusion criteria: AUB water polo players who are between the age of 18 and 25 years old,
      shall be included in the study.

      Risk assessment: It should be noted that the university requires a clearance from Family
      Medicine following a general health and cardiac screening (ECG) for inclusion on a varsity
      team, which indicates that the trial includes no increased risk for the participating
      athletes. The health survey filled by the Family Medicine department physician includes
      presence of allergies and previous medical conditions.

      A cross over study will be conducted on 17 male athletes (all members of the American
      University of Beirut's Water Polo Varsity Team), that are known to have similar energy
      expenditure and exercise patterns. Overnight fasted subjects will be depleted of glycogen.
      Participants will be asked to cycle for 20 min at 65% of each one's VO2max (that is
      determined prior to the experiment), thereafter will be given a meal (100g of glucose
      dissolved in 300 ml) with 4 tablets of phosphorus (100mg/tablet) or placebo in a random
      order.

      Three hours later, participants will be asked to cycle for 40 mins, using the nutrition lab's
      CPET cyclometer and cardiopulmonary exercise testing machine COSMED at 80% their maximal
      heartrate (measured during a water polo training session). The heartrate during the training
      will be determined by using a waterproof heartrate monitor, PoolMateHR made by Swimovate and
      consisting of a specially designed low frequency detector that will transmit in water as
      explained by the makers. Body fat will be determined using the In-Body Bio-Electric Impedance
      machine at the nutrition lab. The ergometer will determine the METs and allow us to detect
      any potential ergogenic gain.

      Procedure:

        1. Identification and recruitment of subjects: Subjects will be approached at the swimming
           pool where the water polo training takes place. An overall briefing of the study will be
           given to the varsity players and if they are interested, then a detailed explanation
           will be given.

        2. After reading and signing the consent form by both parties, participating athletes will
           be asked during their training session to wear a heartrate monitor, PoolMateHR made by
           Swimovate, to determine the heartbeat range during a typical training session which
           includes warm-up, drills and a water polo game.

        3. On the day of the experiment following an overnight fast, the participant will be taken
           to the testing facility [Faculty of Agriculture and Food Sciences/Department of
           Nutrition and Food Science] where: anthropometric measurements will be taken (height,
           weight, WC), in addition to a body composition analysis using bioelectrical impedance
           analysis (BIA) where the individual will stand on a digital scale which runs an
           electrical current through the body in order to determine its composition (bones, fat,
           muscles, water, and their specific distributions)

        4. The participant will be asked to cycle on the ergometer for 20 minutes at an average of
           65% of the maximal heartrate that is determined during training, wearing the mouthpiece,
           to be familiar with the process. Afterwards, they will be served a flavored drink
           containing 100 g of glucose dissolved in 300 ml of water, with either 4 pills each
           containing 100 mg (total 400 mg) of phosphorus or placebo.

        5. The participant will be asked to sit in a relaxed position and not to perform any major
           physical activity. Three hours later, he will be asked to cycle on the ergometer for 40
           minutes at an average of 80% of the determined maximal heartrate during training while
           wearing the breathing mask.

        6. The METs and workload will be measured using the CPET.

      Analysis of Results:

      Statistical Method:

      Sample size was determined using the formula for two paired samples: n ≥ (σd /δd)2 (Zα+Zβ)2
      which is reversely correlated to size effect, and directly correlated to Power. Since
      supplementation is relatively safe, especially at the low doses we use, and because any
      improvement is valuable, we opted for a Power between 70 and 80%.

      Time trial results will compare workload and METs of two samples using a t-test, to estimate
      the effect of acute phosphate supplementation on glycogen replenishment. The hypothesized
      increase in workload after phosphate supplementation will be interpreted as the result of
      glycogen signaling leading to higher output as per the suggestion of glycogen signaling
      experiment (Rauch et al., 2005).
    
  