
    
      Principal objective : To characterize the impact of PHPT in cortical and trabecular bone
      measured by HR-pQCT in postmenopausal women with PHPT followed for one year, in comparison
      with control postmenopausal women.

      Secondary Objectives : 1) To compare the changes of bone micro-architecture in PHPT women
      with and without surgery to those of controls 2) To determine if the changes of
      micro-architecture are related to the severity of PTH secretion and to their changes after
      surgery 3) to evaluate the association of clinical and biological factors with quantitative
      bone micro-architectural indices and their changes.

      Principal evaluation criteria : Cortical thickness

      Secondary evaluation criteria : Quantitative parameters measured with HR-pQCT: trabecular
      microarchitecture (trabecular bone volume, number, separation, thickness and heterogeneity of
      trabeculae), cortical microarchitecture (total surface, polar moment of inertia), volumetric
      density of total, cortical and trabecular bone. Biological parameters: PTH, serum calcium and
      phosphorus, 25(OH)D, 1,25(OH)2D, biomarkers of bone remodelling, and urinary calcium. BMD
      measured by DXA. Clinical factor risks of bone loss.

      Type of study : Pathophysiological, multicentric, comparative study, with a prospective
      follow-up of one year in postmenopausal caucasian women affected with PHPT (cases) or non
      affected by PHPT (controls). Each control will be matched for age, date of menopause, height
      and weight, to PHPT women.

      Study design: assessment of bone and mineral metabolism, DXA and measurement of indices by
      HR-pQCT at the inclusion. Those tests will be renewed one year after surgery for the PHPT
      patients and one year after baseline for those without surgery and the controls.

      Number of patients needed: 120 postmenopausal women, 60 cases and 60 controls

      Total duration of the study: 56 months. Inclusion period : 42 months

      Inclusion criteria and principal non-inclusion criteria :

      Patients: caucasian women, menopaused for at least one year, aged less than 81 years,
      affected with symptomatic or asymptomatic PHPT and without any other disease or medication
      interfering with bone and mineral metabolism. Control population: caucasian women, menopaused
      for at least one year, aged less than 81 years, without PHPT, diseases or medications
      interfering with bone and mineral metabolism.
    
  