
    
      In stent restenosis is still an unsolved problem. We know that principally in stent
      restenosis depends on myointimal proliferation, a biological process in which inflammatory
      mechanisms play a central role. We have previously demonstrated that immunosuppressive
      therapy with prednisone administered for 45 days after the stenting procedure reduced the
      incidence of restenosis at six months and clinical events at 12 months in high risk patients,
      with persistent higher C reactive protein levels after stenting implantation. But this
      therapy needs a high dosage glucocorticoids, and this is a contraindication in some subset of
      patients i.e. diabetics.

      Recently a new method for the encapsulation of drugs into human autologous erythrocytes using
      an apparatus and a disposable kit has been developed. It's well known that blood erythrocytes
      change their membrane properties when in contact with suspensions of different osmotic
      values. So we developed a method to modify erythrocytes membrane properties so that they
      became porous and be able to absorb and then release some specific molecules. Experimental
      studies demonstrated that non diffusible pro-drug 21-phosphate dexamethasone can be loaded in
      human blood erythrocytes and then slowly dephosphorylated to the corresponding diffusible
      molecule to be released in human plasma. Once in-vivo due to the presence of the hydrophilic
      phosphate group, Dex 21-P encapsulated into RBCs cannot diffuse through RBC membrane until it
      is slowly dephosphorylated to the corresponding active corticosteroid by erythrocytes
      resident enzymes. The novelty and the advantages of this procedure are that the red blood
      cells act as a slow and constant drug delivery system so that, during the 30 days after the
      administration, there is always a low level of corticosteroid in plasma. When these
      erythrocytes are reinfused in the donor, they release in a continuous way a low and constant
      level of drug. This procedure has yet been used in some chronic inflammatory disease (i.e.
      bowel disease) in more than 1600 patients, with significant clinical improvement. The main
      objective of the study is 1) to evaluate if autologous erythrocytes modified as bioreceptor
      may be used to release glucocorticoids in blood circulation and 2) to reduce acute
      inflammatory proteins after coronary stent implantation with clinical and angiographic
      outcomes improvement. For this purpose 100 patients undergoing coronary artery stent
      implantation will be prospectively randomized in two groups:

        1. group A: bare metal stent implantation and treatment by 50 ml of autologous erythrocytes
           charged with dexamethasone 21-P

        2. group B: bare metal stent implantation and treatment by 50 ml of autologous erythrocytes
           not charged with dexamethasone 21-P The results of two groups will be compared.
    
  