
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the efficacy and tolerability of cladribine and rituximab as remission
           induction therapy in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

        -  Determine the complete remission rate in patients treated with this regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the very good partial remission rate and nodular partial remission rate in
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen, in terms of hemotoxicity and infection rate, in
           these patients.

        -  Determine the efficacy of in vivo purging with rituximab measured by immunophenotyping
           in these patients.

        -  Determine the feasibility of stem cell harvest in these patients after treatment with
           this induction therapy regimen and in vivo purging with rituximab.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Remission induction: Patients receive cladribine subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-5. During
           courses 2-4, patients also receive rituximab IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28
           days for up to 4 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. If unacceptable
           toxicity persists, patients receive rituximab alone.

      Patients not achieving a complete remission (CR), very good partial remission (VGPR), or
      nodular partial remission (NPR) receive CHOP chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide IV,
      doxorubicin IV, and vincristine IV on day 1 and oral prednisone on days 1-5. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for up to 4 courses or until patients achieve a CR, VGPR, or NPR.

      Patients achieving a CR, VGPR, or NPR proceed to stem cell mobilization and in vivo purging.

        -  Stem cell mobilization and in vivo purging: Beginning 8-10 weeks after the first day of
           the last course of remission induction or CHOP, patients receive rituximab IV on days 1
           and 8, cyclophosphamide IV over 4 hours on day 2, and filgrastim (G-CSF) SC daily
           beginning on day 4 and continuing until the last day of apheresis. Patients undergo
           apheresis on days 11-14.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 17-41 patients will be accrued for this study within 3 years.
    
  