
    
      In Switzerland, almost one in six young people has no further professional solution after the
      compulsory school years. So-called bridge offers have been created for these young people.
      Despite these offers, adolescents and young adults with multiple burdens often do not find a
      training place or job. Young people who have not found a follow-up solution are significantly
      more likely to suffer from mental impairments and disorders than those who begin an
      apprenticeship or attend secondary school. According to Sabatella and von Wyl, this may be
      due on the one hand to the fact that a lack of an apprenticeship places a psychological
      burden on them. On the other hand, it can be assumed that many young people do not find an
      apprenticeship or job precisely because of a mental illness. Furthermore, the psychological
      impairments and illnesses are often not recognized or treated. This is probably due to the
      fact that young people often fail to make use of appropriate psychotherapeutic services, on
      the one hand because of the fear of being stigmatized, and on the other hand because they
      often seem to lack the insight to need and make use of help. The problem of mental stress and
      illness in adolescence is also reflected in IV consultations. The rate of new pensioners is
      significantly higher among 18 to 19-year-olds. Early treatment without delay can positively
      influence the course of an illness. In contrast, it has been shown that the longer people
      wait to treat a mental illness, the greater the risk of chronification. Therefore, treatment
      of mental illness is especially important for young people. The further development of these
      young people is not - as often feared - impaired. On the contrary, their professional and
      personal future prospects become more positive. As a result, cases of full retirement can be
      reduced, which has a positive effect on health costs.

      Against this background, the pilot project "inclusive", which preceded this project and was
      financed by the Gebert Rüf Foundation, was carried out. In cooperation with the bridge offer
      lifetime health, an innovative approach for a better integration of work was developed,
      applied and tested for two years: The existing care team of lifetime health was supplemented
      by a psychotherapist who conducted a 90-minute weekly group psychotherapy session with the
      young clients of lifetime health. He was also in contact with the team and the clients as
      needed.

      This (group) psychotherapeutic offer developed in the previous project for mentally burdened
      adolescents and young adults to support them in their professional integration was revised
      and supplemented. In the current project phase it is being implemented in 7 further bridge
      offers in five cantons. For an initial assessment of whether such an offer is also suitable
      for adults, a group is also offered for adults at one of the locations. The project is
      financed by Innosuisse.
    
  