
    
      The study objective is to describe the difference in the incidence of dysphotopsias and
      sensation of pain both immediately, 2 weeks and 3 months after superior or temporal LPI. The
      main primary outcome variable will be the presence of dysphotopsias and the recollection of
      pain graded by a standardized pain scale.

      Stratified Block Randomization: 200 patients will be recruited from participating centre. For
      each patient, the order of the eye to be treated as well as the position of the LPI superior
      or temporal will be randomized.

      Methods:

      Subjects: Patients included in the study will be patients referred for a glaucoma evaluation
      or in follow up at Sunnybrook Science Center who are diagnosed as PACS and have therefore an
      indication for bilateral LPIs.

      Interventions: All patients eligible will be examined by the principal investigator,
      including a slit lamp assessment of the anterior segment, gonioscopy of the angle and
      stereoscopic optic nerve examination with a 78 Diopters lens. Intraocular pressure (IOP) will
      be measured with applanation tonometry. Patients will be assessed with a macular and optic
      nerve OCT to rule out glaucoma.

      Only bilateral PACS patients will be included. One randomly selected eye will receive
      superior LPI while contralateral eye temporal LPI. At the 2 week and 3 month follow up visits
      patients will be asked about dysphotopsias in one or both eyes and their recollection of pain
      will be graded. Other distractors will be included in the questionnaire such as increased
      tearing sensation.

      Laser peripheral iridotomy will be performed using neo-dynium:yttrium:aluminium-garnet laser
      after pretreatment with 2% pilocarpine and brimonidine 0.15%. Superior LPIs will be placed
      between the 11- and 1-o'clock positions such that they were covered completely by the upper
      eyelid; nasal/temporal LPIs will be placed between the 2- and 4-o'clock positions or the 8-
      and 10-o'clock positions such that they were completely clear of the lid margin. Preference
      will be given to iris crypts, avoiding iris vessels when possible. Laser peripheral
      iridotomies will be performed in both eyes during the same visit and will be confirmed to be
      patent after the procedure. Intraoperative data collected will include initial per-shot laser
      energy in milli joules, number of laser shots, and total laser energy in millijoules. All the
      patients will be treated with fluorometholone 0.1% eye drops QID for 5 days after surgery.

      Data Collection: Laser treatment specifications will be noted for the amount in LPI
      positioning, number of applications, and amount of energy used. Other relevant patient
      information will also be noted such as best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), refractive error,
      IOP and presence of lens opacities along with the patients gender, age and ethnicity. These
      patients will be scheduled for follow up examination and IOP measurement at 2 weeks and 3
      months after LPI procedure. On follow up a questionnaire will be given to patients assessing
      pain recollection and presence of dysphotopsias. Lid coverage of the LPI will also be noted.

      Sample size and Justification:

      The target sample size of 200 participants was selected to provide 80% power on an estimated
      incidence of 10.7% incidence of dysphotopsias after superior LPI versus 2.4% after temporal
      LPI with a 2-sided error at α = .05. This was based on the study published by Vera et
      al,.2014. The sample size allows for a 15% loss to follow-up and a 10% crossover between
      randomization groups.

      Data Analysis: Group differences in baseline variables will be evaluated using Student t test
      for continuous variables and chi-square tests for categorical variables. P values of less
      than 0.05 will be considered statistically significant.

      Recruitment: Patients will be identified on initial or follow up visits at Sunnybrook Health
      Center. The ophthalmologists will identify potential subjects and the study coordinator will
      explain the nature of the study and invite them to participate. An Information and Consent
      Form will be signed by the patient previous to the enrollment in the study.
    
  