
    
      Patient selection for this prospective study will be done using a specific inclusion and
      exclusion criteria listed in the Protocol Registration. In order to recruit participants for
      this study, scheduled surgeries will be reviewed for possible patient selection meeting the
      criteria for patient's having extractions of multi-rooted posterior teeth. Patients who are
      scheduled for the specified extractions will be recruited by mail. Patients who are
      interested in participating in the study will be able to contact Graduate Periodontics to
      express their interest in the study and schedule informed consent appointment. Participants
      wishing to take part in the study will receive informed consent and will have any questions
      answered for them. At the informed consent appointment, participants will be evaluated using
      the inclusion/exclusion criteria and will be chosen based on the findings.

      After the informed consent appointment, eligible participants will return for the clinical
      study and their surgical extraction. A complete review of the medical history will be
      completed, including blood pressure and heart rate recordings. Baseline measurements such as
      plaque index score (PI), bleeding on probing (BOP), probing depths (PD), clinical attachment
      loss (CAL), and gingival recession (GR) will all be completed. All measurement will be done
      using a University of North Carolina periodontal probe (UNC) with 1mm markings. Measurements
      will also be taken according to the number of roots and locations of furcation for teeth that
      meet the inclusion criteria. All measurements will be performed by one calibrated examiner
      and intra-examiner calibration will be performed at two time points: pre-study and
      intra-study. Periapical and bitewing radiographs will only be taken if not done within the
      last 6 months.

      After meeting the criteria for the study and following informed consent from the patient, the
      participant will be prepped for scaling and root planing of the specified teeth. Local
      anesthesia will be administered for patient comfort in the surrounding area of the specified
      tooth (teeth).

      Teeth will be randomly assigned to one of three groups for the study: the first group is the
      control group and will have scaling and root planing completed using area-specific standard
      Gracey curettes. The second group will have scaling and root planing completed using
      area-specific modified Gracey curettes, and the final group will have scaling and root
      planing completed using the Piezo Ultrasonic scaler for calculus and biofilm removal.
      Area-specific standard and modified Gracey curette types include: anterior scalers 1/2, and
      posterior scalers 11/12 and 13/14. Hand instrumentation will occur until the root surfaces
      feel smooth using tactile sensitivity with an ODU 11/12 explorer.

      Following completion of scaling and root planing, the tooth will be prepared for extraction
      by the clinician who treatment planned its extraction. A surgical informed consent will be
      signed by the patient prior to the extraction and additional local anesthesia will be
      administered if necessary. The surgeon will mark the gingival margin level on the tooth using
      a ½ round bur and extract the tooth without damaging the root surfaces. The surgeon who
      performed the extraction for the participant will tend to the post-operative needs of the
      individual while the tooth that was extracted for the study will be rinsed with running water
      to remove any blood or soft tissue that may remain on the root surfaces for 1-2 minutes. The
      tooth will then be transferred to 1% methylene blue solution for staining for 2 minutes, then
      rinsed again with water for 2-3 minutes. The extracted specimen will be placed in a primary
      containment vile, which then will be placed in a clean labelled biohazard bag for secondary
      containment for being transferred to the lab where evaluation of the root surfaces will
      occur.

      The root surfaces of the tooth will be evaluated using a Nikon SMZ 745T stereomicroscope at
      10 times the magnification for any residual biofilm or calculus. Image J software will be
      used to scale and measure residual biofilm and calculus and then calculations will be made to
      determine the percentage of what remain on the root surfaces will be calculated to assess the
      efficiency of modified, area-specific hand scalers. Clinical photos of the stained tooth will
      also be taken for further documentation of any residual presence of calculus.
    
  