
    
      Despite the accumulating evidence supporting the favorable impact and potentially life-saving
      benefits of routine public mask wearing has on lowering the risk of COVID-19 transmission,
      recommendations for mask use have been met with resistance by some individuals. With the
      numerous health benefits greatly outweighing the document complaints of discomfort and
      headaches, it becomes puzzling why there is not universal support for these recommendations
      made by experts. Additional insight to this ongoing issue is provided in an extremely
      informative commentary provided by Scheid et al, in which they present theoretical evidence
      suggesting that there may be consequential psychological impacts of mask wearing on the basic
      psychological needs of competence, autonomy, and relatedness. Which may contribute to the
      controversy associated with mask use. It is also important to consider that such subjective
      experiences caused by mask wearing have been demonstrated to be exacerbated when physical
      exertion is performed at intensities above activities of daily living, such as during
      incremental aerobic or resistance exercise.

      Currently, the CDC identifies age > 65, BMI > 30, diabetes, smoking, chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease, heart conditions, or an immunocompromised state as risk factors for severe
      illness from COVID-19. Research conducted by Barkley et al, revealed that university closure
      increased sedentary behavior in all study participants, but only decreased physical activity
      in individuals who were the most active pre-cancellation. Highlighting concerns that
      pandemic-related closure of facilities such as gyms, which are designed for physical activity
      may disproportionately impact a more active population. Increased sedentary behavior and
      reduced physical activity will likely exacerbate these known risk factors for severe illness
      from COVID-19, and contribute to overloading our healthcare systems . While it is still
      recommended that adults of all ages should achieve 150-300 minutes of moderate or 75-150
      minutes of vigorous (or an equivalent combination) physical activity per week, along with at
      least 2 days per week of muscle strengthening activities. Unfortunately, evidence based
      guidelines have not yet been developed to guide universal mask use during exercise and
      sporting events.

      In this proposed randomized controlled cross-over study, we aim to evaluate in non-COVID-19
      infected and otherwise healthy young-to-middle aged adults whether compared with performing
      resistance exercise (RE) with no mask (NM), 1) are there effects of wearing a surgical mask
      on physiological or psychological responses during RE that limit peak force or work performed
      in an exercise session, and 2) does wearing a surgical mask during resistance exercise yield
      clinically relevant and dangerous absolute indications warranting early exercise termination.
      Isokinetic testing can be used to provide valid, reliable, objective measure of a muscle's
      performance and offers significant clinical controls to simulate a resistance training
      workout. The lever arm speed measuring muscular output by the participant can be adjusted
      depending on the desired number of repetitions or duration test performed. Various skeletal
      muscle metabolic systems could be stressed depending on the effort and duration of time under
      tension, making it an efficient and reliable method for the assessment of muscle performance
      under various environmental conditions, including wearing a mask during a resistance training
      workout. To our knowledge this is the first study to assess the effects of wearing protective
      nose and face covering on resistance exercise capacity, estimate arterial oxyhemoglobin
      saturation (SpO2), and degree of discomfort.
    
  