
    
      Pain negatively affects the quality of life (QOL) of adolescents with cancer (AWC), slows
      cancer recovery, and results in negative long-term health effects. Pain is also significant
      cost to the healthcare system and families. To address this problem, the study investigators
      have developed and used a phased-approach to test a smartphone-based app, called Pain Squad+.
      Using this app AWC report the pain they have and the app provides AWC with advice on how to
      treat this pain based on an algorithm our team developed. An email is also sent to a nurse if
      an AWC reports severe pain 3 times in a row. The nurse then contacts the AWC to assist in
      treating pain. This project will test the effect of the Pain Squad+ app, with and without
      nurse help, on treating pain and other pain-related health issues and managing costs
      associated with pain care, when compared to AWC not using the app. Investigators will enroll
      222 AWC recruited from 9 Canadian pediatric oncology care centres into a 3-group randomized
      controlled trial. AWC in the experimental groups will be asked to use Pain Squad+ for 8 weeks
      (with or without nurse involvement) and all groups will complete pain-related outcome
      measures at baseline, 2-, 4-, 8-, and 16-weeks. The primary study outcome will be pain
      intensity. The secondary study outcomes will be (a) pain interference; (b) QOL; (c) pain
      self-efficacy; and (d) cost effectiveness and utility. Investigators will use established
      statistical methods to analyze the health and cost data collected over the course of this
      study. A real-time and cost effective way to address the problem of pain in AWC is needed.
      Pain Squad+ can improve pain treatment and QOL for AWC as well as decrease costs incurred by
      families and the healthcare system. If effective, the Pain Squad+ as a model of
      technology-assisted care may represent a way to improve the QOL for a range of Canadian
      patients by treating a variety of physical and psychological symptoms the moment they occur.
    
  