
    
      In the first place, a meeting will be organized with the patients to resolve any doubt about
      the study and its process. The investigators will make sure every instruction is
      understandable, giving enough time to read and ask pertinent questions.

      Secondly, patients will be provided of an informed consent specific for the present study,
      according to the legal forms. Participants must agree with all the information and sign the
      document.

      At this point, patients will be interviewed individually by a researcher to collect all the
      data regarding to the Clinical History in Physiotherapy.

      In the next step, patients will be randomized into two different groups by choosing one
      opaque envelope, containing a number for the allocation. A researcher will make the final
      allocation depending on the number. Patients were unaware of the group allocation for
      masking.

      This study has to possible groups with a common indication for both:

        1. Experimental group: Patients allocated in this group will receive one single session of
           interferential current (IFC). Current used a carrier frequency of 4.000 Hz, 65Hz of
           amplitude modulated frequency (AMF) with sweep frecuency of 95Hz in a 1:1 swing pattern
           (quadripolar technique). Intensity was adjusted according to patient's tolerance without
           visible muscle twitches. The session will last 25 min.

        2. Control group: This group will receive the same intervention than experimental one but
           with no intensity, for 25 minutes. Patients will keep his general practitioner's
           indications about pharmacology.

        3. Common indication: Both groups will get instructions to perform a set of home-based
           exercises for core strengthening after variable collecting.

      Before and after the session, all the variable measurements will be collected in the same
      environmental conditions by the same researcher. Basal measurement (before intervention) will
      be recorded 15 minutes before session for 10 minutes. The second measurement will be taken
      while the patient recieves the intervention for 20 minutes.
    
  