
    
      The Intervention program MoVo-LISA is a psychological intervention that should help
      participants to increase their level of physical activity for a healthy lifestyle.It contains
      three sessions (2 group,1 one on one) in the course of two weeks. The intervention focuses on
      planning and barrier management.

      Participants develop activity ideas, goals and plans that enable them to integrate physical
      activity in their everyday routine and how to shield their motivation against barriers and
      difficulties.The intervention has proven to be effective with patients with pain disorders in
      rehabilitation.

      This study examines if the intervention if effective for psychiatric outpatients as well. The
      intervention is compared to an active control group that receives a similar program that is
      focusing on a healthy diet.

      Participants are recruited in the outpatient departements of three hospitals in Berlin and
      Brandenburg (Charité Universitätsmedizin Berlin - Departement of Psychiatry and
      Psychotherapy; St. Hewdig Hospital Berlin - Departement of Psychiatry; Oberhavel Hospital
      Brandenburg, Departement of Psychiatry) and at local psychiatrists in Berlin. Individuals are
      recruited by posters and flyers in the waiting areas areas or by information of their doctor.
      Patients can contact the researcher and are, after checked for eligibility, invited to an
      information event, where they get detailed information on the program and the study. After
      the information event, participants give written informed consent.

      The intervention takes place in the outpatient departements of the three hospitals.

      Clinical information about diagnoses, medication and functioning is obtained by their doctors
      by mail after the patients released them from confidentiality.

      The study is an explorative approach to test if the program is suited for psychiatric
      patients. A sample size of 50 participants that complete the program is planned.

      All data is collected pseudonymised to protect the identity of the patients.
    
  