
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and safety using Common Terminology Criteria
      for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, of the combination Ad.p53 DC vaccine (adenovirus-p53
      transduced dendritic cell vaccine) plus 1-MT in patients with any solid malignancy that has
      mutated p53 by immunohistochemistry (IHC). (Phase I) II. To determine efficacy (objective
      response rate) of the combination Ad.p53 DC vaccine plus 1-MT in metastatic breast cancer
      patients whose tumor expresses mutated p53 by IHC. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To collect preliminary data on and study the p53 specific interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)
      enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot (ELISPOT) measurement at baseline, week 7 and week 16.
      (Phase I) II. To collect preliminary data on and study the percentage of p53 specific
      IFN-gamma ELISPOT responders at week 7 and 16. (Phase II) III. To collect preliminary data on
      and study progression-free survival on the study treatment. (Phase II) IV. To collect
      preliminary data on and study response and progression-free survival on the subsequent
      chemotherapy if administered. (Phase II) V. To collect preliminary data on and study the
      effects of 1-methyl-D-tryptophan (1-MT) on serum kynurenine, serum tryptophan, C reactive
      protein, and circulating T-regulatory cells (clusters of differentiation (CD)4+ 25+ CD127low
      forkhead box P3+ (FoxP3+)) by flow cytometry at each vaccination point on study when compared
      their corresponding baseline. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose escalation study followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive adenovirus-p53 transduced dendritic cell vaccine intradermally (ID) in weeks
      1, 3, 5, and 10, and then every 3 weeks for 6 total doses. Patients also receive
      1-methyl-d-tryptophan orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment with
      1-methyl-d-tryptophan repeats every 28 days (patients with stable disease) for up to 12
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks.
    
  