
    
      BACKGROUND

      Fluid resuscitation is a very common treatment in the ICU, and every day a thousands of
      critically ill patients are treated around the world with crystalloids or colloids to correct
      hypovolaemia (1, 2). A wide diversity of fluids is available, and new products are coming in
      the very near future. In 1989, a French consensus conference recommended to abandon the use
      of fresh frozen plasma and to limit the use of albumin to very specific situations (e.g.
      contraindication to other colloids, serum protein levels below 35 g/l) (1). Crystalloids and
      gelatins were considered as the best solutions for fluid resuscitation in the critically ill.
      In 1997, as starch was increasingly used, this guidelines were updated (2). It was concluded
      that isotonic crystalloids are as efficacious as starch pending the amount of fluid to be
      administered.

      Three systematic reviews of the literature provided an accurate summary of data available
      from randomised controlled trials evaluating human albumin (3), or comparing crystalloids to
      colloids in fluid resuscitation in critically ill patients (4,5). The first systematic review
      (3) has analysed 30 randomised trials and concluded that there is no evidence that albumin
      administration reduces the risk of death in critically ill patients. By contrast, this review
      suggested that albumin administration might increase by 6% the risk of death. In the Cochrane
      Injury Review Group systematic review (4), 40 randomised trials were analysed. The authors
      concluded that the administration of colloids might be associated with an absolute increase
      of 3.8% in the risk of death. The last review has analysed only 17 randomised trials as they
      decided to exclude studies of hypertonic saline. This review showed no significant difference
      in the risk of death between colloids and crystalloids or in other outcomes like prevalence
      of pulmonary edema and length of stay at the ICU and at the hospital (5). However, when the
      authors considered only the studies with a high methodological quality score, they observed a
      nice trend toward an increased survival rate in favour of crystalloids. They reached the same
      conclusions for the subset of trauma patients.

      JUSTIFICATION FOR THE STUDY

      It seems reasonable to abandon the use of fresh frozen plasma in fluid resuscitation in
      critically ill patients. There are no definite criteria to decide which of crystalloids and
      colloids should be preferred. It is unquestionable that, to achieve a given haemodynamic
      effect, the amount of crystalloids needed is almost twice the amount of colloids (1, 2).
      Colloids and crystalloids have different effects on a range of important physiological
      parameters. As most of the critically ill patients underwent one or more volume replacements,
      even a small increase in the risk of death (around 5%) has considerable clinical
      implications. The meta analyses suggested a 5% absolute risk reduction in mortality in favour
      of crystalloids (4, 5). The number needed to treat, an estimate which is more clinically
      meaningful (6), is of 20, suggesting about 1 additional death (with colloids) for every 20
      patients resuscitated. Given the number of patients exposed to fluid resuscitation, about 60
      additional deaths might be observed per year in a ICU,receiving 600 patients a year.

      A large trial is needed to compare the safety and efficacy of colloids and crystalloids
      (4,5).

      OBJECTIVES

      Primary objective:

      To compare the effects on 28-day mortality of colloids versus crystalloids in ICU patients
      who need fluid resuscitation.

      Secondary objectives:

      ICU and hospital mortality and morbidity, and safety.

      STUDY DESIGN

      A multinational, randomised, controlled trial, on two parallel groups.

      STUDY TREATMENTS

        -  Arm A: crystalloids

        -  Arm B: colloids Allocated treatment must be started immediately after randomisation
           (Day-0)

        -  The amount and speed of fluid loading will be at the physicians' discretion. The amount
           of starch should not exceed 30 ml/kg/24 hours. In case additional volume replacement is
           necessary, gelatins or albumin may be used. During all ICU stay, the patients will
           receive only crystalloids or only colloids for fluid resuscitation, according to
           randomisation.

      Double blind seems unfeasible as the time window for inclusion is extremely short (treatment
      should be available promptly at bedside) and the amounts of volume replacement for all ICU
      stay could not be predicted a priori.

      Allowed co-interventions:

        -  Any treatment required for a pre-existing condition

        -  Any type of inotropes or vasopressors

        -  Red cells, platelets, fresh frozen plasma, which are used should follow general
           guidelines (2).

      Co-interventions not allowed:

      Any other volume replacement solution than those above mentioned. Albumin is not allowed in
      patients allocated to crystalloids unless plasma albumin levels are below 20 g/dl (2).

      ENDPOINTS

      Main endpoint:

        -  28-day mortality rate.

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  ICU and Hospital mortality rates

        -  Number of ICU days the patient is alive and free of

             -  mechanical ventilation,

             -  vasopressors and inotropes,

             -  renal replacement therapy,

             -  organ system failure according to the sequential organ failure assessment (SOFA)
                scoring system[7]

        -  Total amount of volume replacement

        -  Difference in

             -  AUC of mean arterial pressure between HO and H24 at Day-0

             -  weight between Day-0 and Day-1 and Day-2

             -  PaO2/FiO2 ratio between H0 and H12 and H24, at Day-0

             -  chest X-ray score between day-0 and Day-1 and day-2(8)

        -  Frequency of adverse events

        -  Anaphylaxis reaction: skin or mucous rash, nausea, vomiting, shock, bronchial spasm,
           respiratory or cardiac arrest

        -  Coagulation disorders: fall in prothrombin time (PT) rate, in factor VIII

        -  Impairment in renal function: increase in creatinine > 200 µmol/l

        -  Length of stay at ICU

        -  Length of hospital stay

      RANDOMISATION

      The list of randomisation will be generated by computer. We will use block randomisation
      stratified by site and diagnosis,

        1. trauma or haemorrhage,

        2. sepsis,

        3. other diagnoses.

      Modalities:

        -  Day of randomisation = Day-0

        -  The delay between the decision to resuscitate the patients with fluids and randomisation
           should be as short as possible (15 minutes or less). Thus, the use of sealed envelopes
           seems to be the best method for allocation concealment in this case. There will be at
           each centre, 3 sets of sealed envelopes, one for each strata (i.e., trauma or
           hemorrhage, sepsis, and other diagnoses). To randomise a patient, the investigator must
           use the first available sealed envelope (according to allocation number) in the
           corresponding (i.e., trauma or hemorrhage, sepsis, other diagnoses).

        -  Choice of strata: when a patient has more than one diagnosis, the choice of the strata
           must be as follows: trauma or haemorrhage > sepsis > others. For example, a patient with
           trauma and sepsis will be randomised in the " trauma " strata.

        -  An envelope must be used only once.

        -  Investigators must declare by fax (to the coordinating centre) each inclusion within 2
           working days, and provide the following information:

      FOLLOW UP

      From H0 (time of randomisation) to H24:

        -  Total amount of each type of fluid infused

        -  Number of red cell units

        -  Mean of mean arterial pressure at hourly intervals from H0 to H24

        -  PaO2/FiO2 ratio at H0, H12 and H24

        -  SOFA score

        -  PT time, (worse values)

        -  Plasma total proteins and albumin levels

        -  Adverse events (cf. supra)

      Daily from Day-1 to ICU discharge:

        -  Patient's status: dead or alive

        -  Total amount of each type of fluid infused

        -  SOFA score

        -  Number of red cell units

        -  Surgical procedures

        -  Specialised radiographic procedures

        -  Adverse events (cf. supra)

        -  Chest X-ray score (annexe 6) and weight at Day-1 and day-2

      At ICU discharge:

        -  Alive or date of death

        -  Length of ICU stay

        -  Time on mechanical ventilation

        -  Omega scores 1,2,3 and total (annexe 8 [14])

        -  Number and type of adverse events (cf. supra)

        -  Where the patient is discharged to: home, another ward in the same hospital, another
           hospital, rehabilitation centre, home for disabled people

      At hospital discharge (if not the same as that of ICU discharge):

        -  Alive or date of death

        -  Length of hospital stay

        -  Where the patient is discharged to: home, another ward in the same hospital, another
           hospital, rehabilitation centre, home for disabled people

      SAMPLE SIZE

      This study is designed to show an absolute difference of 5% in 28-day mortality between
      colloids and crystalloids. Assuming a mortality rate of 20% in the crystalloids group, with
      alpha = 5% and beta = 10%, 1504 patients per treatment arm are needed. A total of 3010
      patients will be enrolled. All randomised patients must be followed up (at least) till ICU
      discharge. One hundred active centres will be recruited in Europe. The participation of each
      centre will be around 3 to 6 months.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      Interim analyses and stopping rules

      The boundaries of the sequential plan are drawn to demonstrate an absolute difference of 5%
      in 28-day mortality rate between the two treatment arms, assuming a 20% mortality rate in the
      crystalloids group, and with alpha and beta of 5% and 10% respectively. The analyses will be
      performed every 100 deaths. The figure displays the boundaries of the sequential plan.
      Briefly, Z represents the difference between the two groups and V the number of patients that
      have been included. When a boundary is crossed, the enrollments in the study must be stopped,
      and the conclusion depends on which boundary has been crossed (see figure). Simulations allow
      to estimate how many inclusions are saved: when difference in mortality rates is nil, 1109
      patients have to be included to reach the conclusion. When difference is 5%, 1477 patients
      have to be included to reach the conclusion.

      Final analysis

      The final analysis will be performed according to the intention to treat principle, after
      inclusions in the study will be stopped.

      Baseline characteristics of patients will be compared between the two treatment arms:
      categorical variables will be expressed as number and percentage and compared by Chi-2 tests,
      means, standard deviation, and range will be given for continuous variables, which will be
      compared by Student t tests.

      Methods for analyses of efficacy and safety will depend on the type of outcome. Survival
      curves will be constructed according to the Kaplan-Meyer method, and compared by log-rank
      tests. The comparison will be adjusted the main prognosis variables with Cox models.
      Categorical variables will be compared by Chi-2 tests, and continuous variables Student t
      tests or analysis of variance for repeated measures.

      STUDY ORGANISATION

      Steering committee

      PI: Djillali Annane (Garches), Statistician: Sylvie Chevret (Paris) Yves Cohen (Avicenne),
      Samir Jaber (Montpellier), Gilles Troché (Versailles) Fékri Abroug (Monastir, Tunisie)
      Olivier Lesur (Sherbrook, Canada),

      Advisory Board:

      Jean François Baron, François Feihl (Lausanne, Suisse), Jean Louis Vincent (Bruxelles,
      Belgique)

      Safety and Efficacy Monitoring Board:

      Edward Abraham (Birmingham, USA), Déborah Cook (Hamilton, Canada), Mervyn Singer (London,
      UK), Charles Sprung (Jérusalem, Israel)
    
  