
    
      Asthma is a common cause of illness and lost productivity, including missed days of work and
      school, in the United States. It is important for people with asthma to become involved in
      their treatment and care. Previous studies have shown that encouraging people to ask their
      doctor for various medical tests and treatments improves preventive care (e.g., cancer
      screenings), but more research is needed on the effect this can have on asthma management.
      This study will involve an interactive Web site that will ask patients questions about their
      asthma symptoms and medications and provide suggestions and feedback on the types of
      questions patients may want to ask their doctors. By asking questions about their asthma care
      and increasing communication with their doctor, patients may experience improved quality of
      asthma care and better asthma control. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the impact of
      the interactive Web site on asthma control and other measures of asthma management.

      This 12-month study will enroll people with asthma. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      either the Asthma Feedback group or the Preventive Feedback (control) group. Both groups will
      log in to the study Web site at least once a month for 12 months and before all doctor
      visits. After logging in to the Web site, participants in the Asthma Feedback group will
      answer a series of questions about their asthma care. They will then receive information and
      feedback on the types of questions they should ask their asthma care provider during their
      next office visit. Participants in the Preventive Feedback group will answer questions and
      receive information and feedback regarding preventive services (e.g., cancer screening,
      cholesterol screening) that they should discuss with their primary care provider. At baseline
      and Months 6 and 12, all participants will complete online questionnaires regarding their
      asthma and overall health. Study researchers will review participants' medical records and
      insurance claims data at the end of the study.
    
  