
    
      Families, and spouses in particular, have been shown to play important roles in all aspects
      of health care, especially when family members are recovering from the trauma of sudden
      illness or an accident such as a brain injury. A limited body of evidence suggests couple
      therapy provides patients and their spouses with the opportunity to explore the experience of
      trauma as it relates to becoming physically disabled within the context of intimate
      relationships. Being in close contact and emotionally connected to a person who has
      experienced trauma becomes a chronic stressor that can cause family members to experience
      trauma symptoms themselves. This phenomenon is termed secondary traumatic stress. For
      example, children can mimic a parent's trauma responses through identification with the
      parent or direct training. This is a specific type of secondary traumatisation transmitted
      intergenerationally.

      The research about individuals who have a traumatic brain injury (TBI) and the impact of the
      injury on family functioning has outlined a number of challenges including: psychological
      distress, particularly anxiety and depression, among caregivers; disruptions in family
      functioning; and the impact on relationships including caregiver burden. Furthermore, among
      the most difficult conditions for couples to deal with are those involving cognitive
      impairment.

      Hold Me Tight is a couples enrichment program that is based on the Emotionally Focused
      Therapy (EFT) approach to working with couples. EFT is an empirically supported treatment
      that arose out of emotion theory and attachment theory. It views emotions as centrally
      important in the experience of self, in both adaptive and maladaptive functioning, and in
      therapeutic change. From the EFT perspective change occurs by means of awareness, regulation,
      reflection, and transformation of emotion taking place within the context of an
      empathetically attuned relationship. There is significant research on this approach and it
      has been found that 70-75% of couples move from distress to recovery and that the gains are
      sustained for months to years following the end of treatment. As such, EFT is an evidence
      based treatment protocol.
    
  