
    
      The mortality induced by HIV has dropped significantly due to effective antiretroviral
      therapy. Epidemiological data suggest a less than 5% 10-year mortality for patients treated
      with HAART. As a result of the reduction in early AIDS-related deaths, HIV has become a
      chronic disease manifesting the common components of chronic disease such as inflammation,
      vascular dysfunction, and oxidative stress. The combination of these trends put HIV patients
      at increased risk of myocardial infarction compared with age-matched subjects over the long
      term. Several studies suggest that some protease inhibitors might increase the risk of
      myocardial infarction. The leading theory behind this association derives from the
      relationship between protease inhibitor use and the onset of an atherogenic dysmetabolism
      including the development of insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, and oxidative stress.

      In contrast to the older protease inhibitors, atazanavir induces neither insulin resistance
      nor dyslipidemia. In addition, atazanavir has a property unique among protease inhibitors:
      elevation of unconjugated bilirubin by inhibiting the enzyme uridine diphosphate
      glucuronyltransferase (UGT) 1A1. Bilirubin is a potent intracellular antioxidant. The
      investigators have demonstrated that higher levels of bilirubin within the normal range are
      associated with reduced rates of stroke and peripheral artery disease. Patients with
      Gilbert's Syndrome (chronic elevations of bilirubin as a result of genetically reduced UGT
      1A1) have a lower rate of myocardial infarction compared with age-matched controls. It is
      plausible that use of atazanavir compared with other protease inhibitors, by reducing
      oxidative stress, may improve vascular function and, ultimately, reduce the rate of
      cardiovascular complications with chronic therapy.

      The benefit of atazanavir may be particularly important now with the aging of the HIV
      population. Aging is associated with higher levels of oxidative stress and endothelial
      dysfunction, both of which are associated with heightened rates of cardiovascular morbidity
      and mortality. Accordingly, the investigators hypothesize that the use of atazanavir in
      stable HIV patients age 45 years or older will improve endothelial dysfunction and reduce
      oxidative stress compared with continuing the current therapy.
    
  