
    
      Background: The mainstay of treatment for the majority of breast cancers is surgical excision
      of the primary tumour either by removing the lump (wide local excision) or the whole breast,
      mastectomy. Breast cancer can commonly spread to the lymph nodes in the armpit (axilla)
      meaning surgery to remove the cancer also involves surgery to axilla to sample lymph nodes.
      The most common complication following mastectomy is a fluid collection deep to the wound
      called a seroma. This is generally a minor complication but may cause significant discomfort
      / distress to the patient. If the seroma is of a significant size as to cause discomfort, it
      is usually drained using a needle and syringe near the wound. This is not only to improve
      patient discomfort, but seromas can lead to wound healing problems which may delay the onset
      of adjuvant treatment, such as radio- or chemotherapy. The incidence of seroma is variable,
      but the most commonly quoted incidence of seroma formation is between 15% and 27%.

      In a bid to reduce seroma formation, surgeons use drains following mastectomy to
      theoretically remove any excess fluid that may accumulate following surgery. This is the
      current practice in our unit at North Tees. Despite the widespread use of drains following
      mastectomy, there is no clear evidence to suggest that the use of drains significantly
      reduces seroma formation. There are also no consensus guidelines for the use of postoperative
      drains. Most surgeons advocate the removal of drains when the volume drained is less than
      50ml/day. Patients with a drain in-situ may be kept as inpatients until drain removal, others
      may go home with drains with frequent review at home by the breast care nursing team. As a
      consequence, drains may contribute to a longer postoperative stay and have also been linked
      to higher postoperative pain scores.

      The nature and behaviour of seromas remains ambiguous; it is hard predicting which patients
      will be troubled by them. There is one argument however, that seroma fluid may be increased
      by the presence of a drain. This is because the drain may irritate the tissues underneath the
      wound, resulting in the tissues producing more fluid which may accumulate into a seroma.
      Therefore, there lies a theoretical basis for which drains should be avoided altogether.

      Other measures have been adopted other than drains in a bid to reduce seroma formation. One
      of the main ones are the use of 'quilting sutures' deep to the wound. These have previously
      been used either in addition to a drain or without. Quilting sutures aim to reduce the 'free
      space' left in the tissues following removal of the breast by adhering the tissues together.
      The free space, commonly called 'dead space' is a risk factor for the accumulation of fluid.
      It has been shown in studies that with or without a drain, these sutures (or stitches) reduce
      the incidence of seroma and reduce the length of inpatient stay.

      Aim/Objective: This pilot study aims to determine the effect that drains and quilting sutures
      have on the incidence of symptomatic seroma formation following mastectomy and axillary
      surgery for breast cancer. A symptomatic seroma is defined as a fluid collection beneath the
      mastectomy wound which develops post-operatively, causing tension on the healing wound and
      discomfort to the patient, thus needing drainage. This is usually approximately 100mls or
      greater in quantity of fluid.

      Outcome measures: See below

      Population

      Eligibility Criteria: see below

      Sample size: This is a feasibility study which will recruit patients from four NHS Foundation
      Trusts in the North-East of England (North Tees and Hartlepool, Northumbria, Gateshead and
      Newcastle Hospitals). The principle research centre will be North Tees. No power calculation
      has been used to determine sample size. A small sample will be used to assess the feasibility
      of the intervention with the aim of using this study as a pilot for a large study in the
      future which would have a sample based on power calculations. Seroma incidence has been
      quoted as around 15-27%.2 University Hospital of North Tees and Hartlepool alone treat
      approximately 500 patients diagnosed with breast cancer every year. Each centre will recruit
      30 patients, which approximates to 10 per group. This gives a total sample size of 120
      patients.

      Subjects will be recruited at the breast clinic when consenting for surgery. They will be
      approached regarding the study as part of the consent process.

      Randomisation process: Block randomisation using computer generated opaque sealed envelopes
      sequencing stratified by the centre. Variable block sizes are preferable but not necessary
      given the three arms of the study and multiple study sites. According to site, participants
      will be labelled in four blocks of 30 for randomisation to make sure all sites allocate 10 in
      each group. These will be labelled A1-30 to D1-30. The reasoning for this method is that if
      participants were labelled 1-120, then there would be a need for someone who always had
      access to the next randomisation group. As this is a pilot study, there would not be the
      facility to have a 24-hour randomisation call-line. Participants will be allocated into
      either groups 1, 2 or 3 (as detailed below in 'Study Procedure').

      Informed written consent: Consent for the study will be taken at the time of consenting for
      surgery at the breast clinic. This will be undertaken on a specific consent form. The
      patients will also be given an information leaflet at this time, with the option of returning
      to another clinic and consenting later.

      Study Procedure: Patients eligible and who consent to be subjects in the study will be
      randomized into one of three groups and will receive treatment at the hospital at which they
      present. Pre-operative practice and operative technique will be standardised between sites
      and will be routine practice. Group 1 will be allocated to receive a drain intra-operatively.
      Group 2 will not receive a drain and no further intervention. Group 3 will not receive a
      drain but will receive quilting sutures. A sealed envelope will be opened by the theatre
      nursing staff immediately before wound closure to reveal the randomisation code. Patients in
      group 2 and 3 and breast care nurses will be blinded regarding the use of quilting sutures.
      Surgery will be carried out by consultants or experienced registrars.

      Subjects in group 1 will be discharged from hospital when ambulatory and pain is controlled
      by oral analgesia. They may go home with the drain in-situ or be discharged when the drain is
      removed. The drain in either case will be removed when the output is less than 50ml in 24h.
      Patients in group 2 and 3 will be discharged when ambulatory and similarly analgesic
      requirements are met with oral preparations.

      Patients will be followed up in the breast clinic in two weeks post surgery.

      Those randomised to not receive a drain (Groups 2 and 3) are not anticipated to have a longer
      postoperative inpatient stay. On the contrary, it is anticipated they may be discharged
      sooner than those in group 1.

      End of the study: The end of the study will be marked when subjects' seromas cease to be
      symptomatic or needing drainage. Participants will be followed up routinely within the breast
      clinic as part of their on-going cancer management.

      Assessment of safety: No additional toxicity data will be required to be included. Any
      adverse events or safety issues will be dealt with in accordance with standard hospital
      protocol.

      Subject withdrawal: Patients will be free to withdraw from the study at any time. This may be
      defined as pre or post intervention. The reasons for withdrawal will be noted in the patient
      records.

      Data recording: Each patient will be assigned a case report form. The patient will be
      reviewed at 24h post-operatively and data collected by the clinician. At 24h, data on the
      drainage volumes in the drain group, pain scores and an examination of the wound will be
      conducted. Pain scores at 48h by the same scoring system will also be used. Pain scores will
      be recorded using a validated visual analogue score (VAS). The patient will be reviewed each
      day in hospital until discharge. Upon discharge, the breast care nurses will collect data on
      seroma incidence, aspiration volumes and wound care. Data will then be entered into a secure
      hospital-based Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. Transfer of data will be via NHS.net to NHS.net
      email to ensure security.

      Statistical considerations: This is a pilot study so only requires small patient numbers
      therefore descriptive statistics only will be used.

      Source data/documents/confidentiality: The Data Protection Act, NHS Research Governance
      Framework and relevant NHS codes of practice will be followed with regards to the collection,
      storage, processing and disclosure of personal and study information.

      Participants will be given a study number at the onset of the trial, with a link to their
      personal data on a separate database. The main data will only be collected in reference to
      the unique study number and thus data will be anonymised and kept confidential.

      Data will be collected on case report forms. This will then be entered into a secure
      hospital-based spreadsheet. The researchers will have access to the data. No patient
      identifiable details will be removed from the hospital site. All paper copies will be filed
      in a hospital-based master research file. The patient consent form will be filed in the
      subjects' hospital records.

      As this will be a four-centre study, data will be transferred from the other sites to North
      Tees however no patient identifiable information will be transferred only study reference
      number. Transfer will be between secure NHS.net email accounts and data will be held for 5
      years.

      Quality control & quality assurance: This is a low risk trial and no major issues are
      anticipated. A formal data monitoring committee is not needed.

      Either Consultant Surgeons or highly skilled specialist registrars will carry out the
      surgery. Patients will be closely followed up by the surgical team or breast care nurses and
      have open access to the breast care service. If however high complication rates are
      experienced in a particular group, this method will be stopped.

      Quality control will be maintained by strict adherence to the study protocol, the principles
      of GCP, research governance and clinical trial regulations.

      Ethical considerations : The main ethical issue surrounding this trial is that two thirds of
      patients will not receive the current practice at the four trusts, of receiving a drain.
      However, this is not to suggest that by not receiving a drain, they will have a less
      favourable outcome. The main risk to patients is a symptomatic seroma, which may require
      drainage. However, patients are at risk of seromas whether they have a drain put in or not,
      and by actually not receiving a drain, may have a lower incidence of seroma, less pain and
      time in hospital.

      There will be strict compliance with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and
      MRC/ICH good clinical practice.
    
  