
    
      Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes (TIL) have shown efficacy in certain cancers, principally in
      melanoma. Efficacy in more common solid tumors has been demonstrated via the selection of
      cancer neoantigen-specific TIL. Combination cell surface checkpoint inhibitor therapy has
      also been employed in an attempt to enhance the efficacy of these cell therapies. Genetic
      engineering of T cells to further increase anti-tumor activity is now possible.

      CISH (Cytokine-induced SH2 protein) is a novel intra-cellular immune checkpoint and an
      important negative regulator of T-cell signaling and function. The inhibition of CISH in
      mouse anti-tumor lymphocytes results in a marked increase in the ability of these lymphocytes
      to mediate tumor regression following administration to tumor bearing mice.

      Additionally, data in genetically-engineered, neoantigen-specific human T cells in which CISH
      was inhibited, showed enhanced TCR functional avidity and increased ability of these T cells
      to detect cancer specific mutations and mount robust polyfunctional cytokine immune responses
      against their cognate cancer antigens. Thus, these T cells appear to have a significant
      advantage in inducing anti-tumor responses compared to wild-type anti-tumor lymphocytes.

      The researchers have developed and optimized a CRISPR/Cas9 based strategy for precise and
      efficient genetic engineering in primary human T-cells without sacrificing cell viability or
      function, allowing for inhibition of a heretofore undruggable intracellular checkpoint.

      Thus, in this protocol, the researchers propose to inhibit the gene encoding the
      intracellular checkpoint target CISH in lymphocytes from patients with metastatic cancers
      that are selected for anti-tumor activity in order to evaluate the safety and efficacy of
      genetically engineered T cell therapy for solid tumors in the setting of novel checkpoint
      inhibition.
    
  