
    
      Epileptic spasms comprise an infantile epileptic encephalopathy characterized by
      hypsarrhythmia on EEG, and frequent neurodevelopmental regression. Unfortunately the
      treatment of this disorder remains difficult. The first-line options which include hormonal
      therapy, i.e., adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) or oral corticosteroids, and vigabatrin are
      effective in 60-70% of the patients. Hormonal therapy is considered the best available
      treatment. Vigabatrin being expensive and of limited availability is not a feasible option
      for most patients in our setting. Also, these are associated with significant side effects,
      and high relapse rates. Newer drugs such as topiramate, zonisamide, and levetiracetam have
      also been evaluated; however these drugs are less effective than ACTH. The ketogenic diet
      (KD) is a high fat, low carbohydrate diet. It has been used for treatment of intractable
      childhood epilepsy. The KD has also been shown in three retrospective studies to be effective
      for intractable infantile spasms; often after ACTH and vigabatrin have failed. A few previous
      studies have shown good efficacy of the ketogenic diet on infantile spasms. The traditional
      ketogenic diet, with 4:1 ratio of fat: carbohydrate + protein has its drawbacks. It restricts
      calories and fluids, and requires weighing of foods. Protein is generally restricted to 1
      g/kg/day, with the majority of remaining calories in the form of fat. This may lead to
      hypoproteinemia and growth problems. Hospitalization is generally advocated for diet
      initiation, both for fasting and non-fasting initiation. Side effects of the diet include
      kidney stones, constipation, acidosis, diminished growth, weight loss, and hyperlipidemia.

      The modified Atkins diet is a non-pharmacologic therapy for intractable childhood epilepsy
      that was designed to be a less restrictive alternative to the traditional ketogenic diet.
      This diet is started on an outpatient basis without a fast, allows unlimited protein and fat,
      and does not restrict calories or fluids. Early studies have demonstrated efficacy and
      safety. Preliminary data have shown efficacy in refractory infantile spasms. Modified Atkins
      diet may be of special importance in infants, as proteins are not restricted; hence fewer
      problems with growth are expected. This diet is also ideal for resource-constraint settings
      with paucity of trained dieticians. Hence this study has been planned to evaluate the
      efficacy and tolerability of the modified Atkins diet in children with epileptic spasms
      refractory to hormonal treatment in a randomized controlled trial.
    
  