
    
      It is reported that it takes a period form 22 weeks pregnant to the first 45 months of life
      for macular region to develop from structural formation to functional integrity. However,
      children are still in the critical period of plastic visual development, for their visual
      acuity has not yet reached the level of adults. Similarly macular retinal structure may
      develop with age. It is very important to study in macular thickness of this period and to
      have a proper cognition of it and the relation between macular thickness and other ocular
      parameter for the research of retinal development and diseases and the early screen of fundus
      diseases.

      Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) is an imaging technique widely used in clinic in last
      twenty years. According to the base theory of dim coherent light interference machine, OCT
      detect the back-reflection or scattering signal of biological tissue to the incident dim
      coherent light, and acquire the two-dimension or three- dimension image of biological tissue
      by scan. It enables the characteristic of tissue's microstructure in vivo and makes it
      possible to observe dynamically developing process of diseases so that it has become an
      essential test for macular and optic nerve diseases with unmatched measurement
      reproducibility. It also enables high-resolution and noninvasive imaging of the retinal
      lamina, the organizational structure of macular. It is most often used clinically to
      demonstrate the macular morphology, treatment response and disease progression clinically.
      However, who researchers studyed in through OCT were mostly patients with retinal disease and
      adults. There was few study focused on OCT's application to children.

      In this study, the investigators aims to measure macular thickness (MT) using spectral-domain
      optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) and to investigate MT variations with sex, age,
      laterality, refraction error (RE) and axial length (AL).
    
  