
    
      Recent advances have been made in the treatments for the patients with metastatic colorectal
      cancer (mCRC) owing to the introductions of targeted agents, which included bevacizumab,
      cetuximab, panitumumab, and aflibercept. And in addition, regorafenib, a newer tyrosine
      kinase inhibitor (TKI), has been approved in the treatment for the mCRC patients.

      Regorafenib (BAY 73-4506) is an orally available multikinase inhibitor with activity against
      multiple targets, including tumor angiogenesis (VEGFR-1, -2, -3 and TIE-2), oncogenesis (KIT,
      RET, RAF-1, BRAF, and BRAFV600E), and tumor microenvironment (PDGF and FGFR). Regorafenib has
      shown antitumor activities in multiple solid tumors, and demonstrated significant efficacy
      outcomes in patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors and colorectal cancers.

      The CORRECT study, which compared regorafenib vs placebo in mCRC patients who have been
      treated with all standard treatment, showed survival improvements with statistical
      significances; median OS 6.4 vs 5.0 months, HR 0.77, p=0.0052; median PFS 1.9 vs 1.7 months,
      HR 0.49, p<0.000001. Above these results, regorafenib monotherapy has been recently approved
      for the treatment of mCRC patients who have been refractory to all of standard therapies.

      However, there are still only a few biomarkers which have been established as predictive of
      treatment responses in the fields of treatments for mCRC patients; KRAS or BRAF mutations for
      the lack of responses to anti-EGFR agents, cetuximab or panitumumab. There still has not been
      any biomarker which would be predictive of treatment responses to bevacizumab, aflibercept or
      regorafenib. The difficulties in search for biomarkers for these agents might come from the
      facts as following; either bevacizumab or aflibercept does not act directly against tumor
      itself and should be combined with cytotoxic agents to show efficacy; regorafenib is a
      multikinase inhibitor which has too many potential targets.

      Above these reasons, imaging modalities can be fascinating and alternative candidates for
      predictive biomarkers of treatment responses. Conventional anatomic imaging studies such as
      computed tomography (CT) scans can hardly predict the treatment responses earlier, and the
      RECIST using CT scans, which is widely used for measurement of treatment responses, might
      have several limitations for measurement of efficacy from targeted agents such as cystic
      necrosis without tumor shrinkage. In the CORRECT study, overall response rate by RECIST was
      only 1%, although the rates for disease stabilization was up to 40%, which might be a good
      example for the limitations of the RECIST using conventional anatomical imaging studies for
      the response evaluation of regorafenib.

      Among imaging studies, PET scans are useful tools for the noninvasive measurement of
      functional changes after treatment with targeted agents, and [18F]FLT-PET is potentially
      useful tool for earlier prediction of treatment responses because it can detect earlier
      changes of cellular proliferation using [18F]FLT (fluorothymidine), a radiotraceable
      substitute for thymidine which is essential for DNA synthesis. Several studies have been
      reported that [18F]FLT-PET may allow an early assessment of the response to chemotherapy
      including targeted agents. There also has been a report that [18F]FLT-PET could predict
      treatment responses of BRAF inhibitors in the colorectal cancer xenograft model; regorafenib
      also has an inhibitory effect on BRAF.

      Therefore, the investigators have planned this study with hypothesis that [18F]FLT-PET could
      be useful for identifying a subgroup of mCRC patients with clinical responsiveness to
      regorafenib.
    
  