
    
      This study project as part of a European tender has the aim to prove efficacy and
      effectiveness of negative pressure wound therapy in the management of patients with chronic
      diabetic foot wounds. The tasks within the study project have been assigned to three
      contractors / institutions.

      On behalf of a consortium of 19 health insurance companies with a central contact consisting
      of the "AOK-Bundesverband GbR", "Verband der Ersatzkassen e.V." (vdek) and the "Knappschaft"
      these contractors are responsible for conducting the trial.

      The Institute for Research in Operative Medicine (IFOM) as part of the University of Witten /
      Herdecke gGmbH is responsible for the planning, implementation, analysis and publication of
      the study.

      The Private University of Witten / Herdecke takes over the sponsorship of the study project.
      The duties and responsibilities of the sponsor are transferred to the staff of the Institute
      for Research in Operative Medicine of University of Witten / Herdecke. The financial support
      of the clinical study is provided by the manufacturers of the negative pressure wound therapy
      systems. The task of payment processing and the contractual provisions is taken over by a
      management company "Gesundheitsforen Leipzig".

      Therapy systems used within the treatment arm of the study will be provided by two
      manufacturers Kinetic Concepts Incorporated (KCI) and Smith & Nephew Inc. All used treatment
      systems bear the CE mark and will be used within normal conditions of clinical routine and
      according to manufacturer's instructions.

      This research project is performed because of a decision of the Federal Joint Committee
      Germany, which states that negative pressure wound therapy can´t be accepted as a standard
      therapy with full reimbursement by the health insurance companies in Germany. This decision
      is based on the rapid report and the final report of the Institute for Quality and Efficiency
      in Health Care, which showed through systematic reviews and meta-analysis of previous study
      projects that an insufficient state evidence regarding the use of negative pressure wound
      therapy for the treatment of acute and chronic wounds is existing.

      This study evaluates the treatment outcome of the application of a technical medical device,
      which is based on the principle of negative pressure wound therapy (treatment group 1:
      Intervention Group) in comparison to standard wound therapy (treatment group 2: Control
      group) in the treatment of chronic foot wounds after adequate (debridement of avital tissue)
      wound preparation or amputation wounds resulting from a scheduled amputation below the ankle
      (talocrural articulation), which are caused in the context of a diabetic foot syndrome.

      The clinical trial is designed as a national, multicenter, prospective, randomized controlled
      superiority study. A blinded evaluation of wound photographs will be performed.

      Patients will be randomized 1:1 to the treatment arm: negative pressure wound therapy and the
      control arm: standard wound therapy.

      Patients will be stratified according to assignment to the participating institution
      (hospital) and by Wagner-Armstrong Stadium.

      The inclusion and exclusion criteria are based on the presence of a diagnosis of a diabetic
      foot wound, the regulatory requirements to the participants in a clinical study and the
      examination and treatment according to current treatment regulations, evidence-based
      guidelines and the specifications of the manufacturers of the medical devices.

      Only patients meeting all inclusion criteria and no exclusion criterion are allowed to be
      included into the trial.

      The aim of this study is to compare the clinical, safety and economic results of both
      treatment arms.

      The primary endpoints to evaluate the efficacy of negative pressure wound therapy in the
      treatment of chronic foot wounds caused by a diabetic foot syndrome are both the number of
      complete wound closure within the maximum treatment period (measured in days) as well as the
      time until complete wound closure. Complete wound closure should be achieved within the
      maximum study treatment period of 16 weeks.

      In addition, secondary clinical endpoints and safety endpoints, patient-reported outcome
      endpoints and health economic endpoints are evaluated.

      The clinical examination includes parameters that can be used for the analysis of resource
      use in the inpatient and outpatient care. This includes a comparative analysis of parameters
      of direct and indirect resource use.

      Primarily the perspective of the Statutory Health Insurance is considered. As a secondary
      perspective the view of society was selected.

      Sample size calculation was performed considering results of existing trials, which revealed
      that a number n = 324 patients must be included in the study in order to carry out the
      analysis of the primary endpoint "Closure rate".

      In due consideration of screening failures, discontinuation of therapy of any cause and
      losses to Follow-Up a screening of a total of 464 patients must be performed to provide the
      calculated sample size.The primary efficacy analysis is performed using the
      intention-to-treat group.

      Study results will be provided until the end of 2015 to contribute to the final decision of
      the Federal Joint Committee Germany regarding the general admission of negative pressure
      wound therapy as a standard of performance within both medical sectors.
    
  