
    
      This will be a prospective study recruiting patients who have been diagnosed wth advanced
      melanoma.

      Participants will be asked to give informed consent before any samples are collected.

      Participants will be asked to donate tissue and other biospecimens (see list below) that are
      surplus to clinical requirements if a participant is undergoing any of the following as part
      of their routine care:

        -  lymph node dissection

        -  sentinel lymph node biopsy as part of their normal care

        -  resection of metastatic skin lesions or visceral disease

        -  medical treatment for Stage IV disease Biospecimens include urine, stool, saliva, hair
           follicles, ascitic, pleural, pericardial or cerebrospinal fluid Collection of archival
           tumour tissue from previous biopsy/surgery that is surplus to clinical requirements will
           also be requested, where available.

      Participants will be asked to consent to having easily accessible lesions biopsied or
      resected, which are not required for clinical reasons, but are for research purposes only.
      Participants can still be part of the study even if they do not agree to these extra,
      optional biopsies. Tissue samples from the surgical specimens and the original primaries will
      be examined to look for molecular markers to correlate with circulating tumour molecular
      markers.

      Consent will be requested to grow cell lines from the donated tumour tissue and implant
      tumour tissue into mice to characterise the genetic changes seen in both CTCs and biopsies,
      in terms of resistance to targeted agents, in the lab setting. Consent to this part of the
      study will be optional.

      A maximum of 50mls blood sample will be requested from participants before any intervention.
      Further blood samples (maximum of 50mls each time) will also be requested as follows:

        -  after surgery, on subsequent routine follow up at 3 months, and then 3 monthly
           thereafter (i.e. approximately 4 times in a year after the initial pre and post surgical
           specimens)

        -  at the time of disease recurrence

        -  If on treatment, then usually approximately 3 weeks after starting treatment, and then
           every 2 cycles of treatment

        -  at disease progression The samples will be tested for various circulating tumour
           biomarkers.

      We will be asking a small group of patients, approx 20, to consent to weekly blood samples,
      for up to 8 weeks, for specific biomarker analyses.

      Clinical data will be collected for each patient, looking at demographics, baseline
      haematology and biochemistry blood results, radiological extent of disease, time to disease
      progression, clinical and histological features of the primary. Patients will be followed up
      for approximately 10 years to assess their outcome.
    
  