
    
      This is a pilot study, intended to collect observational data on the PAE procedure as it is
      disseminated and performed around the UK, and on other comparator interventions. The aim is
      to give NICE enough information to potentially update their Interventional Procedures
      Guidance and may form the grounding for further research in the shape of a larger randomised
      clinical trial.

      The ROPE Register project aims are to:

      Primary:

      • Assess the efficacy of PAE using the IPSS for LUTS BPE 12 months post-procedure.

      Secondary:

        -  Compare PAE to TURP (using IPSS score) for LUTS BPE 12 months post-procedure. This will
           be a non-inferiority study for PAE versus TURP. A non-inferiority approach has been
           chosen because if PAE is no worse in terms of outcome for the patient, but is a more
           acceptable procedure to the patient (or has fewer complications, is less invasive, etc)
           than TURP, then PAE would be preferable.

        -  Use descriptive statistics for other outcome measures (IPSS, IPSS QoL, IIEF, prostate
           volume and urinary flow studies) for other comparator interventions (not TURP), 12
           months post-procedure.

        -  Identify complications arising from PAE up to 12 months post-procedure.

        -  Elucidate which subgroup (s) of patients would benefit the most from PAE as a treatment
           option.

      Our hypothesis is:

      • PAE produces significant improvements in the IPSS score 12 months post-procedure

      Additional subgroup analyses:

      Other areas of interest from this research are covered in the subgroup analyses. The tables
      below detail the PAE patient subgroups that will be analysed. These subgroups will be
      cross-analysed with the measures in the Outcome measures table. This will enable trends to be
      noted in particular subgroups, which may inform future research.

      Subgroups:

      Age Baseline IPSS score Baseline Prostate Volume

      Outcome measures:

      IPSS Score IPSS Quality of Life Score IIEF score Prostate Volume Urinary flow study (Qmax,
      post-void residual volume, duration of micturition)
    
  