
    
      Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) affects over 250,000 individuals in Canada. It is comprised
      of ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD). The dysregulated inflammatory response
      targeting the gastrointestinal (GI) tract is the hallmark of IBD and can lead to significant
      physical and psychological morbidity amongst affected individuals. Hallmarks of the disease
      include hematochezia, diarrhea, and abdominal pain. Individuals with IBD are committed to
      long-term immunosuppressive therapy to drive disease into remission; however, such treatments
      are associated with significant cost, as well as, a risk for significant drug-related
      toxicities. Individuals who are resistant or lose response to traditional therapies may
      require hospitalization and intestinal resection or colectomy. This is also associated with
      significant costs to the health care system and to patients.

      The last decade has seen an expansion in the number of therapies, specifically monoclonal
      antibodies (biologics), available for the treatment of IBD, targeting and inhibiting
      different proteins involved in perpetuating the inappropriate inflammatory response. There is
      growing evidence to support the use of biologics early in the disease course, bypassing other
      less effective and older treatments. In Canada there are currently five biologic agents
      approved for the management of IBD: infliximab, adalimumab, golimumab, vedolizumab and
      ustekinumab. Infliximab, the first biologic approved for the management of IBD in Canada and
      the most widely used, is a chimeric human-murine monoclonal antibody directed against the
      pro-inflammatory cytokine, tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF). The efficacy of infliximab in CD
      and UC has been demonstrated in landmark trials; ACCENT and ACT respectively. It is
      considered a standard of care for moderate to severe IBD in treatment algorithms.

      Unfortunately, up to 40% of patients who initially respond to a TNF antagonist such as
      infliximab will lose response by the one-year mark. Additionally, up to 23% of individuals
      with IBD exposed to infliximab will have an immediate infusion reaction with flushing,
      urticaria, presyncope and dyspnea necessitating treatment cessation. A leading contributor to
      both loss of response and infusion reactions is the development of anti-drug antibodies
      (ADAs).

      ADAs are a consequence of the "immunogenicity" of TNF antagonists. Immunogenicity refers to
      the immune response of the exposed individual against large molecule therapeutic proteins
      such as infliximab. The underlying mechanisms of immunogenicity in TNF antagonist-exposed IBD
      patients are poorly defined. Clinically, ADAs are very relevant to IBD treatment as some ADAs
      can inhibit drug function or induce hypersensitivity in exposed patients. Studies have shown
      that the presence of ADAs correlates with a loss of response to infliximab as well as with a
      high risk of infusion reaction.

      Therapeutic drug monitoring, the ability to measure ADAs, in addition to serum drug
      concentrations, has revolutionized IBD treatment algorithms by providing objective evidence
      to inform clinical decision-making. Unfortunately, the current tools are only able to
      identify ADAs once they have developed and thus, treatment adjustments are reactive as
      opposed to preemptive. Patients are often only screened for ADAs once loss of response or a
      hypersensitivity reaction have occured. One way clinicians attempt to reduce the risk of ADA
      formation is to empirically combine a second immune-suppressing agent such as methotrexate or
      azathioprine (immunomodulators) with infliximab. The addition of an immunomodulator to
      infliximab-based therapy (combination therapy) is associated with reduced ADA formation. The
      downside is that combination therapy may be associated with an increased risk of infection,
      malignancy and other side effects related to the immunomodulator (pancreatitis,
      myelotoxicity, hepatotoxicity). There is also concern over the use of dual immunosuppression
      in certain patient populations, including frail elderly or patients at high risk of infection
      or malignancy.

      Currently, there are no clinical tools that predict who will develop ADAs, lose response to
      or have a hypersensitivity reaction to infliximab. Additionally, there are few ways to
      predict the risk of adverse events in IBD patients treated with combination therapy.
      Recently, in an peer-reviewed dataset, a group demonstrated that variation in the class 2
      human leukocyte antigen (HLA) gene region (HLADQA1*05A>G, rs2097432) is linked to an
      increased risk of ADA formation against infliximab and to a lesser extent, its sister
      TNF-antagonist, adalimumab18. In a separate, retrospective study, we have confirmed that
      variation in HLADQA1*05A>G (rs2097432) is independently-associated with a significantly
      higher incidence of and faster progression to infliximab ADA formation. Moreover, we
      demonstrated that variant carriers had a higher risk of infliximab loss of response,
      treatment discontinuation as well as a faster progression to these outcomes (Wilson et.al.
      2019 unpublished/Gastro, submitted). Interestingly, the addition of co-immunosuppression
      (methotrexate or azathioprine) to infliximab therapy reduced the risk of antibody formation
      in variant carriers compared to that of an individual with a wild type genotype.

      Having the capacity to identify individuals at high risk of ADA formation and apply targeted
      combination therapy to those individuals and avoid combination therapy in others would be
      exceedingly valuable in clinical practice. Thus, we propose to assess the utility of
      preemptively screening patients with IBD who are being considered for infliximab therapy for
      HLADQA1*05A>G and applying co-immunosuppression with an immunomodulator (methotrexate or
      azathioprine) to the variant carriers (AG or GG) compared to those received the current
      standard of care. We will assess the resultant impact on infliximab ADA formation in addition
      to highly relevant clinical outcomes such as infliximab loss of response, treatment
      discontinuation, and adverse drug events.
    
  