
    
      At present, there are no guidelines for the treatment of obese patients with hypertension.
      Blood pressure control and effective control of obesity are important therapeutic targets for
      obesity-associated hypertension. Whether telmisartan can be used as PPAR-γ agonist, unlike
      other AT-1 receptor antagonists and calcium channel blockers amlodipine, can improve the
      visceral adipose tissue function and cardiac remodeling in obese patients with hypertension
      by altering their metabolic components and insulin sensitivity while controlling blood
      pressure. There is no evidence that telmisartan can reduce cardiac remodeling in obese
      patients with hypertension.

      1.Research contents:

        1. To evaluate the clinical efficacy of telmisartan or amlodipine in controlling blood
           pressure, reducing fat accumulation, improving glycolipid metabolism and insulin
           sensitivity, and reducing cardiac remodeling in obese patients with hypertension;

        2. To evaluate whether telmisartan can alter metabolic components and insulin sensitivity,
           improve visceral adipose tissue function and reduce cardiac remodeling in obese patients
           with hypertension by blocking AT-1 receptor and partially activating PPAR-gamma, which
           is different from other AT-1 receptor antagonists and calcium channel blockers
           amlodipine.

      2.Research population 2.1 Entry criteria

      Only those who possess the following four conditions can enter the study:

        1. Essential hypertension patients (including confirmed hypertension without regular
           treatment, average blood pressure (≥160 or/and 100 mmHg) in two follow-up visits; or
           hypertension under combined antihypertensive treatment; or unsatisfactory blood pressure
           control with single drug treatment, blood pressure above 140 or/and 90 mmHg)；

        2. Age ranges from 18 to 79；

        3. Body mass index, BMI (≥30 kg/m2), or waist circumference, male (≥102 cm), female (≥ 88
           cm)；

        4. Ability to provide informed consent。

      2.2 exclusion criteria

      One of the following is not included:

      (1) secondary hypertension; (2) acute cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events within 3
      months; (3) severe cardiomyopathy, rheumatic heart disease, congenital heart disease;(4)
      unstable angina pectoris; (5) severe liver or kidney disease (ALT increased by 2 times;
      Creatinine > 2. 5 mg/dL); (6) malignant tumors; (7) gout; (8) women who are taking birth
      control pills or are at risk of pregnancy; (9) have a history of allergy to research drugs;
      (10) patients with specific contraindications to the study drugs; (11) participants in other
      clinical trials; (12) patients with difficulty in long-term follow-up or poor compliance;
      (13) the competent doctor considers it inappropriate to participate in clinical research.

      3.The input information of the subjects

        1. Sample source: Since December 2018, patients with essential hypertension were diagnosed
           in the First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong University and treated with
           telmisartan or amlodipine alone under the guidance of doctors；

        2. Recruitment procedures: selecting the subjects according to inclusion and exclusion
           criteria, and signing informed consent.

      4.Criteria for termination or withdrawal of research subjects

        1. Those who need revascularization because of myocardial infarction and unstable angina
           pectoris;

        2. Heart failure;

        3. Stroke.

      5. Study Groups

        1. Telmisartan group: Telmisartan 80 mg once a day

        2. amlodipine group: amlodipine 5 mg once a day

      6.Research evaluation index

        1. Baseline indicators: age, sex, occupation, height, weight, BMI, waist-hip circumference,
           systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, heart rate;

        2. Metabolic indicators: blood lipid, liver function, kidney function, oral glucose
           tolerance test, simultaneous insulin release test, plasma Glucagon, plasma aldosterone,
           plasma angiotensin II, abdominal fat distribution

        3. Fat function: serum leptin, serum adiponectin, serum TNFalpha, serum IL-6, serum hs-CRP,
           serum PPAR-γ;

        4. Cardiac remodeling: echocardiographic parameters .

      7.Research steps

        1. Clinical trials are ethically reviewed by ethics committees, and clinical trials are
           registered;

        2. Collect cases according to inclusion and exclusion criteria, collect medical history
           data of subjects, and complete follow-up. At the same time, clinical and biochemical
           experiments were carried out;

        3. Comprehensive analysis of experimental data, repetition and supplementation of necessary
           molecular biological experiments, comprehensive summary of the results, writing and
           publishing SCI papers and Chinese core journal papers.
    
  