
    
      Diabetes is a leading cause of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity, and is more often than
      not a very difficult disease for individuals to manage effectively. People with diabetes have
      to be committed to a self-care regimen which includes, careful monitoring of blood sugar,
      blood pressure, cholesterol, eating healthy, exercising, foot care and regular physical and
      eye check-ups. This can be quite daunting and stressful for some to undertake themselves, and
      is largely dependent on individual self-motivation. Family physicians assist their patients
      in managing their diabetes but they have significant time constraints and may not always be
      able to deliver the high service intensity required to reduce morbidity and/or may have
      inadequate access to resources to help patients positively change their self-care behaviour.

      Chronic disease-management programs involving home-based nursing health promotion have been
      shown to reduce mortality, reduce recurrent hospitalization, and improve indirect societal
      costs among specific subgroups of the population, including those with diabetes, however,
      such interventions can be costly and cumbersome to implement given the need for home-based
      visits.

      INTERxVENT is a telephone-based, individualized, chronic cardiovascular and lifestyle
      management program combining a formal management plan, case-managed care (through a
      coach/mentor), and educational modules to teach patients to modify and sustain healthy
      lifestyle behaviours. It is comprised of several individualized modules (e.g., diet,
      exercise, stress management, smoking cessation, chronic disease), which are prescribed
      algorithmically in accordance to a patient's individual risk profile, environmental
      surroundings, and behavioural readiness to change. All recommendations are according to
      best-practice standards and evidence-based guidelines.

      Nonrandomized intervention studies assessing INTERxVENT in diabetic, pre-diabetic, and
      metabolic syndrome populations have demonstrated significant reductions in biologically
      relevant measures, such as fasting glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c), lipids, and
      blood pressure. However, no randomized controlled clinical trials in these populations
      assessing the impact of INTERxVENT have been conducted.

      The proposed pilot study will evaluate the efficacy of INTERxVENT as compared with 'usual
      medical care' in improving cardiovascular risk-factor profiles among individuals with
      diabetes. In addition, to what extent a chronic disease management program will yield similar
      effectiveness in socio-economically disadvantaged individuals is unknown. We hypothesize that
      chronic disease management programs, like INTERxVENT, will result in improved intermediary
      biological and behavioural risk profiles for all program participants randomized to this
      intervention, regardless of socio-economic condition.

      The results of this pilot study will determine and assist in designing and ascertaining
      sample sizes for a larger trial, respectively, should such a trial be warranted.
      Additionally, such chronic disease management interventions may improve the overall health of
      partaking individuals and relieve strain and decrease costs within the existing health care
      system.
    
  