
    
      Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) represents a significant public health risk in the United States
      leaving many survivors with significant long term cognitive deficits and at risk for
      neurodegenerative diseases. Despite extensive research there are no pharmacological therapies
      which have demonstrated significant improvement in neurological or cognitive recovery.
      Changes in glucose metabolism are considered the hallmark metabolic response to TBI and
      ketosis has been proposed as a therapy to ameliorate metabolic dysfunction. Further research
      is necessary to address the outstanding questions regarding outcome, dose, timing, route and
      duration of ketogenic diet (KD) therapy in clinical TBI. Using a multiparametric MRI and MR
      spectroscopy approach in conjunction with standardized neurological and neuropsychological
      assessments of outcome, disability, cognition, and quality of life, this trial will
      investigate the therapeutic potential of a short term (14 day) KD on 6 month outcome
      following moderate-severe TBI patients.

      The purpose of this project is to:

        1. Determine the effect of KD on cognitive and neurological outcome following moderate -
           severe TBI. To date clinical studies of ketone metabolism in TBI are severely limited
           and have focused primarily on ketometabolism and its effects on glucose metabolism
           without assessing functional or cognitive outcomes. This project directly assesses the
           effect of short-term KD on measures of disability, attention, memory, processing speed,
           language, and executive function during ketosis and will determine whether its effects
           outlast the duration of the diet.

        2. Identify the effect of KD on cerebral metabolism following moderate - severe TBI. While
           the use of ketogenic fuels is receiving greater attention, little is known about the
           effect of the KD on neuronal metabolism. This project will use MR spectroscopy to
           non-invasively measure NAA, a marker of neuronal metabolism during ketosis and outside
           the treatment window, which will deepen our understanding of the neuroprotective
           mechanisms of this therapy.
    
  