
    
      Design: A phase II randomised controlled trial. Repeated measures of behaviour and sensory
      motor performance will be taken during PTA progression for all participants. The RCT involves
      two treatment arms and blinded assessment post-intervention at the point of PTA resolution,
      one month following PTA resolution, and a 6-month post-injury follow up questionnaire. The 2
      treatment groups are:

        1. Experimental intervention protocol: occupation-based multisensory stimulation and the
           use of enriched environments;

        2. Control intervention protocol: standard therapy as provided by the hospital which
           includes re-orientation and participation in basic functional tasks.

      Participants: Approximately twenty participants will be recruited from the Institut Guttmann,
      which is a neuro-rehabilitation hospital in Badalona, Spain.

      Measures:

      The evaluation tools will consist of standardised, established assessments used in brain
      injury rehabilitation which are detailed in the Outcome Measures section.

      Procedure:

      Repeated measurements of behaviour and sensory motor function corresponding to the
      participant's progression of PTA assessment scores will be taken. The maximum number of times
      a single participant will be tested during PTA is 7 times and twice again following emergence
      from PTA, within the first 3 days and again after 1 week. All measurements are non-invasive
      and provide minimal adverse risks for the participant.

      Participants will be randomised into either the Experimental or Control group. Participants,
      their family members, and the assessor taking outcome measures at the point of PTA resolution
      and one-month post-resolution will be blinded to group allocation and subsequent intervention
      protocol. Intervention provision will occur throughout the progression of PTA with
      post-intervention assessment to occur within 3 days of the end of PTA, one month after coming
      out of PTA, and through a follow-up questionnaire to be completed by the participant and
      family members at 6 months post-injury. All interventions are non-invasive and do not involve
      any risks above those that may be incurred through participation in the standard
      rehabilitation process.

      The Experimental group will follow an intervention protocol involving transformation of the
      participant´s room into a sensory stimulating enriched environment (EE) and participation in
      occupation-based multisensory stimulation (OBMS) during their therapy sessions with an
      occupational therapist. They will receive two daily 30-minute individual therapy sessions.

      The control group will follow the current protocol for patients in PTA at the Institut
      Guttmann. This includes one 30-minute individual therapy session or one hour group therapy
      session with an occupational therapist and minimal changes to their room (e.g. orientation
      board, photos of family and friends).
    
  