
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of recombinant vesicular stomatitis
      virus-expressing interferon-beta (VSV-IFN-beta) in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma
      (HCC) refractory or intolerant to sorafenib therapy and patients with advanced solid tumors
      with liver predominant locally advanced/metastatic treatment refractory disease. (Arm A) II.
      To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of VSV-IFN-beta in patients with advanced solid
      tumors with subcutaneous/cutaneous lesions. (Arm B)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the tumor response rate, injected lesion (TNi) and distant lesion (TNd)
      necrosis rate (with TNi and TNd response defined as >= 30% increase in necrosis from
      baseline) and overall survival. (Arm A)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of VSV-IFN-beta in patients with HCC by or
      advanced solid tumors with liver predominant disease or subcutaneous/cutaneous lesions by
      measurement of VSV-IFN-beta in blood by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction
      (RT-PCR).

      II. To characterize the pharmacodynamics (PD) of VSV-IFN-beta by way of measuring serum
      interferon-beta and also VSV-RT-PCR of VSV-IFN-beta listed above.

      III. Assess CD8+ T cell (both general and VSV-hIFN-beta specific) and natural killer (NK)
      cell responses.

      IV. Assess status of human interferon beta pathway pre/post therapy in tumor/normal liver
      tissue (status of IFN-beta, interferon stimulated gene factor 3 [ISGF3 complex constituting
      signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)1/2 and p48 (ISGF3 gamma)]).

      V. Assess phosphorylation of STAT1/2 post-therapy. VI. Evaluate transcription of interferon
      mediated genes (protein kinase R, the death receptor-tumor necrosis factor [TNF]-related
      apoptosis-inducing ligand [TRAIL], 2'-5' oligoadenylate/ribonucleic acid [RNA]se L proteins,
      heat shock proteins [Hsp 60/70/90], major histocompatibility class antigens and interferon
      regulatory factor [IRF]-7).

      VII. Assess presence of VSV in tumor/normal liver subsequent to administration of VSV-human
      IFN-beta (hIFN- beta).

      VIII. For HCC patients only, assess preliminary relationships between hepatitis C genotype
      (in those patients that are hepatitis C positive) and any evidence of anti-tumor efficacy.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients with hepatocellular carcinoma or advanced solid tumor with liver lesions
      receive recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus expressing interferon beta intratumorally in a
      single tumor location on day 1.

      ARM B: Patients with advanced solid tumor with subcutaneous/cutaneous lesions receive
      recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus expressing interferon beta intratumorally in up to 5
      lesions on day 1.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 weeks for 3 years.
    
  