
    
      Low-dose aspirin (ASA) has emerged as the most important cause of peptic ulcer bleeding
      worldwide. In western countries, ASA has overtaken NSAIDs as a major cause of peptic ulcer
      bleeding in the elderly population [1,2]. Management of peptic ulcer bleeding in patients
      receiving ASA for cardiothrombotic diseases is a clinical dilemma. In a randomized trial of
      continuous versus interrupted ASA therapy after endoscopic treatment of peptic ulcer
      bleeding, patients who discontinued ASA had a 10-fold increased incidence of all-cause
      mortality compared to those who received continuous ASA therapy. On the other hand, patients
      receiving continuous ASA therapy had a two-fold increased risk of early rebleeding [3]. Thus,
      preventing the occurrence of peptic ulcer bleeding in ASA users is important in reducing
      morbidity and mortality.

      Emerging evidence from secondary analysis of cardiovascular trials suggests that aspirin also
      reduces the risk of all cancers, even at cardioprotective doses [4]. With increasing use of
      ASA for cardiothrombotic diseases and cancer prevention, the global burden of ASA-associated
      peptic ulcer disease is expected to increase.

      A number of risk factors are known to increase the risk of peptic ulcer bleeding with ASA
      use. These include a history of peptic ulcer or ulcer bleeding, old age, renal failure,
      concurrent use of ASA and clopidogrel, and Helicobacter pylori (Hp) infection [5-7]. Among
      these risk factors, concomitant use of clopidogrel and a history of peptic ulcer bleeding and
      are important predictors of ulcer bleeding with ASA use [7]. On the other hand, Hp is the
      only risk factor that can be modified. Eradication of Hp therefore offers a hope of reducing
      the risk of ulcer bleeding in ASA users.

      Current European and U.S. guidelines unanimously recommend test-and-treat Hp infection in ASA
      users who are at risk of ulcer bleeding [8-10]. Despite these guidelines, the long-term
      benefit of eradicating Hp in high-risk ASA users is uncertain.

      In a 6-month randomized trial of ASA users with Hp infection complicated by ulcer bleeding,
      patients were randomized to one-week of Hp eradication therapy alone or maintenance treatment
      with omeprazole after ulcers has healed. Our results showed that the incidence of recurrent
      ulcer bleeding was comparable between the group receiving Hp eradication alone (1.9%) and the
      group receiving omeprazole (0.9%) [11]. In another 12-month randomized trial, ASA users with
      Hp infection complicated by ulcer bleeding were randomized to one-week of eradication therapy
      alone or one week of eradication therapy plus maintenance treatment with lansoprazole. In
      this study, up to 15% of ASA users developed recurrent ulcer bleeding after eradication of Hp
      alone. Among the ASA users who developed recurrent ulcer bleeding, however, over two-thirds
      had failure Hp eradication or used concomitant NSAIDs [12].

      In light of these conflicting findings, current guidelines recommend that co-therapy with a
      proton-pump inhibitor (PPI) is still needed in high-risk ASA users after eradication of Hp
      [8-10]. Since PPIs are more effective in preventing ASA-associated ulcers in the presence of
      Hp infection [13], the clinical relevance of testing for Hp in high-risk ASA users becomes
      even more questionable. To date, the strategy of test-and-treat Hp for ASA users is not
      popular among primary care doctors or specialists.

      One alternative gastroprotective strategy is to prescribe PPIs to all ASA users at high risk
      of ulcer bleeding and ignore Hp testing. However, poor compliance to gastroprotective
      co-therapy limits its effectiveness. Recently, health authorities issued warning about the
      the use of PPI and the risk of hip fractures and potential adverse drug-interactions between
      PPI and clopidogrel [14,15]. Clopidgorel is commonly used in combination with ASA for
      preventing coronary stent thrombosis but dual anti-platelet therapy will substantially
      increase the risk of ulcer bleeding [5]. If eradication of Hp can reduce the long-term risk
      of ulcer bleeding with ASA use, there may be a potential hope of limiting PPI use to very
      high risk ASA users.

      Given the uncertain clinical utility of Hp testing in ASA users, this prospective cohort
      study aims to determine whether testing for Hp will have any impact on the long-term
      incidence of ulcer bleeding in ASA users with high ulcer risk. The investigators hypothesize
      that among ASA users with Hp infection and ulcer bleeding, the long-term incidence of
      recurrent ulcer bleeding with ASA use will be low after eradication of Hp alone.
    
  