
    
      The concept of enhanced recovery after surgery was introduced by Kelhet et al. in the 1990s
      for colorectal surgery, and it referred to a group of measures performed during a patient's
      treatment course to improve operative outcomes, reduce complications, and speed up patient
      recovery. It is now widely applied in many surgical fields, such as thoracic surgery The
      esophageal atresia is a group of birth defects including a break in continuity of the
      esophagus with or without persistent communication with the trachea (tracheoesophageal
      fistula), and occurs in approximately 1 in 3500-4500 births. Refinements in surgical
      technique and perioperative care have dramatically decreased mortality rates of infants with
      EA/TEF, such that mortality is generally related to associated anomalies. Accordingly, the
      current focus in optimizing patient outcomes has shifted toward decreasing morbidity,
      including minimizing postoperative complications, speeding up recovery. One of the milestones
      in recent years is the introduction and rapid development of video-assisted thoracoscopic
      surgery (VATS). This surgical method has beneficial effects on patient's post-operative
      recovery and functional status without compromising surgical resection. A range of operations
      can now be safely performed via VATS.

      Although the survival rate of EA is more than 90 percent, there are still many postoperative
      complications, including anastomotic leakage, recurrence of esophagotracheal fistula,
      esophageal stenosis, gastroesophageal reflux and other problems, which seriously affect the
      prognosis. For decades, in order to reduce the complications, post-operative muscle
      paralysis, mechanical ventilation and urinary catheterization were performed for at least 2
      days as convention perioperative management. However, complications after general anesthesia
      and endotracheal intubation are not negligible, and urinary catheterization is associated
      with urethral trauma, discomfort, infection. The main reason for placement of chest tube is
      for post-operative monitoring. However, a chest drain is a recognized cause of post-operative
      pain and can affect patient's post-operative morbility as well as effective chest
      physiotherapy.

      The current project aims to explored the possibility of ERAS approach (i.e. weaning
      mechanical ventilation after surgery (less than 48h), no post-operative chest tube and
      urinary catheterization) for specific Type C EA (the distance of blind end is less than
      2.5cm, weight>2.4Kg, without related malformations (heart, kidney, for example), and without
      structural heart disease (excluding patent ductus arteriosus, patent foramen ovale, or atrial
      septal defect)).
    
  