
    
      The incidence of craniosynostosis is reported to be 1/2,000 births. Craniosynostosis is a
      birth defect that causes one or more sutures on a baby's head to close earlier than normal.
      The skull of an infant or young child is made up of bony plates that allow for growth of the
      skull. The borders at which these plates intersect are called sutures or suture lines. Early
      closing of a suture causes the baby to have an abnormally shaped head.

      Original contributions by Dr. Paul Tessier along with technological advances (improved
      pediatric anesthesia, rigid fixation, resorbable plates, endoscopic techniques and
      distraction) have significantly advanced surgical treatment for these patients over the past
      40 years.

      Primary indication for operative treatment for patients with craniosynostosis is to prevent
      or treat increased intracranial pressure (ICP) and avoid neurological impairment. Increased
      ICP is thought to result from restricted space for brain growth caused by decreased cranial
      vault volume. A secondary surgical indication is normalization of head shape for cosmetic
      purposes.

      Literature is limited on the relationship between craniosynostosis and ICP. The most widely
      reported study is by Renier and colleagues. In 75 patients preoperative ICP monitoring was
      performed using an epidural sensor. They identified ICP to be normal in one-third of the
      cases, obviously elevated in one-third, and borderline in one-third. When counseling
      patients, practitioners report a 13% rate of increased ICP for single suture synostosis and
      42% for multiple suture synostosis. However, the authors used adult normative values for ICP
      (normal less than 10mmHg and elevated greater than 15mmHg). Normal ICP in children and
      infants has been identified to be closer to 6 mmHg.

      Due to the invasiveness of the test, preoperative ICP monitoring is not routinely performed
      to decide if operative repair is required. Other indirect signs of increased intracranial
      pressure have been described (e.g., copper beaten appearance of the skull on plain film,
      papilledema, comparing intracranial volume to normative data), but are not reliable.
      Currently, the standard of care is to surgically treat all patients with craniosynostosis.

      While it is not currently feasible to measure ICP directly, we may be able to indirectly
      study the effects of growth restriction on brain development. Metabolic consequences of
      direct mechanical stress and global cerebral ischemia in craniosynostosis have not been
      described. We aim to evaluate the prevalence of metabolic defects in craniosynostosis
      patients through the use of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging techniques.

      Up to twenty patients with craniosynostosis or other abnormalities such as hydrocephaly which
      are associated with increased cranial pressure will be enrolled in this pilot study. The
      investigators will obtain several measures of cerebral metabolism preoperatively. MR
      spectroscopy (MRS) will be used to obtain concentrations of N-acetyl aspartate (NAA) and
      lactate. NAA is a highly sensitive marker of brain injury and the presence of lactate can
      indicate compromised metabolism. We will measure whole-brain oxygen extraction (OEF) using a
      magnetic field mapping approach. Elevated OEF is a key indicator of compromised perfusion.
      Cerebral blood flow (CBF) will be measured using an arterial spin labeling (ASL) sequence,
      which will allow direct measurement of perfusion deficiencies. We will also obtain functional
      connectivity data using an rfcMRI sequence, which is sensitive to developmental delay.
      Finally, a scanner sequence which measures CSF flow as a marker of intracranial pressure will
      also be performed.

      The results will also be compared to deidentified age and gender matched normative data.
      These controls will be recruited in the plastic surgery clinic and/or deidentified data from
      normal subjects from another study will be used. The analysis for OEF and ASL data will be
      performed by Dr. Dustin Ragan and Dr. McKinstry at Washington University in St. Louis.
    
  