
    
      Surgical site infection (SSI) following prosthesis implantation and other invasive procedures
      is a serious complication leading to increased mortality, morbidity, and financial cost to
      patients and the U.S. healthcare infrastructure. Multiple studies have shown that the primary
      source of surgical site bacterial colonization is staphylococci shed from the skin of people
      present in the surgical theatre. These bacteria-carrying skin cells are aerosolized into the
      environment and deposit into surgical incisions.

      The innovations currently pursued in research and industry to combat nosocomial infection
      fall primarily into three categories: (1) developing new antimicrobial drugs and agents, (2)
      developing antimicrobial coatings for devices, and (3) implementing procedures to reduce the
      risk of cross-contamination. Significant resources are being allocated to prevent infections
      from developing post-operatively and to mitigate the effects of infection once microorganisms
      enter the body. However, there is little development of new technologies that can be employed
      in the operating room to prevent the initial intrusion into the surgery site.

      All modern surgical theatres utilize some form of air filtration. In a conventional flow
      system, air streams mix freely in the room. In an OR designed for laminar flow (LFOR), air
      emits from filters and proceeds into the room in relatively coherent streams. The benefit
      thought to be achieved by a LFOR, in principle, is that filtered air does not mix with
      contaminated air before reaching the surgery area. The difficulty in achieving the desired
      results in a LFOR lies in the fact that once the flow pattern enters the room, it is
      subjected to a very complex set of dynamics over a significant distance. Air is clean upon
      leaving the filter bank, but it enters a space laden with airborne bacteria and particulate
      matter shed from people in the OR.

      Nimbic Systems has developed a device, the Air Barrier System (ABS), which shields surgical
      sites from airborne contaminants in the operating room by creating a localized clean air
      field directly adjacent to and surrounding the incision site. The ABS consists of two
      components: a Filter and an air Nozzle with attached Hose. The Filter is a nonsterile
      reusable component which filters ambient operating room air and forces it through an exit
      port on the top of the unit. The Nozzle is attached on top of the incision drape adjacent to
      a surgical incision with Velcro® fastening pads. The end of the Hose is plugged into the
      Filter's air exit port. Contaminant-free air then flows through the Hose and Nozzle over the
      incision site. The ABS maintains this protective envelope of bacteria-free air over a wide
      range of patient and incision site geometries, yet the insertion of hands and instruments are
      not disrupted by the protective envelope.

      The ABS technology was extremely successful at reducing the presence of bacteria and other
      colony forming units at incision sites during Phase I study. In a randomized, prospective
      clinical study of 36 hip arthroplasty procedures, the ABS reduced the presence of colony
      forming units at incision sites by 84% versus ambient operating room levels.

      This will be a prospective randomized double-blind pilot trial of the ABS in three surgical
      specialty applications (total hip arthroplasty, lumbar laminectomy with instrumentation, and
      femoral-popliteal bypass graft). A cohort of 300 recruited patients will be randomly
      assigned, at a 1:1 ratio, to either a control group (no ABS) or experimental group (with
      ABS). The primary outcome of the trial is the occurrence of SSI by one year after surgery
      using the established CDC definitions and classifications of surgical site infection.
      Secondary outcomes include (1) measuring levels of colony forming units (CFU) present in the
      operating room air during surgical procedures to examine correlations with occurrence of SSI;
      (2) examining types of organisms that cause SSI in the two study groups; and (3) surgeon
      satisfaction with the ABS device. Patient characteristics and measures of operating room
      environment will be collected during surgery, and the patients' surgical sites will be
      clinically evaluated following surgery to identify potential superficial or deep SSI up to
      one year after surgery. The estimated occurrence of SSI in the control group is 6%, based on
      baseline data pertaining to the three studied types of surgery at the Michael E. DeBakey VA
      Medical Center. The anticipated rate of SSI in the experimental group is 3%. The proposed
      pilot study is designed to detect a clinically relevant reduction (i.e., a 50% reduction,
      from 6% to 3%) in the observed rate of SSI in patients who are exposed to the ABS vs. no ABS.
      The results of this proposed pilot trial will be used to construct a subsequent pivotal
      prospective, randomized, multi-center clinical trial.
    
  