
    
      Many patients are asymptomatic until hemostatically challenged by surgery or trauma; so, the
      diagnosis is often made in late childhood or early adulthood but always after full liver
      maturation (i.e. 6 months) as reported by Andrew et al.

      Spontaneous bleeding is rare, except menorrhagia, and bleeding occurs mainly after surgery or
      injury. Bleeding is observed mainly in surgical sites with high fibrinolytic activity such as
      mouth, nose, or the genitourinary tract.

      Pregnancy, labor and delivery can also be challenging for women with FXI deficiency. In 1999
      a study published in the American Journal of Hematology revealed that FXI levels are
      inconsistent during pregnancy. The incidence of postpartum hemorrhage is increased in women
      with factor XI deficiency. The incidence is 16% for the primary postpartum hemorrhage in FXI
      patients, compared with 5% in the general population. Moreover, the incidence is 24% for the
      secondary postpartum hemorrhage in comparison with that in the general obstetric population
      (0.7%). The authors recommend that FXI levels be obtained during the initial visit and
      monitored during the woman's third trimester. For all of these reasons it is important for
      women who suspect they might have a FXI deficiency to be tested and diagnosed before
      pregnancy.

      Severe factor XI deficiency is defined by levels of <0.20 IU/mL. Such individuals have a high
      probability of post-operative hemorrhage. Individuals with levels between 0.20 IU/mL and the
      lower limit of the normal range, generally 0.65-0.80 IU/mL, are generally classified as
      having partial or mild deficiency with a lower risk of post-operative bleeding. Partial
      deficiency is being increasingly recognized following pre-operative tests or as a result of
      family screening. Thus partial factor XI deficiency is often diagnosed in asymptomatic
      individuals, creating management dilemmas because of the unpredictability of the bleeding
      risk. To differentiate an isolated or combined bleeding disorder in a patient with factor XI
      deficiency, other causes of bleeding should be investigated and excluded (e.g. von Willebrand
      disease, platelet disorders).
    
  