
    
      Rationale

      Over 50% of victims of musculoskeletal trauma suffer prolonged depressive and anxious
      symptomology following their initial injury. This is an independent risk factor for prolonged
      mental and physical disability. In previous research by the study team in orthopedic trauma
      patients without previous diagnosis of psychiatric illness, we have demonstrated 28% of these
      patients had depressive symptomology and 40% had anxiety symptomology 3 months following
      their traumatic injury. [1] Mental health resources are limited, placing the bulk of patient
      care on the orthopedic surgeons and primary care physicians. Support groups, self-help
      programs and talk therapy, while valuable, have not demonstrated measurable efficacy for this
      patient population. We hypothesize that a subset of the trauma population would benefit from
      medical treatment for their depressive and anxious symptoms in the early recovery period.

      Specific Aims

      Aim 1: Evaluate the efficacy of immediate Fluoxetine therapy versus standard of care Calcium
      treatment in improving mental health and wellbeing in the post-injury period for patients
      with musculoskeletal trauma.

      Hypothesis: Patients randomized to Fluoxetine will have less severe depression, anxiety and
      post-traumatic stress symptoms than those treated with calcium.

      Methodology: Patients >18 years of age admitted to UF Health with extremity fracture(s)
      resulting from high energy trauma (more than ground level fall) will be enrolled during their
      index hospitalization. Baseline mental well-being surveys will be obtained (Table 1) and
      patients will be randomized to calcium supplementation or Fluoxetine. The medications will be
      started during the hospitalization and prescribed upon discharge. The patient will be
      followed in the orthopedic clinic on a standard of care post-operative schedule (2 weeks, 3
      months, 6 months, and 12 months). Serial mental well-being surveys will be administered at
      these time points. Post-operative complications such as infection, nonunion or any other
      reason for return to the operating room will be tracked.

      Aim 2: Develop a safe Fluoxetine treatment protocol with a goal to be therapeutic by 6 weeks
      and taper completely off of treatment by 6-12 months.

      Hypothesis: We will be able to develop a standardized, time-limited protocol that could
      feasibly be utilized by non-mental health providers.

      Methodology: Dr. Barbosa De Faria will monitor symptoms and side effects of the Fluoxetine
      treatment study arm. Any evidence of escalation of depressive or suicidal ideology in either
      study population will result in immediate psychiatric treatment. Common side effects,
      medication adherence and appropriate discontinuation will be tracked. Patient reported pain
      scales will be obtained at each clinic visit as well as documentation of narcotic and
      cannabis pain treatment during recovery. Patients will be informed of the finite nature of
      the medical management. We will assess how many patients in the Fluoxetine arm report
      worsening of symptomology after the cessation of therapy at 9 months and how many seek
      continued management.
    
  