
    
      This study is a double blind, randomized control trial (RCT). This study will be concluded in
      2 months, from May to July 2020, from subject selection to the end of follow up. Research
      subjects are obtained consecutively from Covid-19 patients who receive care in the intensive
      care unit (ICU) across four Covid-19 referral hospitals, including Persahabatan Hospital,
      Sulianti Saroso Center for Infectious Disease, Cipto Mangunkusumo General Hospital, and
      Universitas Indonesia Hospital, with 10 subjects obtained from each hospital and total 40
      subjects for this RCT. Subjects from each hospitals are divided into control and experimental
      groups. Subject belongs to the control group will receive standardized therapy (consisting of
      oseltamivir and azithromycin), whereas subjects in the experimental group will receive MSCs
      infusion, in addition to standardized therapy.

      Subject Criteria Inclusion Criteria for MSC Donor from Umbilical Cord:

      Umbilical cord is collected from elective caesarean section from a fullterm pregnancies
      without any complication and free from HIV, Hepatitis B, C, D virus, Cytomegalovirus, Rubella
      Virus, and free from fungal and bacterial contamination.

      Informed consent all of the subjects must be filled and signed up before ruled in this study.

      As soon as after delivery, the umbilical cord is collected and processed in sterile specimen
      0,9% NaCl at 4oC for 8 hours. The umbilical cord transported to the laboratory and cultured
      in GMP lab, at Stem Cells Medical Technology Integrated Service Unit Cipto Mangunkusumo
      Hospital. Cellular viability and proliferation are evaluated after cell characterization test
      by flow cytometer.

      Sterility tests are done three times to ensure cellular sterility. Subjects will receive MSCs
      through infusion through intravenous for 1 hour, following the administration of
      diphenhydramine and anticoagulant to prevent clotting.

      Following the MSCs administration, monitoring at the patients is carried out every day,
      whereas laboratory testing for basic parameters (complete blood count, differential count,
      blood gas analysis, C-reactive protein, SGOT/SGPT (AST/ALT), Ureum/Creatinine, eGFR,
      electrolyte, procalcitonin, albumin, total bilirubin, D-Dimer, fibrinogen, troponin I and
      proBNP) are carried out every three days. Cytokine levels are measured before the
      administration and 7th day after the administration. Chest radiography is carried out every
      three days.
    
  