
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II dose of sunitinib
      malate in pediatric patients with refractory solid tumors.

      II. Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients. III. Characterize the
      pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients. IV. Evaluate the tolerability and
      pharmacokinetic profile of sunitinib malate capsule contents sprinkled over applesauce or
      yogurt using the recommended phase II dose.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine, preliminarily, the antitumor effects of this regimen in these patients.

      II. Describe changes in peripheral blood monocyte counts, circulating endothelial cells, and
      plasma angiogenic factors during treatment with sunitinib malate.

      III. Explore changes in tumor vascular permeability using dynamic contrast-enhanced
      (DCE)-magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in patients receiving sunitinib malate.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study (part A) followed by a
      pediatric-friendly formulation study (part B).

      PART A: Patients receive oral sunitinib malate once daily on days 1-28 days. Treatment
      repeats every 42 days for up to 18 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of sunitinib malate until the MTD is
      determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients
      experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      PART B: Patients receive sunitinib malate capsule contents sprinkled over applesauce or
      yogurt once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 42 days for up to 18 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After the first course, patients may
      switch to capsule formulation for convenience.

      NOTE: Patients will not receive sunitinib malate on day 2 of the first course to allow for
      pharmacokinetic testing.

      Blood is collected on days 1, 7, 14, 21, and 28 of course 1 for pharmacokinetic studies using
      liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.
    
  