
    
      The Polish breast, ovarian and endometrial cancer study is a complex molecular epidemiologic
      study conducted in two major cities in Poland (Warsaw and Lodz) that enrolled 2,386 breast
      cancer cases and 2,503 controls, and is expected to enroll about 400 ovarian, 600 endometrial
      cancer cases and 600 additional controls by September 2004. This large population-based study
      combines state-of-the art techniques of exposure assessment and collection of biological
      specimens to allow for the study of a wide range of biomarkers. Exposure information is
      obtained through detailed personal interviews, anthropometric measurements, physical activity
      monitors, and collection of dust samples from the participants' homes. The collection of
      biological specimens includes blood samples processed as cryopreserved whole blood, serum+
      blood clot, plasma+buffy coat+red blood cells; 12-hour overnight urine; paraffin embedded
      tumor and normal tissue; and fresh tissue from tumors, non-neoplastic breast tissue and
      mammary fat tissue. Subject enrollment started in June 1, 2000.The last day of diagnosis for
      eligible breast cancer cases was December 31, 2003. The final response rates to the interview
      for the breast cancer component of the study are 79% for breast cancer cases and 69% for
      controls. Among women who agree to the interview, most of them agree to provide biological
      specimens (84% of breast cancer cases and 92% of controls agree to provide a blood sample;
      82% of cases and 89% of controls agree to provide a urine sample), anthropometric
      measurements (95% of breast cancer cases and 93% controls) and wear a physical activity
      monitor (76% of breast cancer cases and 84% of controls from the Warsaw study site). The
      final participation rates to the interview for the ovarian and endometrial component of the
      study are 78% for ovarian, 80% for endometrial cancer cases. Of these women, 85% of ovarian
      and 86% of endometrial cancer cases agreed to provide a blood sample. Urine samples,
      anthropmetric measurements, physical activity monitor data are not collected from ovarian and
      endometrial cases. We are currently working on the first manuscripts from the breast cancer
      component of the study. We have completed DNA extractions and the first genotype assays. In
      addition, we constructed tissue microarrays using formalin fixed tumor samples from breast
      cancer cases with invasive cancer and performed a number of
      immunohistochemical/immunofluorescence stains to evaluate etiologic heterogeneity of breast
      cancer risk factors by tumor type. For the ovarian/endometrial component of the study, we
      have completed the DNA extractions for all subjects, and incited the first analyses for
      endometrial study. Determination of the first genotypes for the ovarian/endometrial
      components and construction of tissue microarrays for endometrial cases is planned for 2005-
      06.
    
  