
    
      The term patient context refers to the myriad contextual factors in patients' lives that
      complicate the application of research evidence to patient care. For instance, the inability
      of a patient to afford a medication for a particular condition is a contextual factor.
      Contextual factors can be addressed when correctly identified. Substituting a low cost
      generic for a high cost brand name medication may enable a patient to afford a medication.
      Addressing contextual factors in a care plan is termed contextualizing care. Conversely, the
      failure to address a contextual factor when it is feasible to so is a contextual error,
      because it results in an inappropriate plan of care. In sum, contextual errors are medical
      errors caused by inattention to patient context. They are common and linked to both
      diminished health care outcomes and an increase in health care costs related to overuse and
      misuse of medical services. These findings were determined using a validated method for
      coding audio recorded data called Content Coding for Contextualization of Care ("4C")
      collected during the encounters by both real patients, and by unannounced standardized
      patients (USPs) employing checklists.

      Preventing contextual errors requires heightening clinician responsiveness to clues that
      there are contextual factors during the clinical encounter, in real time. These clues, termed
      contextual red flags are evident in two sources: the medical record and from patients
      directly. An effective intervention would prompt clinicians to determine whether there are
      underlying contextual factors that could be addressed in the care plan, averting contextual
      error. This desirable process is termed contextual probing.

      While clinical decision support (CDS) has been used to provide physicians with timely
      biomedical information at the point of care to prevent errors and promote appropriate care,
      this technology also affords an opportunity to draw physician attention to both contextual
      red flags and contextual factors in order to avert contextual errors. This study assesses the
      potential of "contextualized CDS" to improve contextualization of care through a randomized
      controlled intervention trial, with assessment measures of both patient health care outcomes
      and averted costs associated with overuse and misuse of medical services. The three
      hypotheses are that CDS:

        1. Reduces contextual error: CDS tools that inform clinicians of contextual factors and
           prompt them to explore contextual red flags should result in a reduction in contextual
           error.

        2. Improve health care outcomes: Contextualized CDS predicts improved health care outcomes
           defined as a partial or full resolution of the contextual red flag (e.g. elevated HgB
           A1c) after the index visit.

        3. Reduces avoidable health care costs: Contextualized CDS is associated with a reduction
           in misuse and overuse of inappropriate or unnecessary medical services.

      To test the hypotheses, patients who consent to participate will be randomized to usual care
      or care enhanced with contextualized CDS. Participants will audio record their visits, and
      the data will be coded using 4C. They will be followed several months after the index visit
      for assessment of outcomes by blinded assessors using an established tracking method. In
      addition, USPs presenting with cases containing complicating contextual factors that if
      overlooked result in overuse and misuse of medical services, will be employed to assess the
      third hypothesis, and to supplement the data obtained by observing the effects of contextual
      alerts on the care of real patients for the first hypothesis.
    
  