
    
      Background: Finger injuries and infections are common presenting problems in the pediatric
      emergency department. A traditional digital block, requiring at least two injections of
      anesthetic, is the traditional method of regional anesthesia for many finger procedures.
      Digital blocks can sometimes be difficult to administer and assess for effectiveness
      especially in children. A newer procedure, the transthecal metacarpal block, may be easier to
      administer, and more effective with one injection.

      Objective: To determine if the transthecal metacarpal block (MCB) provides superior digit
      anesthesia in children requiring painful finger procedures as compared to the traditional
      digital block (TDB).

      Methods: A randomized clinical trial comparing the MCB to the TDB will be conducted in an
      urban, tertiary care pediatric emergency department. Children <18 years of age, presenting to
      the emergency department with a finger injury or infection, which requires regional
      anesthesia for repair will be screened for eligibility. Eligible patients, with appropriate
      consent will be randomized to receive either the MCB or TDB with 1% Lidocaine. The primary
      outcome, success of the block will be assessed using pinprick testing after a standardized
      wait time. Secondary outcomes including pain with the block and repair, repairing physician
      satisfaction, and short-term complications will also be assessed.

      Implications: Finding successful methods of anesthesia and pain control are paramount in the
      pediatric emergency department. In addition, using a type of digital block which is easy to
      administer, successful, and requires only one injection would give physicians confidence to
      treat finger injuries in children with regional anesthesia and possibly avoid procedural
      sedation in some cases. To date, no studies have been published on the efficacy of digital
      blocks in children. This study will also serve to give baseline success rates for both types
      of digital blocks.
    
  