
    
      Right hemicolectomy using a minimally invasive technique allows for an earlier recovery, with
      less postoperative pain and less hospital stay. After right hemicolectomy, the ileocolic
      anastomosis is not performed "naturally" as is habitually done in low anterior resections or
      sigmoidectomies. There is, therefore, no standardization in the reconstruction technique,
      with two possibilities: intracorporeal and extracorporeal anastomosis.

      The intracorporeal anastomosis allows proper visualization of it, ensuring adequate
      conformation (absence of rotation or traction), in addition allowing the closure of the mesos
      and avoiding the possible appearance of internal hernia, also allowing to choose the location
      and length of the incision necessary for the extraction of the piece. On the other hand, it
      is a difficult technique that requires high training in advanced laparoscopy.

      The extracorporeal anastomosis is performed by extracting both ends (terminal ileum and
      transverse colon) through the incision through which the piece is obtained, and the
      anastomosis is performed. It does not require, therefore, an important training in
      intracorporeal sutures. On the contrary, it forces to make the abdominal incision in the area
      that allows the extraction of said ends. In obese patients it can be difficult since the
      mesos are short and do not allow their extraction easilywith ,so sometimes, it forces
      excessive traction. In addition, intestinal rotations during the anastomosis may go
      unnoticed.

      Although there are currently defenders of both techniques, the extracorporeal anastomosis is
      currently the most performed in our environment and will be used as a reference treatment in
      the present study.

      Numerous studies have been published comparing both techniques. A very recent meta-analysis,
      including 12 non-randomized comparative studies with 1492 patients, concluded that
      intracorporeal anastomosis is associated with less morbidity and a reduction in hospital
      stay, suggesting a faster recovery. To date, no well-designed, prospective, randomized and
      randomized study exists in the literature. We believe it is necessary, therefore, to carry
      out a project that compares both surgical techniques in the treatment of right colon cancer
      and assess which is associated with a lower postoperative morbidity.
    
  