
    
      Norepinephrine was recommended as the first vasopressor for septic shock resuscitation.

      For the patient who did not response to high dose norepinephrine, epinephrine was
      recommended.

      Both norepinephrine and epinephrine action via the alpha adrenergic stimuli to increase
      vascular smooth muscle contraction, induced vasoconstriction and increase arterial blood
      pressure. It also action via beta adrenergic stimuli, to increase heart rate and myocardial
      contractility, then increase stroke volume and cardiac output.

      Too much alpha and beta adrenergic stimulation, especially during received high dose
      norepinephrine and or epinephrine associated with vasoconstriction induce organs ischemia.

      The most common organ ischemia included myocardial ischemia, bowel ischemia and limbs
      ischemia.

      Cardiac arrhythmia was also the most common complication associated with high dose
      norepinephrine and or epinephrine.

      Atrial fibrillation was the most common reported arrhythmia, however, fatal arrhythmia
      included ventricular fibrillation and tachycardia were also reported.

      Vasopressin was recommended as an alternative vasopressor, in case patient did not response
      to norepinephrine and or epinephrine.

      Terlipressin, a selective V1 receptor binding with long half life, was reported that it main
      action is to increase blood pressure via the different mechanism from norepinephrine and
      epinephrine.

      To use terlipressin, combine with norepinephrine and or epinephrine among refractory septic
      shock, could decrease the usage dose of norepinephrine and epinephrine as well as lower the
      side effects of too high adrenergic stimuli.

      The benefit effect of terlipressin could be demonstrated when prescribe among the septic
      shock patients who required high dose of adrenergic vasoactive agents.

      Terlipressin plus norepinephrine and or epinephrine could maintain or even improve blood
      pressure and tissue perfusion with lower fatal side effects than norepinephrine and or
      epinephrine without terlipressin.
    
  