
    
      The present study will be a single-center, randomized, parallel, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled clinical trial of CBD in patients with mild to moderate SARS-CoV-2
      infection. The investigators will use random stratification by minimizing the sample to
      stratify all eligible patients according to gender, age, disease severity (mild or moderate)
      and presence of comorbidity (controlled diabetes and/or hypertension), followed by random
      designation (in a ratio 1: 1) in each stratum to ensure a balanced distribution of disease
      severity among treatment groups (CBD plus symptomatic clinical and pharmacological measures)
      and control (symptomatic clinical and pharmacological measures and placebo). All patients
      will receive the clinical and pharmacological measures standardized by the Brazilian Ministry
      of Health's practical guidelines for diagnosis and treatment for mild and moderate cases for
      SARS-CoV-2 (https://portalarquivos.saude.gov.br/images/pdf
      /2020/April/18/Dirursos-Covid19.pdf). In other words, the following pharmacological measures:
      "prescription of drugs for symptom control, if there is no contraindication, with the
      possibility of intercalating antipyretic drugs in cases of difficult control of fever. • Oral
      antipyretic: 1st option: Paracetamol 500-1000 mg/dose (maximum 3mg / day) • 2nd option:
      Dipyrone 500-1000 mg VO (maximum dose in adults 4 grams)", and clinical measures:" Home
      isolation by 14 days from the date of onset of symptoms; review every 48 hours, preferably by
      phone, providing face-to-face assistance, if necessary; maintain rest, a balanced diet and a
      good supply of fluids; isolation from home contacts for 14 days".

      Thus, all patients will receive clinical and pharmacological measures of symptoms. Patients
      in the investigational treatment group will also receive CBD within 24 hours after
      randomization, with a daily dose of 300mg / day (two 150mg doses; 1mL of the formulation) for
      14 days. Patients in the placebo group will also receive, within 24 hours after
      randomization, 1mL of the same investigational medication vehicle (medium/coconut chain
      triglyceride oil - MCT) for 14 days, using a dosing device/syringe indistinguishable from the
      CBD medication. Patients, nursing staff, laboratory technicians, doctors who will carry out
      the assessments, researchers, and statisticians will be blind to the treatment group and will
      not know about the treatment information.

      Secretions from the upper respiratory tract, lower respiratory tract, or both, by swab, will
      be obtained from each patient in the screening (day -3 to day 1) during treatment and
      post-treatment follow-up at the patient's home on days 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 10, 14, 21, and 28,
      to test the viral load and SARS-CoV-2 genotyping. On all these dates, nurses will visit home
      to collect swab (only from the oropharynx, to minimize discomfort), blood and will be
      evaluated at each visit for vital signs, pulse oximetry, odor test, and treatment guidelines.
      Each patient will also receive a digital thermometer to measure the axillary temperature in
      case of suspected fever and daily measurement immediately before lunch and dinner.
    
  