
    
      The objective of this study is to confirm safety and efficacy after laparoscopic sleeve
      gastrectomy (LSG) in subjects indicated for LINX is similar to the outcomes that formed the
      basis for the LINX Premarket Approval to support modification of the current labeling.
      Presently, there is a precautionary statement that safety and effectiveness of the LINX has
      not been established for prior esophageal or gastric surgery or endoscopic intervention.

      Patients with GERD that have undergone a LSG procedure have limited surgical treatment
      options if they are looking for an alternative to continuous acid suppression therapy (i.e.
      proton pump inhibitors or equivalent). One procedure, fundoplication, is extremely difficult
      to perform as LSG patients have a limited amount of fundus tissue remaining after sleeve
      surgery. Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) may be chosen as a conversion procedure but is more
      invasive with the potential for serious complications. LINX may be considered as an
      alternative and less invasive option that may potentially have few complications compared to
      RYGB.

      The study is an observational, multicenter, single-arm study with prospective enrollment.
      Based on the observational status of the study, no formal statistical hypothesis tests will
      be conducted. Up to 30 patients meeting the eligibility requirements will be implanted with
      LINX and followed through 12-months after implant. Up to twelve (12) clinical sites will
      enroll subjects. Safety evaluations will be ongoing throughout the duration of the study,
      starting at the implant procedure. Efficacy endpoints will be evaluated at the 12-month
      visit.

      Safety will be evaluated based on the rate of serious device and procedure related adverse
      events (AEs). Safety will also be evaluated by endoscopy to assess the mucosa and x-rays to
      verify device location at 12 months post implant. Efficacy will be measured at 12 months
      (compared to baseline) by examining 3 variables: normalization of total distal acid exposure
      or at least a 50% reduction, at least a 50% reduction in total GERD-HRQL scores and at least
      a 50% reduction in average daily PPI dosage.
    
  