
    
      Functional non-retentive fecal incontinence (FNRFI) is fecal incontinence in a child with a
      mental age of more than 4 years with no evidence of metabolic, inflammatory, or anatomical
      cause2.

      It is an extremely embarrassing and psychologically frustrating shameful problem with a bad
      impact on children3. It can lead to social isolation, loss of self-confidence, depression,
      and behavioral problems4. The underlying mechanism of functional non-retentive fecal
      incontinence is largely unknown. The pathophysiology seems to be complex and it is considered
      to be a multifactorial disorder5. Approximately 95% of the children had no organic cause and
      these children are considered to have a functional defecation disorder. Of this, in
      approximately 80% of these children FI is results of constipation and is treated with
      laxatives, the remaining 20% without signs of fecal retention is classified as FNRFI6 The
      negative psychological and social impact for these children is high, however, and requires
      adequate intervention7. Biofeedback therapy is a feasible option that has been used for fecal
      incontinence over several decades8. The underlying premise of biofeedback, as with learning
      any physical activity, is that "practice makes perfect" if the learner is provided with
      accurate feedback to make adjustments to optimize performance So, the purpose of this study
      was to evaluate quantitatively the short-term and long-term efficacy of biofeedback training
      as a treatment tool designed to control functional non-retentive fecal incontinence in
      children and its long term impact on the quality of life.

      Methods:

      The present study included 100 children of both sexes that were included with an age ranged
      from (5-14 years) with FNRFI with normal bowel habits, normal defecation frequency, and
      normal stool consistency with incontinence score ranging from 6-24 according to Vaizey score
      12. Exclusion criteria included; children who have traumatic sphincter injury, fecal
      impaction, spinal diseases causing incontinence, anorectal malformation, and children who
      were not cooperative. Patients included in this study were randomly divided and allocated
      into two groups Control group and Study group. Written informed consent was obtained from
      parents of all included children.

      A detailed history was taken including bowel habits, duration history of trauma. Complete
      physical examination to exclude patients requiring surgical correction.
    
  