
    
      New drugs are urgently needed to shorten the duration of tuberculosis (TB) treatment and to
      facilitate the delivery of directly observed therapy. Preliminary data indicates that a TB
      treatment regimen that includes moxifloxacin plus rifapentine may have excellent
      antituberculosis activity that could allow for shortening of total TB treatment duration.
      However, little is known about possible pharmacokinetic interactions between the two drugs in
      humans. More specifically, moxifloxacin is metabolized via glucuronide and sulfate
      conjugation to inactive metabolites. Given that rifapentine induces the activity of phase II
      enzymes including glucuronosyltransferase and sulphotransferase, it is possible that
      rifapentine may alter the pharmacokinetics of moxifloxacin. This study will be a prospective,
      phase I, single center pharmacokinetic study in healthy subjects. The trial will compare the
      pharmacokinetics of moxifloxacin alone versus moxifloxacin administered with thrice-weekly
      rifapentine, each administered orally. There will be two parts to the trial: Part I (Days
      1-4) during which moxifloxacin is administered alone; and Part II (Days 5-19) during which
      moxifloxacin is co-administered with thrice-weekly rifapentine. A 24-hour pharmacokinetic
      profile of moxifloxacin will be obtained following dose administration of moxifloxacin on Day
      4 to obtain baseline steady state data at a dose of 400 mg daily. On Day 5, rifapentine will
      be added to the regimen at a dose of 900 mg thrice weekly, and a 48-hour pharmacokinetic
      profile for rifapentine and its metabolite, 25-desacetyl-rifapentine will be obtained after
      the first dose. On Day 19, 72-hour pharmacokinetic profiles for moxifloxacin, rifapentine,
      and 25-desacetyl-rifapentine will be performed. Safety and tolerability assessments will be
      performed at designated intervals throughout the study. Beginning on Day 1, subjects will
      receive moxifloxacin 400 mg daily for 19 days (Days 1-19). Beginning on Day 5, subjects will
      also receive rifapentine 900 mg thrice weekly (to be administered on Days 5, 7, 9, 12, 14, 16
      and 19). Study participants will be 16 healthy adults, ages 18-65, recruited through Johns
      Hopkins University School of Medicine. The primary study objectives are to: compare, in
      healthy volunteers, the pharmacokinetics of moxifloxacin alone versus moxifloxacin
      co-administered with thrice-weekly rifapentine and describe the safety and tolerability of
      moxifloxacin co-administered with rifapentine. The secondary study objective is to evaluate
      for rifapentine autoinduction of metabolism in healthy volunteers receiving thrice-weekly
      rifapentine. The primary safety outcome will be the proportion of subjects with any Grade 3
      or 4 toxicity associated with study medications or any serious adverse event. The secondary
      safety outcomes will be the proportion of subjects with any Grade 1 or 2 toxicity associated
      with study medications, and the proportion of subjects discontinuing study medications for
      any reason.
    
  