
    
      Phase I/II, single-center, dose-escalation study of the safety, pharmacokinetics, dosimetry,
      and efficacy of TST/I-131 TST for the treatment of patients with chemotherapy-refractory or
      resistant low-grade, intermediate-grade, or high-grade B-cell lymphoma. Subjects received 1
      to 3 dosimetric doses followed by a therapeutic dose of TST/I-131 TST. Study BEX104526 was a
      follow-up study of the long-term safety and efficacy data from the surviving patients who
      completed at least 2 years of follow-up following administration of TST/I 131 TST on Study
      BEX104728.

      Dosimetric dose: Subjects received 1 to 3 dosimetric doses of TST/I-131 TST, followed by a
      therapeutic dose of TST/I-131 TST. Subjects received various doses of unlabeled TST (0, 95 or
      475 mg) to determine the dose of unlabeled TST that optimized the radiation dose delivered to
      the tumor by TST/I-131 TST. The unlabeled TST was followed by 5 milliCurie (mCi) of I-131
      TST. Serial whole body sodium iodide scintillation probe counts were obtained daily, for at
      least 5 days, in order to determine the rate of whole body clearance of radioactivity
      (residence time). The residence time was used to determine the radioactive clearance for the
      subject and the activity (in mCi) of I-131 required to deliver the desired TBD of radiation
      during the therapeutic dose. Because 475 mg was determined to be the optimal pre-dose of TST
      in the first subjects entered, the last 34 subjects received a single dosimetric dose that
      was preceded by an infusion of 475 mg of TST.

      Therapeutic dose: Groups of 3-6 subjects were enrolled at successively higher whole-body
      radiation dose levels beginning at a total body dose (TBD) of 25 centiGray (cGy). The TBD of
      each subsequent dose level was escalated by 10 cGy. Subjects who had undergone bone marrow
      transplantation (BMT) underwent a separate dose escalation (10 cGy TBD increase per dose
      level) beginning at a TBD level of 65 cGy. The MTD was defined as the highest dose level at
      which 0/3 or 1/6 subjects experienced dose-limiting toxicity (DLT).

      DLT was defined as follows:

      Any Grade 4 hematologic toxicity (National Cancer Institute [NCI] criteria) lasting greater
      than 7 days, or Any Grade 3 hematologic toxicity lasting greater than 2 weeks, or Any Grade 3
      or 4 nonhematologic toxicity Redosing: Subjects who achieved tumor regression were considered
      for re-dosing, using the original therapeutic dose of TST/I-131 TST, at the time the tumor
      was no longer shrinking in an attempt to upgrade their response.

      Retreatment: Subjects who achieved a partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) were
      considered for retreatment following relapse of their NHL, if progression occurred ≥6 weeks
      following the therapeutic dose. The original therapeutic dose of TST/I-131 TST was given
      unless a grade 2 or greater toxicity had been encountered, in which case a reduced dose was
      administered for the repeat therapeutic dose.

      Subjects who completed at least 2 years of follow-up in BEX104728 were enrolled in LTFU Study
      BEX104526 for continued radiographic response evaluations and safety evaluations every 6
      months for years 3 through 5 post-treatment and annually for years 6 through 10
      post-treatment. Subjects in BEX104526 were assessed for survival and disease status,
      including subsequent therapy for NHL, and for long-term safety, including the development of
      hypothyroidism, myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), and any
      other secondary malignancies. Additionally, subjects were followed for the development of any
      adverse event(s) (AEs) deemed by the Principal Investigator as being possibly or probably
      related to a subject's treatment with TST/I-131 TST. Laboratory evaluations, consisting of
      thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) level and complete blood cell count with a differential and
      platelet count, were obtained annually through year 10 post-treatment.

      Study assessments included demographic and baseline characteristics; tumor response, duration
      of response, survival (progression-free survival [PFS] and overall survival [OS]), adverse
      events (AEs), incidence of human anti-murine antibody (HAMA), incidence of hypothyroidism,
      and serious (fatal and non-fatal) adverse events (SAEs).

      Dosing;"Dosimetric Doses", Intravenous (IV) administration of unlabeled TST (0, 95 or 475 mg)
      was administered to determine the dose of unlabeled TST that optimized the radiation dose to
      the tumor. This was followed by 5 mCi of I-131 TST. Serial whole body sodium iodide
      scintillation probe counts were obtained daily, for at least 5 days, in order to determine
      the rate of whole body clearance of radioactivity (residence time). The residence time was
      used to determine the radioactive clearance from the subject and subsequently the activity
      (in mCi) of Iodine-131 required to deliver the desired TBD of radiation during the
      therapeutic dose of TST/I-131 TST. Because 475 mg was determined to be the optimal pre-dose
      of tositumomab in the first subjects entered, the last 34 subjects received a single
      dosimetric dose that was preceded by an infusion of 475 mg of tositumomab (Source Data:
      Listing 13).

      "Therapeutic Dose", Groups of 3-6 subjects were treated at successively higher therapeutic
      whole body radiation doses, beginning at a TBD of 25 cGy. The TBD was escalated in 10 cGy
      increments in subsequent dose level cohorts until the MTD was achieved. A separate
      determination of MTD was conducted for subjects who had undergone prior BMT. This was
      initiated at a TBD of 65 cGy TBD and increased in 10 cGy increments until determination of
      the MTD. The MTD was defined as the dose at which fewer than 1/3 or 2/6 subjects experienced
      DLT, i.e. any Grade 4 hematologic toxicity (absolute neutrophil count [ANC], platelets,
      hemoglobin, white blood count [WBC] lasting > 7 days or any Grade 3 hematologic toxicity
      lasting > 14 days, as defined in Section 4.1.

      Re-Dosing; Subjects who achieved tumor regression were considered for re-dosing, using the
      original therapeutic dose of TST/I-131 TST, at the time the tumor was no longer shrinking in
      an attempt to upgrade their response. Patients were not redosed sooner than 6 weeks following
      a therapeutic dose.

      Retreatment (≥6 weeks following therapeutic dose); Subjects who achieved a PR or CR were
      considered for retreatment following relapse of their NHL. The original therapeutic dose of
      TST/I-131 TST was given unless a Grade 2 or greater toxicity had been encountered, in which
      case the dose level immediately below the original dose was administered.
    
  