
    
      Postpartum depression is a combination of physical, emotional, and behavioral changes that
      occur after childbirth. The rapid drop in estrogen and progesterone levels, as well as the
      social and psychological changes resulting from the birth of a child, can often trigger
      depression in women. Common symptoms include crying, irritability, fatigue, loss of appetite,
      and feelings of guilt and anxiety. Women who develop postpartum depression often feel unable
      to care for their baby or themselves. Postpartum depression is common; it is estimated that
      about 10 percent of new mothers experience some symptoms of depression following delivery.
      Risk factors include a personal or family history of depression and a history of suffering
      from premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD), a severe form of premenstrual syndrome (PMS).
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of calcium supplements taken
      during pregnancy in reducing the likelihood of postpartum depression in women at risk for
      developing this condition.

      Pregnant women who are at risk for developing postpartum depression will be enrolled in this
      study when they are between 16 to 26 weeks pregnant. All recruited women will undergo
      psychological testing for screening purposes. Women who are found to be depressed or
      suffering from other psychiatric disorders during screening will be referred to alternative
      treatment and will not be enrolled in this study. All participants will then be randomly
      assigned to receive either a calcium supplement (2 grams) or placebo on a daily basis.
      Treatments will continue throughout the remainder of each woman's pregnancy and for 12 weeks
      after she gives birth. Outcome measurements will include standardized questionnaires and
      psychiatric interviews to assess depression levels. If any participant exhibits significant
      depressive symptoms, she will be referred for psychiatric treatment. All measurements will be
      assessed at Weeks 26, 32 and 38 of the pregnancy, and 6 and 12 weeks after giving birth.
    
  