
    
      The primary goal of alcohol detoxification is to medically manage acute intoxication and
      withdrawal. Its secondary goal of fostering entry into longer-term alcohol treatment
      post-detoxification is often overlooked. This leads to a revolving door characterized by a
      cyclical pattern of discharges and re-admissions to detoxification. This pattern is observed
      across the US among alcohol detoxification patients and is even more prevalent among Alaska
      Native people; few transition to alcohol treatment following detoxification and approximately
      40% are readmitted within 1 year. The revolving door is costly to patients and providers.
      Current estimates associated with the cost of detoxification are not available. A study over
      25 years ago indicated the average inpatient detoxification stay was over $3,300. Although
      the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration recognizes that better linkages are
      needed to transition people to treatment following detoxification, few interventions have
      tested ways to improve this transition; none of these prior studies included either Alaska
      Natives or American Indians.

      This study proposes to use patient navigators to guide and assist patients in their
      transition to the appropriate levels of treatment, and to help eliminate barriers that
      obstruct treatment entry. This is a randomized controlled trial of the patient navigation
      intervention with 612 patients. We will estimate the costs of implementing and sustaining
      this intervention as well as its economic value. The control condition will include 1 session
      of motivational interviewing lasting approximately 45 minutes to 1 hour. The intervention
      group will also receive motivational interviewing and in addition will work with a patient
      navigator to facilitate entry into the appropriate level of care and provide ongoing support
      until the patient is admitted to treatment or the intervention period ends.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Adapt patient navigation (Transitions to Recovery) to fit the patient population and
           test its effectiveness in increasing successful transition to post-detoxification
           substance abuse treatment.

        2. Test patient navigation's effectiveness in preventing readmission to detoxification.

        3. Perform a comprehensive economic evaluation of patient navigation (Transition to
           Recovery) by using cost-benefit analyses.

      If effective, this intervention may be a cost-effective means of transitioning detoxification
      patients to treatment across health care systems nationally.
    
  