
    
      Glenohumeral joint osteoarthritis is a common cause of shoulder pain, affecting up to
      one-third of patients older than 60 years. Surgical treatment is indicated for patients with
      glenohumeral arthritis who continue to experience significant symptoms despite an appropriate
      course of non-operative management. Shoulder arthroplasty accounts for the third most common
      joint replacement procedure after the hip and knee arthroplasty. Based on data from the
      National Patient Registry, The Statistical Department of the Danish National Board of Health,
      the use of primary shoulder replacement in Denmark increased from 12 replacements per 100,000
      inhabitants in 2005 to 19 replacements per 100,000 inhabitants in 2015. Glenohumeral
      osteoarthritis is now the most common indication for shoulder arthroplasty in Denmark.

      Many different shoulder arthroplasty designs are available on the market. The stemless
      shoulder arthroplasty system with uncemented metaphyseal fixation has been used in Europe for
      glenohumeral osteoarthritis since 2004. The indications for anatomical stemless TSA are the
      same as for anatomical stemmed TSA: osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and post-traumatic
      osteoarthritis or osteonecrosis.

      The contraindications for anatomical stemless TSA are acute proximal humerus fracture,
      inadequate metaphyseal bone stock, and rotator cuff insufficiency.

      Stemless TSA has several theoretical advantages over stemmed TSA: restoring patients' anatomy
      (humeral shaft angle, humeral head diameter, and lateralization); preserving humeral bone
      stock, and few complications in component removal should the need of a revision arthroplasty
      arise. A recent review of 3,360 anatomical total shoulder arthroplasties found an overall
      complication rate of 10.3%. Periprosthetic fractures accounted for 6.7% and humeral component
      loosening for 1.4% of all complications. Complications related to the stemmed humeral
      component can be divided into intraoperative (malpositioning, false route, periprosthetic
      fracture) and postoperative (loosening, migration, disassembly, periprosthetic fracture, stem
      fracture) complications. When a revision is necessary because of infection or periprosthetic
      fracture, the removal of a well-fixed or cemented humeral component can be challenging and
      lead to bone damage.

      Few outcome studies on stemless TSA are available. A recent review of 11 observational
      studies (published 2010-2016), incorporating a total of 929 patients, reported comparable
      short- and midterm functional outcomes between stemmed and stemless shoulder prosthesis.
      Otherwise, there are few well-conducted and adequately powered clinical studies.

      The objective of this study is to increase knowledge about shoulder function after operation
      with anatomical TSA by comparing the patient-reported outcome after stemmed and stemless
      anatomical TSA for glenohumeral osteoarthritis.
    
  