
    
      We have previously shown that the intrabuccal administration of low and safe levels of
      electromagnetic fields, amplitude-modulated at a frequency of 42.7 Hz by means of a
      battery-powered portable device modifies the electroencephalographic activity of healthy
      subjects (1, 2) and is associated with subjective and objective relaxation effects (3). These
      results prompted us to study the effects of the 42.7 Hz frequency in patients suffering from
      insomnia. A randomized control trial did not reveal any difference between 42.7 Hz treatment
      and placebo (4) but sequential administration of four insomnia-specific frequencies,
      including 42.7 Hz, resulted in a significant decrease in sleep latency and a significant
      increase in total sleep time in patients suffering from chronic insomnia (5). Dosimetric
      studies have shown that the amount of electromagnetic fields delivered to the brain of
      patients with this approach is 100 to 1000 times lower than the amount of electromagnetic
      fields delivered by handheld cellular phones and do not result in any heating effect within
      the brain (4). The U.S. FDA has determined that such a device is not a significant risk
      device. Lastly, a long-term follow-up survey of 807 patients who have received this therapy
      revealed that the rate of adverse reactions were low and were not associated with increases
      in the incidence of malignancy or coronary heart disease (6).

      Given the advantageous safety profile of athermal, non-ionizing radiofrequency
      electromagnetic fields and the emerging evidence that low levels of electromagnetic or
      electric fields may modify the growth of tumor cells (7-9), we decided to test the hypothesis
      that low levels of electromagnetic fields modulated at tumor-specific frequencies may alter
      the growth of human malignancies. We have developed a novel patient-based biofeedback method
      with the goal to identify cancer-specific frequencies and have examined patients with this
      approach. Following identification of such frequencies in a total of 163 patients, we will
      offer compassionate treatment to 28 patients with advanced cancer and limited palliative
      therapeutic options.
    
  