
    
      Hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) is an established therapeutic modality for high risk
      hematological malignancies in adults and children. The primary cause of morbidity and
      mortality after HCT is graft versus host disease (GVHD), affecting up to 70% of patients even
      with current prophylaxis and directly accounting for approximately a third of regimen-related
      death. Currently, pharmacologic prophylaxis consists of a calcineurin inhibitor and
      methotrexate, a drug combination introduced around 40 years ago. Despite this regimen being
      recognized as the standard of care, it is only partially effective, increases the risk of
      infection and disease relapse and imparts drug-related, short- and long-term adverse effects.
      Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) have potent immune modulatory activity which is markedly
      enhanced by exposure to interferon γ. In murine models, interferon γ (IFNγ) primed MSCs
      (γMSCs) potently suppress GVHD without untoward adverse effects suggesting this cell therapy
      may markedly reduce the regimen related toxicity of HCT; however γMSCs have never been
      infused into patients.

      This protocol is designed to test the hypothesis that freshly expanded γMSCs can be reliably
      produced and safely infused into patients undergoing HCT as GVHD prophylaxis.

      This is an investigator-initiated Phase I study using a rolling 6, dose escalation design
      with two independently accruing expansion cohorts: adults and pediatrics. Accrual to the
      pediatric tier will commence after the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) has been determined in
      adults. A successful outcome of this study will lay the foundation for a future Phase II
      study to demonstrate efficacy and support a Phase III randomized trial.

      The researchers plan to enroll a minimum of 4 and maximum of 45 subjects who are greater than
      1 year old. Participants will be followed for up to 2 years after the HCT. The study will be
      conducted at Emory University and will recruit participants from the Winship Cancer Institute
      and Children's Hospital in Atlanta at Egleston.
    
  