
    
      Critically ill patients on mechanical ventilation are at risk for developing respiratory
      muscle atrophy. Partial Assist modes such Pressure Support (PS) and Neurally Adjusted
      Ventilatory Assist (NAVA) are developed to maintain patients´own effort in breathing. However
      there are no recommendations on how to set the optimal ventilator support in NAVA to avoid
      over- or underassistance.

      A previous Electrical Impedance Thomography (EIT) study has shown a redistribution of
      ventilation towards the dorsal regions of the lung in acute lung injury patients ventilated
      with NAVA, compared to PS.

      In the present study, the assist is targeted to different respiratory muscle unloading,
      predefined and based on the Neuro-Ventilatory Efficiency (NVE). The NVE will be measured at
      10min intervals and NAVA level adjusted if needed, to keep constant the level of unloading in
      each study step.

      Protocol: Once enrolled, the patients are ventilated in PS (PScli1) as set by the clinician.
      They are then ventilated in NAVA at 3 different levels of muscle unloading in randomized
      order. At NAVAcli, the assist level matches to PScli1 in terms of muscle unloading. With
      NAVA40% and NAVA60%, the patients have 40% and 60% unloading, respectively. In the last study
      step the patients are back to PS (PScli2). Each patient is his/her own control and goes
      through the 5 ventilation periods, of 30min each. In the last 5 min of each study step, the
      CoV (obtained through the EIT data), blood gas samples (for oxygenation and ventilation) and
      ventilatory parameters are obtained and analyzed.

      The investigators hypothesize that

        1. It is possible to set NAVA at different levels of unloading, based on NVE.

        2. Moderate muscle unloading (corresponding to NAVA40%) keeps the diaphragm active and
           thereby leads to more dorsal distribution of ventilation compared to PScli and to higher
           unloading in NAVA.

        3. Secondarily and as a consequence of the redistribution of ventilation, we hypothesize
           that the gas exchange will remain unchanged or will improve and that the airway
           pressures will decrease for moderate unloading (NAVA40%).
    
  