
    
      This will be an open-label, two-cohort, phase IIa study in subjects with metastatic
      pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

      The study will be comprised of 2 cohorts,. Each includes approximately 40 subjects with
      unresectable metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

      Each cohort study consists of two periods:

        -  Monotherapy period: One week, with BL-8040 administered daily on days 1-5.

        -  Combination therapy:

      Cohort 1: Three-week cycles of a combination of BL-8040 administered three times a week (TIW)
      and pembrolizumab administered once every three weeks.

      Cohort 2: Onivyde®/5-FU/LV every 2 weeks, pembrolizumab once every 3 weeks and BL-8040 twice
      a week.

      Cohort 1: Subjects with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma will be enrolled and receive
      BL-8040 monotherapy for five days followed by a combination treatment of BL-8040 and
      pembrolizumab. During the monotherapy period, eligible subjects will receive daily
      subcutaneous (SC) injections of BL-8040 (1.25 mg/kg) on Days 1 - 5.

      From Day 8, subjects will begin a combination period consisting of treatment with SC BL-8040
      TIW and pembrolizumab once every three weeks. The combination therapy will continue for up to
      35 cycles of pembrolizumab approximately two years), or until progression, clinical
      deterioration or Early Termination, whichever comes first.

      Cohort 2: Subjects with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma that have progressed following
      first-line treatment with gemcitabine-based chemotherapy will be enrolled and receive BL-8040
      monotherapy for five days followed by a combination treatment of BL-8040, pembrolizumab and
      chemotherapy. During the monotherapy period, eligible subjects will receive daily SC
      injections of BL-8040 on Days 1 - 5.

      From Day 8, subjects will begin a combination period consisting of:

        -  IV Onivyde® followed by IV leucovorin (LV), followed by IV fluorouracil (5-FU), every 2
           weeks.

        -  Pembrolizumab every three weeks.

        -  BL-8040 twice a week

      The combination therapy will continue for up to 35 treatments (approximately two years), or
      until progression, clinical deterioration or Early Termination, whichever comes first.
    
  