
    
      F16IL2 has been studied in two clinical pase I/II trials in patients with different advanced
      cancer types. One of them (Nr. EudraCT: 2007-006457-42) tested the administration of
      therapeutic doses of paclitaxel (up to 90 mg/m2 on a weekly basis) together with escalating
      doses of F16IL2 (from 5 Mio IU of IL2 equivalents in a weekly administration schedule, until
      definition of MTD). More than 40 patients were treated in this clinical trial. As of today,
      the highest F16IL2 dose tested corresponds to 45 Mio IU, but the dose escalataion of the
      F16IL2/paclitaxel combination study is still ongoing.

      In general, treatment of patients with F16IL2 plus paclitaxel was very well tolerated not
      exceeding the expected toxicity of chemotherapy alone. Multiple objective and durable tumor
      responses were observed in the F16IL2/paclitaxel combination trial(particularly in patients
      with non small cell lung cancer or melanoma who had previously failed several lines of
      chemotherapy). In addition to several disease stabilizations of previously progressive
      patients.

      Paclitaxel promotes the assembly of microtubules from tubulin dimers and stabilizes
      microtubules by preventing depolymerisation. This stability results in the inhibition of the
      normal reorganization of the microtubule network that is essential for vital interphase and
      mitotic cellular functions. In addition, paclitaxel reduces abnormal arrays or bundles of
      microtubules throughout the cell cycle and multiple asters of microtubules during mitosis.

      F16 is a human recombinant antibody fragment in the scFv (single chain Fragment variable)
      format that is directed against tenascin C, an angiogenesis marker common to most solid
      tumors independent of the tumor type. ScFv(F16) selectively localizes in tumor tissues in
      animal models as demonstrated both histologically and during mechanistic studies involving
      mice transfected with orthotopic human tumours.

      IL2, the human cytokine interleukin-2, is a potent stimulator of the immune response. It has
      a central role in the regulation of T cell responses and effects on other immune cells such
      as natural killer cells, B cells, monocyte/macrophages and neutrophils (Smith, 1988). IL2 can
      induce tumor regression through its ability to stimulate a potent cell-mediated immune
      response in vivo (Rosenberg, 2000).
    
  