
    
      The aim of this single-blind randomized prospective study is to find out whether including
      robotic therapy in addition to conventional rehabilitation program has an effect on quality
      of life, motor function and activities of daily living of the hemiplegic patients. Hemiplegic
      patients diagnosed by anamnesis, physical examination and radiological analysis, which have
      been referred to the outpatient clinic of Ege University Faculty of Medicine Department of
      Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation between April 2016 and April 2019 have been taken to the
      study. The demographic and clinical data of the patients were recorded and they were
      randomized into 2 groups. 17 patients assigned to the robotic rehabilitation group (Study
      group) receiving robot-assisted rehabilitation in addition to conventional treatment and 20
      assigned to the conventional rehabilitation group (control group) receiving only conventional
      therapy completed the study. Robotic-based rehabilitation given additionally was arranged to
      be 30-45 minutes, 5 days per week for 4 weeks. All patients were assessed at the beginning of
      therapy and at the end of 4th week with Brunnstrom stages of motor recovery, Fugl Meyer
      Assessment (FMA), hand grip strength, Purdue peg test, Minnesota manual dexterity test,
      Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS) , Functional Independance Measure (FIM), Stroke Specific
      Quality of Life Scale (SS-QOL), Nottingham Extended Activities of Daily Living (NEADL) Scale,
      Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale
      (CES- D). In the study, improvements in motor function scores, spasticity, general
      functioning, activities of daily living, cognitive assessment scale are better in robotic
      group when compared with control group but this difference was not statistically significant
      (p>0,05). The investigators have found statistically significant improvement in CES-
      Depression scale in robotic group compared with control group (p=0,018). Significantly
      improved motor function gains are observed before and after the treatment in both groups
      being better in the robotic group however no significant differences were observed between
      the groups after the treatment. Robotic rehabilitation provides a favorable alternative
      bringing slight benefits, and also advantageous in terms of work power and psychological
      recovery so robotic rehabilitation addition to conventional neurological rehabilitation is
      effective and useful in patient management after stroke or cerebrovascular events.
    
  