
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of the vascular endothelial growth factor
      (VEGF) monoclonal antibody, bevacizumab in combination with the allosteric met proto-oncogene
      (MET) inhibitor, tivantinib, in patients with advanced solid tumors.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Describe the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and other toxicities associated with bevacizumab
      in combination with tivantinib as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      (CTCAE) version (v) 4.0.

      II. Document anti-tumor activity of bevacizumab in combination with tivantinib in patients
      with advanced solid tumors.

      III. Determine the pharmacokinetics of tivantinib when administered in combination with
      bevacizumab in patients with advanced solid tumors.

      IV. Perform cytochrome P450 family 2, subfamily C, polypeptide 19 (CYP2C19) genotyping on all
      subjects and correlate with pharmacokinetics and toxicity.

      V. Assess the effect of bevacizumab plus tivantinib on plasma components of the
      hepatocellular growth factor (HGF)-MET signaling pathway (HGF, HGF activator [HGFA]) and VEGF
      signaling pathway (VEGF A, B, C, D and placental growth factor [PIGF]).

      VI. Assess tissue (tumor and skin) protein biomarkers before and after study treatment
      including MET, phospho-MET^tyrosine (Tyr)1349 and phosphor-focal adhesion kinase
      (FAK)^Tyr861.

      VII. Assess early therapy response by quantitative biomarker imaging fludeoxyglucose F 18
      (F-18 FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic imaging resonance (MRI) on a
      smaller sample (n up to 15) of subjects willing to participate in the imaging assessment
      through UPCI 12-096.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of tivantinib.

      Patients receive bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on days -15, 1, and 15
      (day -15 of course 1 only) and tivantinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses
      repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.
    
  