
    
      "Đương đầu với bệnh Tăng huyết áp ở Việt Nam: Giải pháp từ Y tế cơ sở (Conquering
      Hypertension in Vietnam: Solutions at Grassroots level)" (Vietnam Hy-TREC) Background:
      Similar to other low- and middle-income countries, Vietnam has been experiencing an
      epidemiologic transition with an increasing burden of non-communicable diseases (NCD). The
      key risk factors for cardiovascular disease (CVD) are either on the rise or at alarming
      levels in Vietnam, particularly hypertension (HTN). Inasmuch, the burden of CVD will continue
      to increase in Vietnamese men and women unless effective prevention and control measures are
      put in place.

      Objectives: This project will be evaluating the implementation and effectiveness of two
      multi-faceted community and clinic-based strategies for the control of hypertension among
      adults residing in the rural Red River Delta region of Vietnam with uncontrolled hypertension
      through use of a cluster-randomized trial design.

      Study population:Sixteen communities will be randomized to either an intervention (8
      communities) or comparison group (8 communities). Eligible and consentingadult study
      participants with uncontrolled HTN (n = 680) will be assigned to intervention/comparison
      status based on the community in which they reside.

      Methods: Both comparison and intervention groups will receive a multi-level intervention
      modeled after the Vietnam National Hypertension Program. Components of this program include
      education and practice change modules for health care providers, accessible reading materials
      for patients, and a community awareness multi-media program. In addition to the Vietnam
      National Hypertension Program, the intervention group only will receive three carefully
      selected enhancements integrated into routine clinical care: (1) expanded community health
      worker services; (2) home blood pressure self-monitoring; and (3) a "storytelling
      intervention," previously developed and pilot tested for feasibility and effectiveness by
      members of the research team. The storytelling intervention consists of interactive,
      literacy-appropriate, and culturally sensitive multimedia storytelling modules for motivating
      behavior change through the power of patients speaking in their own voice. Based on
      preferences that emerged during our formative work with our partnering rural communities, the
      storytelling intervention will be delivered by DVD, with serial installments at baseline and
      again at 3, 6, and 12 months after trial enrollment. Differences in changes in blood pressure
      and other factors will be assessed in both study groups at several follow-up time points. In
      conjunction with the work done being accomplished during the pilot feasibility study, current
      efforts by the Vietnam National Hypertension Program, and the proposed investigation, this
      project addresses a serious clinical and public health problem in Vietnam by implementing the
      first community-based study using a culturally-literacy appropriate intervention to control
      elevated blood pressure among the adult Vietnamese population.
    
  