
    
      Acute pancreatitis is an acute inflammatory disease of the pancreas characterized by the
      sudden onset of abdominal pain, elevated serum amylase, and edema or necrosis of the
      pancreas. The clinical course of AP is generally mild; however, nearly 25% of patients
      progress into severe AP which consists of organ failure and/or pancreatic necrosis. Although
      advances in the diagnosis and management have been made, AP remains a major health issue to
      the society. PNec is a major complication of AP which manifests as non-opacified parenchyma
      with intravenous contrast, as identified via contrast-enhanced CT scan. Patients with PNec
      are more likely to develop pancreatic infection and suffer a greater risk for mortality .
      Currently, CECT scans remain the "gold standard" to diagnosis PNec clinically. However, the
      extent of PNec is best seen about 3 days after the presentation of disease and may be missed
      in early CT scan. In addition, repeated CT scanning is not convenient to monitor changes in
      necrosis, most notably for those who are receiving mechanical ventilation or
      hemofiltration.The clinical diagnosis of AP is based on the presence of the following
      features: abdominal pain; serum amylase and/or lipase levels three times higher than the
      upper limit of normal; and characteristic findings of AP on CT scan.

      Specific plasma biomarkers in predicting pancreatic necrosis (PNec) are needed in treating
      acute pancreatitis (AP). Aims To investigate the prognostic value of plasma mitochondrial DNA
      fragments (mtDNA) in patient with AP for PNec. Methods AP patients with symptoms onset within
      72 h were prospectively enrolled.The conclusions elevated plasma mtDNA content in AP patients
      may be used as a more accurate early predictor of PNec in contrast to traditional CRP.

      Normally,human mtDNA is strictly contained in mitochondria and not exposed to the innate
      immune system even following cell apoptosis. However, in times of cell death elicited by
      stress (e.g., trauma and sepsis), mtDNA is released into systemic circulation and leads to an
      array of inflammatory reactions. Elevated mtDNA levels have been reported in a variety of
      clinical situations, including trauma, severe sepsis, and cancer. As PNec is caused by
      intracellular activation of digestive enzymes and autodigestion, we assumed that circulating
      mtDNA levels could be used as a biomarker for early detection of PNec.

      Research methods and steps:cell culture and mtDNA extraction、mtDNA detection、statistical
      analysis、results.
    
  