
    
      Diurnal fluctuations of intraocular pressure in EX-Press Valve Blebs in Glaucoma Patients

      Department of Ophthalmology, Hillel-Yaffe Medical Center, affiliated with the Bruce Rappaport
      School of Medicine, The Technion, Haifa, Israel

      Introduction:

      Intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction is the mainstay of glaucoma management. (1) Medication
      alone is sometimes not sufficient to reduce excessively high IOP, and pharmaceutical
      intolerance may develop or damage can occur to the optic nerve, warranting surgical
      intervention. (2) The filtering bleb is considered to be the cornerstone of IOP control after
      glaucoma filtration surgery drainage device implantation. (3) It enables the flow of the
      aqueous humor from the anterior chamber to the subconjunctiva, episclera, sclera and choroid,
      thereby lowering the IOP. (4-6) Filtration and drainage devices, such as the EX-Press device
      (Alcon Laboratories, Fort Worth, Texas, USA), offer a surgical alternative to glaucoma
      medical therapy. (7) Open-angle glaucoma (OAG) is generally managed by decreasing the
      intraocular pressure (IOP) to a level that the physician believes will prevent further
      glaucomatous damage. However, in a significant proportion of patients, the visual fields
      continue to deteriorate in spite of office pressures within the range of normal values (8).
      It has been suggested that the progressive damage in some cases could be caused by peaks of
      IOP or diurnal IOP variability not detected by tonometry during office hours. (9, 10) In
      another study, Asrani et al. (11) showed that IOP fluctuations are an independent risk factor
      in patients with glaucoma and as such may need to be treated specifically. It is possible
      that certain drugs or surgical interventions are more effective than others in dampening
      these fluctuations. The purpose of our study is to compare the diurnal IOP fluctuations in
      glaucoma patients treated with medications or Ex-press filtration surgery.

      Materials and Methods The study will include 20 open-angle glaucoma (OAG) patients underwent
      Ex-Press filtration surgery, and 20 OAG patients treated with medications alone. All patients
      will have 12 IOP measurements with 2 hours interval, starting at 10 AM until 10 AM of the
      following morning.

      ICARE速 PRO tonometer (Icare Finland Oy, Espoo, Finland) will be used for the measurement of
      IOP. The rebound motion of its light weighted probe will be recorded during contact of the
      probe with the cornea. (12, 13) The rate of deceleration of the probe is a function of IOP.
      The ICARE速 PRO has a built-in inclination sensor that allows downward measurement of the eye
      in the supine position as well as in the normal upright sitting position. ICARE速 PRO allows
      for measurement of IOP in the seated and supine positions. During IOP recording, patients
      will be supine or upright, and the tip of the probe will be applied perpendicular to the
      cornea. Two markers engraved on the piston of the probe indicated its ideal positioning. The
      reliability of the measurement is displayed on the ICARE速 PRO tonometer screen and guided our
      measurements.

      Fluctuations in IOP will be compared between the Ex-press filtration surgery eye and the
      fellow (intra-group comparison). Inter-group comparison of IOP fluctuation will be performed
      between the Ex-press filtration surgery eye and medically treated eye of different patients.
    
  