
    
      Smoking remains one of the biggest causes of premature morbidity and mortality. Nicotine
      addiction continues to challenge researchers to optimize their best interventions, and these
      challenges increase with efforts to integrate smoking cessation into multiple behavior change
      research and dissemination. Tailored intervention strategies have demonstrated effectiveness,
      yet much research remains to be done exploring optimal tailoring strategies. Transtheoretical
      model (TTM) tailored feedback on all 14 variables has been demonstrated to be a robust
      population cessation strategy across studies, producing 22-25% quit rates at 18-24 month
      final timepoints. This proposal sought to find a subset of these variables that is optimal
      for tailoring, both minimizing response burden while maximizing effectiveness. Addiction
      variables have been demonstrated to predict smoking outcomes across studies as well, so we
      will integrate tailored feedback using TTM and addiction variables into an enhanced tailoring
      group. Enhanced addiction tailored feedback that both helps unmotivated smokers reduce their
      addiction and helps motivated smokers quit could lead to a breakthrough in population
      cessation. This proposal tests four types of TTM-tailoring for smoking cessation in an
      additive design: assessment-only control group; Minimal tailoring (stage only); Moderate
      tailoring (stage, pros, cons, efficacy); Full TTM tailoring (all 14 TTM variables); and
      Enhanced TTM tailoring plus addiction variables. Smokers will be randomized to one of five
      treatment groups and evaluated at baseline, 6 months, 12 months, and 24 months. Treatment
      groups will receive tailored feedback at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months. Analyses will
      compare treatment groups on quit rates at the final timepoint to see how effectively each
      treatment helps smokers to quit. A series of mediation and moderation analyses will examine
      how each treatment works. This study has the potential to find an optimal tailoring strategy
      for population cessation that could accelerate future multiple behavior change research and
      dissemination efforts.
    
  