
    
      The current investigation is designed to prospectively evaluate the potential for simple,
      effective lymphedema prophylaxis in breast cancer survivors who show early evidence of
      high-risk status. There is growing evidence that the mechanisms of lymphatic repair after
      injury are mediated through lymphatic flow. Accordingly, this study assess if physical
      measures designed to prophylactically augment lymphatic flow after surgical interventions for
      breast cancer (eg, Flexitouch and manual lymphatic massage) will reduce the incidence of
      lymphatic stagnation, assessed as incidence of lymphedema, when compared to patients who
      receive conventional "watch and wait" interventions (observation).

      The specific aims of the study are

        1. to prospectively assess the presence of newly developing lymphedema in each study
           subgroup through serial assessment of segmental interstitial fluid content by multiple
           frequency bioimpedance

        2. to evaluate the preventive interventions in a prospective, randomized fashion,
           contrasting the responses of equivalent numbers of patients randomized to 2 experimental
           arms and the control arm of the study

        3. to correlate the bioimpedance findings with concurrently derived, serial assessments of
           limb volume

      Recent advances in the medical understanding of the biological processes of lymphatic
      development and repair suggest that these mechanisms may be able to be manipulated to enhance
      the regenerative responses in the lymphatic vasculature following injury. Breast
      cancer-associated lymphedema is a model of such an acquired form of lymphatic vasculature
      insufficiency. Clinically, this poses a substantial clinical problem. It is estimated at
      1woman in 4 who survives a breast cancer intervention will develop lymphedema, often
      progressively. The appearance of lymphedema has documented adverse effects on physical and
      psychologically well-being. New insights into lymphatic repair suggest that such mechanisms
      can be employed in a prophylactic fashion to forestall or eliminate the development of
      lymphedema. This proposal investigates this hypothesis in a prospective fashion, using a
      randomized trial design in 80 patients enrolled at the time of breast cancer surgery. If the
      investigation documents a beneficial effect of preventive measures, it could have a profound
      impact on subsequent breast cancer care. These measures are simple and cost-effective and,
      could help to eliminate the impact of a substantial detractor to the improved longevity and
      health that breast cancer survivors otherwise may expect to enjoy.
    
  