
    
      The temporomandibular joint (TMJ) is known as ginglymo-arthrodial joint and is formed by the
      bony articulations of the mandibular condyle with the glenoid fossa of the temporal bone.
      Interposed between the condyle and the fossa is a piece of dense avascular fibrous connective
      tissue namely the TMJ disc which divides the joint into superior and inferior compartments.

      TMJ disorders are relatively common conditions with incidence rate of 28% - 88%. They affect
      up to one-third of all adults at some stage in their life.

      Two fundamental components form the temporomandibular system, the temporomandibular joint
      (TMJ) and the associated neuromuscular system. Any defect of one or both components lead to
      temporomandibular disorder (TMD). Symptoms can be unilateral or bilateral involving the face,
      head or jaw. TMDs are broadly divided by the American Academy of Orofacial Pain (AAOP) into
      muscle related TMD (myogenous), and joint-related TMD (arthrogenous). The two types can be
      present concurently, making diagnosis and treatment more testing.

      Internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) is one of the most common
      temporomandibular disorders. It was defined by Dolwick in 1983 as an abnormal relation
      between the temporomandibular disc with respect to the temporal fossa, the mandibular
      condyle, and the temporal eminence of the TMJ. It may be present with anterior disc
      displacement, with or without reduction, perforation of the the articular disc or even the
      retrodiscal tissue, and degenerative changes of the joint surfaces. Clinically, it is usually
      accompanied by clicking, pain, limitation of mouth opening, and locking.

      In 1989, Wilkes first established a classification which consists of 5 stages based on
      clinical, radiologic, and intraoperative findings.

      Many methods have been suggested to treat this entity, beginning with conservative
      approaches. Medical treatment depending on nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and
      muscle relaxants, Occlusal splint therapy, and physical treatment are the most frequent
      options used among the conservative methods. Those refractory cases in which there was no
      effective improvement in terms of mandibular function and pain are amenable to further
      surgical treatment.

      Initially, surgical treatment consisted of a discectomy, regardless of the type of internal
      derangement that was present . However, in 1979, Farrar and McCarty described surgical
      repositioning of the disc (discoplasty), showing that it was not necessary to remove the disc
      in most instances .

      During the period when most surgeons were performing open surgical procedures for internal
      derangements of the TMJ, a small group of surgeons was beginning to experiment with
      arthroscopic surgery. First introduced by Ohnishi in 1975, this modality opened a new era in
      the diagnosis and treatment of such conditions.

      Initially, arthroscopic treatment of patients with an internal derangement consisted mainly
      of lavage of the joint and later other intra-articular surgical manipulations such as lateral
      capsular release, and disc repositioning and fixation were added It has also become clear
      from the success of doing arthroscopic lysis of adhesions and lavage of the joint that disc
      position is less important than joint mobility and that patients can function successfully
      with an anteriorly displaced, non-reducing disc as a result of adaptation of the retrodiscal
      tissue and its acting as a pseudodisc It was an understanding of these two concepts that led
      to the introduction of arthrocentesis by Murakami and colleagues in l987 This technique was
      further refined by Nitzan et al., in 1991 Since that time, this procedure has largely
      supplanted arthroscopic lysis of adhesions and joint lavage as the initial approach to the
      management of majority of cases with internal derangements of the TMJ .

      Nowadays, arthroscopy and arthrocentesis have eliminated the use of many of the more complex
      surgical procedures formerly used to manage intracapsular disease. Despite such advancements,
      however, clinicians are still encountering some difficulty in successfully treating many of
      these patients. review of the literature reveals that there is lack of prospective,
      randomized, clinical studies to support the use of either operative arthroscopy or
      arthrocentesis in the management of TMDs. In doing the necessary studies, and allowing for
      direct comparison of the results, it will be important to develop standardized patient
      selection criteria and treatment options to be used by all investigators .

      The null hypothesis of the present study assumes that no significant difference will be found
      between operative arthroscopy and arthrocentesis in treating patients with Wilkes stage II
      and III internal derangement.

      The aim of the study was to compare between arthrocentesis and operative arthroscopy in the
      management of patients with internal derangement of temporomandibular joint.

      This study was conducted on 40 patients with temporomandibular joint internal derangement.
      Patients were admitted, investigated and managed in two departments:

        1. Maxillofacial and Plastic Surgery Department, Faculty of Dentistry, Alexandria
           University, Egypt.

        2. Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Department, University Hospital Infanta Cristina,
           University of Extremadura, Badajoz, Spain.

      The study compared between arthrocentesis and operative arthroscopy in the following points:

        1. Mouth opening measuring the maximal interincisal opening in millimeters.

        2. Lateral excursion movement.

        3. Protrusive movement.

        4. Pain score using visual analogue scale (VAS) .

        5. Presence or absence of clicking.

        6. Operative time. Patient selection: Randomized clinical trial

      The patients were randomized using computer based random allocation technique into two
      groups:

        1. Group I: Twenty patients were treated with Arthrocentesis

        2. Group II: Twenty patients were treated with Operative Arthroscopy Research subjects
           Inclusion criteria The patients with TMJ internal derangement was divided into 5 stages
           according to Wilkes Classification. Only patients with stages II and III was included in
           this study.

      Exclusion criteria

        1. Medically unfit patients.

        2. Stages I, IV & V Wilkes (Stage I patients will get benefit from conservative treatment
           and stage IV and V represent an advanced stages).

        3. Patients with TMDs secondary to malocclusion.

        4. Psychological instability.

        5. Patients operated before for other TMJ problems. All patients were subjected to full
           history taking including medical and dental history, full clinical examination: general
           and TMJ examination, routine laboratory investigations and preoperative MRI.

      Surgical technique A-Arthrocentesis

      The procedure will be carried out under local anesthesia:

        1. The patient is seated at a 45-degree angle with the head turned towards the non-affected
           side to allow an easy approach to the joint. After proper preparation of the target
           side, the external auditory meatus is blocked with cotton wool soaked in paraffin oil. A
           line is drawn on the skin from the middle of the tragus to the outer canthus of the eye.
           Entry points are marked along this cantho-tragal line. The first point corresponding to
           glenoid fossa is marked 10 mm from the midtragus and 2 mm below this horizontal line,
           The second point correspond to the articular eminence is marked 10 mm in front of the
           first point and 10 mm below the line.

        2. Local anesthesia is applied, avoiding intra-articular injection to permit controlled
           sampling of synovial fluid. A 19-gauge needle connected to a 1 ml syringe filled with
           lactated Ringer's solution is inserted into the superior joint compartment at the
           posterior site. The solution is injected and immediately aspirated, and this procedure
           is repeated two more times in order to obtain sufficient fluid for diagnostic and
           research purposes.

        3. Next, 2-3 ml of Marcaine 0.5% or lignocaine 2 % is injected to distend the upper joint
           space and anesthetize the adjacent tissues. Another 19-gauge needle is inserted into the
           distended compartment in the area of the articular eminence (anterior entrance site),
           enabling free flow of Ringer's solution through the superior compartment. With a
           syringe, the solution is either injected directly in to the joint or an infusion bag
           containing lactated Ringer's solution placed about 1 meter above the temporomandibular
           joint level, is then connected to one of the needles to allow free flow of about 200 ml
           of fluid through the joint. On termination of the procedure sodium hyaluronate is
           injected into the joint, then the needles are removed.

      B-Arthroscopic technique

        1. All procedures will be done under general anesthesia

        2. Instrumentation In all procedures, 1.9 mm, zero-degree optical device, sleeves, sharp
           and blunt perforators, adhesion knives, an exploratory probe, and a bipolar electrode
           (Karl Storz Endoscopy, Tuttlingen, Germany)

        3. The triple-channel arthroscopic technique of McCain et al is used After the first
           puncture of the fossa, a systematic diagnostic arthroscopy is carried out. A second
           puncture is carried out aiming at the anterior recess under direct arthroscopic
           visualization.

        4. Anterior release Through the working cannula additional local anesthesia is injected to
           avoid pain and to decrease bleeding; it can also reduce the risk of masticatory muscle
           nerve injury. A Knife, coblation or laser probe are used to cut the anterior attachment
           of the disc and the neighboring part of the lateral pterygoid muscle. The incision line
           is located approximately 2-3 mm anterior to the anterior band of the disc and is carried
           out across the whole width from medial to lateral. The depth of the anterior release is
           no more than 2 mm to avoid breaking large blood vessels and damaging the masticatory
           muscle nerve in the anteromedial synovium. A sharp trocar is inserted to release the
           fibres further.

        5. Disc reduction After the anterior release is completed, the obturator is positioned at
           the anterior margin of the disc and the disc is pushed backwards. The obturator slides
           along the surface of the disc and arrives in the posterolateral recess. The retrodiscal
           tissue is pushed down inferiorly and posteriorly.

      Postoperative management Antibiotics and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are routinely
      prescribed for 3 days. The softness of the postoperative diet should be decreased slowly.
      Exercises to improve mouth opening are explained to the patient and start 1 week after
      operation.

      In patients with significant postoperative occlusal changes, a splint is recommended. It is
      designed to raise the bite and prevent contact between upper and lower incisors and canines.
      Due to the resulting distalization of the bite force, joint loading is reduced, which
      contributes to the joint's rehabilitation. The appliance should be left in place around the
      clock during the first ten postoperative days, then used at night for four additional
      weeks.(24)

      The follow up of all patients was done accessing :

        -  Pain using VAS (Visual Analogue Scale).

        -  Clicking (improvement or persistence).

        -  Range of motion including: maximal interincisal opening, lateral excursion movement and
           Protrusive movement
    
  