
    
      Background: Acute lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI), i.e. acute bronchitis and acute
      exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (AECOPD), and community-acquired
      pneumonia (CAP), employ important hospital resources and often unnecessary antibiotic (AB)
      treatment courses. We demonstrated in four intervention trials enrolling > 1200 patients that
      procalcitonin (PCT)-guidance markedly reduces AB prescription and duration. To ascertain the
      external validity, safety and potential to improve the allocation of health care resources, a
      non-inferiority multicenter intervention trial has to be done.

      Aim: To compare a strategy based on evidence-based guidelines with PCT guided AB therapy in
      LRTI with respect to outcome (combined disease-specific failure rates), use of AB and
      hospital resources.

      Design: Investigator-initiated, controlled trial with an open intervention. Patients admitted
      with LRTI to hospital will be included and randomized 1:1 either to standard management or to
      the PCT-guided prescription of AB. Randomization will be stratified by centre (the hospital)
      and type of LRTI (Acute bronchitis/AECOPD/CAP).

      Setting: Teaching hospitals and tertiary care clinics from northwestern and central
      Switzerland.

      Patients: 18 years or older, with LRTI of > 1 and < 28 days duration. Excluded are patients
      without informed consent, not fluent in German, unlikely to comply, severe
      immuno-suppression, terminal condition where death is expected to occur during the current
      hospitalization, immediate need for intensive care.

      Endpoints:

        -  Primary: Risk of combined disease-specific failure after 30 days.

        -  Secondary: AB exposure, side effects from ABs, time to AB treatment, rate and duration
           of hospitalization, time to clinical stability, disease activity scores.

      Endpoints will be assessed at baseline, daily in hospitalized patients and after 30 and 180
      days by structured phone interviews by blinded medical students.

      Intervention: Participating physicians will receive evidence-based guidelines for the
      management of patients with LRTIs. Patients with LRTI will be randomized to PCT plus
      guidelines ("PCT group") versus only guidelines-guided AB treatment ("control group"). In
      patients randomized to the PCT group the use of ABs will be more or less discouraged (< 0.1
      or < 0.25 ug/L) or encouraged (> 0.5 or > 0.25 ug/L), respectively. A re-evaluation after 6
      to 24 hours in patients in whom antibiotics are withheld with worsening or non-improvement of
      vital signs with PCT (< 0.1 or < 0.25 ug/L) is recommended. During hospitalization, patients
      with AB treatment will be reassessed at day 3, 5 and 7 and in patients randomized to the PCT
      group it is recommended to stop AB based on PCT levels. In AB-treated outpatients or
      discharged patients with AECOPD and CAP randomized to the PCT group with uncomplicated
      course, the recommended duration of AB therapy will be based on the last PCT level and will
      be as follows: > 0.5 ug/L, 5 days; > 0.25 ug/L, 3 days; < 0.25 ug/L, stop AB.

      Variables and measurement: Centers have to consecutively enroll all patients with LRTI.
      Baseline data on medical history and clinical items, additional diagnostic tests,
      co-morbidity, final prescribed treatment and reasons for hospital admission and stay will be
      collected. After a pilot/feasibility phase of 3 months, study recruitment will continue from
      Mar 2007 to Apr 2008.

      Study hypothesis: PCT guidance will be non-inferior with at worst a 7.5% higher combined
      failure rate as compared to standard care practice with a reduced total AB use and
      hospitalization rate and duration, respectively.

      Analyses: These will be done based on an intention-to-treat and a per-protocol principle.
      With an assumed combined failure rate of 15% to 20%, a non-inferiority margin of 7.5%, a
      maximum of 5% losses to follow-up, a value of 5% and power of 90%, the total sample size is
      806 α one-sided to 1002.

      Interim monitoring: Regular review of serious adverse events, quality and integrity of the
      study by an independent data safety and monitoring board. Safety interim analysis and blinded
      assessment (i.e., with both arms pooled) of the diagnostic and prognostic accuracy of
      biomarkers after 50% of the patients recruited.

      Ancillary projects: Six related projects will be performed alongside to this study
      (including, cost-effectiveness, nursing and social influence on hospitalization, prognostic
      value of novel biomarkers) to synergize scientific efforts.

      Significance: Due to the high prevalence and absorption of hospital resources, this study
      will offer the potential for large improvements in the management of LRTIs, along with
      substantial reduction in hospitalization costs and AB resistance.
    
  