
    
      Twenty community-living individuals in Uppsala municipality will be included and treated with
      a cross-over design. Ten individuals will initially receive exercise instructions to their
      smartphones via Short Message Service (SMS) for 6 weeks and after that instructions by a
      video link (6 weeks). Another 10 individuals will initially receive instructions by a video
      link and then switching to management with SMS after 6 weeks of training.

      Intervention: Participants are supposed to perform an outdoor walking exercise program for 12
      weeks. The walks should gradually increase in frequency and intensity, and is expected to
      start after discharge from the stroke department, after the assessment. The first 2 weeks
      start with daily walks. The walks will be conducted at a pace that increases the heart rate
      but still makes it possible to talk. The intensity and frequency of walks will progressively
      increase performed according to the Borg scale: 12-15, ie, moderate to strenuous.
      Participants will walk 5-7 days/week. Added to this is a strength exercise, which should be
      performed in connection with the walk training.

      Methods: Questionnaires and medical records used for documentation of age, sex, comorbidity,
      blood pressure, medications and previous education.

      Assessment of motor function, cognition, level of physical activity are only performed as
      screening at baseline measurements. Objective evaluation of the participants' adherence to
      the outdoor walking program will be measured with a training diary where the individual
      documents whether they have followed the training instructions.

      Power analysis is not performed since this is an exploratory study. The investigators will
      analyze the data using an intention-to -treat. The investigators will also do a 'per-protocol
      analysis, where only participants who completed the training are included. Participants
      should have participated in at least 50% of the training sessions. All analyzes will be done
      using SPSS version 23 (IBM, Armonk).
    
  