
    
      Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is characterized by short attention and
      concentration, impulsive and hyperactive behavior. Children with ADHD are in high risk to
      develop difficulties in social adjustment. The social difficulties challenge the support that
      those children get from their environment through their lives.

      Last years studies on the causes that influence ADHD's social difficulties, suggests that
      they derive from problems in emotional information processing. Some research focus on
      recognition deficits of emotion and facial expressions, but their results are inconsistent.
      Moreover, there is a disagreement about the problems in the emotional processing that
      influence the social behavior of children with ADHD.

      In the present study we will further examine the emotional information processing in children
      with ADHD. We will focus on recognition and memory of facial expressions. The main purpose of
      the current study is to investigate the connection between memory and recognition of facial
      expressions, and how those abilities influence social functioning. Another purpose is to
      investigate the assumption that beyond impulsivity and inattention, the difficulty in
      emotional processing is caused by specific deficits in the capacity to recognize and recall
      facial expressions. In order to test this assumption we will compare between the ability to
      recognize and recall facial expressions and the ability to recognize and recall objects.

      ADHD is positively influenced by arousing drugs. Methylphenidate is the most prescribed and
      investigated drug in Israel. This drug improves attention, social and cognitive functions,
      and reduces hyperactive and impulsive behavior. However, its influence on emotional
      processing was not studied enough. Another purpose of this study is to test the efficiency of
      this drug on emotional processing.

      The present study will include 80 children in ages 9-12 years, divided in 2 groups; 40
      children with ADHD treated with Methylphenidate, and 40 healthy children without ADHD. The
      ADHD group will be tested in 2 sessions; one under drug treatment and one without drug
      treatment. The healthy children will be tested in 1 session. The children will do
      computerized tasks (Complex Reaction Time, Modified Day-Night and Attention Network Test)
      that examine recognition and memory of facial expressions. In order to examine their social
      function, their parents and teachers will fill questionnaires (BRIEF, CBCL/6-18 and
      TRF/6-18).
    
  