
    
      1. Diagnostic period The screening for the study will involve patients with newly diagnosed
      interstitial changes in chest radiological examination or in patient with new respiratory
      system related symptoms. The radiological changes must be confirmed in chest computed
      tomography (CT). In case on inclusion criteria are meet the patient will be randomized and
      will begin the diagnostic process.

      In both groups the diagnostic process will be the same, based upon the existing
      recommendations it will involve:

        1. detailed medical history and physical examination;

        2. laboratory tests: CBC, CRP, PCT, ALT, AST, CK, LDH, Na, K, Ca, glucose, proteinogram,
           flow cytometry, IgG and IgM levels, anti-nuclear antibodies (immunofluorescence,
           dilution), cytomegalovirus (CMV) polymerase-chain reaction (PCR), IgG and IgM for
           Legionella pneumophila, Chlamydia pneumoniae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, QuantiferonTB-GOLD,
           NT- proBNP, troponin T;

        3. arterialized blood gas panel;

        4. in case it was not yet performed - chest computed tomography with contras enhancement
           with exclusion of pulmonary embolism;

        5. 12-lead electrocardiograph

        6. spirometry, full body plethysmography with carbon monoxide diffusion, 6-minute walk test

        7. flexible bronchoscopy with:

             1. culture for aerobic bacteria

             2. culture for Mycobacterium tuberculosis (TB), TB PCR,

             3. culture for funguses, Aspergillus antigen, PCR and immunofluoroscopic examination
                for Pneumocystis jiroveci (PCP)

             4. bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) with BAL fluid cell analysis

             5. transbronchial lung biopsy with forceps or nitrogen-criobiopsy, exclusion of CMV
                pneumonia and neoplasm progression, histological examination for pneumonitis
                histological pattern; bronchoalveolar lavage and lung biopsy will be performed only
                in patient with no clinical contradictions.

                Interstitial lung diseases related to immune checkpoint inhibitor, i.e.
                interstitial pneumonia related to checkpoint inhibitor or immunotherapy, i.e.
                pneumonitis: definition:

                the appearance of new radiological changes in chest examination (chest CT or plain
                radiogram proved with chest CT) after being exposed (treated) with anti-PD-1 or
                anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibody, the radiological changes can be described as
                interstitial: ground glass opacities, consolidations with air bronchogram,
                interstitial septa thickening, central lobular nodules with perilymphatic
                distribution; the changes cannot be explained with neoplasm progression, active
                respiratory infection, heart failure or one of the above is not a sole explanation
                for the changes. The radiological changes are sometimes accompanied with
                respiratory system related symptoms. Each case need detailed differential and
                diagnosis of pneumonitis diagnosis can be made established after active exclusion
                of other potential causes. Good reaction for glucocorticosteroid treatment makes
                the diagnosis more likely.

                The severity of pneumonitis should be based on 5 point scale based on the modified
                Common Terminology for Adverse Events (CTC AE) v. 5 criteria:

                Grade 1 (G1) Interstitial changes with no symptoms and no progression in follow-up
                examination after few days.

                Grade 2 (G2) Interstitial changes without respiratory failure with mild to moderate
                respiratory symptoms.

                Each case of asymptomatic relapse. Grade 3 (G3) Interstitial changes with acute
                respiratory failure and the need of oxygen therapy.

                Grade 4 (G4) Interstitial changes with acute respiratory failure and the need of
                mechanical ventilation.

                Grade 5 (G5) Death related to acute interstitial pneumonitis.

                The diagnostics and treatment of patient should be based on patients condition and
                conducted in pulmonology or intensive care unit (ICU) department. The treatment
                should always be driven by the most likely diagnosis and the participation in the
                study should not delay any procedure or medication administration.

                In cases when radiological changes were discovered and severity is grade 1 it is
                recommended to perform a follow up chest radiograph after 5-7 days to see the
                dynamics and reassess the severity.

                2. Induction treatment General rules: The treatment is conducted based on patients
                condition in ICU or pulmonology department. The commence of glucocorticosteroid
                administration should take place with no delay in patient with high suspicion of
                grade 4 pneumonitis (max. 12 h after the beginning of diagnostics), in case of
                grade 3 pneumonitis the time to the initiation of treatment should last less than
                24 h, and in grade 2 pneumonitis the diagnostics should last no longer than 5 days.
                The induction treatment last for 5-7 days.

                In case of elevated inflammatory markers, clinical, laboratory or microbiological
                signs of infection accompanying pneumonitis it is recommended to administer
                antibiotics. Antibiotics will not be routinely used in the whole study population.

                Arm A: initial dose in grade 2 is 1 mg/kg of body weight of oral prednisone, in
                grade 3-4 - 2- 4mg/kg of body weight of intravenous methylprednisolone, depending
                on severity and clinical condition. Induction treatment for 5-7 days; in cases of
                severe course - bad condition and no improvement after initial 48-72 h -
                introduction of cyclophosphamide, mycophenolate mofetile or infliximab.

                Arm B: initial dose in grade 2 is 1 mg/kg of body weight of oral prednisone, in
                grade 3-4 - 2- 4mg/kg of body weight of intravenous methylprednisolone, depending
                on severity and clinical condition. Induction treatment for 5-7 days; in cases of
                severe course - bad condition and no improvement after initial 48-72 h -
                introduction of cyclophosphamide, mycophenolate mofetile or infliximab.

                Dosage and administration: Preferred intravenous corticosteroid is
                methylprednisolone, the dosage range is 1-4 mg/kg of body weight, but in case
                4mg/kg is considered a flat dose of 500mg q 24 h is recommended. The medication
                will be diluted in saline, it will be administered in single daily dose.

                The preferred oral medication is prednisone, dosage is 1mg/kg of body weight, but
                not more than 60mg, administered in single dose daily.

                The administration of cyclophosphamide, mycophenolate mofetile or infliximab will
                be based on case-by-case decision of multidisciplinary board and dosage will be
                based on the summary of the medical product characteristics.

                3. Maintenance treatment General rules: the treatment should start the last day of
                induction treatment if intravenous corticosteroid was administered, in case of oral
                induction treatment it should start the next day after induction in over. It is
                based on oral medication, administered in one daily dose in the morning. In case of
                grade 2 pneumonitis the immunotherapy re-challenge is possible after the dose of
                10mg q 24h of prednisone is reached. The dose modification should be considered in
                case of serious side effects of steroid therapy.

                During glucocorticosteroid therapy no routine prophylaxis of pneumocystis pneumonia
                is recommended, and the administration of co-trimoxazole should be analyzed case by
                case; it should be considered in cases of positive PCR results for Pneumocystis
                jiroveci and in patient with T C4+ cells depletion in flow cytometry - less than
                200 cells per microliter. During steroid therapy osteoporosis prophylaxis can be
                considered. We do not recommend antifungal prophylaxis.

                Arm A: The maintenance treatment with oral agent, the general rules must be meet -
                tapering starts at the dose of 60mg q 24 h of prednisone for 2-4 weeks, the
                reduction is not faster than 10mg each 14 days, the maintenance dose if flat 10mg q
                24 h dose for 8 weeks and the withdraw should be slow over 4 weeks. The treatment
                should last 12-24 weeks or longer. The detailed dose of daily prednisone is
                presented in Tables.

                Arm B: Treatment with oral agent, based on general rules - the tapering starts at
                the dose of 30- 60 mg q 24h of prednisone, the reduction is no faster than 10mg
                each 7 days, the treatment lasts between 6 and 12 weeks. The detailed dosage
                proposition is presented in the Tables.

                Dosage and administration: The preferred oral agent is prednisone, in single daily
                dose administered in the morning. The recommended dose of co-trimoxazole in case of
                PCP prophylaxis is 960mg q2d administered on Monday, Wednesday and Friday; it
                should last until 10mg q 24h of prednisone is reached.

                4. Relapse treatment In case of relapse suspicion the workup should be the same as
                initial starting from the diagnostic period. The treatment scheme is as in Arm A.

                5. Follow-up period The observation starts from the first day of the maintenance
                therapy. The clinical and radiological follow-up is planned each 4-6 weeks during
                the first 24 weeks and then each 12 weeks. The observation will last up to 52
                weeks. In the follow-up points steroid side effects, anticancer response, treatment
                efficacy and signs of relapse will be evaluated, using:

      1) detailed history and physical examination 2) chest radiogram

      In the 12 weeks (t12) and 52 weeks (t52) point follow-up extra procedures to exaluate the
      endpoint will be performed:

        1. chest computed tomography

        2. arterialized blood gas panel

        3. spirometry, full body plethysmography with carbon monoxide diffusion, 6-minute walk test
    
  