
    
      Bladder cancer is the most common malignancy involving theurinary system and the ninth most
      common malignancy worldwide .In Egypt, the urinary bladder cancer accounted for about 31% of
      the total incidence of cancers that subsequently decreased to 12% in the recent years
      .Transitional cell (Urothelial) carcinoma is the most common type of bladder cancer, about
      more than 90% all bladder cancers . Other pathological types are less common such as squamous
      cell carcinoma (observed in about 5% of bladder cancers), adenocarcinoma (observed in
      approximately 1% of bladder cancers) and small cell carcinoma. Urothelial carcinomas are
      divided clinically into superficial tumors and muscle invasive tumors. Grossly they may
      appear in various forms, most commonly papillary, but may also appear as a nodule or an
      irregular solid growth .Accurate prediction of progression is essential need in T1 bladder
      cancer (BCa) because the stakes are high for this disease. About one-third of patients never
      recur after initial treatment, one-third have cancer that recurs as non-muscle invasive BCa
      (NMIBC), and one-third progress to muscle-invasive BCa with significantly worse clinical
      outcome . Recurrence and progression rates for pT1 tumors are highly variable Accurate
      prediction of progression is essential need in T1 bladder cancer management. There is
      difficulty in predication of T1 progression due to intrinsic difficulty in assessing the
      presence and extent of invasion. Patient prognosis and management have been affected by the
      Identification of the muscularis mucosa (MM) by Dixon and Gosling in 1983 . Elderly patients
      with bladder cancer frequently have comorbid conditions that make conservative management
      preferable for early invasive urothelial carcinomas. Several studies have explored the
      utility of evaluating the spatial relationship of invasive tumor to the Muscularis mucosa for
      sub classification of pT1 urothelial carcinomas . Muscularis mucosa consists of thin and wavy
      fascicles of smooth muscle frequently associated with large, thin-walled blood vessels in the
      submucosa of the bladder wall . It can be identified in 15-83% of biopsy specimens . T1
      bladder staging has been changing and led to its classification into two groups: T1a
      (minimally invasive) tumors (i.e., tumors that extend into the lamina propria but are located
      above the level of the MM), and T1b (invasive) tumors (i.e., tumors that invade beyond the
      MM). Treatments for T1 bladder cancers are grouped into three categories. First, the tumour
      can be resected (TURBT) at the initial or restaging setting, which can be performed with
      white or blue-light cystoscopy. The second approach involves intravesical BCG administration
      with multiple years of maintenance therapy. Finally, aggressive or high risk T1 bladder
      cancers can be managed by radical cystectomy at 'early' or 'delayed' time points relative to
      diagnosis .
    
  