
    
      The Vancouver Prostate Centre's (VPCs) PCSC Program is designed to address the gap in
      supportive care for men with prostate cancer (PC), their partners and their families. The
      evaluation protocol described here is specific to the program called "Living with Prostate
      Cancer" (LPC) from the Psychooncology module of the PCSC Program. The specific rationale for
      this module is that many cancer patients will experience significant anxiety or depression at
      some point along their cancer journey. The module includes private, confidential clinic
      appointments for PC patients and their spouses/partners, either separately or together, with
      our registered clinical counsellor, to explore how to cope with difficult emotions such as
      fear, anxiety, sadness, helplessness, and other signs of emotional distress. The module is
      now being expanded to include small group discussions. LPC is a group therapy program in
      which men participate in a guided autobiographical life review through a process that focuses
      on developing a cohesive working group, learning strategic communication skills, and
      understanding and learning how to manage difficult emotions and transitional life stressors
      associated with PC. It also focuses on the processing and integrating of critical events that
      contribute to the men's present day identity and psychological function and involves the
      consolidation of the personal learning that occurs. It shifts the focus on transitioning into
      the future by developing specific individual, family and/or career goals that are reinforced
      by ongoing support from peers in the group. Finally, post-group referral plans are developed
      on an individual basis as needed.

      The group therapy program includes men with a diagnosis of PC Stages 1 to 3. We will
      administer validated quantitative tools to assess depression and anxiety, general
      psychological functioning, and male role norms (masculinity) before, after, and at 3, 6, and
      12-months following the program. The meeting 3 months after the program will include a focus
      group process.
    
  