
    
      Visit 1: Baseline evaluation and nasal endoscopy

      At this visit, each subject will sign an informed consent, the subject's eligibility for the
      study will be confirmed, a medical history will be obtained, the subject will undergo a
      physical examination and nasal endoscopy. A urine pregnancy test will be performed on all
      females of childbearing potential. NP size will be recorded using the NP scoring system (see
      below).

      Allergy skin testing will only be performed if it has not been done in the past 3 years.

      Visit 2: Pre-treatment nasal polyp (NP) biopsies

      At this visit, each subject will undergo the pre-treatment NP biopsies. The biopsies will be
      obtained by Dr. Eric Holbrook at Massachusetts Eye & Ear Infirmary, located adjacent to MGH.

      Visit 3: Initiation of treatment with MFNS

      At this visit, each subject will have a nasal speculum examination to confirm that there is
      no residual bleeding from the NP biopsies. Then, the subject will be given a 4 week supply of
      MFNS (Nasonex ®) and be instructed to take 2 sprays/nostril BID. Subjects will be given a NP
      symptom diary and instructed to record NP symptoms daily for 4 weeks.

      Each subject will be assigned a unique number (screening or baseline number) for
      identification purposes. Under no circumstances will a patient be assigned more than one
      allocation number. The Nasonex bottles will be dispensed from the MGH Research Pharmacy.

      Visit 4: On-treatment NP biopsy

      At this visit, each subject will undergo the on-treatment NP biopsies. The biopsies will be
      obtained by Dr. Eric Holbrook at Massachusetts Eye & Ear Infirmary, located adjacent to MGH.
      The subject will be asked to withhold Nasonex treatment for 48 hours following this biopsy.

      Visit 5: Post-biopsy Exam At this visit, each subject will have a nasal speculum examination
      to confirm that there is no residual bleeding from the NP biopsies. If bleeding has ceased,
      the subject will resume Nasonex treatment.

      Visit 5 6: Final visit and nasal endoscopy

      At this visit, each subject will return their used and unused bottles of Nasonex and submit
      their NP symptom diary and undergo a nasal endoscopy. NP size will be recorded using the NP
      scoring system (see below). Subjects will also complete a global assessment of efficacy of
      MFNS for their NP symptoms.

      EXPERIMENTAL PROCEDURES:

      Pre-biopsies explant cultures: we will obtain NP biopsies for in vitro explant culture before
      steroid treatment from each patient. We will culture the explants in MF at 0, 10-9, 10-8,
      10-7, 10-6, 10-5M and analyze inflammatory cell infiltrate and steroid sensitivity based on
      induction of apoptosis (activated caspase-3 expression) in inflammatory cell subsets,
      alpha-smooth muscle cell actin+ myofibroblasts and epithelial cells. Each condition will be
      performed in duplicate so that one sample can be processed for IHC and one for microarray.

      Explant cultures: NP explants will be cultured in minimal essential medium for 24 hours at
      37oC using flat-bottom tissue culture plates. Following 24 hours in culture, 1 explant per
      condition will be processed for IHC and 1 for microarray. We will also save culture
      supernatant from each explant condition for confirmation of important differences in protein
      production, based on data from the IHC and microarrays.

      Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and confocal laser immunofluorescence microscopy (CLM): Frozen NP
      samples from SS-NP and SR-NP patients before and after MFNS treatment will be analyzed by
      immunofluorescence confocal laser microscopy (IF-CLM) for T lymphocyte (CD3 and CD4), MBP+
      eosinophils, alpha-smooth muscle actin (marker of activated myofibroblasts, monoclonal, R & D
      Systems, Inc.) and cleaved caspase-3 (polyclonal, CST, Beverly, MA). The number of
      inflammatory cells of each type and cleaved caspase-3 positive and negative cells of each
      type will be counted by two observers blinded to treatment and order of collection. A similar
      quantification of epithelial staining for PCNA (a marker of epithelial cell proliferation)
      and cleaved caspase-3 will be performed using semiquantitative grading of extent and
      intensity of staining as in our previous studies. The intensity and distribution of
      immunostaining will be quantified on a semi-quantitative grading scale of: 0 = absent
      staining, 1 = mild diffuse or moderate patchy staining; 2 = moderate diffuse staining; 3 =
      intense diffuse staining in the epithelium, stroma and glands by 2 independent observers.

      Histologic steroid-sensitive and steroid-resistant phenotype designation: Designation of NP
      subjects as histologically "steroid-sensitive" or "steroid-resistant" will be based on the
      following measures pre- and 1-week post-treatment with MFNS:

        1. extent of reduction in NP eosinophils improvement in NP inflammation,

        2. extent of induction of apoptosis in eosinophils, T lymphocytes and epithelial cells,

        3. extent of suppression of inflammatory gene expression based on microarray analysis.

      Subjects will be ranked in order from most sensitive to least sensitive to treatment. Linear
      regression will be used to examine correlations between these independent continuous
      variables.

      Microarray analysis: microarray analysis will be used to assess global gene mRNA expression
      and also capture information on pro- and anti-apoptotic gene expression in "steroid
      sensitive" (SS-NP) and "steroid resistant" SR-NP biopsies obtained before and 1 week
      following treatment with intranasal mometasone furoate (MFNS). RNA isolation for microarray
      is done using the Arcturus picopure RNA isolation system. Plastic LCM collecting caps are
      incubated at 42oC for 30 minutes in 25 microliter of the kit's GITC-containing extraction
      buffer, centrifuged briefly to collect the extracted solution, then frozen at -80oC. Samples
      are thawed and pooled prior to purification on picopure RNA columns, and genomic DNA is
      removed via RNAse-free DNAse (Qiagen, Hilden, GmbH) digestion on the columns. Total cellular
      RNAs from each column are eluted in 11 microliter of elution buffer and used for preparation
      of the RNA-Seq library, or converted into cDNA-for the QRTPCR assay, using a 20 microliter
      total reaction volume via the standard superscript III (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) protocol.
      We also have microarray data from 8 healthy control middle turbinates obtained in a previous
      study that will be used for comparison of gene expression to nasal polyps.

      RNA will be purified from one NP biopsy per patient using the ArrayPure™ Nano-scale RNA
      Purification Kit, (EPICENTRE Biotechnologies, Madison, WI) which includes ScriptGuard™ RNase
      Inhibitor to maintain the integrity of purified RNA. Purified RNA quality will be checked
      using RNA Nano Analysis (Agilent Bioanalyzer, Quantum Analytics, Inc., Foster City, CA). The
      lower limit sensitivity is 200 pg/ml, allowing us to verify the quality of RNA extracted from
      about 1250 cells.

      QRTPCR: Genes that are differentially expressed by RNA expression profiling will be further
      investigated by quantitative real-time RT-PCR from a separate small sample of purified RNA
      from each tissue compartment. RT-PCR will be performed using the Multiplex MX3000P
      quantitative RT-PCR system (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). Baseline gene expression will be
      quantified by QRTPCR relative to GAPDH using the delta-delta Ct (2-∆∆) method. Forward and
      reverse primers will be selected based on primerbank software
      (http://pga.mgh.harvard.edu/primerbank/). To confirm gene-expression within tissues we will
      use immunohistochemistry as in previous studies.
    
  