
    
      Study variables:

        -  Sex: Dichotomous qualitative variable: woman/man. Clinical history collection.

        -  Age: Discrete quantitative variable in years from the date of birth included in the
           clinical history.

        -  Family history. Dichotomous qualitative variable: yes/no. According to the interview
           with the participant, the family history of first and second degree skin tags will be
           considered.

        -  Location of the lesion. Qualitative variable categorized in 6 items: Trunk/ armpit/
           neck/ inguinal/ upper extremity/ lower extremity.

        -  Diabetes Dichotomous qualitative variable: yes/no. According to conditioning factors and
           problems in the clinical history and interview with the participant. There are studies
           that relate insulin resistance with the presence or not of skin tags 37, 38. To be able
           to study if the results obtained are independent of the variable of suffering from DM.

        -  Cost: Continuous quantitative variable, expressed in euros. The cost will include the
           performance of the technique in the first minor surgery visit, the post-surgical cures
           and the follow-up visits. The standardized cost of each of the interventions has been
           calculated according to the different techniques for approaching skin tag, from the
           prices published in DOGC 6326 of 1 March 2013 Resolution SLT/353/2013 of 13 February on
           the review of public price corresponding to the health services provided by the Institut
           Català de la Salut. Apart from the price for the minor surgery visit of the different
           approaches, the price of the follow-up visits has been calculated in case of prolonged
           healing time of the lesion or the appearance of complications (infection or non-viable
           tissue...).

        -  Healing time: Discrete quantitative variable expressed in days. It will be considered
           'healing' when the lesion has concluded the phases of inflammation and
           granulation/epithelialization. It will be the moment when it does not require any cure
           and lacks non-viable tissue (the days in the remodeling phase in which the participant
           uses skin care such as moisturizing, sun protection... will not be counted). For the
           monitoring of this variable, in the follow-up visits, the state of scarring will be
           evaluated and if it is already healed, it will be asked on what day prior to the visit,
           the lesion did not need any special cure and lacked non-viable tissue.

        -  Time invested by the professional: Discrete quantitative variable expressed in minutes.
           The time invested in each visit will be recorded until it is healed.

        -  Complications:

      Infection: Dichotomous qualitative variable: yes/no. Infection is considered when the wound
      shows inflammation signs of infection.

        -  Devitalized tissue: Dichotomous qualitative variable: yes/no. The appearance of slough
           will be observed.

        -  Technique: Qualitative variable categorized in 4 items:

             -  Dry Cure - Electrocoagulation.

             -  Dry Cure - Cryotherapy.

             -  Dry Cure - Silver Nitrate.

             -  Cure in a moist healing environment.
    
  