
    
      Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is increasing in incidence with more than 287,000 cases world-wide and
      9000 cases in UK diagnosed each year. DLBCL is the most frequently occurring NHL,
      constituting approximately 31% of all non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.

      Rituximab-CHOP chemotherapy has shown clinical efficacy and is regarded as standard treatment
      in patients with DLBCL. NICE has recently approved the use of rituzimab in combination with
      CHOP for all newly diagnosed patients with DLBCL stage II-IV.

      Angiogenesis plays an important role in the pathophysiology of both solid tumours and
      hematologic malignancies. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is the most important
      pro-angiogenic factor involved in normal and pathologic angiogenesis and studies have also
      implicated VEGF in lymphomagenesis. Elevated VEGF gene expression correlates with diffuse
      large B cell lymphoma subtypes of poor prognosis on microarray analysis. In patients with
      lymphoma, high circulating serum VEGF levels have been strongly associated with poor clinical
      outcomes independent of other predictive factors.

      Bevacizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody that binds to VEGF thus preventing binding to
      its receptors thus inhibiting the downstream pathways dependent on receptor stimulation.
      Bevacizamab has shown activity in solid tumours (colorectal, renal, breast and non-small cell
      lung cancer) and early results suggest that the combination of R-CHOP plus bevacizamab is
      feasible in patients with non Hodgkin's lymphoma.

      Patients will be treated with a minimum of 6 cycles of treatment. A further 2 cycles, to a
      total of 8 cycles, may be administered if continuing response to treatment has been
      documented but residual disease is still detectable on restaging after 6 cycles. Each cycle
      of treatment is 21 days.

      Follow up - a) Clinic visit with physical examination at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18 and 24 months after
      completion of R-CHOP-B, then annually.

      b) CT scan of chest, abdomen and pelvis at 3 months and 1 year after finishing treatment.
    
  