
    
      Shoulder dislocation is the most prevalent dislocation with a frequency of 0.5%-1.7% among
      the population, which requires reduction by medical staff in the emergency room (ER).
      Reduction procedure is often painful and require some level of sedation, analgesia, and
      muscle relaxation for its completeness. Several sedation protocols for reduction maneuver are
      described in the literature, and each institution is guided by its own protocol to optimize
      patient comfort and safety.

      The literature describes multiple sedative agents such as Propofol, Etomidate, Midazolam,
      Fentanyl, etc. In the emergency department (ED) at Tel Aviv Medical Center (TLVMC), the
      sedation protocol contains Midazolam and Ketamine as the main sedative and analgesic agents.

      Sedation is not without a risk. Known complications are respiratory depression, aspiration,
      and hemodynamic instability. These complications seem to be more prevalent in patients with
      decreased cardio-respiratory reserves, such as elderly, morbid obese, obstructive sleep apnea
      (OSA), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and congestive heart failure (CHF)
      patients.

      In addition, sedation requires resources such a facility occupied with equipment for
      monitoring vitals, oxygen supply source, capnography and human resources including medical
      staff certified to provide sedation and handle any possible complication and nursing staff
      supervising the patient throughout the procedure from admission until release home from the
      ER.

      The ED at the TLVMC is very active and busy throughout the day. Sedation under such condition
      create a real challenge for the medical team. This is translated into shortage in manpower
      and equipment availability and time needed to care for each patient. Such an atmosphere
      create huge burden on the medical team which can end up in treatment insufficiency and
      patient safety failure.

      Recently, several new publications were published regarding the implementation of peripheral
      nerve block (PNB) under US guidance for analgesia and painful orthopedic procedure in the ER.
      Implementation of PNB for pain management in orthopedic procedures in the ER might constitute
      theoretical advantages over sedation.

      Interscalene block (ISCB) is a very effective tool being used during shoulder surgery.
      However, there is limited data on performance of US guided ISCB for shoulder dislocation
      reduction and it's comparison with other analgesic modalities.Only one study to date compared
      sedation vs. US guided ISCB for shoulder dislocation reduction procedure in the ER. This
      study showed that patients who received ISCB had a shorter length of stay in the ER and
      required less supervision and medical intervention from the medical team.

      Both US guided ISCB and sedation for shoulder dislocation procedure are being performed for a
      while at TLVMC. However no study was done to evaluate them and determine if one of the
      analgesic modality have any advantages over the other.

      Objectives:

      Comparison of two common analgesic methods, US guided ISCB vs.sedation, for shoulder
      dislocation reduction in the ER at the TLVMC.

      Methods and Materials

      Study Design:

      This is a prospective, randomized, interventional non-blinded study with two arms- US guided
      ISCB group and Sedation group.

      The sedation will be conducted by an orthopedic physician certified to perform sedation and
      the US guided ISCB will be conducted by an anesthesiologist who has at least one year of
      experience preforming regional anesthesia using US guidance.

      Sample Size:

      The study will include 70 subjects - 35 in each group. In order to compensate for dropouts we
      will aim for recruitment of 90 subjects.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Quantitative data with normal distribution will be evaluated using t-test for independent
      samples. In case the assumptions for parametric test will not hold true, quantitative data
      will be evaluated using an a- parametric Mann-Whitney test. Quantitative variables will be
      presented as mean and standard deviation.

      Dichotomous data will be evaluated using chi-square test. Fischer exact test will be used
      when more than 20% of the expected observations were less than 5 or any expected observation
      was less than 2.

      Categorical data will be presented as a number of cases and percent. Multivariate logistic
      regression analysis will be used for the primary outcome in order to determine independent
      risk factors. The data included in the multivariate logistic regression model will have a
      clinical significance according to the investigator clinical judgment and data found to have
      a Pv<0.1 in the univariate analysis. A Pv of 0.05 will be considered significant.
    
  