
    
      Respiratory muscle function is critical for maintaining effective alveolar ventilation, and
      airway secretions clearance. The reduction in respiratory muscle function might lead to
      chronic respiratory insufficiency, and potentially to life-threatening problems. Respiratory
      muscle function and the impacts of various treatments regimens have not been investigated
      longitudinally in patients with advanced lung cancer patients.

      The purposes for the 1st phase of this study are to exam longitudinal changes and the impact
      of various treatments on the respiratory muscle function, and the relations with dyspnea,
      functional capacity, quality of life, 6- and 12-month respiratory morbidity, and survival
      status (control group). The 2nd phase of this study will investigate the potential beneficial
      effects of chest physiotherapy in the same patient population (intervention group).

      Methods: 102 patients with advanced lung cancer per group will be recruited from the National
      Taiwan University Hospital. Demographic and clinical signs/syndromes will be obtained from
      the chart. Pain and dyspnea will be measured using visual analog scale. Respiratory muscle
      strength will be tested by measuring maximal inspiratory and expiratory pressure (PImax and
      PEmax, respectively). Spirometric variables, forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1)
      and forced vital capacity (FVC) will be measured. Functional capacity will be measured using
      Karnofsky performance status and Simmonds functional assessment. Anxiety/depression symptom
      will be measured using Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale. Quality of life will be
      measured using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer, EORTC QLQ-C30 and
      LC13 questionnaire. Six- and 12-month respiratory complication morbidity and survival status
      will be recorded in the prospective nature.

      Clinical relevance: The prevalence of lung cancer is increasing in the recent years. To
      understand the indications for chest physiotherapy (e.g., respiratory muscle weakness and its
      related sequels) and the effects of chest physiotherapy program will shed light on if routine
      chest physiotherapy should be implanted for patients with advanced lung cancer during
      treatment.
    
  