
    
      The combination of high medical need with difficulty accessing quality medical care makes
      adults with serious mental illness (SMI) one of our nation's most medically vulnerable
      populations. While evidence-based interventions exist for managing and/or preventing high
      rates of chronic medical conditions in this population, information is needed to understand
      their impact on outcomes that matter most for patients, particularly in community mental
      health centers (CMHCs) where most adults with SMI receive their care and rural areas where
      availability of and access to health care services is limited.

      Building on the work of a multi-stakeholder collaboration in rural Pennsylvania, the UPMC
      Center for High-Value Health Care and our patient, provider, and payer partners will evaluate
      two promising interventions-patient self-directed care and provider-supported integrated
      care-for promoting the health, wellness, and recovery of adults with SMI. We will address
      four questions that patients have identified as important to them:

        1. Given my mental and physical conditions, what should I expect will happen to my overall
           health, wellness, and recovery when I engage in the new services offered by my CMHC?

        2. If I choose to participate in these services, what are the potential advantages or
           disadvantages to me?

        3. In what ways can I become more active in managing my own health and health care?

        4. Which of the services that my CMHC could make available to me will impact outcomes that
           I care about and help me make the best decisions about my health and care? Our aims
           compare the effectiveness of the interventions on patient-centered outcomes and explore
           the moderating role of patient characteristics and the mediating role of engagement in
           the interventions. By demonstrating which interventions improve outcomes for whom under
           what circumstances, we will inform positive patient heath choices and key stakeholder
           decision making to support these choices, thereby advancing health system improvement
           efforts to avoid early mortality and comorbidity in this population.

      We have enrolled 1,229 Medicaid-enrolled adults who have or are at risk for chronic medical
      conditions and receive care at rural and suburban CMHCs. Using a cluster randomized design
      with a mixed-methods approach, we randomly assigned 11 CMHCs to one of the two interventions.
      Quantitative (self-report, claims, process) and qualitative (interviews) data will be
      gathered across multiple time points from baseline through the end of the two-year
      intervention. Descriptive and multivariate analyses will be used to examine the impact of the
      interventions on outcomes over time and explore the roles of moderating and mediating
      variables. Qualitative results will be used to understand patient and other stakeholder
      perspectives and promote dissemination and sustainability.
    
  