
    
      Despite the popularity of Cognitive-Behavioral Treatment (CBT) in substance use disorders,
      recent findings have indicated that CBT may be no more effective than other, less
      theoretically driven, treatments, and that CBT treatments often fail to result in coping
      skills acquisition. In order to explore the possibility that current manual-driven modes of
      CBT delivery may not be adequate to successfully teach coping skills, we are proposing a
      pilot project for the development of an individualized assessment and cognitive-behavioral
      treatment program (IATP) for alcohol-dependent persons, in which experience sampling
      conducted via random calls to cell-phones is used to provide data to create individualized
      treatment plans. Data collected during experience sampling will include momentary assessments
      of patients' cognitions, affects, and coping behaviors with respect to drinking.

      Participants will be 112 men and women meeting criteria for alcohol dependence, who will be
      randomly assigned to either a standard packaged manual-driven cognitive-behavioral treatment
      program (PCBT) like that used in Project MATCH, or to IATP. Patients in both treatments will
      be asked to engage in experience sampling for two weeks prior to treatment, and for another
      two weeks after treatment has ended, in order to compare in-vivo measures of coping skills
      utilization, pre- and posttreatment, between the two groups. Therapy will be conducted over
      12 sessions in both treatments. In IATP, the information gathered from experience sampling
      will form the basis of a functional analysis of patients' drinking and drinking urges during
      the monitoring period. Cognitive appraisals, moods and coping responses will be evaluated as
      antecedents and consequences of drinking behavior. Therapists will use the information to
      address specific cognitions, affects, and behaviors that are adaptive and maladaptive, and
      will work with the patient to substitute adaptive coping tactics instead. In PCBT the
      experience sampling data will not be specifically used in therapy, but will still provide
      in-vivo measures of drinking and coping skills. It is hypothesized that IATP will yield
      significantly better coping skills acquisition than will PCBT, and that change in coping
      skills will predict better posttreatment outcomes for IATP. These results would have
      implications for our delivery of treatment, and for the validity of coping skills training
      for alcohol addiction.
    
  