
    
      An Open-label Single Center Study to Evaluate the Efficacy of SILIQ™ (brodalumab) for the
      Treatment of Moderate Hidradenitis Suppurativa. In this Single-Center study a total of 20
      subjects will be randomized for a period of 24 weeks of treatment, Followed by an
      observational four-week post treatment visit. Study visits will occur at Screening ,
      Baseline, Week 4, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20, Week 24 and Week 28 (4 weeks off
      therapy). Additionally, all subjects will be contacted by phone 1 week following the Baseline
      visit to ensure daily pain assessments are being recorded. If any signs or symptoms are
      reported at the time of the call, an unscheduled study visit will be conducted to assess
      whether an infection is present.

      At Week 4 or Week 8, if PGA is greater or equal to 2 points of baseline, antibiotic rescue is
      permitted (minocycline or doxycycline up to 100 mg bid).

      Safety and efficacy measurements will be performed throughout the study.

      The duration of the screening period will be a minimum of 7 days and a maximum of 30 days
      during which time all of the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be evaluated.

      Subjects will have up to 30 days to return to the site for the Baseline visit from the date
      of the Screening visit.

      No study drug will be administered at the final visit.

      Subjects may discontinue treatment at any time during study participation. Subjects who
      prematurely discontinue will be asked to complete a early termination visit.

      Subjects who initially screen fail for the study may be permitted to re-screen following
      re-consent. All screening procedures with the possible exceptions noted below will be
      repeated. The subject must meet all inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria at the time
      of re-screening in order to qualify for the study.

      The protocol of the study will be approved by the Institutional Review Board (IRB) or the
      Ethics Committee (EC) of the participating study sites. Depending on the participating
      countries both local and central IRB/EC approvals will be granted. The study will be
      registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov before the enrollment of the first patient. The trial
      will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, GCP, and all applicable regulatory
      requirements.

      Study Endpoints

      Primary Endpoint:

      The Proportion of subjects achieving Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response (HiSCR) at
      week 16, defined as a 50% reduction in the total number of abscess and inflammatory nodule
      count as long as the fistulae and abcess count remains the same.

      Secondary Endpoints:

        -  The number of patients achieving a one point reduction in PGA score at week 16

        -  Changes in Modified Sartorius scale from Baseline to Week 16

        -  The number of patients achieving a two point reduction (required from baseline score) in
           VAS pain score at week 16

        -  Dermatology Life Quality Index or DLQI,
    
  