
    
      Many people affected by acquired brain injury do not return to participating in their
      environment. Cognition is a primary predictor of participation after stroke (Wong, Baum,
      Chen, Young, Heinemann, 2016). Metacognitive strategy training (MST) techniques are effective
      tools for increasing the independence of occupational therapy patients. The Cognitive
      Orientation to daily Occupational Performance (CO-OP) (Polatajko & Mandich, 2004) approach is
      an effective form of MST. The goal of CO-OP is to generalize and transfer skills and problem
      solving strategies learned in therapy to increase participants' participation in their
      environment. While CO-OP has proven effective in adults with executive function deficits in a
      one on one structure and in pediatrics in a group structure, adult day rehabilitation
      occupational therapists have found this intervention difficult to implement secondary to the
      current one on one structure favored for adults. As there is a dearth of literature on group
      CO-OP approaches for adults this is a novel study that provides a significant opportunity to
      improve outcomes for OT patients.

      The primary purpose of this study has two aims. The first is to standardize the CO-OP group
      curriculum first created for Zera's (2018) feasibility study. The second aim is to examine
      initial data comparing an adult CO-OP group with a control group.

      This randomized control pilot study will estimate for 22 participants, 11 for the CO-OP group
      and 11 for the control group, expecting 8 for each to complete the study.

      Quantitative data will be collected through the Canadian Occupational Performance Measure
      (COPM) (Law et al., 2014) an objective measure of performance and satisfaction of
      participants' goals, The Assessment of Motor and Process Skills (AMPS) (Fischer, & Bray Jones
      2012) an observational assessment of motor and process skills, and the Community
      Participation Index (CPI) (Heinemann et al., 2011) a survey that measures community
      participation. To collect qualitative data a focus group will be completed and field notes
      collected. Groups will also be video recorded to collect additional qualitative data on
      participant group process and group facilitator use of the CO-OP cueing hierarchy. Videos
      will be analyzed for themes.
    
  