
    
      The Forced Spirometry program emerges from a series of studies reporting on technological
      solutions for each of the main components indicating the potential of their articulated
      application aiming at covering unmet needs for collaborative FS testing. The studies were
      initiated within the EU project NEXES22;23 and specific parts of the overall setting have
      already been successfully evaluated in the Basque Country.

      The setting & Study design The current protocol has been designed as part of the regional
      deployment of integrated care services in Catalonia. It consists of the two lines of activity
      ultimately aiming at: i) regional adoption of the FS program; and, ii) generalization of the
      approach to other areas, as well as to other testing procedures. The research was submitted
      and apoved by the Ethical Committee of the Hospital Clínic i Provincial de Barcelona.

      Program deployment The initial 6 months will include three healthcare sectors: Lleida (168k
      inhabitants and 21 Primary Care centers), Vic (49k inhabitants and 11 PCC), and Atenció
      Integral en Salut Barcelona Esquerra (AISBE) (540k inhabitants and 19 PCC) following a
      Plan-Do-Study-Act (PDSA) methodology24. The first PDSA cycle (January - March 2016) including
      a total of three primary care centers, one in each healthcare sector, has as main purpose to
      ensure full functionality of the setting. Immediately thereafter, the FS program will be
      progressively deployed to all Primary Care centers in the three sectors in a second 3-months
      PDSA cycle that will be completed by mid-2016. Forced spirometry testing will be prescribed
      by the attending general practitioner following standard criteria and it will be carried out
      by primary care nurses.

      The deployment of the program in the entire region (7.5M inhabitants and 369 Primary Care
      centers) will be completed with no discontinuation within 2016. It will follow identical PDSA
      methodology. The outcomes of the assessment carried out during each PDSA cycle will modulate
      the long-term assessment strategy of the FS program described below.
    
  