
    
      Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) is used to capture reproducible ocular morphology and
      cross-sectional tissue measurements in-vivo in a rapid, non-invasive, non-contact manner. It
      has displaced ophthalmoscopy and stereo photography for clinical assessment and documentation
      of retinal microanatomy including thickness, cystoid structures, subretinal fluid and retinal
      traction.(1) Spectral Domain Optical Coherence Tomography (SDOCT) has the speed and
      resolution required for real-time noninvasive three-dimensional imaging of critical
      pathology.

      While modern ophthalmic surgery has benefited from rapid advances in instrumentation and
      techniques (2-6), the basic principles of the stereo zoom operating microscope have not
      changed (except for increased automation) since the 1930's. (7-9) The ability to better
      resolve tissue microanatomy through real-time micro-imaging would have a dramatic impact on
      ophthalmic surgeon's capabilities, foster the development of new surgical techniques, and
      potentially improve surgical outcomes.

      Complementary to microscope integrated OCT (MIOCT) testing, we use a commercial hand-held
      SDOCT instrument (Bioptigen, Inc.) during pauses in both anterior segment and retinal surgery
      to document surgical process.

      While both the handheld instrument and Duke's Generation 1 (G1) MIOCT prototype have
      demonstrated that high-quality OCT imaging is possible during surgery, in both cases control
      of the OCT scan location and display of the real-time image data are managed on the OCT
      system console, located up to several feet from the surgeon. Thus, the potential dramatic
      impact of this technology on ophthalmic surgery is constrained by its limited integration
      with the surgical environment. The primary technical goal of this project is to address this
      issue through novel advances in OCT technology, automated tracking of surgical instruments
      and tools, and fusion of OCT controls, images and measurements into a seamless interface for
      the surgeon.

      This study will facilitate future quality improvement processes based on intraoperative data
      matched to postoperative outcomes. Intraoperative OCT feedback will revolutionize
      communication in surgical research, clinical communication, surgeon training and continuing
      education, and will provide measurable data regarding disease patterns and intraoperative
      response, novel instrument and adjuvant use.

      This study will prospectively examine the surgical utility of MIOCT in retinal and anterior
      segment surgery. A total of 722 subjects will be enrolled at 2 sites, Duke Eye Center and
      Cole Eye Institute. Of those, there will be 500 retina subjects and 222 anterior segment
      subjects. There will be a small number of normal subjects, who are not undergoing eye
      surgery, enrolled in this portion of this study for non-surgical study of the MIOCT system
      imaging, particularly for Generation 2 (G2) MIOCT. Rate of recruitment: 460 retina subjects
      will be enrolled at the rate of approximately 115 per year (~57 per year at both Duke and
      Cole) for years 1-4 and approximately 40 subjects will be enrolled in year 5 (adding up to a
      total of 500 subjects).
    
  