
    
      In order to calculate the dose distribution of protons adequately, accurate estimations of
      the stopping power ratio (SPR) medium to water, are required. Using a conversion from single
      energy CT (SE-CT) images results in an uncertainty in the SPR of at least 3-4%. This
      uncertainty results in in the use of larger margins around the clinical target volume (CTV)
      and hence more dose to the organs at risk (OAR). It also effects in the conservative use of
      beam directions, which are often sub-optimal, to avoid irradiating normal tissues.

      Dual energy CT (DE-CT) improves the accuracy of the SPR and therefore the proton range
      estimation.

      An evaluation of the proton range for several tissues using SE-CT and DE-CT as input to Monte
      Carlo (MC) simulations showed on average improvements in range prediction from 0.1% to 2.1%
      when using DECT instead of SECT, but in several phantoms and also versus proton-CT, the
      errors on SE-CT based proton stopping power ratios are reported to be more than 7 %.

      A limitation of these studies is that most of them were performed in phantoms. In the first
      clinical data set on five patients with base of skull tumours, it was reported that although
      the SPR estimation was indeed better for DE-CT than for SE-CT, its clinical relevance was
      unclear. However, in the same study, phantom measurements showed a large uncertainty of the
      SPR in the lung. This is due to the large heterogeneity of the lungs and the huge difference
      in the density of the lungs compared to the mediastinum, the tumour and the chest cavity.

      It is therefore important to study the SPR differences of SE-CT compared to DE-CT in lung
      cancer patients and the impact on the dose distribution especially in the context of adaptive
      radiotherapy. As during the course of concurrent chemotherapy and radiotherapy, which is the
      standard treatment in the majority of stage III lung cancer patients, important anatomical
      changes may occur, it is also of clinical relevance to determine the influence of repeated
      dose calculations on DE-CT.
    
  