
    
      A. APPLICANT INFORMATION

      Proposed Project Title TeleRehab for Patients with Post-Stroke Communication Deficits using
      Mobile Technology

      Primary Investigator

      Karen Mallet, M.H.Sc., M.Ed. SLP (C) Speech-Language Pathologist Champlain Regional Stroke
      Network and the Ottawa Hospital - Civic Campus 1053 Carling Avenue, Ottawa, ON K1Y 4E9

      Co-PI: Dariush Dowlatshahi MD PhD FRCPC Assistant Professor, University of Ottawa Scientist,
      Ottawa Hospital Research Institute Ottawa Hospital Civic Campus C2182b 1053 Carling Ave,
      Ottawa, ON K1Y 4E9

      Primary Research Site Ottawa Hospital Research Institute

      B. LAY SUMMARY Post-stroke communication deficits (PSCD) are a common symptom of patients
      having sustained a stroke. These deficits include difficulty to produce or understand
      language, motor speech disorders and cognitive-communication disorders. It is estimated that
      approximately 40% of stroke survivors will have communication disorders post stroke.

      Provincially, it is known that 39.8% of mildly disabled stroke survivors were discharged home
      without services and 13.8% were referred to outpatient rehabilitation services in 2012/13. In
      the Champlain Region, the overall percentage of patients being referred to outpatient
      rehabilitation services was only 4.1% in 2012/13 (provincial benchmark 12.8%). Meanwhile,
      27.9% of patients were admitted to inpatient rehabilitation . A one month audit at the Ottawa
      Hospital Civic Campus (October 2014) revealed that 3/39 (7.6%) of patients attended
      outpatient rehabilitation.

      The Champlain Region has identified a gap in services with regards to outpatient and/or
      community rehabilitation services. That is, the only dedicated outpatient stroke services
      available in the Champlain Region are at Elizabeth Bruyère. There is the possibility of
      accessing general outpatient speech and language services at the Montfort Hospital, the
      Queensway Carleton Hospital and Perth Hospital. However, there are no outpatient services for
      Renfrew County or the Eastern Counties.

      Community Care Access Centers (CCAC) are another source of outpatient rehabilitation.
      However, these services are limited and are not in keeping with Canadian Stroke Best Practice
      Recommendations, where it is recommended that clients should have a minimum of 45 minutes per
      day up to 3 hours per day, 3 to 5 days per week based on patient's needs and goals. Between
      2011 and 2013, the mean number of rehabilitation visits provided in the Champlain Region for
      CCAC was between 3.3 and 5.2 visits [this included the following disciplines Physiotherapy
      (PT), Occupational therapy (OT), Speech Language Pathology (SLP) & Social Work (SW)] .

      Other than publically funded/supported services, patients could access the services of SLPs
      through community services such as the Aphasia Center of Ottawa (fee for service), the
      University of Ottawa Inter-professional Clinic (Francophones only) and private SLPs (fee for
      service). Unfortunately, these are either cost prohibitive or language prohibitive.

      Patients being discharged home who require SLP services are sometimes placed on a waitlist to
      access these services. While others, are not able to access outpatient services because of a
      variety of reasons including: patient lives at too great a distance from the rehabilitation
      facility (>30 minutes); unable to access reliable transportation to and from outpatient
      services; or the patient does not have the stamina to participate in the demands/schedule of
      outpatient therapy and travel to and from outpatient service.

      In this randomized controlled study, the investigators' objective is to test the value of
      providing a mobile platform-based Speech Language Therapy (SLT) program to patients
      discharged from an acute care hospital with stroke and PSCD and awaiting outpatient rehab
      services versus standard of care treatment. The investigators will offer iPad-based
      SLT/standard of treatment to a convenience sample of 20 patients with post-stroke
      communication deficits. The primary outcome will be feasibility (recruitment rate, adherence
      rate, retention rate, and protocol deviations), and the secondary outcome will be improvement
      in PSCD.

      C. OBJECTIVES

      Research question:

      Is it feasible, practical and effective to deliver SLT using mobile technology (iPad) to
      patients with PSCD being discharged home/primary residence from the acute care setting?

      Rationale PSCD affects 15-40% of patients during the recovery phase after stroke. It limits
      post-stroke rehabilitation, and is associated with increased disability and mortality. While
      screening can identify those patients at risk of PSCD, targeted treatment is not always
      available. Although quality of life in patients with PSCD is difficult to measure directly,
      the disruption in communication with its likely effects on employment status and social
      networks suggests that its impact can be profound. Patients with PSCD have greater morbidity
      than stroke patients without PSCD. While most, if not all, patients with post-stroke PSCD
      have some functional recovery, residual deficits are common.

      Objective 1: To test the feasibility and practicality of using mobile technology (iPad) for
      delivering SLT to patients with PSCD being discharged HOME/PRIMARY RESIDENCE from the acute
      care setting

      Objective 2: To explore the efficacy of using mobile technology in delivering SLT in patients
      with PSCD being discharged HOME/PRIMARY RESIDENCE from the acute care setting.

      D. APPROACH

      Study population: Patients being discharged HOME/PRIMARY RESIDENCE from the acute care
      setting at TOH and only requiring communication therapy. According to a 2013 Ottawa Hospital
      census, 50 patients per month are admitted to the Neurology inpatient service with a primary
      diagnosis of stroke. Also, an ongoing TOH research project using a similar design
      (iTherapist) was able to recruit approximately 3 to 5 patients per month over a 6 month
      period. For this study the investigators have selected a convenience sample of 20 patients
      over an 18 month period.

      Patient identification and selection: All patients admitted to the Civic Campus' Neurology
      inpatient service with a diagnosis of stroke AND communication deficit (as assessed by an
      SLP) that are being discharged home/primary residence awaiting outpatient SLP services will
      be screened by research personnel for study eligibility. Patients will first be approached by
      clinical SLP or clinicians within the circle of care and must give permission to speak to
      research personnel.

      Design and Methods:

      This is an 18 month randomized controlled trial, recruiting post-stroke patients presenting
      with communication deficits.

      Intervention: The intervention will consist of patients being randomly assigned to either
      standard of care or receiving an iPad upon being discharged home from the acute care setting.
      The iPad will be programmed with specific apps chosen from the following list:

        1. Tactus Therapy suite of Speech-Language therapy mobile applications, which include the
           following modules: Language, Category, Conversation and Questions.

        2. Speech sounds on cue for iPad by Multimedia Speech Pathology

        3. Lingraphica TalkPath Therapy

        4. Search 4 It

        5. This is to That

        6. Just Saying

        7. Get+Together

        8. RhymieStymie

        9. Morphos

       10. iVolution

       11. Blankety-Blank

       12. Chain of Thought

       13. Scrabble

       14. Fit brains

       15. Constant Therapy

       16. Boggle for iPad

       17. Pop words

       18. Anagram Twist

       19. Word explorer

      The apps chosen will be specific to their communication therapy needs. These apps will be
      monitored remotely by an SLP. A weekly check-in with the patient will be had with an SLP
      using one of the following: Skype, Facetime and/or Telephone.

      Patients will then be randomized to one of two groups on a 1:1 ratio:

      Group I (Treatment Group): The study SLP will cater the specific regimen to individual
      patients based on the pattern of communication deficits. In keeping with the Canadian Stroke
      Best Practice Recommendations and Quality Based Procedures Handbook, the study SLP will
      instruct the patient to use the apps for at least one-hour per day, until they are admitted
      to outpatient SLP services or for a maximum of 8 weeks, whichever comes first. Throughout the
      telemedicine treatment phase, patients' progress will be monitored remotely by a study SLP
      through Apps/Skype/Facetime/Telephone consultation on a weekly basis.

      Patients will also be instructed to record the amount of time they spend using the iPad in an
      electronic form on the device itself.

      Group 2 (Control Group):

      Patients will be sent home with standard of care.

      Data collection All patient data will de-identified. The investigators will retain age at
      enrollment, sex, co-morbid medical history (vascular and neurologic conditions: MI, CAD, HTN,
      DM), stroke type and severity (NIHSS and MRS stroke scores). The investigators will also
      retain baseline and follow-up language testing results, and total usage time of the iPad.
    
  