
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Hypertension affects 50 million Americans and is the single greatest risk factor contributing
      to diseases of the brain, heart, and kidneys. There is a strong evidence that hypertension
      has a genetic basis. The study will develop novel approaches to better understand the genetic
      mechanisms contributing to measures of blood pressure (BP) level, diagnostic category
      (hypertension versus normotension) and correlated traits.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This genetic epidemiology study will develop novel approaches to better understand the
      genetic mechanisms contributing to measures of blood pressure (BP) level, diagnostic category
      (hypertension versus normotension) and correlated traits. The first aim is to localize genes
      influencing measures of blood pressure levels, diagnostic category and their correlates. This
      will be done by applying genome-wide multivariate linkage analyses based on the variance
      components approach and utilizing clusters of traits correlated with measures of blood
      pressure and/or diagnostics category. The second aim is to develop exploratory diagnostic
      tools for linkage analysis of complex traits to further enhance our ability to localize genes
      influencing measures of blood pressure, diagnostic category and their correlates. This will
      be done by extending the diagnostic tools used in regression analysis to the variance
      components approach used for linkage analysis of quantitative traits. In this study for
      example, it can be used to identify outlier families since previous studies have shown that
      families with outlier values yield false-positive results. Tree-structure models will also be
      extended to pedigree data. Tree-based modeling is an exploratory technique for uncovering
      structure in the data. The use of tree-structure models is advantageous because no
      assumptions are necessary to explore the data structure or to derive parsimonious model.
      These models are accurate classifiers (binary outcome) and predictors (quantitative
      outcomes). All these tools will be incorporated in the S-Plus software as a function. S-Plus
      was selected due to its capability and flexibility for analyzing large data sets.
    
  