
    
      The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety of this device as there are no or
      very limited devices and clinical options available for this patient population. The primary
      safety endpoint of this study is safety freedom from major adverse events (MAE) at 30 days or
      during hospitalization if this exceeds 30 days. Major adverse events include death, bowel
      ischemia, myocardial infarction, paraplegia, renal failure, respiratory failure, and stroke.
      The primary safety endpoint will be analyzed to determine statistical significance when
      compared to a target performance goal. A literature review of outcomes of open surgical
      repair was used to create the performance goal as there is not a comparable endovascular
      option to use for analysis. The performance goal was selected based on the range of subjects
      experiencing a major adverse event at 30 days. The range was calculated based on assumptions
      of the minimum and maximum number of subjects experiencing at least one MAE in the historical
      open surgical repair group . Based on the literature reviewed and the above assumptions the
      range of subjects experiencing at least one MAE in the open surgical repair group is 30.5% to
      77.4%.

      The primary effectiveness endpoint is the proportion of the study subjects with treatment
      success at 1 year. The data will be presented as quality outcomes with the number of study
      subjects with treatment success compared to the overall patient population.

      Additionally, data outcomes from this study will be entered into a common vascular database
      so that data can be pooled with other PS-IDEs. This would provide consistent reporting across
      the PS-IDEs. Additionally, the PS-IDEs will be evaluating the same device and endpoints to
      allow for a pool-ability of data across the sites.

      The pooled data will be separated into two separate study arms: primary study arm and
      expanded selection arm.
    
  