
    
      Objectives

      The present trial will in patients undergoing CABG (1) evaluate the complications in
      endoscopic versus traditionally harvested radial arteries, (2) evaluate graft patency in
      endoscopic harvested radial arteries versus open technique, and (3) evaluate the use of
      mammario-radial grafting versus aorto-radial grafting.

      Design and trial size

      The NEO Trial is a randomised clinical trial with a 2x2 factorial design. We plan to
      randomise 300 participants into four intervention groups: (1) mammario-radial endovascular
      group; (2) aorto-radial endovascular group; (3) mammario-radial open group and (4)
      aorto-radial open group. A subgroup of 100 participants will be selected to undergo a special
      scanning of the vascular perfusion of donor and control hands (MIBI scan). The evaluation of
      graft patency and ischaemia in the arm will be blinded but the assessment of the primary
      outcome of handfunction at three months is non-blinded evaluated by questionnaire.

      Trial interventions

      Trial 1: The experimental procedure in this trial will be endoscopic radial artery harvest
      (ERAH). The control intervention will be open radial artery harvest (ORAH).

      Trial 2: The experimental procedure in this trial will be the technique where the radial
      artery is sewn onto the mammarian artery as a mammario-radial anastomosis
      (composite/Y-graft). The control intervention will be the technique of sewing the radial
      artery directly onto the aorta as an aorto-radial anastomosis (free radial artery).

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria

      All patients referred to our department for sub acute or elective coronary bypass operation
      will be eligible for trial inclusion. Inclusion criteria are: 18 years or older; able and
      willing to give informed consent; multi-vessel disease. Exclusion criteria are: off-pump
      procedure; multi-procedure (i.e. concomitant valve surgery); contrast allergy; geographically
      not available for follow-up; Allen's test with insufficient ulnary artery perfusion; no
      informed consent; acute operation; dialysis; preoperative neurological deficit on the donor
      arm; left ventricle ejection fraction (LVEF) less than 20%; former sternotomy and malignant
      disease.

      Primary and secondary outcomes

      Trial 1: The primary outcome will be evaluation of hand function at three months.

      The secondary outcomes will be: occurrence of neurophysiological defects in the donor arm
      assessed by examination of cutaneous sensibility and measurements of the sensory and motoric
      nervous conduction velocity preoperatively and after three months; change in subjective
      cutaneous sensibility assessed by a clinical examination after three months; complications
      assessed as a composite of haematoma formation, wound dehiscence or infection registered
      before discharge and after three months.

      We will also assess a number of exploratory outcomes (serious adverse events, reoperation for
      bleeding, revascularisation, myocardial infarction, stroke or death, handgrip strength,
      muscular function in the hand, scar evaluation, vascular supply to the hand, graft patency
      and participants subjective evaluation of hand function after 1 year).

      Trial 2: The primary outcome will be the occurrence of cardio- or cerebrovascular events
      during the first year after surgery comparing mammario-radial versus aorto-radial grafts. As
      an exploratory outcome we will also assess graft patency by multi-slice computer tomography
      (MSCT) comparing mammarioradial versus aortoradial grafts one year after surgery.

      Time schedule

      Randomisation will commence after 15th of May 2013. The inclusion period of altogether 300
      participants is expected to last three years.
    
  