
    
      Sickle cell disease (SCD) is the most common inherited blood disorder in the U.S. and
      disproportionately affects African Americans and Hispanics. Approximately, 1,000 U.S.
      children are born with SCD annually. SCD results from abnormal hemoglobin and causes red
      blood cells (RBCs) to become misshaped ("sickle-shaped"). Sickled cells can block the flow of
      blood in small arteries causing tissue and organ damage and other life-threatening
      comorbidities. SCD complications can be serious and have a significant impact upon well-being
      and quality of life. Pain is the hallmark symptom associated with SCD, and is the most common
      clinical problem seen in children and the number one cause of SCD-related hospital
      admissions. If left untreated, these painful episodes can result in morbidity and mortality.
      Accurate assessment of pain specifiers (type, frequency, and intensity of pain) can help with
      ameliorating pain quickly and effectively. Despite children being accurate self-reporters of
      their pain, strategies which are effective and engaging to assist with pain identification
      are lacking. Reducing barriers to collection and promoting the value of accurate SCD pain
      assessment is a need in pediatric medicine. Pinpoint will be an innovative interactive
      assessment tool that engages patients while allowing physicians to collect important health
      data. This project will test the feasibility of applying gamification principles to develop a
      tablet application ("app") for 13-17 year olds with SCD. Specifically, this Phase I SBIR
      project will (1) develop a Pain Assessment Tool (PAT) to describe and categorize specific
      types of pain experienced by adolescents with SCD; and (2) create an app ("Pinpoint"), that
      will translate the PAT into gamified technology. The goal of Pinpoint is to engage adolescent
      patients and improve pain specification by developing a game-based pain assessment tool
      delivered via a tablet app to engage adolescent SCD patients, improve their pain
      specification self-report, and improve pain management by clinicians. The PAT will be
      developed using expert guidance from preeminent SCD clinicians. User-centered Design theory
      will be applied in the development of the app and will be guided by iterative cognitive
      interviews and focus groups with members of the target population, SCD teens. The project
      specific aims are to (1) develop the PAT using guidance from an Expert Advisory Board (EAB)
      of SCD clinicians; (2) conduct a series of cognitive interviews with adolescent SCD patients
      to guide and refine PAT development; (3) conduct iterative focus groups with adolescent SCD
      patients to guide and refine user interface design of the Pinpoint app; (4) program a
      functional Pinpoint prototype; and (5) conduct usability testing of the prototype with 13-17
      year old SCD patients to assess functionality, navigation, and satisfaction. This project is
      innovative and timely. Pinpoint will be the first tablet app to identify and translate
      specific pain types for SCD into a gamified app using applied gamification principles.
    
  