
    
      Online Yoga Group: The intervention will be 12-weeks in duration and will consist of a series
      of pre-approved online yoga classes (6 manufactured specifically for the cancer-afflicted
      patients instructed by Udaya yoga therapist, Jules Mitchell, MS). Patients will be asked to
      complete a minimum of 60 minutes per week of yoga practice with encouragement to do more if
      they can. All Udaya.com videos will include a proper warm-up, cool down, and closing
      mindfulness activity (i.e., message from yoga therapist, brief meditation, final relaxation).
      Qualified Udaya yoga instructors who collectively have over 200 years of training and
      experience will expertly instruct the online yoga classes. Participants will be instructed to
      view a safety handout (see yoga safety & modifications handout) before gaining access to the
      Udaya video library. Yoga therapist, Jules Mitchell and PIs Huberty and Palmer will
      pre-approve Udaya videos that are appropriate for this population.

      A 12-week yoga prescription utilized in previous online yoga studies in MPN patients will be
      used in the proposed study for BMT patients. The 12-week yoga prescription was designed to be
      safe and progressive for cancer patients. During the intervention, all classes will offer
      alternative poses, modifications, and use of props (i.e., yoga blocks and straps) in the
      instance poses are difficult for the participant (i.e., painful, irregular, uneven breath)
      and to ensure safety. In addition to specific instruction regarding form and safety, the yoga
      therapist will provide descriptions of each video that includes tips and modifications to
      poses (e.g., set the knee on your yoga mat if this feels more comfortable for you).
      Additionally, patients will also receive a yoga modifications handout outlining the
      contraindicated yoga poses with modifications (see yoga safety & modifications handout). This
      handout will include an exercise warning for patients that experience dizziness,
      lightheadedness or faintness, excessive shortness of breath, chest pain, and that they need
      to stop the activity and contact their health care professional immediately if these symptoms
      are experienced.

      The participants will access their yoga prescription on the Udaya.com website using their
      provided username and password (see instruction document). Participants will be asked to
      participate in a total of at least 60 minutes of yoga and keep a log of their participation
      utilizing a daily log available through a REDCap link (see yoga group weekly log). For the
      entire study, participants will record in their log each time they participate in yoga, the
      class in which they participated, how long they practiced (start and stop time), their
      perceived exertion, and their perceived mindfulness. Research staff will provide a weekly
      reminder email at the beginning of each week encouraging participation in their weekly yoga
      (see weekly reminder emails). We will ask that participants follow the yoga prescription, but
      if participants feel they want to deviate from the prescription they have the option to
      participate in any videos assigned in previous weeks or in any of the additional videos
      included each week in the prescription.

      Podcast Control Group: The podcast control group will be asked to view 60 minutes per week of
      online podcast videos. The podcast videos will contain general cancer-related health
      education material. To match the online yoga group for time and attention, 60 minutes per
      week will be prescribed, however, participants will have the ability to view additional
      videos each week. Furthermore, participants will also track their podcast video viewing each
      week in a daily log (see podcast group weekly log) by recording each time they view a video,
      the video that they viewed, and how long they viewed the video.
    
  