
    
      The study design comprises focus groups, online surveys, a trial design workshop, a
      manufacturer's forum, and a care pathway working group.

      Focus groups Two focus groups will be conducted to explore issues around the acceptability of
      the two-arm trial recommended by NICE. The recruitment strategy will target both individuals
      who have been referred for a cochlear implant but have yet to receive one and also existing
      users of a cochlear implant. The focus groups will explore issues such as acceptance of
      randomisation, how to minimise the burden associated with participating, potential barriers
      to participation, and how to communicate the purpose of the trial clearly and effectively to
      prospective participants.

      Online surveys Online surveys, informed by the focus groups, will be used to capture the
      views of the wider population of patients and of clinicians who deliver cochlear implant
      services on the acceptability of the trial. Both surveys will use open and closed questions.
      The surveys will explore the acceptability of the trial.

      Trial design workshop Following the focus groups and surveys, an all-day workshop will be
      conducted with clinicians who deliver the current care pathway for cochlear implantation. The
      workshop will comprise a focus group and a trial design session. The focus group will seek to
      identify pertinent issues with the trial design from the perspective of the clinicians. The
      group will then be tasked with reaching a consensus on a trial design that would be both
      acceptable to them and which is feasible to conduct.

      Manufacturer's forum Major manufacturers who supply cochlear implants to the NHS will be
      invited to attend a manufacturer's forum near the end of the study. They will be presented
      with the results of the acceptability assessment. The forum will explore whether the
      manufacturers would consider supporting the trial.

      Care pathway working group A working group of cochlear implant service coordinators will be
      established to examine the existing decision analytic model commissioned by NICE and to
      identify the aspects of the model that require updating. The group will identify those
      parameters for which relevant information may be available from their own service records and
      will be tasked to reach a consensus on individual values for each parameter that would
      generally represent service provision across the providers. The group will also define
      plausible ranges for each parameter which could be used in future sensitivity analyses of any
      decision-analytic model.
    
  