
    
      Experimental plans: All patients and controls will consent to be subjects in this study. Data
      will be collected on the Siemens Skyra 3T scanner at the University of Saskatchewan using a
      16 channel head/neck coil arrangement. The investigators main approach in this research is to
      collect MR data on the vasculature in the brain and neck, the iron content in the brain, and
      standard anatomical scans for 20 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease and 10 age
      matched normal subjects. MR venography, flow quantification and susceptibility weighted
      imaging will be used.

      Anatomic MR venography (MRV): Contrast enhanced MRV is widely regarded as the optimal method
      for evaluation of disease involving the dural venous sinuses. It is an accurate, reliable and
      robust method for assessing sino-venous pathology such as thrombosis and tumor invasion. MRV
      is also able to demonstrate pathology involving larger cerebral veins. The investigators will
      be able to record both anatomic variants as well as any stenosis. Extracranially, the
      investigators will look for any significant variants or stenosis affecting the jugular venous
      system, the vertebral venous system and the azygous system. Data will be analyzed to
      separately display and evaluate the structure of arteries and veins in the head and neck. The
      maximum intensity projection (MIP) of the whole series will be generated in the coronal view.
      The major arteries will be evaluated as well as major veins of interest for the structural
      analysis including the transverse sinuses, the internal and external jugular veins, vertebral
      veins and deep cervical veins which usually serve as collaterals in case of flow
      abnormalities in the jugular veins. Cross sectional areas (CSA) of suspicious stenotic
      regions will also be measured to validate whether the variation seen in these CSA are veins
      stenosis or not.

      Flow quantification (FQ): Pathological change in cerebrospinal venous drainage will be
      reflected by upstream disturbance of venous flow. Phase contrast MR flow techniques allow the
      investigators to interrogate venous flow. By applying FQ techniques to the dural venous
      sinuses, investigators hope to characterize the interplay between anatomic venous obstruction
      and pathologically altered drainage. By understanding this relationship, the investigators
      can gain deeper insight into the mechanism by which cerebrospinal venous insufficiency
      interacts with iron homeostasis mechanisms and ultimately with the pathogenesis of
      Parkinson's disease. Dural sinus hemodynamics can be studied non-invasively with phase
      contrast FQ. The phase contrast flow quantification (PCFQ) images will be used to analyze the
      through-plane cerebral spinal fluid in the neck (C2/C3 level), as well as blood flow in the
      neck (C2/C3 and C6/C7 levels), the superior sagittal sinus (SSS), both left and right
      transverse sinus, the straight sinus, both the extra cranial jugular and vertebral veins and
      Dural Sinus. Areas of interest will be drawn around the veins and arteries of interest and
      flow will be calculated over a full cardiac cycle. Thirty time points will be collected for
      each cardiac cycle by using a retroactive pulse trigger. The vessels of interest will
      include: the internal and external jugular veins (IJVs, EJVs), vertebral veins, deep cervical
      veins, common carotid arteries and vertebral arteries. The investigators will be evaluating
      the integrated flow, the average velocity, the volume flow rate, as well as negative and
      positive flow rate. This will be assessed in the cervical arteries to compare the inflow and
      outflow of the brain. Abnormalities may be identified by stressing the system, i.e., with a
      breath hold. Finally a large number of quantitative measures will be made on all the arteries
      and veins in the neck to assess both individual variants and total flow in the brain.

      Measuring Iron in the basal ganglia and thalamus using Susceptibility Weighted Imaging (SWI):
      A presence of iron not only in lesions, but now more importantly in the basal ganglia and
      thalamus has been shown in IPD patients. The latter shows iron build up at the confluence of
      the draining veins in these areas. SWI can be run to show iron deposition in several areas of
      interest within the brain. SWI has very high spatial resolution and is an optimal method to
      study the small internal cerebral venous system. The ability to measure the amount of
      non-heme iron in the brain will facilitate a better understanding of the disease progression
      and may help in predicting the treatment outcome. Iron deposition will be evaluated from the
      SWI images. To measure iron content in grey matter, investigators will look at iron in the
      following eight regions: caudate nucleus, globus pallidus, putamen, thalamus, pulvinar
      thalamus (as it appears to be affected much before the rest of the thalamus), substantia
      nigra, red nucleus and dentate nucleus. For each deep gray matter structure, two major
      regions of interest will be analyzed: the entire object drawn manually and the
      region-of-interest that has much higher iron content. The investigators will provide the
      following information for these regions: iron content in the abnormal part of the structure
      (the investigators refer to this as the high iron content region); the area of this region;
      the average iron per pixel in this region; and also the investigators will quote the same
      three values for the total iron in these structures.
    
  